David Fincher's bleak, relentless, and ultimately terrifying crime thriller Seven transcends other films of the genre with incredible plotting (the sort Hitchcock might employ were he alive and making films in the 1990s) and scalding intelligence.  With only a small handful of minor flaws -- the overly familiar retiring cop/young cop pairing; the awful "I'm taking you off the case!" cliche seemingly required by the genre; one giant lapse in logic in the downward spiral toward the conclusion that cannot be revealed without ruining the script's gruesome surprise -- Seven typically keeps its viewers imprisoned in their seats with a combination of morbid fascination and abject fear.  Despite attempts by studio executives to alter Andrew Kevin Walker's ending, the filmmaking team prevailed and audiences experienced that rare treat of mainstream cinema: an uncompromising vision.


                
'He is preaching<U+0085>.punishing'.Serial killing with clues from killer is not a new thing to Hollywood but David Fincher's Se7en exceptional. Its evil genius. Se7en opens with a homicide where a fatso is killed in a very strange manner. We meet Detective Somerset(Freeman) who is about to take off and detective David Mills(Pitt) has just fought to get assigned there. Somerset is calm, mature and has achieved mastery over his job. He probably seen so much that now he badly wants to go far away from this bloodshed. David appears cocky first but turns out amiable character of the film. Tracey(Palthow) is David's wife who hasn't got used to with guns even after so many years of their marriage. It begins. Each killing is shockingly repellent. Like an artist's signature every victim holds a note, a sin highlighted with lines from Dante Alighieri' s 'Divine Comedy', Shakespeare's 'Merchant of Venice'. And his name is John Doe(Kevin Spacey). Those lines are screaming that this not just some insanity. He wants to make a point.Each murder is done by reaching horrific extremes of those deadly sins. A fat man is fed until he burst. Then there is an infamous lawyer got gun stuck on his head, handed a knife -a weighing scale is in front of him and he has to cut 1 pound of flesh from his body by himself. A druggist tied to bed for a whole year!! A famous model, her nose is cut and bandaged again and gave a choice- phone in one hand to call help n sleeping pills in other one to die rather than live deformed. A whore is punished ruthlessly that you should see on screen only. John says, "The world is so shitty<U+0085>and we get used to them".This Script is sumptuous. It mirrors today's society skillfully and boldly. Nothing is hidden by the camera. All we watch is naked truth that we hate to admit and most of the time that we hardly care. The spirituality woven in has its impact all over. Most of all ending is a blow. It is stunning.There are number of memorable sequences in Seven. One especially is breath-taking when Somerset and Mills reaches John doe's apartment and Doe directly starts shooting at them and chase sequence followed is absolute fabulous. On other hand dinner party at Mills house we feel wine mixed in the air. Tracey and Somerset's meeting at coffee shop is the finest ones I ever seen. The intensity of that conversation can't be described.This is a very dark film. It is all time raining. All environment surrounding Se7en is so grim and ghastly it clouds viewers with the same. Music refuse to leave us even when it is over. I must mention titles and credits rolled, one of the best I ever seen. Se7en comes out with strong performances. Morgan Freeman is truly outstanding. Brad Pitt made me his fan from this movie. The way he says "Ladies and Gentleman we have a homicide here" and same David when taunted by Somerset "You are saying you care for these people?" says with assuring impulse "Sure I do<U+0085>.!!!". Gwyneth Paltrow 's Tracey doesn't have much screen presence but when she is there, we just can not stop love her character. In final half an hour we are introduced to Kevin Spacey's John Doe. The preacher. What can I say about this chilling work? Spacey gave such a performance that stings. We hate to admit with this man but somewhere we know he is right. Somerset asks him, "So you are saying some higher power tell you to do this?" Just watch John Doe reply "Lord works in mysterious ways..". Interesting thing pointed out by one of the fan is Somerset and John Doe both observed the same facts about today's society but responds in different ways, Somerset want to run away and Doe takes action.No matter how many thrillers I shall see but this will always one of my favorites. It affects deeply. That's the power of Se7en. Se7en is a terrific thriller and a modern classic.


                
David Fincher's "Se7en" is one such movie that blurs the line between a giallo horror and a psychological thriller. "Se7en" sets a mood which is chilling, dark and puzzling. A mood that is present all through the entire movie. The mood set is the excellent work of director David Fincher, who wanted to give dark and gloomy atmosphere to the movie just to expose a world which is rough, bleak and gritty. The effect it makes is astounding and is does so by good camera work and lighting, or the lack of it. The cameras used in this film was specially changed film stock to make the visuals look as dark as possible which is complemented well by Howard Shores music score. The ominous music that is added keeps the audience uncomfortable, in a good way. If it wasn't for disturbing message that "Se7en" puts across, and astonishing dark scenes, I would have not given the rating I gave.The assignment of roles in the movie is excellent, even though I loathed Brad Pitt's character. Brad Pitt's character was at times annoying and glorified. All he did was slow down the overall investigation process. His weak presence makes it seem that he was never the Lead or the Assistant detective in the investigations of the crime. All he said was excessive swear words and not something tangible and due to this reason, his interaction with Morgan Freeman's character was frail. At times I felt Morgan Freeman's character would have done a better job leading the investigation alone. The conversation in the police car was really insubstantial. I would have really despised this movie it wasn't for the phenomenal acting by 'actor who played the Killer'. It would've been so much better if Brad Pitt's character wasn't such a weak character and if he just stop talking at times and listened to the astute Morgan Freeman's character. Whilst watching the movie I wholeheartedly wanted to despise on Brad Pitt's character and to an extent Brad Pitt himself but having watched and loved Brad Pitt in David Fincher's Fight Club I often found myself forcibly liking Brad Pitt's character and justifying his decisions and his exchange of ideas but I failed. Morgan Freeman's was excellent in the role of a veteran detective and a wise mentor for Brad Pitt's character**SPOILER**The biggest sin in this movie is perhaps not the character but the ending. I found the ending awfully predictable. I could have seen that one of our main characters would eventually be one of the 'victims'. Especially after getting to see the 'wife' and she revealing something crucial at a buildup stage just screamed that she was going to die. The buildup was for nothing if it wasn't for the predictable ending. I had a tiny hope for something magnificent and grimy, since the killer's talk about the sins and how his killings were justified but the killer too just disappointed me in the end. Also it made me dislike Brad Pitt's character that much more, because I was hoping he wouldn't shoot the killer, and that I might get a reason to respect him as a character. I don't care how if a certain movie has a happy or a sad ending, but this movie would've ended on a strong note if he hadn't killed the killer. The director could have found another way of exhibiting the last sin. Morgan Freeman's character could have and should have done something more in preventing the last 'execution'. After all he is the one who saw clearly what the killer's grand plan was. The ending scene was one big anticlimax and thus this movie could have been my second favorite David Fincher movie following Fight Club if not my second favorite movies of all time.8/10.Note: I used 'actor who played the Killer' instead of revealing the actor's name is because David Fincher wanted the killer's identity to be a surprise and I shall oblige.
This movie is regarded as the definition of a modern thriller. It is easy to see why, as it is easily one of the most suspenseful movies I have ever seen. What added to this suspense, was the straightforward, yet grim storyline, that keeps the audience interested.The plot revolves around two detectives, William Somerset, and David Mills, trying to solve the mystery of a serial killer. That killer, John Doe, leaves clues around for unknown reasons. Detective Somerset believes he (the killer) is following the seven deadly sins (hence the title Seven, or Se7en, and is leading them to something. What this is, is unclear, but they do eventually capture him, and he reveals that his final victim, is David's wife Tracy, thus showing he was playing a game with them all along.There are few movies I have seen, before or since, that are suspenseful as this. It is also quite bleak, which did admittedly put me off at times. It is still a great film, definitely worth a watch, if you are old enough (remembering this movie is rated R), and whether or not you enjoy it, you will probably find it interesting. From me it gets 8/10
I was totally taken with this film. It's not The Usual Suspects, but it is really something. Unfortunately, I felt almost sick when I was finished watching it. The madness of the murders and the general philosophical sickness that carries it along put it out of reach for some of us. I can't imagine the world portrayed here. Great cast. I really thing Brad Pitt is excellent; and, of course, Morgan Freeman is his usual complex self. Once again, however, in a relatively brief appearance, Kevin Spacey steals every scene he's in. It's that unflappable delivery of his. No matter what is said or done, he anticipates it. The murders are hideous. The camera doesn't show the most gory details (which I appreciated), but they are sold to us through outside factors. I missed this the first time through and wanted it to be part of my movie-going experience. I don't think I could ever watch it again.


                
I didn't really hold out much hope for SEVEN . It's a film that's almost 20 years old and one that I frequently miss usually on purpose when it's shown on television . I've always thought David Fincher was painfully over rated . " Best director of his generation " claim many people which is patently untrue if you've seen a film by Danny Boyle or Darren Aronfsky or Ang Lee . The premise itself doesn't inspire optimism being a couple of mismatched police partners trying to track down a serial killer who is motivated by the seven deadly sins . I almost believed I was going to be watching a reworking of the Vincent Price camp classic horror movie THEATRE OF BLOOD without the funny bits so I went in with very low expectations What Fincher has done is construct a thriller that is dialogue driven with a sense of portent dread . It'd be very easy , perhaps too easy , to shock the audience with gore and startle moments . Instead the director resists this very easy temptation and put the audience in the shoes of detectives Somerset and Mills so this is a rare thriller where the audience join up the dots when the detectives do . The film is greatly helped by Morgan Freeman who was probably Hollywood's most effective character actor at this point but both amazingly Pitt and Spacey hold their own against this acting legend In short this is a very good gloomy thriller with very dark cinematography and very dark subject matter . The fact that there's so much understatement to it is refreshing and nearly 20 years after it first hit the big screen it remains director David Fincher's best work
Deeply unsettling and intensely dark, this hard hitting thriller relies on great performances and a fully developed script to create a relentlessly oppressive tone that builds a growing sense of unease throughout. 'Se7en (1995)' is an interesting and subversive detective drama that layers its gritty, grimy and gruesome aesthetic atop a competent and compelling mystery to toe-curling effect. Plus, that bleak ending and gut-wrenching twist really punctuate the piece - providing an apt, if horrific, release for all the tension built up before it. 8/10


                
This is a movie that should be seen to the very end. Were it not for the hype and reputation that Se7en has gathered since its release 22 years ago, I might have been inclined to stop at a couple points, but I could tell it was leading *somewhere* and, without giving spoilers, the destination is worth the wait.I won't dwell on the premise much because its been touched upon a lot by other people, and I don't find it to be one of the more intriguing aspects of the story. John Doe is interesting because of the odd humanity that he has. A lot of mentally disturbed characters like the Joker or Hannibal Lecter are portrayed as just totally out-there and nuts, and I guess you could argue that the same goes for John Doe. But there's something about him that makes him more relatable. He didn't feel like someone who you would automatically label as dangerous if you knew him from work or school. He seems to have infected himself with the evil around him, or something like that.While I was watching the movie I wasn't that invested in the two detectives, but now looking back at it I can see that there is some good depth to both of them. Mills isn't that likable, which surprised me since Brad Pitt usually plays more easygoing and charming characters. But he is driven and wants to make a positive impact in his job as a cop, which I didn't see at first. Somerset's backstory is exposed a lot to show us that he's a tired man who has seen a lot and is on the verge of losing hope. My favorite scene is the one at the bar shortly before John Doe turns himself in, because this is where all of the movie's main themes are brought forward. It's easy to lose sight of the themes amid all of the mystery and grisly murders, but the bar scene brings up two very important things. First is when Somerset says that John Doe is "just a man". No matter how nuts he might be, he is a human being, and however sinful the people he killed might have been, they were as human as you or me. Secondly, the two detectives discuss how dangerous apathy can be. The movie as a whole seems to be suggesting that people are apathetic because it is the easy way out, and this is why John Doe has to "hit them with a sledge hammer" to get their attention.Having seen much of Fincher's later work, I was a bit let down by his visual tone and camera work here. Not that it was bad, it just wasn't his best, but it was also his first real movie (Alien 3 is not a true Fincher work). The script wasn't immediately impressive, but in retrospect, it was actually pretty good with creating the characters and crafting their dialogue. The pacing could have been a little better, but on the whole I must applaud Andrew Walker on his work here. The performances from our three main roles were also solid. Again, not flashy, but servicing the movie well and giving good life to the characters.The ending was definitely dramatically satisfying. Not one of the more shocking twists that I've seen, but it turned the tables pretty nicely and fit perfectly with the theme. Which brings me back to my point from the beginning: that this movie should be seen all the way through. The only reason to turn it off is if you can't stomach the gruesome visuals and overall tone. I like dark movies, but I know not everyone does. So if you haven't seen Se7en and don't think you want to, just watch the bar scene. Overall Rating: 8.3/10.
Thrillers are either a hit or a miss. They can be awesome while many can be awful. Seven is in the Very awesome category. Basing the film around the seven deadly sins is an concept that everyone can relate too. We have all sinned meaning we can be put ourselves in the shoes of the victims ( not all victims mind you ) . When you imagine a film in which it always cloudy and overcast with rain pouring down 24/7 , you would think it going to depress you . Truth is , you don't actually notice the weather , but instead take huge interest on what happening in the homes of the city.I'm not an huge fan of Brad Pitt but it seems that when he teams up with Fincher , he always puts on an good performance. Then there's Morgan Freeman, which is fairness, is playing Morgan Freeman. He fun to watch but you know what type of performance he going to act out. Both are very good but the one who steals it is Kevin Spacey. He may be in it for 20 minutes, but his role is extremely memorable. His character is well made and maybe deserves a bit more screen time . The film is very well made and an joy to watch. It keeps you awake and leaves you to wonder about the next deadly sin. When watching it, you can clearly see that Seven was an influence towards Leigh Whannell and James Wan and there SAW film. Everything about SEVEN was great, the concept, the acting, the finale. I highly recommend this film.


                
This movie is a cross between Silence of the lambs and Bone collector. There are some very clever investigation scenes and clever writing and set creation.This movie was a showcase for Kevin Spacey and Morgan Freeman. This movie had one of Morgan Freeman's best roles where he plays a educated, intelligent and experienced detective. Brad Pitt has a role but is not as impressive.This movie certainly had a new approach to police / horror movies. This movie and Silence of the lambs brought a whole new level of gore and horror to mystery movies. This is not a kid friendly movie and does not have a happy ending.


                
I know. All of the previous comments told you all. But I want to say something of my own.This great thriller will live longer indeed. For a lot of reasons. The one I want to talk about is the strong focusing on the characterization firstly in this script. Because this is something really rare in any of the American thrillers nowadays.Here you have 2 points of view, come from 2 different generations, or simply 2 kinds of human beings.The first is (David Mills / Brad Pitt) who is so rash, tense, running mostly after his sensations and always relies on the photos, the shape of things. But despite his true zeal, courage, and idealism he is so unwise and very impetuous who can easily hurt or lose himself. He is too weak to wait justice, so he goes and gets it by his hand because he is a slave for his excitability.. his emotionality.The other one (William Somerset / Morgan Freeman) is an earlier generation who has all the goodness and rationality. He is discreet and cold proficient expert, who relies on the books. This one is not perfect either ! He is too feeble to stand love or its pain, responsibilities, or loss. So there is no joyful thing about his life nor lasting thing in his life ! Both of them make together one heck of a perfect unit; so they succeed in pursuit the killer. But HEY, it's not (Lethal Weapon). So you'll have them both at variance, too contradictory, and the only clear medial between them is the first's wife. Therefore, when she died, and Brad Pitt killed the killer; the borderline already ended and there was no medial anymore. So separation became the fate.They are two very irreconcilable ways, or persons, or feelings : the love which kills the fear; so Brad Pitt lost his life. And the love which is killed by fear; so Morgan Freeman is losing his own !! And as for (John Doe / Kevin Spacey) the limit went to extremes; so he had his fear, or his love, or maybe both, killed too long ago. He was despising the extremism of the human lusts because he wasn't one. He lost his humanity completely. Hence he became a killing machine, a loose madness, or the extremism itself.Balance between your love and your fear or you'll be the killer and the victim ! That's one premise which will make this film live for so many upcoming generations.
After the abysmal failure of Alien 3, David Fincher held his breath for three years and made a new start with Se7en. His signature style of direction is all over it. Se7en is filthier than a dead stray dog at the bottom of a New Jersey toxic waste dump. It looks so miserable that people nailed to crosses seem happier.The plot explores the extreme pitch-black side of the human psyche and was entirely the creation of one writer. Andrew Kevin Walker, a former Tower Records employee, conceived, in hell, a heinous story of a serial killer who offs his victims in the style of the Seven Deadly Sins. What was he smoking when he came up with that idea? Brad Pitt plays David Mills, an arrogant, over-confident, semi-experienced detective who is way ahead of himself. He uproots from a decent precinct, dragging his suffering wife (Gwyneth Paltrow) with him, to transfer to the worst in town - an unnamed, rainier-than-Glasgow Los Angeles - for no other reason than "to make a difference". Good luck.Morgan Freeman is William Somerset, the most jaded and world-weary cop on the force. He only has a few days with Mills before retiring to a simple life in the country. Mills could learn a lot from him, and if he had any sense, he would. Sadly, this does not happen.In Fight Club, Fincher exposed the rotten underbelly of a free society, the seedy flipside of American culture that most people pretend doesn't exist. Somerset says the only way to deal with a world this bad is to be apathetic, the polar opposite to Mill's belief that he can make the world a better place.Few scripts make for good reading, but Andrew Kevin Walker's writing is one of the film's many strengths. He explored dark, character-driven horror/drama in shockers such as Brainscan and 8mm, but this is the meanest. The irony of each victims' death is made entirely justified by the killer's logic behind the madness. Of course, he does not believe he is insane. Just the world he lives in. Haven't you ever felt like that? It is important for such movies to have an atmosphere and Se7en is so rank that you can smell it. Pitt and Freeman deliver great performances, although Pitt should learn to breathe through his nose and not have constantly pursed lips. It becomes quite annoying.Se7en is definitely the film that kick-started Fincher's career. Had he made The Game right after Alien 3, there would have been no Fight Club, Panic Room, or Social Network.For that tiny minority who knows nothing of the film it's high time you checked it out. Even if you don't enjoy, you cannot deny its power and effect.


                
This has to be, without a doubt, one of the most beautiful movies I have yet to see.And I'm talking on it's artistic value. Not on it's less-than-delightful subject matter. Every detail that went into the making of it, from the photography, to the meticulous care with which the props were concocted is incredible. So many pieces, in such an intricate puzzle, that all come together to form a multi-faceted, and beautiful film.The acting is well-done. While not amazing, I'd have to say each one of the characters were perfectly formed, and played off of each other in exact harmony.The storyline itself is somewhat classic in its cop-thriller genre. But as you take a closer look, it has been magnified not only to account for the 90's audiences bloodlust, but to step past it, making it seem grotesque to ever want to witness such a thing.It doesn't hold back in showing true ugliness. Which is something that Hollywood often neglects.


                
I am shocked that I watch, much less own, this movie, and as often as I do. It's so dark, so uncomfortable to watch in many spots and so profane (although I use a TV Guardian) that it's not a very likable story and film.....but I find it fascinating. Let's continue on with the bad, and the good, of this film - at least from my vantage point.THE BAD - As a Christian, I get tired of seeing the villains, the sickest of serial killers, portrayed as Christians. It's unbelievable Hollywood bias that would never be tolerated if minorities were the constant victim of this kind of prejudice. In case, you don't get the message they even pass by a brightly-lit neon cross in the guy's room! That, and another cheap shot about a Southern Baptist being the killer, and comments about the sicko "preaching a sermon" plus Kevin Spacey's talks about people's sins....all are designed to portray a sick killer as a religious nutcase. Also, for further Liberal slants, good-guy Morgan Freeman is talking to Gywneth Paltrow at a neighborhood diner and he relates having talked an old girlfriend into having an abortion which Freeman says, "to this day, I am positive it was the right move." Yet, he also says it was a mistake and he regrets it. Huh?? Other negatives include too many f-words and usages of the Lord's name in vain, mos of them said by Brad Pitt. There are also several really, really downright gross scenes in here. If you don't expect them, you can easily be shocked with these disturbing images: some very sick pictures of tortured and mutilated bodies.THE GOOD - Despite all of the above, the story - as shocking and sordid as it is - is a fascinating one. It gets you so involved that it's almost impossible to put down, even with the unpleasant scenes. The finale is memorable, too. I also appreciated the wonderful cinematography in here. There are some strange colors in here but it all looks fantastic on the special-edition DVD. Spacey was relative unknown in his acting career at this time was riveting in that final 30 minutes when he had his speaking lines. All the actors in here are excellent. This is a film that is impossible to forget.OVERALL - As a friend once told me, "This movie is very disturbing." It's also extremely interesting, but beware it's not easy to watch.


                
This is exactly why I hold fast to the idea of a second look, particularly when it comes to movies. "Seven" is Exhibit A, and what I'd remembered about it over the last twenty-odd years was the mindscrew ending - as well as the omnipresent rain and dingy interiors, a world I don't want to stick around in.But within that hopeless environment is a deeply unnerving thriller and even a good cop drama. Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt are well-defined characters; theirs is an abrasive relationship but a good one to focus on as the world festers around them. The horrors in this movie run the gamut from shock to viewer's imagination; and as ghastly as those crime scenes are, they're handled with serious skill. And then there's the ending, a magic act that could've failed so easily, yet holds up amazingly well.It's surprising that such an ugly, wet and claustrophobic movie was filmed in Southern California. And that wretched setting gets under my skin. Who knows when I'll sit down to watch this again, but it surprised me as an adult.8/10


                
Seven is a detective movie of Brat Pitt and Morgan Freeman. This movie found a serial killer who killed people for their seven deadly sins. They are gluttony, sloth, pride, envy, greed, wrath, lust. Even the wife of Pitt was killed for the envy. The Killer John Doe used to envy the life of the detective Pitt that led to killing of his wife, Tracy in the morning when Pitt left the home for operation. The killer showed up and submitted in the police station with bloody hand and asked for lawyer and his help. However, he killed two other people that he wanted to show the detectives and took them to a barren high tension wiring places. Then a delivery van came and kept a box where Tracy's head was packed. In that morning, Doe killed her, she was pregnant. That misery Pitt could not afford and killed the Killer despite repetitive urge by Detective Somerset to stop firing. The quote of the Somerset is 'The world is a fine place and worth fighting for. I like the second part'- Detective Somerset. This movie hugely used the idea coming from Divine Comedy, Purgatory of Dante and Canterbury's Tales by Chaucer.


                
Se7en is one of those films you watch in between long intervals. For me, this was my third rewatch and my last. I don't think I have the stomach for another. It is essentially a buddy cop flick, but the script touches on deeper issues of the future of human society, sin, apathy, and predestination. The Noir trappings are beautiful to behold, the constant rain, squalor, grimy city that feels like every dystopian metropolis combined into one. But it occasionally veers into fantasy with a plot that relies on a few too many gimmicks to make it flawless. The villain is simply an omnipotent being at times with almost magic powers. There are moments of genuine humanity that doesn't make it completely hopeless, but the atmosphere is filled with so much despair and nihilism that the grunge attitude of it does begin to wear as the clock ticks by. And by the time the villain of the piece makes his grand entry, I kept expecting him to appear with a leather mask on his face and gloating evilly about eating a census taker's liver with fava beans and a nice Chianti. Still, the dynamic between Freeman and Pitt is still enticing to watch, and the story works as a parable or even sadistic fable at a rudimentary level. But sometimes I wish the story hadn't been so manipulative and fixed just so that it could punish these characters and push them to insane lengths. I felt like character motivations and development were being engaged at the behest of the plot progression, so certain events begin to seem contrived just so it can reach the shocking conclusion. I assume the writer was trying to teach a lesson, albeit in a clumsy fashion. I would call it a minor 90s classic, and the dreamlike, twilight zone-esque environment adds a nice surreal atmosphere. For those willing to ignore plot conveniences and the dingy weather, this film will take you along for a horrific trip into the darkest recesses of what men are capable of.


                
I arrived 20 years to late for the hype of this movie but that doesn't make it any different. One of my favourite thrillers. They don't make them like these anymore.. Realistic characters, an evil serial killer but not as much emphasis on gore more storyline.David Fincher did a class job, acting from Brad Pitt, Morgan Freeman, Gwyneth Paltrow and Kevin Spacey was beyond outstanding.Se7en follows detectives Somerset and Mill... Somerset is an older mature detective whos ready to retire whilst Mills is an energetic yet not as knowledgeable, we see more of Mill' private life with his wife Tracy.The movie kicks off after the murder of an obese man... suspicious but no motive the cops are at a standstill. That is until a wealthy lawyer gets killed and in blood 'Greed' is written. Knowing there is a serial killer on the loose its down to the detectives to hunt a man with an obsession with the deadly sins killing innocent people.The ending to this movie I like a lot, I wont give it away but it shows how sick and twisted minds of serial killers are.Se7en will surely stick in your mind
Inspired by the Divine Comedy (there are other religious books that inspire the villain but i don't remember them), the psicopath John Doe (Kevi Spacey) tries to teach a sermon by torturing people based on one of the seven deadly sins they are accused of committing.This movie biggest sin (pun intended) is that only became a masterpiece that it is known only half way through it. The first hour is a generic detective movie with all the clichés: the two cops who are opposite from each other(Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt), a murder mystery, etc.But aside from that, it's a great movie worth watching specially for the twist at the ending.


                
Se7en (1995): Dir: David Fincher / Cast: Brad Pitt, Morgan Freeman, Gwyneth Paltrow, Kevin Spacey, John C. McGinley: Utterly terrifying yet intelligent thriller about the seven deadly sins, which are methods used by the killer. Morgan Freeman plays a detective on the verge of retirement and Brad Pitt plays a young cop transferred to the district. Throughout the film they are forced to deal with the sight of grisly murders involving gluttony, greed, sloth, lust, etc. Compelling, unsettling and powerful with directing by David Fincher who previously made Alien 3. He presents the gloom and rain that affects the mood. Freeman is flawless as a detective who delays his retirement out of curiosity and maintains a blatant disposition that his partner cannot endure. Pitt is effective as the younger yet skilled cop who learns fatal lessons by the film's conclusion. Gwyneth Paltrow plays Pitt's wife who confesses that she dislikes the transfer. It is her that will likely generate the most sympathy from viewers during sad realizations. Kevin Spacey is featured is a scene stealing cameo that dominates the moment he first appears. This is where the revelations surface and the deadly sins increase their meaning. Outside the principal actors, other roles are fairly standard issue. Disturbing and sometimes graphic film that reaches into the depths of our mind in a message of control and other sins that God will have us not commit. Score: 8 ½ / 10
David Fincher reveals a masterpiece of a movie in his film Seven. The movie follows the process of two detectives, Somerset (Morgan Freeman) and Mills (Brad Pitt) as they attempt to track down a serial killer (Kevin Spacey) who is choosing his methods and victims based off of the seven deadly sins. The film is high quality for two main reasons: its complex characters and its moral commentary. The most intriguing character is easily John Doe, the killer. Rather than creating a stereotypical mindless killer, Fincher makes Doe a serious, soft-spoken man, whose power comes from his brain rather than his brawn. Doe is extremely logical and methodical in his approaches, as his killings require intense planning. His character poses as a striking contrast to Mills. Although he is the "good guy"-the cop, the detective, the one trying to stop a killer- Mills is not likable. Unlike Doe, he raves and constantly shows frustration, and often reverts to physical violence to try to accomplish his mission. Although the watcher probably will still root for Mills, when Doe speaks, they will be more apt to listen. Somerset serves as the voice of reason, reeling in Mills when necessary and respecting Doe's genius as he tries to catch him. These characters, especially John Doe, perfectly display the film's social commentary on the seven deadly sins within our culture. More importantly, they raise the moral question of what is evil, and what is good. There is a clear clash between good and evil within the film, but the reason it is so successful is that it makes the audience ask themselves questions. Are evil people able to be victims? Is society harming the killer or did the killer harm society? What is a just price to pay for evil doings? Therefore, I highly recommend Seven to anyone who is not too squeamish and who enjoys a perplexing film that will leave you thinking. I enthusiastically endorse this film with an "A".


                
Ladies and Gentleman, Kevin Spacey does it again. 1995 must have been quite his year with the release of Usual Suspects and Sev7en just months apart. Not only does Spacey captivate his audience in both films with stellar performances (winning an Academy Award for Best Supporting Role in Usual Suspects and the MTV movie award for Best Villain in Sev7en) but his characters starkly contrast themselves with their "end game" motivations. David Fincher creates a masterpiece with Sev7en. Not only does he manage to captivate his audience, keeping them in the dark, on the hunt, with Detective Somerset (Morgan Freeman), but he manages to simultaneously repulse them with disturbing gore that they can't quite look away from. His scenes are dark, often limited to the use of a detectives' flashlight, reinforcing the feeling of powerlessness within the viewer. The audience only gets to see what the detectives reveal, and like the detectives, we are never given the full picture. Detective Miller (Brad Pitt) serves as the foil for Detective Somerset. Throughout the film Miller proves to be a hard character to understand. On one hand the audience dislikes him because of his abrasiveness and rudeness to Detective Somerset (the obvious protagonist). On the other hand, the audience favors Miller because of his role in serving justice (solving the case) and because of the man he is in his own home (playing with dogs, snuggling with his wife, etc.). Initially, the relationship between Somerset and Miller feels like a classic good vs. evil separation. Somerset embodies the notable qualities of wisdom, practicality, and patience while Miller is confrontational, rude, and power-hungry. Yet the two come together to work on the case, to serve as a greater good against the evil of the unknown murderer. Fincher plays with the audience's emotions by prompting them to root for a character that isn't exactly favorable by playing on the larger feeling of disgust with the evil nature of the crimes. Overall the film is a classic. Its something I am glad I watched and would consider watching again. It's a timeless film that managed to hold my attention and surprise me despite being dated 20 years. I give it two thumbs up.
Intensity of psychological attack is much higher then that of a physical attack.This is what the whole movie is about. It is the story of a guy who is manipulated into insanity. Insanity is not only a psychological condition, it might be created out of circumstances or by the society.This movie explores through the life of two people, one who is a murderer and thinks his destiny is to taken on the seven sinners and the other one is the guy who tries to catch the murderer and loses his sanity in doing so, again not psychologically but socially. It is his grief or strong emotions which direct him into doing this. On the other hand is his senior who is skeptical of his emotions, according to me he was frightened of the fact that when those emotions might takeover. It's his life's experience which have taught him to be aware of his feelings.The movie is a mind game between two people trying to win over each other, the protagonist hardly knows of what is to come.The director, David FIncher has done commendable work. The fact that every human is just one deed away from losing his/her sanity is presented perfectly. The movie is one of the best psychological thrillers of all times. The screenplay is great except for the shaky camera, I have cut one mark for that. There was not much scope for cinematography, though the creepy environment required for the movie is presented well. I guess Morgan Freeman keeps on getting with each of his movies. Yet again he has done some phenomenal acting as Detective Somerset. Well people accept the fact that Brad Pitt is not only famous for his good looks but his acting is great too. Pitt has done one of his best roles as Detective Mills. Gwyneth Paltrow's character was given some useless scenes (What was the point of whole pregnancy thing). The surprise package here is the amazingly acted villain John Doe. Kevin Spacey has has done the best work of his life in this movie. His acting takes the movie to another level.The music is great, acting is great, The plot is perfect. But there is one negative point which takes down the whole analogy of the genre its "the movie is pretty much guessable" Thats why i have cut 1 the other mark in the movie.This movie is a must watch. It explains the fact that "Actions define a person's sanity or insanity" perfectly.
This is a perfect example where a movie is good and/or got better due to its ending. Three-quarters of the whole film is pretty much stock standard crime, mystery thriller and the "senior-rookie" relationship between the characters that Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt portray is straightforward but not generic and narrow-minded since their chemistry is so natural. The reason for the latter is that the character, Mills while impulsive, his short-tempered and foul-mouth personality doesn't detract his presence and overall viewing experience of the movie. He's kept in check by William; the archetypal "calm and collected veteran" but during moments like these, they actually have interesting, contrasting discussions in how they see the world, the people and the crimes within a detective's perspective. The film sets up so they avoid Mills' emotional outcries as the focus of the scene which I appreciate. It makes Mills a more multi-dimensional character because we can clearly see him and William are presented as different people on the surface. But the film takes an effort to establish how they're different. The actual methods and scenes of the murders are indeed quite graphic but the most effective and disturbing one takes place at the end. It's the classic case of not showing that makes it more frightening because it's when our endless imagination takes stage. Speaking of the ending, the reason I view it with high praise is because it's not phoned in and artificial. The film put in some key clues in earlier scenes to justify the killer's methods validly. Its impact is strengthen by the fact that the serial killer is shown quite early and the film uses the remaining sequences well to establish the character. Of course, the actor that plays the killer at the end puts on a a remarkable, chilling performance that only makes the last quarter of the movie better. Normally, the 'mystery' aspect to a film like this would be gone and thus detract our enjoyment (Julia's Eyes is an example that it did) but it didn't for me because we're clearly more interested by the end of WHY the killer kills. It's a natural, organic progression when we're all sucked in to the elaborate ways that the victims are killed at the start. While the actual killer's motivations is a little simple- minded and its all explained in one convenient scene, I just love how the VERY last sequence of the movie refused to venture on a black-and-white "good guys beat bad guys" type of ending and sticked to its guns on what the film is about by using the killer as the subtext. Overall, I enjoyed this modern hard-boiled flick and the only problems I had with the movie is that its a little too reliant on the ending to be a deciding factor on whether or not you would enjoy this picture. Lastly, when I referred to the killer's intentions as slightly one-sided, I felt like it was a bit self-indulgent at times and wasn't all-encompassing enough when the film needed to foreshadow more on its underlying message during sections of the film before the killer was revealed. We only see a few glimpses from the interactions between Freeman and Pitt as well as the dark, grim setting (neo-noir) portrayed in the movie but I need more still. I thought if the film executed on the "why" part of the killings a bit better and not just "how" (which I already explained it's done admirably) then it would've easily pushed my rating from a 8.5/10 to a 9 or higher.
