The book by John Le Carre is intricate and multi layered and to attempt to film it was brave of the BBC. One wishes they had such courage these days, but that is another story. It is a television masterpiece.The acting is superb. Alec Guinness was made for the part of George Smiley. From his opening scene in a London bookshop to the last shot of his face he is mesmerising. The supporting cast are the cream of British actors at the time. Some of them only have one scene like John Standing, Beryl Reid, Joss Ackland and Nigel Stock but they become real people before your eyes. Ian Bannen as Jim Prideaux is particularly moving and Hewyl Bennett gives the performance of his life.Even the actors who don't say anything look just right. It is plainly filmed but that adds to the atmosphere. On the face of it life is normal and ordinary but beneath there is betrayal, anguish, danger and pain. The motif of Russian dolls in the opening credits is good. Dolls with faces, then one without and then an emptiness. In the end Smiley solves the mystery but the mystery of life is beyond him.The music is great,sparse but edgy. I can watch this time and again and still get something out of it.


                
There are few movies that follow the book. There is no end to the comment, "The book was so much better." There is good reason for that with some films. "The Lord of the Rings" would have been five movies if you went "by the book". Interesting and enjoyable as that might be for Tolkien fans, it was impossible for film makers. Yet, "Tailor, Tinker, Soldier, Spy" as a movie defies that axiom.Having read the book and seen the movie more than "several times", they still remain interconnected and indistinguishable. Yes, the book contains more detail, but may details are covered by innuendo, scene or background detail in the movie. Alec Guinness becomes Smiley so completely that his acting gives real meaning to the idea of a "character actor", even down to wiping his glasses with his tie. (you have to read the book for that one.)That is not to say, that Guinness is a robot and the movie is stiff in the name of faithfulness to the book, just the opposite.The movie dawns the viewer in, just as the book draws in the reader, as part of the process of discovery; unraveling the mystery. As in a true "who done it" (or as one commentator put "who is it"), the viewer has no more foreknowledge than Smiley. You are introduced to all the characters, all have reasons to be the defector, all have reasons to distrust an investigation to the past, yet only one is ferreted-out.The ending is consistent with the logic of the book and film, but, you still don't expect it. It's anti-climactic yet believable. The film, like to book, leaves one wondering how this could happen. It's thought provoking given many of the suspects comments thought-out the book/film. Both inspire thought more than resolution. The story challenges the reader/viewer to think and think well about the reasons for and purpose of spying as a whole. (The film is more English in cultural orientation, but the concept is universal, as many Americans have learned as well.)A wonderful book transformed into visual. Great acting through-out, and you really hate all the right people....


                
Having just watched this film again (for about the tenth time) I am moved to say that few adaptations have brought such a well crafted book to the screen so brilliantly. Perhaps this was because the author also provided the screenplay ?The acting, direction, lighting are superb and the whole is only further enhanced by the haunting music of Burgon. The pace and suspense are every bit as thrilling as the book.One tip for lovers of this movie : try and get a copy of the follow-up, namely Smiley's People. It takes over very gently from Tinker, Tailor and leads on to the ultimate conclusion of Smiley's career.Bravo !


                
I can only add to the other comments:  this is a superb film.  It is absolute proof that a TV mini-series can stand beside the best cinema films with honor.  I have rarely paid $7.00 for just 87 minutes of anything this good.  If I could vote on it, it would get a 9.  The writing is rich; the acting, excellent; the theme, deep; the technical quality only slightly inhibited by a presumably small budget.  When I consider the BBC's obsession with the mass market peddling of dull costume dramas, I cannot understand why this astringent tragedy is not available, at least in the US, on video or DVD. In about 20 years, this will have the sort of mythic reputation given to lost or damaged movies of the teens and twenties--more deservedly than most of them.


                
I wish that the producers could have dealt with the issue of Smiley's marriage in a more satisfactory way. This is the only criticism that I can think of: that Guiness had to put on the same face about a dozen times whenever Ann's name was mentioned.That said, I believe this is the best television that I have ever seen. There is a pervasive feeling of solemnity throughout, reinforced by the several tragic characters, the invisible backdrop of the cold war and the ineffably beautiful and solemn signature theme. This is a story about spies. It is also a story about humanity.POSSIBLE SPOILERS FOLLOW. As to the acting, note the masterful way that Guiness uses his spectacles throughout the series. Note Michael Aldridge's (Alleline) timing between Ian Richardson's tea and biscuit fiddling and calling the meeting to order in Episode Three. Just the right touch. In a really good movie you get those serendipidous unforgetable moments. Here there is no serendipidy. It is all just brilliant and inspired acting. Note Richardson's simultaneous laughing and crying.I have read all of LeCarre's spy novels through 'The Honourable Schoolboy' and have read Tinker Tailor several times. This series is not just true to the novel, it is also 'of the LeCarre spirit'. You get the feeling that the man who told you the story is now revealing the characters to you visually. Read the book and then see this series and you will see what I mean.
I first saw Tinker Tailor twenty years ago. When I found out that it is available on DVD, I used all of my powers of persuation to convince my wife to make this my Christmas present. We have sat through it twice since then and after I blast this review off into the ether, I am going downstairs for another go at it. It is a jewel.
This is not your usual spy / action story, . . .this is a story of ordinary men within an extra-ordinary world that few, if any, of us will ever be exposed to.This is a thinking person's film, there are no setups, no story voice overs, you are required to really "watch" this story as it unfolds.This story is an exploration of desire, anger, hatred, fear and respect, . . .it is a story of belief and manipulation, it is NOT James Bond.This is "The Spy Who Came In From The Cold" many, many years later, after a bitterness and loss have become a way of life.This is one of the best films you will ever see.


                
Although it helps to love John le Carre's novels, particularly those set during the Cold War, this series and its sequel, "Smiley's People," should be seen for their quality, which may be unsurpassed by anything on television before or since. Alec Guiness as George Smiley is the principal attraction, of course. He could do more with an eyebrow or a subtle change of expression than most actors can do with their entire bodies and vocal skills. But these two series are also distinguished by casts that are superior from top to bottom, products of the Royal Shakespeare Company and other British companies and academies. Ian Richardson is the best known member of this particular cast, other than Guiness himself, and he does an absolutely remarkable job. "Tinker, Tailor..." also offers the first glimpse of Patrick Stewart as "Karla," Smiley's chief antagonist, a leading figure in "Smiley's People." Americans used to see BBC films as part of the "Masterpiece Theatre" series on PBS, sometimes on "Mystery," another PBS staple. And the BBC is still turning out remarkable work. But "Tinker, Tailor..." and "Smiley's People" are unsurpassed -- complex, brilliantly plotted with characters (and not just Smiley) who challenge actors to do their very best work. While many of John le Carre's novels have been made into feature films (some of them quite good), they lend themselves better to the series mode, which allows for more detailed exposition and fuller development of character. They may be great literature (as le Carre's admirers insist) or polished pot boilers (as his critics argue), but they make for wonderful television. And you come away from these two series with the conviction that Smiley was MADE for Alec Guiness, that no one alive (or dead) could have done half as well.


                
Le Carré says on the DVD interview that this production "came as near to my imagining as any film has come" -- and he's had eleven. He says that after Alec Guinness was signed up, getting the rest of the cast was easy: "We could empty the National Theatre and the Royal Shakespeare Company." It shows. Some of the best, most subtle, believable, and faithful acting I've ever seen.One example: Alexander Knox was not my mental image of Control (I pictured someone more like the 70-year-old Joss Ackland), but he was fantastic. He plays a secretive, brilliant man whose mind is declining when he needs it most. The camera stays on him silently for what seems like minutes as he tries to make sense of a catastrophic betrayal. No groans or sighs, just real fear in his eyes; he seems to fight the urge to burst into tears. I could watch his scenes over & over. (And have.)[Possible spoilers for those who've read the novel & want to be surprised by any differences]Bernard Hepton is also terrific. His Toby Esterhase doesn't speak in the zigzagging, English-as-a-fourteenth-language manner of the novels' Toby, but as if he were a native Brit. I assume this was due to the clear impression that Toby is treated as an inferior by the other spies and the creators didn't want to make the British spies seem merely xenophobic, just dreadfully classist. Despite the de-colorized language, Hepton's Toby is wonderful. His interrogation by Smiley is a scene worth watching again & again, also.The only miss in the whole 5 1/2 hours is perhaps Mendel (played by George Sewell). The TV Mendel was compressed from 2 characters in the novel (Mendel & MacFadean) and in the process, I think, lost all personality. Mendel is now a silent, well-dressed, apparently brilliant spy, not a lonely, old, bachelor cop. He has no imaginable history, no wrinkles, no flavor. He's like the nameless FBI agents who come in at the end of a B movie to take the bad guy away. This character-combining also leads to a couple of plot holes (submitted).Other than Toby's ironed-out speech, Arthur Hopcraft lifted most of the dialog verbatim from the novel. A few new lines (as when Peter surprises George at his house) are perfectly in keeping with le Carré's style and even add to the characters' depth. The novel's timeline was compressed from 18 to 6 months, which leads to a few discontinuities (also submitted), but it still works.The 1982 sequel SMILEY'S PEOPLE is visually brighter and has a simpler plot. Sort of a 'Tinker Lite', but in some ways I enjoyed it more. It also has great performances.
This is real class. Everything about this is superb - source material, adaptation, acting, even the music. The acting is especially wonderful: totally convincing with not a dud note anywhere. As pointed out by many others, Alec Guinness IS George Smiley. If you see the TV series before reading the book, then it's impossible to think of the Smiley character in any other way than as played by Guinness.This is how I imagine the espionage world to be - painstaking research, surveillance and investigation, interspersed with occasional moments of high excitement. James Bond it ain't. Boring? Not a bit of it, unless all you want is minimal plot and maximum 'action'.In this age of dumbed down TV, I don't think we'll ever see the like again on the BBC. So savour it.


                
I do understand the folks here who don't appreciate this series. It was a product of its time and, what a product. All the things that make it so difficult for a wider audience - sedate pace, lack of action, etc are all intrinsic to its construction.Le Carre wanted the world to know - guess what? Being a spy is a job and it's largely just as dull as being a bank manager or anything else. It's bureaucracy, internecine feuding and bloated ego's getting in the way. What action does occur tends to be fast, unpleasant, confusing and immediately smoothed over... Smiley is so brilliant because he has no ambition beyond getting the job done and only academic interest in the power plays of others. This is a spy movie for chess players.How a new film version is going to deal with this I shudder to think. If Smiley starts shooting at people I'm off.


                
I originally watched this on television in the late 1970's and was enthralled. This was the book come to life and every one of the actors seemed perfect for their roles.Later on I bought the series on video and have now moved to DVD as the tape is worn out. I can watch this time and again as the plots and characters develop without the need for gadgetry and elaborate action scenes. This is the best of BBC drama and I cannot recommend it too highly.The sequel, "Smiley's People", follows on like an old friend you lost touch with for a few years. Everybody looks a little bit more crumpled round the edges but, underneath everything, they are the same.As a child of the cold war, these two series capture the period quite perfectly.


                
John Le Carre's early spy novels were sparse affairs: his later books, rather overblown and clichéd. But in the mid-1970s, he wrote the best novels of his career, and 'Tinker Tailer Soldier Spy' was perhaps the best of them all: at heart, a character study of his long-time enigmatic protagonist George Smiley, wrapped in a detective story itself wrapped in an espionage thriller. It also made one of the best television series ever made. The spirit of Le Carre's material is utterly respected; the screenwriters were unafraid to construct an essentially talkative script, with only moments of "action" in the conventional sense; the music and lighting are both excellent; but above all else, a superb cast was assembled to fill the lead roles. Much is rightly made of Alec Guinness' brilliant performance as the quiet, meticulous Smiley: every gesture or intonation speaks a thousand words. But this was also one of Ian Richardson's best works as well, he literally steals every scene he appears in as Bill Hayden, Smiley's old colleague and adversary. Hayden is a very clever man, but Richardson's portrayal of him is no less clever. Although in some senses the themes of this story: the cold war, and England's post-war loss of confidence, may no longer seem as relevant as they once did, you'll rarely see a more riveting piece of television. And having seen it, when you watch a modern drama, with it's slick dialogues and high-paced editing, you'll have a sense of something lost as well as something gained.


                
I sat in a marathon run with my DVD player heated and spinning off its blinker, chewing nervously on cigarettes, mimicking the habits of the characters on screen. It was a particularly dreary night, and I couldn't have imagined a better way to spend six full hours of my life and strangely enough it was glued to a television. This film would have rated a perfect ten on the IMDb, with only positive comments if it wasn't for a few kids who might have accidentally been forced to sit through it with their le Carre obsessed fathers, it is as flawless a masterpiece as I've ever seen, or ever will see. Smiley of course is a household name among cold war enthusiasts, history buffs and anybody who ever paid any close attention to Alec Guinness's career post Star Wars will always see him as Smiley, and only Smiley.. it was the performance of a lifetime, to last a million lifetimes...
TTSS (along with Smiley's People) is extremely high in my top 10 list. Its only flaw is that is too short(!) Even though it is a mini-series, it still leaves out so much of the great writing that made this trilogy LeCarre's best, and the best of the spy genre.It is too bad the BBC couldn't afford to produce the middle of the trilogy ("The Honourable Schoolboy") as well! But with all those exotic Far East locations, I can see why it wasn't done.I liked TTSS and Smiley's People so much that I traveled to the BBC shoppe in London, bought the PAL tapes and had them converted to NTSC so I can enjoy them at will.


                
Quite simply the best thing I have ever seen the BBC produce in my lifetime, or before it for that matter. Guinness is impeccable, living down the shame of Obi, but the piece is an ensemble one. Hopcraft's script is taut, bitter and acerbic with some amazingly funny barbs thrown in the conversations as the group finally realise that they have been penetrated to the highest levels of the Service. Anthony Jayston was never so good in Quiller, Bernard Hepton is amazing, Ian Bannen, Beryl Reid, Ian Richardson. The cast have no weak links. Hywel Bennett is very good as an edgy operative, so bleached by the netherworld that he no longer knows who to trust. Direction is clinically crisp yet every scene is enjoyed at its natural pace and the outdoor scenes are every bit as good as the studio set scenes. Fabulous!!!


                
Difficult to do anything but support the superlatives given already in these reviews, and wonder whether this production has (as it appears) attracted the most overwhelming percentage of full "10" votes of anything in the IMDB?  In trying to add a fresh comment I would simply point out the precision with which atmosphere and body language are captured in the various claustrophobic meetings.  To portray what the characters are thinking, yet unsaid, is perhaps the finest aim of acting and direction.  Here, this ideal is achieved at every level from individual to an entire room of people round a table.  The sound is also very well edited - the almost constant rumble of London traffic for example, adding much atmosphere. My Desert Island "if you could only choose one out of the ten" choice, without a doubt.  If only the BBC would see sense and make it available on DVD.


                
Today AUGUST 7TH 2000 we lost one of our all time greats.  Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy was produced in 1980 and gripped the country.  He was menacing and superbly cast. TTSP should be a must for every collector. It is available on VHS in the U.K. Go out and buy it.  You won't see anything better.


                
Having read most of John Le Carre's books I found this portrayal of his most famous and unique character George Smiley absolutely fantastic and not to be missed.  I also thought the support roles were excellent too.  A lot of well known British faces in the cast.  Ian Richardson of course has to be involved in any British political drama and in this he plays the role he always plays - just brilliant 10/10


                
Superb film/mini-series. First-rate cast highlighted by Alec Guiness and Ian Bannen. Some consider this to be John LeCarre's finest work, and the adaptation for film is uniformly excellent. I've looked for copies of this film for years. Truly a shame it's not available.


                
A meditation on the psychology of betrayal, the decline of the British empire, the Cold War.Alec Guinness with a huge, great cast.  I have watched this many times and never get bored with the dialogue, locations, music, atmosphere, sarcasm -- everything about it. I especially like the interrogation/debriefing scenes, and in particular one with a captured Russian spy played by Patrick Stewart, in which Stewart never opens his mouth.The sequel, "Smiley's People,' is also good but darker.


                
I have been blessed with having seen the British full length version as well as the American edition of Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy. I find the American mini-series (both VHS & DVD) edited to the point where some of LeCarre's best supporting characters and sub-plots have been rendered unrecognizable and baffling. Wilelm appears in Hamburg without rhyme or reason to receive an envelope in his basket of fruit. The remark by Claus Kretchmarr to George Smiley that the General (Curd Jurgens) is "a lion" isn't borne out. These and other character developing subplots were edited out of the American version to fit the "time slot". As such, the American edition suffers from supporting character development confusion. I had hoped that the American DVD (being a different media) could have retained all the character developments of the British version and novel, but, alas, it was identical to the American VHS edition (probably due to copyright law). My enthusiasm for the movie is undiminished, but I feel that I still don't have the whole loaf. I feel a bit jealous of the British.


                
When one thinks of spy thrillers one typically thinks of the likes of Bond, Bourne or the team from 'Spooks'; action heroes who chase and are chased by their foes in a variety exotic locations; with lots of fighting, gun-play, fast cars and beautiful women... This is different John Le Carré's George Smiley spends his time talking to contacts and suspects in smoke filled rooms; trying to find a way to lure his target into the open. We don't even see Smiley until half way through the opening episode; until that point one might think the hero was going to be Prideaux; a more typical 'thriller spy' who has been sent to Czechoslovakia to extract a general who wishes to defect and more importantly has information about a Soviet spy near the top of MI6... except that the Soviets are there waiting for him and he is shot. We are introduced to Smiley six months later, he is not in MI6 any more having lost his job in the fall out from the Prideaux affair, at this point he learns of the mole and sets about putting together the pieces to figure out who it is... without official access to MI6 as he can't risk tipping them off.Alec Guinness is just about perfect as the elderly George Smiley, he brings a sense of slight vulnerability to the role as well as a steely determination, the rest of the cast also excellent; there is even a brief cameo from Patrick Stewart who manages to be menacing despite not saying a word! Being a series rather than a film meant there was enough time to take things slowly; maintaining the tension without the need for constant action, in fact after Prideaux's shooting there is very little in that one could call an action scene. John Le Carré clearly wrote an excellent story, which I must confess I have yet to read, and Director John Irvin did a fine job bringing it to the screen. I can certainly recommend this to anybody who likes more cerebral spy thriller... just make sure you have plenty of time; as soon as one episode finishes you'll want to see the next!
The book I didn't find so easy to get into on first read. Three or four readings later, I stand by the opinion that it is a wonderful book, thoughtful, exciting, unique and very multi-layered. This series of Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy is amazing, and one of the best I've seen, both as an adaptation and on its own terms.As an adaptation, Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy succeeds. It is very faithful, the thrilling story is still intact complete with solid pacing, superb writing that engages, thrills and provokes thought and a perfect length that is done to not only tell the story smoothly but to give credibility to the many characters. Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy also succeeds on its own merits. The photography, authentic attention to detail and locations are still striking, the music adds to the atmosphere complete with scenes filled with tension and the direction is taut. The acting is just one of the many strong/outstanding assets of Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy. All fill their roles comfortably, with Michael Jayston, Ian Richardson and Michael Aldridge particularly impressive, but at the end of the day it is Alec Guinness' show. Guinness is mesmerising, and as somebody who admires this great actor hugely, for me he gives one of his best and most iconic performances of his career(and that's including the likes of Oliver Twist, Kind Hearts and Coronets and Bridge on the River Kwai). In conclusion, amazing and one of the best series I've seen. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
Watching "Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy" again after a number of years reminds me just how well done the film (and the John LeCarre book) was done. It has stood the test of time, for certain. It's the Cold War (over and over again) and British "family" is in its usual turmoil(the "Days of Cambridge" are never far behind, it seems with British espionage history)--a mole is suspected and the out-to-pasture (for past sins and indiscretions) George Smiley (Alec Guinness) is called in to uncover him (or her).Amazingly, the film (the mini-series) seems to capture the pacing,the nuance, the landscape and atmosphere of that time and that place. The Cold War--which lasted, it seems, almost as long as our own Afghanistan War--and all its ramifications (fabricated or not) is on the line. This is a sophisticated spy story; Smiley is James Bond--not. LeCarre's books always deal with the cerebral, even when he's uncovering treason in the ranks. The subtle (even understated) dialog speaks volumes and the ensemble cast (Patrick Stewart gives us a mystifying Karla performance) make this mini-series a credit to the genre.It's good to see the Cold War (in literature!) again. How we've missed you!


                
I agree with many of the comments posted so far: This series has some of the greatest ensemble acting you will see in a dramatic television series. Some people quibble about an actor here or there, but I think they area all perfectly cast, and their roles perfectly executed. The plot is somewhat difficult to follow first time through if you haven't read the novel, but the intelligent and elegant way this complex novel was brought to life makes this a masterpiece of television drama. While it focuses on the intelligence community, I love the way this series (and the book) highlight what the MBAs would call "Organizational Behavior." The way alliances, loyalties, and antagonisms are made, enacted, and broken throughout the story is very insightful into human nature as it plays out in an organization -- not just an intelligence organization! The interactions among the key players parallel the types of things that go on in board rooms and conference rooms everywhere, even if what's at stake isn't a cold war for most of us. The toady, the know it all, the game-player, the bon vivant who's actually a snake, the way dominance and subservience play out in thousands of minuscule ways over the course of a day: body language, "jokes," sarcasm, posturing. Le Carre has the human side of an organization down, and the series captures his insights perfectly.


                
