Sir Alec Guinness is so good at being George Smiley that John LeCarre claims he can no longer write the character about without seeing Guinness' face.  The supporting cast is  uniformly excellent, and the script captures the novel almost flawlessly.  It takes six hours because the story is complex and ranges over many years and many characters, but it is so well-written and acted that the any viewer with an attention span longer than that of a gnat can easily keep track of who did what and when, so that the ultimate unmasking of the traitor may be a surprise, but it is not a shock.


                
Although not as sympathetic or achingly romantic as 'The Russia House', this stunning TV adaptation is the closest the screen has gotten to the singular world of John le Carre.  Very few writers actually become so synonymous with their age that we look to their works to find out what a period of history was like.  When we think of the Cold War, and, most especially, the shabby bureaucracy of British espionage, it is le Carre we think of.What le Carre shares with Graham Greene, making him a million miles from the priapic fantasies of James Bond, is in showing how the Cold War literally degraded everyone.  Fils like 'Ninotchka' like to show the massive disparity between the dour, repressive, monotonous Soviet Union and the glitteringly superficial, gaily materialist West.  Le Carre suggests that both sides of the Iron Curtain are merely of the same coin, at the executive level at least.  You expect to see 1980 Czechoslovakia  as a run-down, provincial dump; but this film's England reminded me of Svankmajer's 'Alice', as it details a society, a system, an ethic, a code grinding towards inertia, a world becoming increasingly closed in that it can only be jabbed into life by shocks of betrayal.This England is a pure mirror image of our stereotypes of the East - a system run by chilling, amoral men with perfect manners (the most frightening thing about the narrative is that any one of the suspects could have done it, each one has so lost any kind of basic humanity, never mind idealism, that it is almost irrelevant who the traitor is) gathering together in anonymous meeting rooms, or an endless rondelay of joyless dinners; a world of cramped, impersonal decor, generally sucked in by shadows, so that we can't even be sure it's men we see, or the flickering grin of the Cheshire Cat;  a world of men, where one of the three female characters is an absent joke until the last five minutes, another is tortured and murdered by her superiors, and the third is sacked for competence, reduced to scraping money from grinds, a paralysed, blubbing outcast; a drab world where all colour and life has been seeped out, or goes by unnoticed, where jokes are bitter and grim, where the (very Soviet) elevator disrepair signals a wider, fundamental malaise.If it's fun you want, get 'You Only Live Twice' - the action here is generated from its milieu - dank, meticulous, pedantic, slow, inexorable, unsensational.  This is where a 6 hour TV adaptation has the edge on a feature film - cramming a le Carre plot into the latter can make it seem rushed and exciting; this film brings out all its civil-service ingloriousness superbly (although the figure of Karla is a little too SMERSHy for my tastes).Bill Hayden says you can tell the soul of a nation from its intelligence service, and this film, despite the go-getting yuppie 80s or the success of heritage TV ('Jewel in the Crown', 'Brideshead Revisited') is perhaps the closest representation of a kind of soul, public school, Oxbridge, Whitehall, male.  In equating this world with impotence and sterility (Smiley is childless), the material errs in equating homosexuality as the ultimate, literal inversion, a closing in, of minds, spirit etc.But the metaphor of the betrayed friendship as representative of a wider betrayal is less a corny contrivance than an indication of how fundamentally incestuous this world is.  These men slipping in and out of shadows are ghosts, fighting a war that doesn't exist, nitpicking over irrelevant ideological puzzles that have lost all meaning.  The 'good' guys are no better than the bad - Peter Guillam, though dogged and loyal, is little more than a thug; Ricky Tarr is new yuppie incarnate in all his cocky repulsiveness.Smiley, marvellously essayed by Alec Guinness - more obviously sharper than in the book, Hercules cleaning out the Aegean stables - loses even the barest traces of humanity, with vast reserves of calculated sadism and bureaucratic immorality, his thick glasses seeing all the detail and none of the big picture.  Smiley needs the rules of the game more than anyone; without them he is left adrift in life, and the stupendous final shot shows how deeply that defeats him.Unusually for TV, this is a film of rare visual imagination, not in the mistakenly flashy, spuriously 'cinematic' sense beloved of ambitious tyros, but in its exploration of the medium's claustrophobia, as it traps its protagonists, in particular the way the camera's point of view chillingly suggests somebody else looking on, spying on the spies, making everything we see provisional, especially the flashbacks, which elide as much as they reveal.


                
`Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy' was wonderful.  It is finally out on DVD and I've rewatched it.  I am a fan of John Le Carré's book and I've read TTSS several times.  The show's characterizations were spot on.   The cast headed by Alec Guinness was superb.  One of my favorites was Joss Ackland as Jerry Westerby.  I wish they would have made `The Honorable Schoolboy' into a series starring him.   He would have been great.    The TTSS series is an example of a perfectly made miniseries.   I cannot read the books without picturing the characters as they were portrayed in this series.  Maybe someone will think about putting Len Deighton's `Game, Set, and Match' out on DVD.   Two quintessential portrayals of spies, other than the James Bond types, are Alec Guinness as George Smiley and Ian Holm as Bernard Samson.


                
I've lost count over how many times I've watched this brilliant adaptation of John Le Carre's novel. Each time I watch it I find something new to marvel over. Guinness was perfectly cast for the role of George Smiley, and seemed to play the part almost effortlessly. The rest of the cast are also superb.Audiences initially found the film slow, baffling or indeed boring. But the truth is that the life of a spy is so far removed from the 'James Bond' image that a more down-beat approach was needed to tackle the adaptation. It is through this film that we realise that the creation of George Smiley is a work of pure genius, and Guinness so perfectly portrays this, simply dominating every scene.The plot seems quite simple at first, but as I have watched and re-watched the work (and read the novel) I realise that it is much more complex than it seems.In conclusion, a first class cast giving superb performances throughout. Dominating the entire film is Alec Guinness, who deservedly won the BAFTA for best actor.


                
"Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy" is a miniseries based on the novel by John le Carré. British Intelligence, nicknamed the "Circus", has been compromised. One of its four top officials is passing information to the Soviets and it rests upon retired spy George Smiley to investigate the Circus and find the traitor.Alec Guinness skillfully leads the cast as the subtle and methodical George Smiley. All of the supporting players are excellent as well. Even brief appearances such as those of Susan Kodicek, Joss Ackland and Patrick Stewart made an impression and left me wishing I could see more of their characters.The story explores the shifty and bureaucratic spy community through dialogue and by developing the relationships between characters over time. This miniseries maintains a slow and thoughtful pace throughout and will most certainly bore those looking for a quick James Bond type thriller. Smiley slowly discovers what is happening by tracking down people and sifting through files. Eventually Smiley and the audience are rewarded for their patience with the identity of the mole toward the superb end of the series. Thankfully there is a sequel series, "Smiley's People", for those of us left wanting more.


                
The head of Soviet Intelligence has got a mole placed very top echelon of British Intelligence, so high up that the service can't be trusted to ferret him out. The only man capable of uncovering his identity is George Smiley, the now-retired, one-time Chief of Operations of British Intelligence. In fact, this unlike-sounding premise is actually based upon a true story.Although "Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy" is ostensibly a spy-thriller, it is really the unlimited detective story. Alec Guinness surpasses himself in the role of George Smiley. The creator of a vast array of colorful characters, Guinness plays Smiley a quiet, thoughtful, thorough man. Smiley is a man who stays inside himself, who asks questions but gives very little away. He is not, in fact, the cloak-and-dagger soy type, but the ultimate detective. And it takes the ultimate detective to sort out the complicated and secretive web of people and intrigues surrounding the betrayal of British Intelligence. His job is to get the truth out of smart people, people who not only know how to lie but who have been trained to lie. Those expecting car chases, gun battles, tricky gadgets, beautiful femmes fatales and massive explosions are going to be disappointed with "Ticker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy". This is definitely NOT a James Bond film. However, those desiring a thoughtful, intricate and thoroughly adult spy thriller need look no further. Herein they will find one of the best.


                
There are generally two types of spy fiction. One type is the larger-than-life adventure of a charming hero who battles nefarious and mysterious enemies bent on world control. The other type is a more realistic, bleaker tale of a spy battling in a world where his own allies would turn on him, for something that most people hold insignificant or irrelevant. This story falls under the second type, but while not so entertaining is one of the best spy stories ever done.Based on the classic spy novel by John Le Carre, this series tells the story as follows: In the 1970s, a fiasco at the British Secret Service shakes things up, forcing the head of the Service out and all his subordinates, including protagonist George Smiley. In his place steps in Percy Allenine, a pompous and arrogant official who smugly claims access to a source of Soviet intelligence that will revive the Service's reputation. However, a maverick spy named Ricki Tarr appears with information about a Russian spy hidden within the Service; he is dismissed, but raises enough concern for George Smiley to be recruited to make an investigation. The story is intelligently written, but the true power of the story lies in its emotional impact. Smiley was thrown out of work and then dragged back to clean up a mess he had nothing to do with; he has to deal with insufferable superiors who want to stay secure with no blame attached to them; his allies go through nightmares that cost them greatly; and finally, when the mole is revealed, the weary cynicism that led him to commit treason against (this character is one of the most ironic and tragic characters despite what he's done). And yet, Smiley and his allies doggedly strive for something pure and noble in the miry sordid world they live in, and their eventual victory and reward, while it may be small, is made sweeter and grants a touch of hope. This miniseries moves at a slow but masterful pace, having Smiley trace out the mole's ruinous track and identity in the manner of a detective story; the adaptation is done wonderfully, with expert expansion and removal of the novel's passages into a solid unique work. The cast is wonderful, with Alec Guiness leading an all-star ensemble; Guiness who usually plays a lean, dignified Brit, delivers a masterful performance as the meek, frog-like Smiley. Ian Richardson does a wonderfully ironic role as Bill Haydon and Ian Bannen is haunting as the wounded agent Jim Prideaux. A particular standout is Patrick Stewart as Smiley's enemy the Soviet spy Karla, who commands intensity and menace without uttering a single word throughout his appearance. On the whole, if you want to see how real spies do their work, this is the show for you to watch. It will not be exciting or easy, but it will be worth the watch.
A second viewing of 'Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy', and it was so easy to watch all episodes in a row in one night once again. I'm not sure who else could play Smiley so perfectly as Alec Guiness did, as I am also not sure if I really want to try the remake with Gary Oldman, even if he is a great actor, too...The story, the acting and the settings in 'Tinker...' are often very much understated and subtle (although there are plenty of emotional eruptions as there are picturesque sceneries), as is Smiley's investigation, which is the wrapped around the many stories that are at play here. Smiley is the ultimate analyst of this complicated world of cloaks and daggers, who brings as much heart as intelligence into the process. After the death of 'Control' (what an appropriate name), he is the one who should put things right, having quite a few bones to pick, but on the other hand, not so much else do either, really. And his wife...? Their conversation at the end, their only one throughout the whole series, tells so much.A very big 9 out of 10 for now.
I re-watched this after two decades. I have never read the novel so I am not in a position to appraise the adaptation from book to screen.This was a prestige BBC adaptation and a lot of money was spent on getting Alec Guinness star as Smiley and some location set pieces.However once you get over such trappings the production values are still very much interior settings. People having discussions in rooms and what not.Guinness is all stillness, letting others to do the talking and letting them reveal themselves a little too much.Just as Karla did the same to him some years ago. Only Nigel Stock manages to ruffle his feathers.This gives other actors such as Hywel Bennett, Ian Richardson, Joss Ackland, Beryl Reid a chance to shine while Guinness looks on.The drama demands concentration from the viewer, it is dense, it has a lot of chatter regarding the world of spooks. The Circus does look a lot like the old public school network. Even in those days the secret service had enough of the shifters and drifters as shown in other spy novels.Hywel Bennett as Ricki Tarr, Michael Jayston as Peter Guillam and Ian Bannen as Jim Prideaux show how dangerous, mean and ruthless such spies can be.Tarr has told so many lies that the truth is so hard to tell without adding some shade.At the Circus, Ian Richardson punctures the pompous atmosphere as he displays undercurrents of rebellion. Patrick Stewart makes a silent cameo and right at the end Mrs Smiley makes an appearance, a person we hear so much about throughout the series.


                
I have to admit that at first I was a bit disappointed. Old men talking a lot about spying, low budget sets, slow pace, no added drama. I thought it was going to be boring. And perhaps, if I were action minded, it would have been. Instead the series drew me in not by playing my emotional chords, not by special effects and not by adding superfluous problems to the story to give it extra oomph, but by presenting the story, step by step, as the rather cerebral character played by Alec Guinness peels the layers of the onion.So take what I told you as a warning. The series is excellent, but you will have to think about what everybody means when they say something, about why sometimes they just ask a lot of questions without seeming to be interested in the answers, which are not coming anyway and about how the game of cat and mouse is played.Bottom line: great, but slow paced spy thriller, aimed at the intellectual in you. It all involves the hunt for a mole in the highest ranks of MI6 during the Cold War, the villain mastermind being the uncredited Patrick Stewart as Karla, with Alec Guinness being its British opponent. It is rather low budget, and feels like a BBC play. Take your time and enjoy the show.


                
This is, as most comments agree, a masterpiece. Most of the performances are wonderful, with Guinness and Richardson standing out, while Ian Bannen's portrayal of the broken Prideaux is absolutely stunning and terrifying in its bleakness.But there is a reservation about some of the dialogue - much of which has not been generated in the script but taken from the book - which means I give it 9/10 rather than 10/10. Le Carre seems to have something of a tin ear when it comes to how people actually talk to each other. Several conversations take place in which almost every utterance includes the interlocutor's name. People get tagged with odd adjectives: "Brother Percy", "Young Peter Guillam", "Friend Toby" and so on. Things tend to be worse in the earlier episodes when scenes are being set. The crucial scene between Smiley and Roddy Martindale, and the scene where Rikki Tarr introduces his long flashback to Smiley, Guillam and Lacon, are particularly bad offenders, with stagey dialogue undermining the realism of acting and settings.


                
I revisit John Le Carre's books every few years, and just finished the Smiley trilogy...Had seen the movie version of Tinker, Tailer when it came out, and I must say, it left me very confused....Hungary, Smiley swimming, Prideaux in a shopping mall, and on and on....Hadn't seen the TV series version in quite some time, so I decided to watch it again....It felt like returning to the heart of a great spy story....Brilliant.... Of all the fine acting performances I greatly appreciated Joss Ackland in a cameo role as Westerby and Anthony Bate as Lacon....But what makes this version work is the honesty of the script, the fine directorial balancing...Well done...


                
This is the best piece of ensemble acting I've seen. This was a mini-series in 1979, directed by John Irvin and starring Alec Guiness. The cast works together as the characters did, and they make the mini-series rise above the genre.It's based on the novel by John le Carre, and we find George Smiley (played by Sir Alec) called back from retirement to ferret out a mole in the British Secret Service. It would be the usual spy-vs-spy stuff but for the camaraderie shown by the cast (a camaraderie I was disappointed to find missing in the sequel "Smiley's People").The material is top-notch, the screenplay is excellent, and the story moves along crisply and with intrigue, lots of subtle things going on that add depth to the characters, but it's a real winner because of the performance of the cast.
This is one of those shows my father would be watching as I was a child growing up in the early to mid-eighties. When I was young I felt as if this show jumped out of the TV and bored me to death. It all seemed to be a bunch of old white Brits jabbering on about topics I had no interest in. It is amazing how we view the same body of work differently at a later period in our life. I decided to watch this series after hearing the news that a feature film of the same name will be rolled out this fall. The 2011 version has some of the hottest British actors including Oscar winner Colin Firth and the always superb Gary Oldman. They have some big shoes to fill, especially because the BBC series of 1979 was 7 episodes totaling 290 minutes duration and it followed the book as closely as possible. It will be a major accomplishment if the filmmakers are able to inject all the intricacies of John Le Carre's novel into a standard 2hr feature film. I hope they do the book and series the justice it deserves. No that I am a ripe old age of 32 I appreciate well plotted and well acted dramas. I watched this entire series over 2 nights this past week and was impressed with its depth, production simplicity and graceful storytelling. I found myself wanting more after watching all 4.85 hours. I still felt as if they could have done more on the backgrounds of the characters and the shadow world they inhabit as did Le Carre's novel. I guess I should be happy that they adapted the book as best that can be hoped for considering how poorly some great books have been adapted to the screen. If anyone enjoys well plotted spy films they absolutely need to pick up this series. It should be revered as a window into the world of an intelligence agency. A world that isn't controlled by ultra high technology and assassins but by highly educated and eccentric patriots who work by using cunning, reasoning, deduction and secrecy to protect the homeland they love but more importantly the service they work for. Check out anything related to Le Carre if enjoyed, "Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Sailor", "The Constant Gardener", "The Tailor of Panama", or "The Russia House." All are excellent.


                
This series from the BBC is probably great. Probably because it has everything it needs to be great and yet it sounds in the end a little bit sad, too slow, too obvious to be true, believable and such stories need to be believed. It is one of the most beautiful story from the Cold War, about the fable of the Russian spy inside the spying service of Her gracious British Queen. The main interest is how the service is paralyzed by inside hostilities, inside vanities, inside rivalries that kill all possible initiatives to find out who is embedded in the comfortable armchairs of that service. The secret services and spying services of any country become complacent after a while and that's the way you can infiltrate them in no time. You just have to play the superficial game of faithfulness and fidelity and orthodoxy and blind obedience, and then you can do what you want and become the best Russian spy ever. When finally someone arrives from ahigh to investigate he becomes the object and target of absolutely all hostilities and jealousies and everyone is ready to kill him if necessary, poison or handguns are best. That's the only real interest of this series. The patriotic motivations of the good spies are superficial and in fact not argument-supported at all. It is something that is considered as natural: every patriot loves his or her country and is ready to die for it. Then the motivations of the Russian spy are just as superficial, dealing with the hypocrisy of this democracy where so few people have real power and real control over the life of millions of powerless subjects who are lured by the baits of elections. Standard communist discourse from these old years of the 1950s and 1960s. The final touch is how the surveillance of this spy under custody is so loose that he can get an appointment from someone outside, get out of the building and get "liberated" by his own assassination in a peaceful park. In other words they let him organize his own final exit. Hypocrisy we were saying. It is far more shameful cynicism. But the series is played so well by so good actors. That's the best part of British TV: real actors are acting in the series and not beginners or mediocre middle aged non-entities. It is a real pleasure, even if the small screen of this medium reduces these actors to close-up shots and hardly anything else.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines, CEGID
