Riveting and marvellous film by the genius cartoonist Hayao Miyazaki , it's a classic cartoon movie set many years from now , a dangerous, desolate post-industrial world of the future where rules the strongest law . This magnificent cartoon movie concerns about Nausicaa legend, a young princess and heiress to the throne living in the far future who attempts to understand and feels it is wrong to destroy the toxic jungle . This fascinating and haunting adventure set in the post-apocalyptic wasteland world by the great Hayao Miyazaki and happens upon a thousand years after a nuclear war left the Earth as an aftermath , with the barren and stark lands . Human race has destroyed the Earth in the "Seven Days of Fire". Now, there are small pockets of humans that survive . Warrior/pacifist Princess Nausicaä desperately fights to avoid two warring countries from destroying themselves and their dying . The Valley of the Wind, a small community commanded by King Jil battles for survival as the kingdom attempts to defend the Valley from gigantic Ohm bugs and toxic plants that live beyond the Valley in the Sea of Decay . The Valley is invaded by the Tolmekian warriors who scheme to destroy the Sea of Decay by utilizing the greatest monsters that caused the holocaust. Nausicaa goes after the pirates, severely damaging their aircraft but she is gunned down . After Nausicaä is caught , Nausicaä breaks out and goes beneath the Sea of Decay where she learns the toxic plants are not poisoning the air and are purifying the world by draining the air of radiation and toxins . Later on , Nausicaa join forces with the creatures Ohms and makes a friend ; both of them will confront on the air taking place overwhelming chases , pursuits and dogfighting on the skies and set out to the Valley and foil the Tolmekians schemes of unleashing the Great Monster Warrior.This attractive film is plenty of fantasy , adventures, spectacular dogfighting and with agreeable message . Masterfully made by Miyazaki who also directed other excellent cartoon movies as ¨ Ponyo , Howl's moving castle, Chihiro, Nicky , Porco Rosso , My neighbor Tororo , Castle in the sky ¨ and many others .The picture is narrated with sensibility and sense of wonder and being quite entertaining , it is apt for small kids but no contains graphic violence as ¨Monokome-Hime¨ and similarly contains an ecologist message. The film packs lively situations , hilarious scenes , spectacular images and culminating in an impressive confrontation with breathtaking ending . Note that the foreign release titled Warriors of the Wind is an adaptation well restored and remastered from television series and released in cinemas , being entirely kiddiefied rendition that edits the original episodes heavily, thus creating a completely diverse tale . All roles have multiple dimensions and display really astonishing humanity . Never remotely didactic , the movie is ultimately an enjoyable fantasy that touches brief thoughtful issues dealing with ethical , ecological and juvenile psychological themes . The drawings have a special ancient touch that conveys the forgotten wisdom of the past that could really affect the way you interact with others and with the ambient . This stunning film with appropriate runtime , converted the first of any kind to get a big hit in Japan .The motion picture was splendidly realized by Hayao Miyazaki and accompanied with sensitive music score composed by his usual musician, Joe Hisaishi. Miyazaki wasn't yet a culture hero in Japan when made this animated mythic adventure ; later on , he directed ¨Princess Monokone¨converted the first of any kind to gross over the box office in Japan and all over the world , it raised him to a status approaching living national treasure . Miyazaki also directed other excellent cartoon movies as ¨Lupin¨ (1978) , Castle of Cagliostro¨ (1979) , ¨Howl's moving castle¨ , ¨Laputa castle of the sky¨ ,¨Porco Rosso¨ , ¨Kiki's delivery service¨, ¨Chihiro¨ or ¨Spirited away¨: the highest grossing Japanese film ever , and the cult movie : ¨My neighbour Tororo¨ . Sensational and fantastic tale, it's a masterpiece cartoon movie , a great animation with an enjoyable meaning . One of a kind, if you enjoy interesting stories and have a soft spot for deep characters and well planed scenarios, you are in for a great one. Rating : Better that average , worthwhile watching ; advisable to see for children and adults who appeal the gorgeous drawings .


                
Miyazaki's Nausicaa, of the Valley of the Wind, is deeply moving, but in the dubbed version (Warriors of the Wind) that poignancy is lost due to the extensive reinterpretation of the film.  Over 20 minutes were cut, as that company wanted to make it more an animated action movie for its targeted market, rather than attempt to portray the subtleties of human nature. Thus, they edited the "slow" scenes that gave the film so much of its bittersweet feeling.  Nausicaa is renamed as "Princess Zandra," and the sweet-sounding Japanese voice actress for Nausicaa is replaced with the voice of Rocky from Bullwinkle.  Although the first time I saw Nausicaa was in the dubbed format, I still found that the cinematography and music were breathtaking.  I only recently was able to see the uncut version in Japanese, and was shocked to see how much of it was butchered in Warriors of the Wind.  It has been recorded that Miyazaki was horrified at what had been done to his beautiful film.  Perhaps it was good that that happened, because (for those who are aware of Disney's plans to translate his creations) he will not allow his films to be touched in any way, allowing only for a direct translation.  Therefore, should Disney change anything about his anime, it would be an illegal action.


                
I am not a particular fan of animation. There are several reasons why not, for me I often find the charecthers hard to connect with. I also often find the animation takes precedence over the storyline, and the directors get to caught up with making the film look good. Meaning that animation may look fantastic but lack in substance.However, putting all of those thoughts aside, I still think I would of found precisely the same faults with this picture if it had been live action.One thing which I was find annoys me in film is when dialouge is used as the sole means of explaining what is going on, or used to push the plot forward. A lot of the time in the first half an hour, the film seemed to do nothing but this. It seemed to be telling you things you already knew, or were obvious and apparent. I find this detracts from the picture, and doesn't allow you to process the information for yourself.Another complaint would have to be the ending. The film both loses and gains marks for it. I don't like Deus Ex Machina endings generally, so when this one was sprung out of the box I was less then impressed. I don't see the point of killing a charecther only for 3 minutes later resurrect her, with little obvious explanation. When the princess is dropped in front of the horde of stampedding bugs, my instant reaction was that they were all going to miraculously stop, so I was quite impressed when they didn't. I just feel this was spoiled by the resurrection scene, which in my eyes achieved nothing.There is a lot of good to though. The soundtrack is awesome, and fits perfectly with what the director is trying to achieve. There are also some fantastic shots, and views of the world. I also like the way the credits are used to continue the story.Overly, i found it to be a very sentimental film. Which is not what I really like, it was in a lot Of ways the complete anthisist to the sort of picture I usually like.I'm finding it hard to score this any higher than 6/10
As does every other Miyazaki movie, this movie has everything that a good movie needs. A very moving plot, very likable characters, and a strong message about the world and the human race. The reason that I only gave this movie seven stars is because I had seen Princess Mononoke before hand. Princess Mononoke was a visual masterpiece with an extremely similar story to this film, that was made after this film. Both are absolutely amazing portrayals of the same story, but they are the same story. So I don't know if this is a problem for you but chances are whichever movie that you watch first will taint your opinion of the other one. This movie was very enjoyable and way ahead of it's time as far as animation and story go. It is a must see for anyone who loves anime, or anyone who wants to watch a real movie with a strong plot and character development.


                
I liked it before it was cool.Back in February 2002 a local cinema was showing the original Japanese version of Nausicaä and I decided to give it a go since I was such a big fan of Castle of Cagliostro. The English subtitles were horrendous and laughably in need of spell-checking, but the packed audience really got into it, and there was something infectious about the movie.It wasn't until 2005 that Miyazaki allowed the movie to be properly released in Western countries after the disastrous 1984 cut titled "Warriors of the Wind" lost 21 minutes of story and destroyed his vision. Miyazaki lost faith in selling his movies in foreign territories. The new English version has some dialogue problems that one last script revision could have solved, but it's still a far superior animated masterpiece than most of the Disney, Pixar, and Dreamworks offerings of the past ten years.A thousand years after mankind destroyed that planet and made it uninhabitable, humans have retreated to a few, isolated communities across deserts while a toxic forest spreads across the land. Nature is simply fighting back against the last of mankind, and the gargantuan insects in the forest might be initially terrifying, but are generally looking for peace and status quo.In the Valley of Wind Princess Nausicaä leads her people with love and inspires them with peace. An invading army from the country of Tolmekia kills her father, the King, and provokes a confrontation with the insects of the forest.Without Nausicaä there would be no Ferngully or Avatar. Miyazaki was well ahead of the game regarding the story and themes. There is imagination and scope here rarely seen in animation since. There are a few problems though - the subplot with the ancient warrior God falls flat and goes nowhere, the bad guys do not get the retribution that they deserve, and the ending is a little abrupt.Joe Hisaishi's score is catchy and wonderful, and I highly recommend that you hunt down the many different versions available on CD. The Manga, also written Miyazaki, is much longer and expansive too if you're into that sort of thing.Not my personal favorite Miyazaki film, but a masterpiece no doubt.


                
As with Miyazaki's other fantasies - such as CASTLE IN THE SKY (1986) and HOWL'S MOVING CASTLE (2004) - the film (based on a graphic novel) takes in a rather unwieldy and muddled narrative which goes on too long! Needless to say, the animator's imagination is most evident in the epic-scale production design - and this is complemented by regular composer Joe Hisaishi's appropriately sweeping score (inevitably fused with then-fashionable synthesizer sounds).As usual, we get a plethora of characters and factions - both human and anthropomorphic: still, while the heroine is fairly well-delineated (if unexpectedly underclothed!) and the monsters typically impressive (and revolting), her animal companion is severely under-used and the villains prove to be not all that interesting. In essence, what we get here is plenty of action, a touch of magic (it's interesting how in all of Anime', children seem to posses some kind of power which places the fate of mankind in their hands) and a plea for ecological preservation.


                
I have to admit the first time I watched this I was left completely overwhelmed, alternately thinking it was either very moving and profound, or just very silly fantasy. So I watched it again the next day.The second viewing however was quite a revelation. Once you know the basics of the story and characters, you can really immerse yourself in this detailed world, rather than having to keep up with all the exposition and the "who, where, why, how, what?!" of the first viewing.I must add now, that I'm usually a firm believer in original language dubs and subtitles, but having watched the English dub of Nausicaa I honestly think it's the better version to watch. Alison Lohmann is an inspired choice, and gives Nausicaa a much more sympathetic and less sentimental character, compared to the original, rather shrill and hysterical, Japanese dub. Nausicaa also sounds closer to her apparent age, a teenager, rather than a child and the story seems much more coherent and easy to follow, without losing anything in translation.The animation is brilliant, especially all the flight scenes which I understand are a bit of a Miyazaki trademark. The only slight clunker is the very dated 1980s music, which is an almost avant-garde combination of melodramatic orchestral synths, or crazy disco / pipe organ beats! Not to mention a dose of "exotic" sitar flourishes. But it does give the film a kind of 80s ironic charm! Won't go into the story - suffice it to say it's very eco-friendly, with lots of valuable positive themes for the kids. However it also has a great amount of depth (the epic "Dune" series springs to mind) and enough complexity and welcome lack of excessive sentiment to entertain adults.A must-see for fans of Miyazaki's later work, although it may take a few viewings to fully appreciate this fantastic, epic story!


                
I can directly tell that this is a great movie indeed. The Japanese are great people in designing fantasy worlds. I like how the world has so great diversity in contrast. Anyone versed enough in movies can immediately spot the things that gave ideas to other movies. I see this movie's influence on Avatar (the ship design, the plants design, the forest design), Attack on Titan (the Titan's own design), and even Starship Troopers (the whole insects theme, and the ohmu's design on the brain bug). The story is unfortunately is a straightforward a children's story of good versus evil with minor twists here and there. There it's very much predictable. I saw the original version with Japanese voice, adding adequate authenticity to the experience.


                
Warrior/pacifist Princess Nausicaä desperately struggles to prevent two warring nations from destroying themselves and their dying planet.Going through the IMDb Top 250, I keep thinking I have seen all the mainstream anime films, and then another one rears its head. Most I simply do not care for and I have no idea what the appeal is. One, "Howl's Moving Castle", is actually quite good, and deserving of being on the Top 250.This film is second best, and could be worthy of the Top 250, so long as it is below "Howl". Now, I get that the creatures are impressive and the animation is actually quite good for 1984, but there is just something about "Howl" that is hard to beat.


                
"Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind" is an animation movie which shows us a Warrior/pacifist Princess Nausicaa who is trying really hard to prevent a war between two nations and also wants to save their dying planet.I believe that for one more time Hayao Miyazaki made a really good job not only in the direction of this movie but also in the writing of it and his great job is obvious in this movie. I liked this movie because it wants show us a fight for the best result which is peace and wants also to shows us what people have to sacrifice to succeed it and protect it. This movie shows us all of this from the animation perspective but it wants us to think further more than this and not think of this movie as a childish movie and nothing more. Some movies that I can compare this movie with would be of course from Hayao Miyazaki and especially "Howl's Moving Castle" and "Princess Mononoke" which I found them equally good.Finally I believe that "Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind" is a great animation movie to watch because even if is an animation movie it can give you many things to think of and of course consider about these. It can also make you feel somehow different because I have to say that Hayao Miyazaki is a master int his, he can transfer to you emotions even from an animation movie and this is something that I believe that makes him one of the best of his kind.


                
The anime whose critical & commercial success led to the formation of the now legendary Studio Ghibli, Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind is a masterwork of imagination & creativity which tells the story of a young princess who believes in peace & harmony and tries to stop an impending war between humans & mutant giant insects in a post-apocalyptic world.Written & directed by Hayao Miyazaki, the film also brings on surface the current world issues like war & its futility, rising environmental pollution, shifts in ecological balance around the world & the ignorance of mankind to all these important matters due to greed, power or corruption. The animation is visually delightful & voice actors have done a fine job in voicing their carefully fleshed out characters.Cinematography elegantly captures its subject matter in meticulous detail, editing could've managed a few more trims, music is most impressive in the third act & its themes concerning the environmental issues are smartly presented to the viewers. On an overall scale, Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind may not be the masterpiece that I was expecting after having heard so many great things about it but it sure is one of the finest animation films of its time.


                
The name of animation director/producer Hayao Miyazaki is highly celebrated, more so than that of Walt Disney in some circles. For decades he has been proliferating the imagination of young children all around the world including and especially in his native land of Japan. Stop me if you've heard these titles: Howl's Moving Castle (2004), Princess Mononoke (1997), My Neighbor Totoro (1988), the Academy Award winning Spirited Away (2001). Every one of them has meticulous and powerful hand drawn animation, tenacious imagination, strength and gentility. While I may not be a fully realized convert of "anime" as an entertaining animation style, I do believe that the works of Miyazaki deserve its praise.Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind (1984) is certainly no exception when it comes to Miyazaki's brilliance. While it may not be Miyazaki's first animated feature, I would argue it is the first in which he let's his imagination run wild and free. The principle story takes place in a post-apocalyptic world where the remaining humans live in fear of a steadily growing poison forest populated by dangerous giant bugs. Two warring civilizations fight for the remainder of cultivatable land while a young princess named Nausicaa tries to save her small kingdom from inhalation from all sides.The 80's and early 90's would see a boom in ecology themed children's films and TV shows a la Once Upon a Forest (1993), Ferngully: The Last Rainforest (1992), Captain Planet and the Planeteers (1990-1996) et al. Yet Nausicaa remains probably the most interesting artistically speaking, and had I watched it young, it may very well have been the most powerful. For Miyazaki doesn't belay the point with one-sided monologues or simplistic anti-environment villains, he gently nudges you towards a world view that accepts beauty in balance; interconnectedness with our world whether we choose to see it or not.It is said that the original American cut of the film was so badly edited that it had a radically different story all together and forced Miyazaki to look to Disney for distribution. It was likely an edit that lacked any of the darker elements for which there are many. The largest of the killer insects are gigantic amour plated grubs called Ohmus who charge and trample anything that gets in its way. One of the principle characters is a princess from a war-like civilization that has had limbs torn apart by killer bugs. Then of course there is the gun violence between people which makes this film a bit of a no-go for younger audiences and discerning parents.Still, those who don't mind stomaching a little cartoon violence (you telling me Courage the Cowardly Dog was any tamer) should see this movie. It's beautifully and lovingly made by the best animators of any generation. In addition to making the aforementioned hits, Miyazaki would go on to found Studio Ghibli the Japanese production company responsible for other anime hits like Grave of the Fireflies (1988), The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) and From Up on Poppy Hill (2011); three movies that tested the limits of animation and introduced complex themes at a time when animated stories were becoming overly simplistic.Nausicaa first put Miyazaki on the map and in the consciousness of Americans and international audiences alike. While the age of Ralph Bakshi and Don Bluth have come and gone, replaced by the likes of John Lasseter and Brad Bird, Miyazaki has stayed consistent in his quality. Miyazaki's body of work remains a testament to what is possible through animation and Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind ranks among his very best and most creative efforts. I envy his imagination. Who else would send the head of Disney a samurai sword with a note reading: "No Cuts"?http://www.theyservepopcorninhell.blogspot.com


                
This was the first 'true' Miyazaki film from what I hear and I had to check it out, seeing as Mononoke-hime is my 2nd-favorite film of all time. The story is well-adapted, if shortened from the superb manga. I must say it is not quite as 'mind exploding' as people who love Spirited Away keep telling me, (I'll get to that film later). I'm glad I saw it, and I happen to own all 3 versions now, the original Japanese, the Disney dub, and Warriors of the Wind! If you know whats good for you, stick to the original Japanese version. That way you can avoid Shy Labeef and terrible localized dubbing in one swoop. Miyazaki still has a mini-masterpiece here as well as a neat little eco-fable. Nothing else to say other than Enjoy it!


                
There have been many films released over the past few years which have environmental undertones; Avatar, The Road and Wall-E to name a few. Whilst these films have mainly used the environmental theme to create the setting for a story, Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind (the second film by Hayao Miyazaki) fully embraces environmentalism, creating a story which has as its central theme the relationship between humanity and the earth.The film is set in a post-apocalyptic world where the Earth's ecosystem has been destroyed in what is referred to as The Seven Day War. The central character is Nausicaa, a Princess of the Valley of the Wind, which is one of the last few habitable places on earth. Large swathes of the earth are now covered by a 'Toxic Jungle' which is guarded by a variety of giant insects.War breaks out when a rival race, known as the Tolmekians, invade and destroy the rival city of Pejite in order to obtain the embryo of a Great Warrior (the creature who is thought to have destroyed the earth) which recently been discovered. On transporting the embryo back to Tolmekia, the Tolmekian airship crashes in the Valley of the Wind, prompting the Tolmekians to invade the Valley in order to retake the embryo. It then falls to Princess Nausicaa to try and restore peace and harmony.One of the first things that struck me when watching the film was that it was incredibly ahead of its time. Originally released in 1984, the environmental theme of the film is very relevant to the modern day and Nausicaa has to be one of the few films which may be more relevant now than when originally released.Another thing which I thought interesting, was that Nausicaa contains that rarity in modern day cinema; a strong female lead character. Too often in animation and often in live action films, the lead female character (if indeed there can be said to be one) is the stereotypical damsel in distress. In fact, if you look closely at the Disney Pixar Films, not one of them even has a strong female character (the closest Pixar comes is Mrs Incredible in The Incredibles). It is therefore refreshing that Nausicaa bucks the contemporary trend and not only has a female as its lead character, but a strong female warrior who is not afraid to risk her life to protect all other species on the planet, be it good or evil.The animation is lovingly rendered and each frame incredibly detailed resulting in a visual experience which doesn't feel out of place when compared to more recent examples of traditional animation. The world in which the film takes place is exceptionally complex and is comparable to the worlds which exist in Star Wars, Lord of the Rings or Avatar. Some of the different races and transportation which is used in the film clearly reference Star Wars and it is clearly one of the main inspirations behind the film.Whilst the detail of the setting adds to the richness of the film, it also creates some complexity in the story. The last half hour of the film is chock full of different locations and tribes of people (such as the Tolmekians, the Pejite and the people of the valley). As the story nears its conclusion we constantly jump from one event to another, many of which often happening simultaneously, and this leads to a bit of conclusion in the plot.Overall, whilst I enjoyed this film, I didn't love it. I didn't ever feel that emotional connection with the main characters which I need in order to truly fall in love with a film. Despite that I think there are enough interesting aspects of this film to warrant a repeat viewing, however I do not think its status as one of the top 250 films on IMDb (as at 20 May 2011) is justified.


                
Only his second feature-length film, legendary Japanese animator Hayao Miyazaki stunned anime lovers with an adventure story that would thematically and visually pave the way for the success of later works such as Castle in the Sky (1986), and Princess Mononoke (1997). Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind, as it is called, is an interesting film, but in my opinion, it is incomparable to most of his later works. Having watched all of Miyazaki's films, I strangely feel a lack of emotional attachment to this one, though the spirit of wonderment, a hallmark of every picture of his, at least still comes across unscathed.Nausicaa is the name of a beautiful and brave princess who lives in a small agrarian valley where the wind always blows. Such a natural phenomenon is important because deadly toxins from the Sea of Decay, a heavily polluted area that covers most of Earth, are blown away from the people of the valley. The Sea of Decay is one ghastly place, with all kinds of insects inhabiting it. One type of species, called the Ohms, which look like organic versions of Sentinels from The Matrix (1999, 2003, 2003) trilogy, look disturbingly creepy, but unless they feel rage, they are very much benign in nature.Speaking of rage, there is plenty of that to go around in Nausicaa. The princess is angry at the warring nations that are threatening to destroy the lives of people. The Ohms want revenge against the humans for being aggressive toward them. The fragility of the Earth's ecosystem to support life hangs precariously in the balance. The pacifist warrior Nausicaa must stand up against tyranny and destruction to save her people, the Ohms, and everything in between that breathes. Miyazaki's ecological themes are obvious here, though his message of peace and harmony while strong, comes across as less affective here than in the more masterful Princess Mononoke.Well-drawn and representing an early showcase of Miyazaki's creativity, Nausicaa unfortunately feels jagged in its editing, causing it to function not as effectively in its storytelling, character development, and the execution of its action sequences, many of which involve aerial battles that require smoothness in cuts to invoke pronounced feelings of excitement and tension in viewers. Joe Hisaishi, in his first of many fruitful collaborations with Miyazaki, composes a score that is part orchestral, part electronic, the latter of which seems out of place at times.Some would disagree, but I feel that Nausicaa is one of Miyazaki's weaker works, at least from a technical standpoint. Even from a storytelling point-of-view, too much weight is placed on the title character's shoulders to lead the film on her own. In some of his best features, Miyazaki often pairs up or groups strong heroines with one or a few fascinating supporting character(s), with their interplay producing some of the most tender and affective moments. In Nausicaa, this is less obvious, and together with a quite unconvincing villain, these factors unfortunately lead to a less involving film than expected.GRADE: B- (7/10 or 3 stars)www.filmnomenon.blogspot.comAll rights reserved.
I was lucky enough to get a subbed version at my church library.This is an amazing film. If those people hadn't messed this film up with that "Warriors of the Wind" garbage, maybe the US would be able to see this film in its full, superior, original state.I wouldn't call it a Sci-Fi version of Mononoke Hime, though. Both are unique in different ways.


                
Considering Miyazaki was the maker of Spirited Away (which I saw in bits and pieces) and Princess Mononoke I expected to find some weird things and creatures, and of course, wasn't disappointed.The main theme of the movie is generally "humans are bad, humans messed up the earth, humans pollute everything, be kind to creatures, we fear what we don't understand" and so on and so forth. The plot itself, however, manages to use this theme without tipping the scales too far over to the "mediocre and repetitive" direction.As for the characters, I failed to find too many problems with any of them. I liked Princess Nausica in particular. She was strong-willed, compassionate, and a leader without managing to come across as just another "annoying princess." The movie in general was boring in some places, but overall had a really original setting (so far as I know). A few of the battles were a little choppy/cheesy, and there was a lack of music beyond that of the ohm (sp?) song, but that I think I will have in my head for a very long time. It added a nice touch.This -probably- wasn't one of Miyazaki's best works (am I being too generous by not saying 'definitely'?), but I think if you just generally crave something animated that's a blend of both sci-fi and fantasy, this may just be an OK choice.


                
Although it was Miyazaki's first original feature, I watched Nausicaä after four other films of his. Its also the first - and last - one I watched with my dad. "What was that sh@!?" He grumbled. :P Back then, I thought it was his weakest film. I still do now, but I have more respect for it. Its the simplest in terms of plot and character and has the "worst" animation - but it was earlier in his career. And when compared to the typical film, it still has more beauty and soul.Like most Ghibli films, Nausicaä goes great lengths to develop an original world. Its a mixture of fantasy and sci-fi, medieval and industrial. The forests are particularly unique - almost alien, with fungus-like plants and strange, giant insects. Combined with a likable lead, a serious story, and an orchestral/electronic soundtrack, it must have been quite the surprise three decades ago...too bad they butchered the English release.My biggest problem is that the story is a bit too ham-fisted. Nausicaä is more or less a perfect hero. The pro-environment, anti-war message is obvious and pretty simple. Nausicaä won't win any converts, and my eyes were fairly dry. Princess Mononoke is a very similar film, but is an improvement in almost every aspect.Its still fine, though. It you like the aesthetic or just want a fantasy adventure, its a good choice. And like most of Miyazaki's films, its great for children. It treats them as intelligent human beings, and it might go down as one of their favorites. You don't need to feed them blockbuster goofs every movie night for them to be happy. Make some memories~ :P


                
I love this movie. I remember watching the better voiced shorter version "Warriors of the Wind" back in 1984. This one may have more content but it didn't make up for the lack of quality from the voice actors, who for the most part are inexperienced in animation voice acting save for a few. If they had used the old voice actors and put in the new content then it would've been great. I have the original on tape anyhow but it's always nice to have it on a DVD. I own all of Studio Ghibli's other films and I recently saw "Tales from Earthsea" in Japanese and can't wait for that one even though it won't be released here for a few years due to licensing. All in all I still bought this DVD so I could have a higher quality video output while listening to the original Japanese voice cast. This is a must buy for Ghibli fans and non-Ghibli fans!


                
This movie is very strange, but its charme and strength lies in that very strageness.
The visuals are great. They ceartainly held me pinned to my seat when the plot didn't manage. The latter happened from time to time, but I don't have any major issue with it. The characters are great but felt a little two-dimensional at times. The soundtrack is great!Spawn ratings: 7/10. (Cute bugs.)


                
I know there's a huge fan base for anime movies like this, and especially for works by director Hayao Miyazaki, but I just couldn't engage with this film after about a half hour. I've watched other films from Miyazaki and quite honestly, though they're all beautifully rendered, they often seem disjointed continuity wise, and in some cases, quite difficult to follow. 'Nausica' by contrast was easy enough to follow, but after a while I just didn't care. One thing that bothered me about the story was the idea that civilization was destroyed a thousand years ago, but it seemed like the toxic jungle taking over the world was a relatively recent phenomenon. A thousand years seemed like a pretty long time for humanity to make a comeback or be wiped out completely, so the idea that there were warring tribes threatening the Valley of the Wind seemed like a disconnect to me. Interestingly, the very last animated film I saw was "How to Train Your Dragon", and it struck me how similar the basic plot of both movies seemed to be, In each one, opposing forces, human and animal, come to a realization that they were better off living with each other in harmony because they could help each other, rather than waste their energy and lives fighting at war. This film took a long time coming to that conclusion.
I won't deny that this film has excellent animation. It can also not be denied that the plot of it is rather creative. The problem for me was that it was like watching "anime Captain Planet". I love pollution and hate the environment, I purposely pollute things. It's bad enough that I have to see 'please recycle" signs and "go green" bumper stickers everywhere I go, so it's rather annoying to have it invading a movie. I know, you're probably thinking, "well if you don't care about the environment, why'd you watch it?" I watched it because it was recommended to me, the logline was interesting, and I wasn't expecting some hippie environmentalist propaganda crud. On the bright side, NVOTW has some great soundtrack, and just because I'm pro-pollution anti-environment doesn't mean you won't enjoy it. It all depends on what your own ideas of a good movie is, so you'll have to check it out to decide for yourself.


                
Through no true fault of it's own, Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind is an Overrated Classic. It is a film of grand, sweeping visuals, an intriguing world, and is full of many of the hallmarks Hayao Miyazaki would come to be known for later on (i.e. flying scenes, environmental messages, and strong female protagonists). However, it is made overrated by an external factor, the first of Miyazaki's two masterpieces, Princess Mononoke.Every flaw in Nausicaa is addressed and improved upon in Princess Mononoke. Simplistic main character? Improved upon with Ashitaka, a character who, unlike Nausicaa, is not morally perfect but has flaws which he must deal with and address in order to lift his curse. Underdeveloped villains? Improved upon with Lady Eboshi and to a lesser extent Jigo, villains who may do despicable things but are sympathetic and complex, particularly Lady Eboshi who provides for and protects the people of Iron Town, including lepers and former prostitutes. Bad voice acting (Disney dub only, I do not speak Japanese and as such am not qualified to judge the original cast who I'm sure do a fine job)? Improved upon with an adapted screenplay by Neil Gaiman and a cast including fine actors such as Billy Crudup, Minnie Driver, Keith David, and John DiMaggio, all of whom provide better voices than even the best voice actor from Nausicaa, Patrick Stewart, and certainly much, MUCH better than the worst, Shia LaBeouf.Now, none of this is to say that Nausicaa is a bad film, far from it. It is a very strong work that is well worth watching if just for the animation which is spectacular even by today's standards. The opening credits and the scene with the Giant Warrior in particular are quite stunning and the stylized vision scenes are also visually impressive. The faults in Nausicaa lie in the characters and story, both of which can be attributed to a relatively new director still feeling his way through the art of storytelling and character development. Honestly, I think the biggest reason Princess Mononoke is better is just that Miyazaki had greatly matured as a filmmaker and storyteller by the time he made Princess Mononoke. Had Mononoke been one of his first films and Nausicaa one of his later works, it is quite possible that I would be telling you that Mononoke is inferior to Nausicaa. But he didn't and it isn't. The basic story and morals are the same but they're simply handled much better in Princess Mononoke, making the issues more complex without a simple black and white answer, unlike Nausicaa whose message can be summed up with "People bad! Environment good!"In the end though, I can't say that I don't recommend Nausicaa for any fan of animation. It was a landmark film and as I said earlier, the animation alone makes it worth seeing. Aside from that it has some memorable if not terribly well developed characters and the voice acting is, on the whole, good but not great. The main standout is Patrick Stewart who is simply awesome as Lord Yupa. He's always calm and collected, but it can seem both comforting or menacing depending on the situation which fits the character perfectly, especially as you can't make out many of his facial expressions due to the huge mustache he sports. On the flip side, Shia LaBeouf is simply awful as Prince Asbel. The voice just doesn't seem to match the character and the emotions often seem forced. I don't really think it's so much that Shia is really that bad, mostly just that the casting decision was poor and that he doesn't really know how to work as a voice actor because he has shown that he is a capable (though by no means great) actor in the past. I just chalk it up to Disney trying to shoehorn in a celebrity and making a poor choice.Overall, Nausicaa is roughly to Miyazaki what A Bug's Life is to Pixar. They're both films that are good in their own right but just don't compare to the other works by the same director/studio. No one would say that A Bug's Life is better than Toy Story (1, 2, or 3), Up, Finding Nemo, or the Incredibles (just to name a few) and in the same way no one should really be saying that Nausicaa is better than Spirited Away, Princess Mononoke, or Kiki's Delivery Service (again, just to name a few). Is it good? Absolutely. Is it great? In some respects. If nothing else, Nausicaa should be remembered as a landmark achievement in animation and a solid first effort by an eventual legend, Hayao Miyazaki.
The last in my current series of Studio Ghibli films; you can have a little too much Ghibli if you're not careful! Fear not, I shall be returning to films from this studio sometime in the New Year so stay posted. This is an interesting one; I found the concept most intriguing but the execution (I'm sad to say) left a little to be desired (IMO). Technically and imaginatively, it's up there with the best of them, I just found it didn't quite have the punch I was expecting. More of my thoughts after this very brief summary.A thousand years after the world was laid waste small kingdoms exist on the margins of a polluted planet. One of these is The Valley of the Wind where a princess, Nausicaä, flies over the toxic forests in her glider. Giant insects inhabit the forest and she is respectful of them. She finds she is called upon when her valley is invaded by those who would unleash the monsters that had initially destroyed the world. Can she calm the beasts in the Toxic Forest before they destroy what is left of humanity? As you can probably guess, the Spoiler Police would not be pleased if I told you here<U+0085> In fact, I fear they would send me back to the Toxic Forest (again).Beautifully animated throughout and with great imagination, I can't fault the way this film looks or the imagination of Hayao Miyazaki. To come up with a world like this must have taken a great deal of time and effort. I saw the Japanese version (with subtitles) although I have heard of a dubbed (and severely 'kiddiefied') version – beware this one.I guess the problem I had with this film was that, although it's brilliantly conceived and made, it failed to have any emotional impact on me and it lacked the punch I have come to expect from Miyazaki's work. I guess the characters didn't have enough depth for me to really care about them enough. Add to that the fact that I found it way too long and I guess it's failing on two counts! Having said that, I think it's still worth a viewing<U+0085> You never know, you may love it a tad more than I did!... Recommended (just).My score: 7.2/10.IMDb Score: 8.1/10 (based on 29,997 votes at the time of going to press).Rotten Tomatoes 'Tomatometer' Score: 80/100 (based on 10 reviews counted at the time of going to press). Rotten Tomatoes 'Audience' Score: 63/100 (based on 65,379 user ratings counted at the time of going to press).


                
Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind is a Miyazaki's animation feature based on his eponymous Manga. It is set in a post-apocalyptic future in which the land is divided in three remaining hostile kingdoms: the people leaving in the Valley of the Winds, the Pejites, and the Tolmekians. Nausicaa is the princess of the Valley, a especial young lady in tune with Nature, who respects and loves her people. The human kingdoms are always threaten by the Sea of Decay, an exuberant toxic jungle inhabited by giant prehistoric-like insects who react to human hostility with destruction, spreading the toxicity of the Sea to those who dare to provoke them.Nausicaa's plot is action-packet, original, with weird creatures, lovable characters and a great lyric soundtrack. We find Miyazaki's usual animation landmarks: 1/ European landscapes and undefined time appearance (in this case Swiss-like, with a revamped medieval atmosphere). 2/ Prehistoric-like creatures (in this case insects). 3/ A female heroine who fights like any man, but always has great femininity (Nausicaa always wears her red earrings). 4/ A heavy presence of catalytic women, presented most of the time as strong, wise, common-sensed and supportive characters (only the nasty princess of the Tolmekians contradicts this). 5/ A cute animal pet that is the hero's soul-mate and inseparable companion. 6/ A clear environmental and pacifist message and 7/ a wonderful detailed animation with subdued hues.The drawing is very inventive and with a great attention to the detail, especially brilliant regarding the depiction of the Sea of Decay and the underground land below it, which are utterly beautiful. The Sea of Decay reminded me very much in style and spirit of the backgrounds and Bosh-like vegetation and fauna of Planet Fantastic, but more elaborated, exuberant and compact in Nausicaa.Unlike many modern animation movies, Miyazaki's movies always have a perfect equilibrium between the artistry of the drawing/animation, on one hand, and the quality of the story, on the other. That is why a movie like this, made in the 1980s, is still as enchanting, fresh and though-provoking as it was in the past. The message of the film is that even the ugliest creature and plant has a purpose on earth, a purpose per se and as a part of the whole to which it is connected. The movie tells you that if you respect people and Nature, you get respect back, and that it is easier to live with yourself and the others if one understands and respect the environment. This is not my favorite Miyazaki movie, perhaps because it is too feisty for my taste, and because I thought the confrontation between the three kingdoms needed of more explanation than the the one provided in the film.This is a beautiful entertaining full-action movie, with a great environmental pacifist message, and Miyazaki's always beautiful drawing and magic universe. Please watch it in Japanese with English subtitles, as the American dubbing is too childish and far from the original interpretations.


                
