Director Hayao Miyazaki won a place in my heart after I saw his 2001 film Spirited Away. I'm in no position to claim to be an expert on Miyazaki (I've only seen three of his films), nor am I really a big fan of Japanese animation; but I can safely say that Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind is one of the very best animated films I have ever seen. The beauty of the animation is stunning, with its close attention to detail--every frame is constructed as a work of art--and the story is enthralling. As with other Miyazaki films, the majority of characters are much more three-dimensional that you typically get in Western animated features, and nearly all of them aren't exactly what they seem to be.Nausicaä, which is based on Miyazaki's gargantuan Manga series, is set in the distant future, after fires destroyed much of the earth. The world is being consumed by the Sea of Decay, a toxic forest that spreads through airborne spores and is protected by giant insects called ohmu. The Valley of the Wind is one of the last pure places on earth, and its Princess, Nausicaä, is a strong-willed yet free-spirited young woman seeking to solve the mystery of the Sea of Decay. A nearby nation, which claims to have harnessed the power that allowed humans to rule the earth a thousand years before, takes over after a plane carrying a mysterious living cargo crashes in the valley. What follows in the film is a struggle, not of good versus evil, but of man versus nature. The story is complex, as is its message, and Miyazaki has ingeniously spun deep complexities into the animated characters: what look like foes may not be, and what look like friends may be a bit more dangerous.The animation is colorful, sweeping, expansive, and beautiful, as are the plot and characters. There is an immediacy to the story that makes a big emotional impact and makes us question how we handle our position in nature. As one of the characters in the film asks, have humans become but a tribe destined to be swallowed by the Sea of Decay? It is ultimately a film about compassion in the face of violence and war, which is what makes it so different from Western features.Disney's recent DVD release is excellent. The film can be watched either in the original Japanese audio or Pixar's dub with Patrick Stewart and Uma Thurman, and there are separate subtitles for each language track--a literal one (hallelujah!) for the Japanese track, and a more closed-captions style set for the English track. The film is so stunning in the Japanese that I have never considered watching the dub, though a fellow film buff has said that it is "not so bad." After this film was released in the US in the 1980s in a completely mangled version called Warriors of the Wind, Miyazaki suspended all US rights of all his other films until the distributor would honor the stipulation that they be released without any editing. The fact that Disney, which is known for watering down nearly everything it touches, has done this with such a non-Western-style movie is amazing.


                
"Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind" was Miyazaki's second movie, adapted from his own comic book. Viewers of the film may become involved in debates regarding the movie's relation to the comic(they are exceedingly different). I personally advise looking at them both as separate, but equally great pieces of art.Regarding the film: The music is lush(the first film score of Miyazaki-veteran Jo Hisaishi), the animation impressive despite a few passages of static character movements, and the eponymous heroine is a figure of brilliant characterization; gentle, kind, valiant, passionate and pained.It may lack the cognizant wisdom of "Princess Mononoke", perhaps, but NOTVOTW doesn't suffer by the comparison. I highly recommend checking it out.


                
This movie has an absolutely magnificent imaginative story. The movie perfectly creates an unique post-apocalyptic world with some wonderful settings and strong characters. The movie is filled with some wonderful and certainly unique moments.Really the best element of the movie is truly the story. I have to admit that in the beginning I wasn't exactly grabbed or fascinated by the movie its story, characters and settings. However as the movie progressed I got more and more drawn into the movie and its story and characters and the unique world the movie was set in. The second halve of the movie, when the real action begins and the story takes more form, is especially extremely good. There are some fine action- and tense moments in the movie and the ending is build up very well and is truly both spectacular and adventurous to watch. Kudos to Hayao Miyazaki!There are some really good characters in this movie. Princes Nausicaä is a strong heroic female lead and the movie features some good sidekicks, such as characters that provide comical moments, the wise man Yupa, who in several ways resembles Gandalf from The Lord of the Rings and of course the villains who are often so important in movies like this one. It are all very stereotypical characters who work very well for the movie its story. The characters are build up nicely and because of that they work really well for the movie.The movie is an beautiful unique and wonderful experience to watch. It's spectacular, imaginative, powerful and beautiful all at the same time. It's truly something you have to experience for yourself! It's no surprise that I can whole-heartedly recommend this movie to everyone. You don't have to be into anime movies, to be able to appreciate and enjoy this movie. Be sure the watch the original Japanese, 116 minutes version of the movie though, for the most optimal movie experience.9/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
Nausicaa Of The Valley Of The Wind is an epic science-fiction story that ranks among director Hayao Miyazaki's best works. It's based on one section of his classic manga. The film is beautiful, and the heroine is convincingly human. The narrative is action-packed, with a world that is wonderfully realized. All the characters are well drawn. This is due to Miyazaki's commitment to the project, and because the film was made before the foundation of Studio Ghibli so the director was able to pick up the best staff available at the time. The result is an impressive technical achievement. The script is another of the film's strengths, overflowing with excitement and passion. Joe Hisaishi's symphonic score sounds marvelous in addition to all this. Whether you choose to ponder its various messages or be swept away by its adventure and sense of the fantastic, Nausicaa Of The Valley Of The Wind is a science-fiction classic.
In my eyes, "Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind" is perhaps THE animated film to see, because it has everything from exciting and fascinating visuals, ethereal music, great relevancy in its emphatic focus on environmentalism, compelling characters, and an extremely strong and very human main character. I'm not a big anime fan, yet "Nausicaa" is the big exception because of it being a fascinating and emotional story that won't get dated anytime soon.In short, I would recommend this film to anyone and everyone.


                
When I first started writing reviews for this site, I made a promise to myself that I'd review Miyazaki's movies at some point. Now that Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind, Miyazaki's sci-fi/environmental masterpiece, has finally made its way to Blu-Ray this past year, it's time to keep that promise.Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind takes place in a post-apocalyptic world of the future, one where the planet has become desolate from an event known as "The 7 Days of Fire," where the world's remaining civilizations are constantly at war with one-another and where mankind is on the verge of extinction due to an ever-expanding toxic jungle. The movie follows a 17 year-old girl named Nausicaa, princess and sole heiress to the peace-loving kingdom of The Valley, in her quest to help keep the peace in her troubled region. When the kingdoms of Tolmekkia and Pejite threaten the safety of The Valley, it's up to Nausicaa to reconnect with man's long-forgotten connection to nature in an attempt to end the chaos once and for all.There are many things about this movie that I really love, one of them being the animation. Far too many anime shows and movies rely on over-the-top animation to express emotion, and this bothers me because it doesn't help get the point across in the slightest. I've always been an advocate for good animation selling itself, so overblown facial expressions don't help with that in the slightest. To that end, this movie-fortunately-doesn't do that, instead conveying emotion in a respectful and appropriate manner fit for true acting itself. Miyazaki's always been known for adding believability to his characters and environments, and he does that successfully here.Additionally, the characters themselves are quite interesting. Whether it be the antagonists themselves or even the minor characters, every individual has an underlying motivation for his or her actions. Of course, the antagonists aren't as menacing for it, but you can still relate to them because they're 3-dimensional characters underneath their tough-and sometimes goofy-outer appearances. Props have to go to Nausicaa, the star of the movie, though: had Miyazaki never made Spirited Away, Nausicaa would easily be my favourite of his protagonists.Two other things I'd like to point out are the story and music. In the story department, you have an environmentalist theme that's given a certain amount of subtlety. This means that both sides are given reasons for what they do, and no one is truly evil (unlike many environmentalist films of the West, which tend to point the guilty finger at man.) As for the soundtrack, it's quite epic, even though some of the tunes are a little too synth at times.Of course, just like any of Disney's other dubs, the voice cast is great here too. Props go out to Chris Sarandon as Kurotowa, as he's easily the best voice in the entire movie, although even minor characters like Asbel and Obaba are matched well to Shia LeBouf and Tress MacNeille respectively. Alison Lohman, who gives her voice to Nausicaa herself, does come off as a little hoarse in certain shouting scenes, but it's nothing serious.With that all that said, the movie isn't perfect. Even though I find it incredibly strange that the movie's just now receiving harsh criticism from reviewers on Rotten Tomatoes (up until a month ago, the movie had a 100% approval rating there,) nevertheless there are a few flaws to be had here. Aside from the occasionally-lackluster soundtrack (key word being "occasionally,") the second-half of the movie suffers from Manga-Syndrome. This means that the movie, which was based on a manga of the same name, suffers from some pacing issues as it tries to wrap itself up. Not everything is fairly tied up at the end, the villains lose their impact in the climax (not like they had much of it to begin with) and certain side-characters who had potential to be more interesting than they already were are cast aside and forgotten almost entirely. But my biggest complaint is the ending, which seems almost like a cop-out to some degree. I get that the movie is supposed to be a Jesus-like tale about death and resurrection in some ways, but it's very awkward to see Nausicaa be brought back to life after having just been trampled by an Ohmu stampede seconds before that.Still, even with its complaints, Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind is definitely a masterful and timeless classic. There are parts that have aged better than others, and it's not my all-time favourite Miyazaki movie, but you'd be hard-pressed not to fall in love with this little gem. Miyazaki really is the master of Japanese animation, and it shows here. A must-see for thinkers who are also artsy, let-alone just a movie lover in general.Final Score: 9/10.
Although not very well known, this is undoubtedly the best anime ever. Filled with drama, action, adventure and many other features. The only problem of the film (in my opinion) is the villain, which I did not think was very convincing; But in addition, the film is fantastic, which captivates the audience until the last moment of the film. Highly recommend.


                
I Can't believe i just discover Hayao Miyazaki most great movies only in 2018, i need to say "Sen to Chihiro no kamikakushi / Spirited Away" didn't get me like i wanted, and i just put this movies in the drawer, but now i finally watched some of Miyazaki and Studio Ghibli movies and every single one have this magnificent beauty that i still can't explain exactly, like the mix of reality and fantasy so deep that sometimes make me forget that i'm watching an animated movie.This one is the precursor of "Mononoke-hime / Princess Mononoke" but happens in the future, and is totally great and joyness to watch, the animation is sharp on the minimum details even for this days, for real it's is even better than a lot of animation movies from this days. The history is simple but is more and more actually with each passing day.
And how they make some futuristic flying Ships is just unbelievable for a movie of 1984, also everything in the world of this movie reminds me the game Final Fantasy VI (1994), i don't know why, but make me think about. And how cool would be an actual game of this history.


                
This movie is absolutely fantastic. The animation is great. The story is great. The concept is great. I have no complaints. I would highly recommend watching this movie.


                
For some reason, this is often credited as Miyazaki's first movie even though he was clearly billed as the director of "The Castle Of Cagliostro" from 1979. For whatever the order, this is a wonderful film. I seriously think that this guy never had the same premise twice. This was apparently his attempt at a movie in a post apocalyptic world. Given the presence of giant insects and a giant resurrected body, I guess you could also consider this his try at a giant monster movie. For whatever he was trying, he got it right! The animation is as wonderful as ever. He's created such a beautiful world for us to look at, even though it does take place in a pretty dark world. I admit it was great to at least see that giant thing get at least two blasts at the giant insects at the end. I love these creatures. Even though it's not that relevant to the story, I like the fox-squirrel that appears. Seriously, it looks like an early pokemon. Wow, I wish this guy would work on the next pokemon movie! You get strong emotions and a nice environmental message which is rarely done well. ***1/2
Anime has been a favorite of mine for years, starting with dubs of Pokémon and getting better from that point. I have known, similarly, that Akira was among the first popular anime films in North America and thus opened the way to dubs of Studio Ghibli films. However, I have been wondering if maybe an attempt was made earlier than 1988, all the way back to after this film's release in Japan. Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind, being the founding film of Studio Ghibli, is quite easily an S-tier movie. The characters are complexly developed and can deliver both eerie calmness (like Nausicaä herself) and blowout action (like the Commando). This is supplemented by the pristinely elaborate story, giving us a glimpse of the post-apocalypse with depictions that seem relevant in a time when stories like this would only be told by conspiracy theorists. The relative lack of music doesn't hinder the film at all and actually helps it in areas when it is trying to feel realistic or get its message across. To match this is the animation, which I am actually surprised took only 9 months to complete; its drawings of various large objects like the airships and especially the Ohmu seem like they took so much more time to animate so fluidly in 1984. All I can say is, you will miss much if you decide to pass this film, even in favor of other Studio Ghibli films.
Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind is a breathtakingly beautiful film...and I'm putting that lightly. When I first popped the CD in, I was expecting an anime fairy tale, not an awesome sci-fi flick with a heavy and still relevant environmental message. I was both wowed by the plot and the fluid animation that had a relatively cheap budget (only about $1,000,000 estimate d budget).I think this is the first Miyazaki film that really shows his impeccable talent (sorry, Totoro). This is a film I had to watch more than once to really fully understand it (and even then most Miyazaki films can still remain confusing). However, if I were to show my kid their first Miyazaki film, it would be this masterpiece. Heck, Is make this their first film to ever watch along with 'Spirited Away' to challenge their brains and show them some of the troubles in the world without frightening them. Thank you Miyazaki. You are a genius.


                
Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind is an incredibly beautiful film that is like a classic Disney film: its animation is still striking and the story still moving in spite of when it came out exactly. Hayao Miyazaki wanted every one of his frames in his films to be as beautiful as paintings in an art gallery, and boy are they gorgeous here. This film is further evidence of Miyazaki being a cinematic genius comparable to Stanley Kubrick, Alfred Hitchcock, David Lean, Sergio Leone, Jean-Luc Goddard and Akira Kurosawa just to name a few. Nausicaa is one of the many memorable entries in the Studio Ghibli and Miyazaki film canon, and contains many of the filmmakers' trademarks, like feminist characters, environmentalism, aviation and sweeping landscapes of the film's world.Compared to the rest of Ghibli's films, it stands out from them with its predominantly post-apocalyptic themes and misunderstood creatures, which Miyazaki has the rare gift of making something seem so alien, visually easy for us to understand and remember.Nausicaa is a gem and is truly a film for the eyes of the beholders.


                
Greetings from Lithuania."Kaze no tani no Naushika" (1984) is another superb piece of art from a great Hayao Miyazaki. It tells a very involving sci-fi / fantasy story and it tells it very well. The animation is deep, rich and beautiful as always, although not as impressive as it will be in creators next efforts, but that's understandable as it was one of the first movies he created.Still, "Kaze no tani no Naushika" is not to be missed to all who loves works of Hayao Miyazaki and who likes good sci-fi stories. It has intriguing story, a strong environmental message, superb pacing (at running time almost 2 hours it surprisingly never drags). Overall, "Kaze no tani no Naushika" is not to be missed.


                
Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984) is otherworldly. Yes, that's the word that I find myself writing repeatedly on a paper when I am reviewing this for my blog. Out of this world, sophisticated; this film I am watching is not something ordinary. I tried to watch this film from 80s perspective because it may not be fair to judge or compare it with recent films. Not like I know how exactly people in the 80s would feel and react to it but there is not much flaws that I could criticise and I actually found out that this film is truly artistic, it is still able captivate its audience until today.What is more, Studio Ghibli brought the standard for anime films to another level with this film and it deserves a lot of respect. This film is also quite beautiful for a 1980s animated film and it has strong harmony and ecological concern message. Certainly, Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984) is one of the best adventure films I have ever watched! It is lovely, enriching and I am fascinated with its characters, world creations and gigantic insects! If it has a chance to be reproduced and remake in a larger scale, I think it can be as epic as Lord of the Rings series!
Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind is about a Princess from The Valley of the Wind who has to risk her life to save her people before it is consumed by The Toxic Jungle. Hayao Mayazaki is truly a animation genius. No wonder why he has been described as the "Japanese Walt Disney!" Like Walt, Mayazaki has a broad sense of imagination and his animation is simply phenomenal. Shots of Nausicaa flying on her glider are some of the most stunning animation I've witnessed that's made by anyone that's not Disney! The ending featuring a wonderful decision made by Nausicaa was simply moving. Some of the more emotional moments were a little weak, especially when the Nausicaa character is voiced by Allison Lohman, who was good in the role 95% of the time, but as a whole, Nausicaa is a wonderful film from the legendary Studio Ghibli, with an excellent voice cast, which also includes Patrick Stewart, Uma Thurman, and Edward James Olmos, a powerful and thought-provoking story that's highly original, and full of grand imagination. I'm impressed!
This is a very beautiful movie. Watch it alone and enjoy the grand music, great plots and attractive drawings. I literally kept my breath during some scenes, especially when the two main characters fell into the poisonous jungle without the masks. I don't know but this movie somehow reminds me of The Lord of the Rings. May be they inspired each other? Any way, it would be nicer if the two main characters had some kinds of romantic emotional development towards the end of the movie, like the couples in Princess Mononoke or Laputa. But I couldn't complain since it has many other beautiful aspects. Overall, I enjoyed watching this piece very much. And I am sure you will.


                
Before Studio Ghibli was founded in 1985, the legendary Japanese animator Hayao Miyazaki worked on smaller projects before he and Isao Takahata founded the famous animation studio. One of his projects was a seven volume manga known as Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind, released in 1982. The manga was a huge success in Japan, selling over 10 million copies in the country alone. In 1984, Miyazaki would adapt the first two volumes of this manga into the feature film that would make him a household name in the world of Japanese animation. Filled with stunning animation and an engaging story with memorable characters, Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind is a triumph for Japanese animation.Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind takes place one thousand years after an event known as the Seven Days of Fire. This catastrophe nearly wiped out human life and created a toxic jungle filled with lethal mutant insects. Villages were established in safe areas far away from the toxic jungle. The Valley of the Wind is one of these villages, led by the charismatic, peace-loving princess Nausicaa. Nausicaa braves the toxic jungle's poisons to study the organisms within the forest, and if she's lucky, find the key to connecting man and nature, as they were before the apocalypse.Not everything is fine in the world, however. The kingdom of Tolmekia, led by it's own princess Kushana, plans to eradicate the toxic jungle and the mutant insects within it, including the giant trilobite-like creatures known as Ohmu. Kushana and her army plan to accomplish this by resurrecting a Giant Warrior, one of the giant engineered weapons that caused the Seven Days of Fire one thousand years ago. Using her physical skills and wits, Nausicaa has to save her village from complete destruction.The film manages to tell a story with strong anti-war and environmental themes that are still relevant today. Every side of the conflict has a reason for their actions, whether those reasons are ethical or not. Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind manages to be a solid adaptation overall, albeit just for the first two volumes. There are a few lines of dialogue that seem out of place, but it's not enough to tarnish the wonderful story Miyazaki put together.Nausicaa is such a fascinating character, the first of many strong female protagonists Miyazaki would go on to create. Much of Nausicaa's charm can be credited to the writing, but also to the voice talent provided by Alison Lohman. Lohman brings the perfect balance of charisma with seriousness that was needed for Nausicaa's personality. The rest of the cast is phenomenal as well, with plenty of big names to fill out the supporting cast. Patrick Stewart plays Master Yupa, the Valley of the Wind's swordmaster, with great charisma as well. Uma Thurman voices Kushana, who is a great pick for the antagonist. Shia LaBeouf and Mark Hamill also make brief appearances, and both are great respectively.The immense success of Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind would jump start the creation of Studio Ghibli, and with good reason. Hayao Miyazaki's adaptation of his manga is an impressive feat in the animation genre, and still stands as a great animated movie. For the most part, the writing is well-written and full of relevant environmental and anti-war themes. The animation is extremely impressive considering it's age, with absolutely stunning shots of all kinds of landscapes and settings. The voice acting is superb all around the board, with Alison Lohman's Nausicaa being particularly great. The film was just the beginning of Miyazaki's legend in the making.


                
Note: I am referring here to the original version of the movie, not the poor one called Warrior of the Wind available on video. Therefore, I strongly suggest that you should watch only the real edition of Nausicaä.Even though Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind came out a year before the emergence of Studio Ghibli and is not officially accredited as their production, it was later considered as the movie, which actually began the rise of this accredited Japanese animation studio.At first, Hayao Miyazaki created the fantastic post-apocalyptic manga of the same name. After he saw that people were so captivated by it, he decided to turn it into an animated film. It was his first full-length movie, and it decidedly started a marvelous career of this guru of the animation genre.It has it all: beautiful, sweeping, colorful and detailed animation, interesting, complex, and engaging storyline, worthwhile and well-developed characters, impressive visuals, and a complex and serious message.The story happens in a distant future in a world, which was greatly destroyed by the war named Seven Days of Fire. It created a Toxic Jungle, in which strange creatures reside, and where everything is poisonous and thus deadly. There are only a few places left, where it is possible for humans to live, one of them being the titular Valley of the Wind. This is the home of Nausicaä, the peace loving, empathic, lovable, brave, and overly compassionate princess. It's also a place that looks soothingly peaceful, where people seem cheerful and hospitable. However, one day they are attacked by a group of Tolmekians, who plan on destroying the forest and exterminating all the mutants. They take the princess and a few hostages and take off. This is where Nausicaä's grand adventure starts, as she realizes that she might be the only person, who actually cares for the forest and its inhabitants, and knows that damaging their land will only have disastrous effects on the remaining Valleys.Nausicaä is a true heroine that the anime genre deserves. She is a strong and talented warrior, but she doesn't use her powers in the wrong way. Quite the contrary, she not only wants to help her race, but also fights in order to protect the creatures, which seem lethal to regular people. She uses her powerful gift of communicating with the monsters in a proper way, and doesn't even seek revenge after her father's brutal murder.It's a movie, which definitely wasn't designed only for children, as some may claim. It's really a first rate entertainment for the whole family, and everyone would be able to take something very personal out of it.I must say that I'm very impressed (as always in Studio Ghibli productions) by the creativity of the writers and animators. They created so many original, interesting, and outstanding fantastical creatures and monsters. And from the very first moment when you look at them you know that they all come from the hands of crafty Japanese animators.In the English version the dubbing, which features a few notable American actors, is actually good and doesn't downgrade the, so to say, Japanese-ness of the movie.All in all, I must admit that I fell in love with Nausicaä after the first time I saw it. It took me some time to find the real version, but you can only imagine my satisfaction after I finally laid my hands on it. It's a breathtaking movie, with an inspiring tale and genuine characters. If you want to get to know Hayao Miyazaki start from here, and you definitely won't regret it.


                
I came to 'Nausicaa' in a round about way.Upon the strength of a film critic's opinion on TV I went to my local video store and rented out 'Spirited Away'....and I was and the journey just keeps getting better.I then sought out other Miyazaki works and this is the was the last of his catalogue of works for me to see and, as you never are with Miyazaki, I was NOT disappointed.Nausicaa tells the story of a Young Princess on an Earth far in the future, when the world has been war-ravaged by humans and mostly destroyed. The planet, through the help of giant insects and fungi is starting to repair itself.The spore of the fungi is poisonous and deadly to humans, yet there are still some remote places where it has not managed to reach. One such place is the home of the eponymous heroine Nausicaa in the Valley of the Winds.Nausicaa is a wind rider who sails a futuristic glider and is one of a small number who can communicate with the most fearsome of the giant insects, the terrifying Ohmu. These are insects the size of a building that once enraged will destroy anything in their path and are almost impossible to calm. Nausicaa is one such person who, with the aid of only an insect whistle, has the power to calm the Ohmu.All is not well however and Nausicaa's father is infected with the poisonous spores that are slowly costing him his life.It gets worse as a plane in obvious distress crash-lands near the village with a ancient and deadly cargo that could potential destroy what little life remains on the Earth.Shortly after are warring faction of humans attacks the village of the Valley of the Winds, in search of the deadly cargo that the crashed plane has.They enslave the people in the village and set about preparing for a 'war to end all wars' against the insects.Nausicaa has to set out to seek the help of another tribe in order to save the village and possible the world.Prepare for a thrilling ride to find out whether she does. ----------------- I don't want to give too much of the story away. Primarily I am worried that I will make the story sound over-complicated, which is definitely isn't.The first thing to mention about this film is that it is definitely not in style in the more well-known Miyazaki films. Miyazaki definitely has his own style and "Howl's Moving Castle" and "Spirited Away" are perfect examples of that. This film is as close to an 'anime' feel he has ever got.It is simply stunningly beautiful. Landscapes of a future Earth, giant insects, war machines and characters are all beautifully drawn.Then there is the story. My synopsis may sound a little confusing, but the film really is not. It's a great premise with some great under-lying themes that, considering the film was made in 1984, are even more apparent today: Humans destroying the Earth, Humans moving to live a sustainable life without further damaging their environment, learning to live in harmony with wildlife.The film is faultless and also contains a great score.Miayazaki has a brilliant gift as a story-teller, add that to his legendary, influential and iconic animation style and you have arguably the best animator to have ever graced the planet.This is no Disney, but you would never want it to be.An Epic in every sense of the word.N.B. I do not know of any dubbed versions of the film, the copy I have and friends have are almost all subtitled, which for me is even better!


                
"Kaze no tani no Naushika" tackles the environmental issues that we as a species, continually try to avoid.  Miyazaki paints an imaginative world of environmental disaster as a warning to stop our destructive ways.  However, Nausicaa herself is what makes this film distinct.  She is compassionate to all living things around her.  Yet she is also a fierce warrior, fighting oppressors who come to the Valley of the Wind to conquer and destroy. Nausicaa was a bold depiction of a female amidst conservative gender roles in asia.  I wonder how much of an impact this character had in changing those roles?


                
Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind doesn't quite make my top five favourite Ghiblis but it certainly makes my top 10. Why? Because it is a stunning film. The animation is absolutely breathtaking, the colours are gorgeous and the backgrounds are amazing. Another strength is the music which gives a sense of charm, quaintness and poignancy. The story is highly imaginative and simple, there is not a single wasted moment, and the film is well paced. The characters are wonderful too, the protagonist is very easy to relate to, and this is helped by the top notch voice acting. Overall, a wonderful film with stunning visuals and inspired imagination. 9/10 Bethany Cox


                
I saw this movie as a kid under the title "Warriors of the Wind". Didn't really understand it much then, but I sort of liked it. Then I saw it for sale on DVD and had to buy it cause I wanted to see it with the original Japanese voicing and it was great. I was either not paying attention when I watched it as a kid, or the Japanese version made more sense than the English dubbing one. This movie revolves around this young princess and the valley she lives in. A peaceful place that lies on the boarder of a deadly toxic forest that threatens to consume the world. There is also wars going on between other nations and one of the wars is being taken to the peaceful valley. The war is over an ancient creature known simply as the giant warrior. Though in truth the giant warrior really doesn't amount to much in the end. Rather good artwork here and a good story really hook you in. And it is not a typical short cartoon movie, it is rather lengthy so the story really has a chance to develop.


                
This movie is great, some real Ghibli magic. It stars a young, strong willed female, which seems to be a recurring concept in all Miyazaki's movies (not because he's a pervert!!!). Like all of his other films, this one takes you to a magical time and place where a mysterious poisonous fungus has taken over most of the earth, so people live in colonies scattered across what's left of the livable continents. An army plane arrives in her town, carrying an ancient weapon with large destructive power, and you can just imagine what chaos ensues. Don't be afraid to watch this film or show it to your kids because of nudity, and if they get confused, just let them know that they are light colored pants and to enjoy the film. Also, I believe it's being re-released by Pixar on August 31st, so check it out now and consider buying it!!!


                
A wonderfully and important story, told expertly and animated gorgeously. The incredible "blanks" the viewer must fill while watching are just incredible. The way Miyazaki keeps the viewer actively imagining and explore your imagination. I love how Miyazaki builds this world; it has the unique Ghibli brand painted all over it. A gorgeous and fitting soundtrack from master composer Joe Hisaishi brings the package together incredibly well. There are only a couple of niggling issues keeping it from perfection, like some simple writing and disjointed events. An impressive classic featuring some of the most beautiful hand drawn animation ever.


                
