Every single episode is directed by the legendary Soderbergh so with each frame you can feel the drama or tension shining through. It seems like it's all natural lighting in most scenes which makes it beautiful and authentic. And the real gem..Clive Owen. He was born to play Thackeray. The knick is an incredible series with too real medical scenes that I warn you can be hard for the weak stomachs. The second season has been just as good as the first. This is a must watch with an excellent cast and acting. The procedures are phenomenal and awe inspiring. Do your self a favor and watch this incredible show


                
I cannot get enough of this show, it is extraordinary in so many ways and I am restlessly awaiting the start of season 2. As a long time health care professional, I especially enjoy all of the "modern technology" of the era, that today we just take for granted. The Knick really does have something for everyone - sex, drugs and a rock star chief of staff, to name a few. I like to describe this show as a health care history lesson, on a massive dose of steroids. The peak into the medical and clinical protocols of the day are just as intriguing as the systemic administrative practices that are questionable at best. I only wish more people knew about The Knick so I could discuss each week's episode over and over again. Hurry up with season 2!


                
Wow, what a dark and disturbing series, and it's excellent. The racism portrayed on The Knick is worse than that in 12 Years a Slave, but it takes place in NYC around the turn of the 20th Century. Even the "heroes," the smart ones, are racists, although they gradually overcome prejudice when presented with a Model Negro, the brilliant surgeon and inventor portrayed by Andre Holland. But every black person in the city is one wrong move away from lynching by the Irish cops and the Irish populace. And that's just one theme: the hospital portrayed in The Knick is in the forefront of surgical innovation, mostly advances in stanching bleeding while sewing up internal injuries. There are lots of shots of internal organs and blood oozing out of human bodies, more gruesome than anything I've ever seen. (The show strives for accuracy in its portrayal of medical history.) The lead surgeon, portrayed by Clive Owen, performs miracles while addicted to every drug available in the hospital and in Chinatown, where he spends all his off-duty time. It's a powerful show, and the only reason why I continue to subscribe to Cinemax. The show is created and often directed by genius Steven Soderburgh. And it's filmed in New York, which gives it greater authenticity. And an electronic music score mesmerizes.


                
My great uncle was a doctor in the1920s and 30s. When I was 9 or 10, my parents and I went to my great aunts house and 'opened' the doctors office at the premises where he practiced and subsequently died in ~1950. I was utterly fascinated with the instruments, exam table and all the medicines and gear that was there. I still have photos and several pieces from that office.Having been the victim of a major accident five years later, subsequently spending months in the hospital, I again was fascinated by the differences between modern medicine and what served as medicine in the early 1900's.Watching this show, the subject comes back again; it is intriguing, fascinating, compelling... So realistic and true to the day. The make-up, effects and realism of the sets is stunning. If you were to look at operating theater photographs from the early 1900's era, you would see the realism that the show has created in these scenes. Add to that the elaborate street scenes, amazing costumes and attention to detail that the production employs and I hope that you will see the extreme talent and effort that has gone into The Knick. Take special note of some of the special effects showing medical conditions and operating trauma, it's very realistic and downright scary. It will make you thankful for modern medicine and the amazing advances of the medical establishment during the 20th century.The direction and cinematography is well done. Dialog based scenes are typically shot with the rule of thirds followed (pleasing) but there are many non-dialog scenes where the director moves away from the banal by shooting action from odd angles (carving of pig carcasses with action at mid-line filmed low) or a fight sequence filmed with a wide angle 'behind the hero' view -- this keeps the visual story interesting. Add the Contagion-like soundtrack (I know - a 1900s drama with a techno music track = ?) and the overall experience is captivating.Finally, I am not sure everyone is familiar with the 'steampunk' enthusiasm (movement?) that is finding its way into both culture (art, collecting) and mainstream style (go to a high end plumbing /appliance store and you will see what I mean!) -- this show captures the industrial late 19th century look extremely well. I am literally sad when each hour is over. This show is among the best shows I have ever watched. I would be thrilled if every episode were 2 hours long. It's that good.The acting is good; Clive Owen is not only very believable as Dr, Thackery, but really has a strong command of each and every scene he is in. Some of the characters do not stand out as well, BUT: Special kudos to Eve Hewson, she not only performs with incredible expression, style and emotion, but really looks the part! Amazing actress -- thank you!Overall, Bravo!


                
The Knick is a TV drama set in the turn of the 20th century in NYC, and focuses on the lives of the doctors, administration and staff of the Knickerbocker Hospital, notably the brilliant resident physician Dr John Thackery (Clive Owen). Having finished the second season (the whole series to date), I can honestly say this series is a must watch. Firstly, the show's attention to detail and historical accuracy deserve a chapeau, be it the costumes, the attitudes, sets, as well as the social and medical issues prevalent at the time. The show also managed, much like other excellent dramas this past decade (Mad Men, Boardwalk Empire) to weave actual historic events into the show. The show's strongest point is its' character study. Every single actress/actor on the show is flawless in their portrayal of their respective characters. Throughout the two seasons, each of these characters' personal and professional growths is detailed, as well as their inner turmoil, doubts, opinions. The brilliant thing about the show is that each character (mediocre or not) has a quality about them, so you get to love some characters and hate others. The acting and character development is THAT good. I have to add my favourite characters on the show are definitely Sister Harriet (Cara Seymour) and Tom Cleary (Chris Sullivan), whose character development from episode one really shows that one shouldn't take things at face value. This principle applies to other characters too, but I won't get into detail. That's up to you to find out !


                
wow, the contrasting soundtrack is barely discussed by reviews. It was unique and contrasting, been modern against a period series. Just red the Rolingstone mag article, they didn't brought how important the sounds and music was to make the show so atmospheric and successful .Thanks for those 2 seasons to all involved!


                
This series is amazing!!! I got hooked up on the first episode and can't stop watching it. It is amazing to see how things were at that time (in 1900), how the hospital worked, what diseases existed and how they were treated... and the small details, the blood suction being made through a foot or hand pump, the ambulance that is a horse-drawn carriage, the poor surgical and medical material, the important discoveries and inventions those doctors made at that time and throughout the episodes... I am just amazed with this show! It is definitely one of the best series ever made. I highly recommend it to everyone that is interested not only in medicine but also in the evolution that science has made since those times!!


                
This is another very gripping and flawless TV series. The direction is perfect. Wonderful costumes, sets and historical elements greatly credible. Actors are all very well chosen. Excellent photography. Slight musical interludes, subtle, enigmatic and enjoyable. The plot is truly informative and interesting, at least, to my personal taste.The series bring us at the time, dark, dirty and perfectly represented, where medicine and surgery began the first steps that would take them to today development. In this scenario around an hospital (The Knick) come to life, intertwined and developed, the characters' stories, all very distinct and credible. Stories of exciting, but also horrible, scientific medical research and experiments. Stories about love and betrayal, faith and secularism, discrimination and racism, disease, blackmail, drugs, corruption, death and murder. The series subtitle, sums up all this, very well: "Humanity is hard to cure". It is like a 16 hour impeccable movie with no frills and never boring. A masterpiece to me. Some scenes as realistic as they are, can be rather harsh for delicate stomachs, but this is not a defect to me, on the contrary adds value. The only negative note is that unfortunately ends, in contrast to other mediocre series that, instead, last for years.It is unique and original and I have not found any single reasonable reason not to give full marks.10/10 Very recommended.


                
I mean wow!!! Shows just don't get better than this!! So of course they had to cancel the show! Always the logical thing to do when you've got the best show around!!! I can't say enough great things about this show! I was hooked from the first second! I even contemplated missing work just so I could binge watch!!! It's that good.... Shame on the network Cinemax and HBO for not continuing.. You made us all think we were getting more seasons!! lost my subscription for this reason!! I was so sad to hear.


                
The first episode captivated me. The contrast between the dating of the scenes and the music is oddly brilliant and gives the show a dramatic feeling all the way through.SPOILER:Doctor's Thackery brilliance is mastered by Owen who portrayed the downhill of his addiction since the first episode. How he manages to stay fully functional through all procedures and adding his ice melting sense of humor is rather addictive. The way that the writers didn't focused on emphasizing from the beginning that Thackery was a genius but instead of showing the audience step by step all the achievements the respected doctor will reveal is just magical. All of the characters are extremely well though and none of the side stories are boring or randomly placed, it all adds up to a fully addictive TV series. Love the show, I watched the first season two times in a row. Just cant stop watching it. The sound track by Cliff Martinez y more that just music. Is a journey through the time. A really mystic and futuristic touch that blends perfectly into this show. Absolutely gorgeous.
Funny, the only bad reviews are the few people who are offended by certain aspects of the show- related to politics, religion, etc.One reviewer is mad at the show, claiming that the show praises progressive liberals, when it was actually the Republicans who were abolitionist, and that the writers are trying to claim they magically changed places. Well guess what moron- the Republicans back then WERE the liberals, and Democrats were the conservatives. What do you think the definition of progressive is anyway? If you are an abolitionist, you were automatically a progressive (regardless of political party) because you are trying to PROGRESS opposed to CONSERVE the way things are. They don't really exist today, but it wasn't that long ago that 'Liberal/progressive Republican' was a common phrase. I'm sorry to go into politics in a show's review, but it's absurd that someone would dislike this show and get mad at it for political reasons... talk about uptight!What an amazing show! I apologize for my simple review that doesn't give much info, but there are several other great reviews that will tell you all about it. MUST WATCH!!!


                
I don't think I have anything negative to say about this show. I was hooked after one episode. The acting, screenplay, setting, story, the music.... all fantastic. Once it hits you, that all the surgeries and medical procedures that we take for granted today at one point were experiments that required numerous attempts, you will be mesmerized. The show has so many different plots and story lines, all fitting for the 1900s. I would highly recommend watching this show. Do not let the fact that it is on Cinemax and not HBO or Showtime scare you away. This is the best show on TV.


                
One of my favorite series. My only regret is that it is only a few short seasons.


                
As as student studying medicine, I absolutely loved this show. Not only is the cinematography phenomenal, but I really enjoyed the moving plot and character development. The most attractive aspect of The Knick is how viewers can truly see where surgical procedures came from, like administering an epidural or keeping hands above the waste line after sterilizing them. Yet, it is fantastic to imagine how different medicine was back in the day, like ambulance buggies or the fact that none of the medical professionals wore gloves when performing surgery (!!???). If you have any sort of medical interest, I would recommend this show to you.
The Knick is a technical success, and highly watchable if only for the complex and engrossing medical aspect of the show - it creates a believable, functioning hospital at the turn of the century, and sells us on its historical rigor very early on. Where the show fails - and unfortunately when it does fail it greatly harms the experience- is with the narrative. The acting and dialog often feels stiff and unbelievable, as do the scenarios which sometimes come across as if they were crafted by historians rather than filmmakers. Many of the plot hooks are recycled, and leave us bored. Which is a shame, because all the other pieces seem to be in place. I feel as though 'The Knick' has an opportunity, with perhaps a bit more time devoted to fleshing out the characters and writing, to be television of the highest order. Instead, right now we have an engrossing, but disappointing show that feels rushed.UPDATE: SEASON 2 The first half of this review was for Season One, now that we've had a second season, I have upped the rating of this show. The writing and narrative is tighter this time around, and I think it's overall better now - new, more complex relationships between characters and there is more at stake. I also think the dialogue has improved, and feels less stiff than the first season which suffered from the rigidity of period language expressed by actors who never felt entirely comfortable in their roles. I'm happy to say that they've settled in here. The music is still excellent, as is the production design. Soderbergh's skill as a director is on full display. The second season of the Knick is one of the best television viewing experiences I have ever had, and the ending leaves a certain ambiguity about it's return for another season - but I found the quiet perfection of the final scene so complete and perfect that I would not be disappointed if they decided to end it here. Great great stuff.


                
I have worked in the medical field for almost 10 years, specifically scrubbing surgeries in the O.R., as well as, teaching Surgical Technology students and I was very excited and couldn't wait to see this series! Add to that the fact that Steven Soderbergh was directing and Clive Owen was starring and I was even more eager to watch it. My husband went to school for cinematography so I have learned a great deal about filming from him. And we both love everything Steven Soderbergh has ever filmed, edited and directed.Needless to say, once I finally watched the first 3 episodes, I am blown away and completely hooked!! And frankly, although I have no idea about film making, the medical geek in me would love to be a part of this series in any way. I was so happy to read that a 2nd season has already been ordered! All I need now is for Mr. Soderbergh to call and hire me for something....anything. LolFor those of you with weak stomachs, you may not be able to view this show. Otherwise, I would say if you haven't seen this show yet,, watch it now!! I can't wait to see what else the writers come up with and how Mr. Soderbergh films it!! You won't be disappointed!


                
The first thing I want to say is WATCH IT!! Right after the first episode I was sold. In two days time I finished the whole first season and I'm already looking forward to the next one. The series is a mix of medicine, biology a VERY-good story and history all-in-one, you going to like it. Also the characters are very well played (my personal favorite Dr. Birdie) and the whole setting of it all is very well thought about. Then there is the music in the background that makes the hole thing go over 9000. You are going to be sold like me as well I can guarantee you that. This series really deserves a lot more attention then it's getting right now (that's why I'm writing this review also). I really hope they will make more seasons!! It would be a shame if not. PS. Sorry for the possible spelling and grammar errors.


                
What's not to love? Steven Soderbergh at the helm, who I've been a fan of for years, with music by Cliff Martinez, of whom I'm also a fan, and a great cast of actors lead by the fabulous Clive Owen. The story is set in the early days of the 20th century at the Knickerbocker Hospital in New York where we see the doctors struggle with the needs of modern medicine, and their failure to be able to meet them fully. We start off immediately with surgery on a pregnant woman, which does not go well at all, followed by the suicide of a well-known surgeon. From here we watch Owen's character delve deeper into the problems facing the doctors at the Knick. Not to mention in the opening minutes we also watch him take a cab, remove a sock, and shoot up some drugs before the first surgery; later, we discover he's become highly addicted to cocaine. Set to an amazing electronic-sounding score by Martinez, the stage has been set for an interesting, intricate, and flawed look at American doctors in the beginning of the 1900s.Of course I've only seen the pilot, the rest of the series could go anywhere from here. However, it's safe to say with all involved it could definitely turn into one of the better one- hour dramas currently airing on television. Personally, the subject interests me, so it may be why I'm taking so quickly to it, but I think it's good enough to stand on its own without viewers needing a prior interest.The acting is pretty wonderful. Along with the period costumes and sets, it really makes things incredible to watch. I felt as if I were in New York, a hundred or more years ago, watching these people go through the terrible motions of history. Clive Owen, though in many movies and certainly not considered a bad actor by any means, does not get all the credit he deserves. The Knick may change that. His portrayal of Dr. John Thackery is something to see. Even in the first few moments of the pilot as we watch Thackery stumble out of a building, most likely an opium den from the images we see right away, you can see Owen falling into the character, bringing him to life. The rest of the cast fills out the show perfectly, and with a few surprises to me as far as acting talent goes, specifically Michael Angarano.There are great moments touching on subjects from medicine to the racism prevalent at the time, making the pilot something very intriguing. We even get a glimpse of three-phase power being introduced into the United States. This series is something special. There's one great scene when Thackery is greeted by a man named Dr. Algernon Edwards, who happens to be a black man; not only do we get a look at the racial tension in New York during that day and age, we also see Thackery, a surgeon, making instruments, and improvements on them, himself. It's incredible to imagine how much harder a doctor's job had to be back then. Nowadays it's tough enough for doctors, but to see a glimpse of their early days in the 1900s struggling to try and lower the death count racked up by inferior medical technologies is absolutely stunning. I can't wait to watch the rest of the season. I have to give it 10 out of 10 so far. Maybe this will change as the episodes go by. For now? I highly recommend everybody checks this out.I hope Soderbergh keeps making films and also this series because he is truly a talent not to be passed up. Some aren't a fan, but I find all his work very engaging, whether you love it or hate it.2nd episode was still just as wonderful. And for those who incessantly nitpick- Thackery is an opium addict who uses cocaine also to help curb the symptoms of his addiction. No goofs there, they aren't claiming his symptoms are because of cocaine- he uses it to get himself back on the level. Great characterization of a man who is both a doctor and a junkie in a very turbulent, deadly time for his profession.
I have to confess, I love Clive Owen shamelessly and without reservation. From his early roles in "Gosford Park" and "Croupier", I sensed his was a major powerful presence. After a string of mostly forgettable films (although he himself is usually in good form), I had feared he would be relegated to the "hey, there's that guy" roles without ever being allowed a real vehicle for his gifts. My worries were assuaged when "The Knick" came along. Owen is nothing short of marvelous as the dedicated yet damaged pioneering physician in turn-of- the-20th-century New York. This whole series is unjustifiably overlooked, not just for its scriptwriting and its incredibly nuanced and assured direction by Steven Soderbergh, but also for the perfectly cast supporting roles and the characterizations thereof. I especially like the relationship between Owen and his nurse Lucy, which has some elements of exploitation but also some real tenderness. There is a brief instant between the two of them in the "Crutchfield" episode which is incredibly heartfelt, to give just one example. Hopefully this series will be allowed to be a sustained piece just like "Mad Men," "Breaking Bad" ,and "The Sopranos."
Very interesting view on the beginning of the industrial revolution, the evolving of old dumb practice of medicin into revolutionary 20 Century practice of medicin. Clive Owen in the role of his life.. brilliantly directed by Soderbergh and strongly casted by talented crew. Must see!


                
I miss watching this. Great portrayal of the beginning stages of medicine and the healthcare system in the US.


                
Complex characters, dark plotlines, great writing and acting. This show was great, and it would have been greater had it lasted. If I could choose one drama in history that was cancelled too soon, The Knick would definitely be that drama. Two years was all the fans got, however, and after Ash vs. Evil Dead got the axe I will never trust a premium network again. This was the first nail in the coffin because I had no doubt in my mind that this show would be a longrunning hit. I hope Soderberg will choose the network for his next masterpiece wisely, because cinemax didn't seem like the right fit for such genius. And so I blame the smut-peddling network instead of the writing, acting, or directing. Watch the show for yourself and try to tell me it deserved to be cancelled with a straight face. I dare you.


                
Not only did I love it because it was well written, beautifully shot, expertly directed and acted, I loved the history of it. It really put me in that time like I was seeing the evolution of medicine. I am so disappointed it didn't continue. If you haven't seen it, you should.


                
Once again i am forced to give a show a 10 . This is so amazing, so well directed and played that you just want to watch more and more .Clive Owen made some movies but i think he plays his best role ever, like what happened with Matthew McConaughey in True Detective .The cast is full of great characters , the pace is good , and just now i got the chance to realize that Bono's daughter is the beautiful miss Lucy Elkins :)More than entertaining , this show give's you plenty of information about science and health care development , and since i work at a private hospital , is something that makes me see things with a different perspective i must admit .Please give this show a chance and you will be hooked like i did ;)


                
