Merry Christmas to all you Tarantino fans out there. I hope you made a Tarantino checklist so here we go.Witty dialogue, check. Excessive profanity especially use the word 'nigger', check. Excessive violence including testicles getting blown off, check. Soulful musical score, check. Sometimes non-linear narrative, check. Shots of women's feet, check. Very great character driven plot, check. An actual spaghetti western, even though it takes place in the American South, check.There are four standout characters played by the top billed actors.Jamie Foxx plays Django, a freed slave who becomes a bounty hunter. Even though he is the titular character, he gets downplayed when in the presence of the other actors. Still he delivers a solid performance, in fact hes very convincing. We all know Jamie Foxx as this golden voice RnB singer and comedian with a very clean cut image. He was able to pull off the whole transitioning from a timid slave to a menacing bounty hunter. Not only that he had the whole look down too, with all the facial scarring and the messy hair.Christoph Waltz plays Dr. King Schulz, a German dentist turned bounty hunter who frees Django so he could help pursue his previous owners who are targets. Waltz is a very charismatic actor, and thats how he does this role. Presents every line with finesse.Leonardo Dicaprio is in his best yet. He plays a plantation owner, Calvin Candie, and is the owner of Django's wife. This is a very different role. We've seen Leonardo in gritty roles before but never did he play this lecherous antagonist. We were all used to Leo being this teen idol, who looked like a member of Hanson. Here he's this Southerner with discoloured teeth and a scruffy beard.Finally Samuel L. Jackson who plays Steve, a house slave who you could say is the secret antagonist here. For all the screen time that he has he dominates. Sam usually plays boisterous roles as a tough guy, but it was very interesting seeing him play a devious and manipulative old man.The only gripe here was that this film was a little too long exceeding the three act structure, but its an epic western film so I'll excuse Tarantino for that. Yet again he made another great film with a lot of flair and carried well by the four big hitter actors. Well done Mr. Tarantino.
Absolutely loved every minute of this movie. Usually I'm not too crazy about Tarantino's movies, but this one is definitely the best one I've seen in a long time. The actors were picked perfectly. The overall experience of a movie is amazing. When we first went to watch it, I was a bit skeptical and thought I'd end up leaving an hour into the movie (it's a 3 hr movie), but it grabbed my attention from the very beginning and I didn't even wanna get up to go to the bathroom, afraid to miss something. I'm usually very particular about the movies, nothing can hardly satisfy me, but this one is definitely in the top 5. Soundtrack was perfect. When I got home, I've done some more research on it and loved it even more! Overall, I would highly recommend this film!


                
Quentin Tarantino's 8th film "Django Unchained" is one hell of a movie. A brutal, bloody, terrifying, hilarious and awe-inspiring western disguised as a buddy movie that is so great that if John Wayne and Sergio Leone were alive now, they would've approve of this movie. It's designed to shock you, polarize you, test you and maybe even surprise you. But let me clear on this: If you are not a fan of bloody violence and the running length of 165 minutes, see a shorter movie. But if you love to see what Tarantino can do with movies like this, then you're in for a treat. Set during slavery in 1858, the movie follows Django (Jamie Foxx), a slave who is found by a bounty hunter disguised as a dentist named Dr. King Schultz (The always reliable Christoph Waltz) who hires him as a bounty hunter and a free man to find the Brittle Brothers. After finding them and hunting them down at a plantation run by Big Daddy (a remarkable Don Johnson), they relax for the winter only for them to go on a mission to find and rescue Django's wife, Broomhilda (Kerry Washington) who is owned by Calvin J. Candie (Leonardo DiCaprio) a man who runs a plantation known as Candieland. He even has a renegade slave as a servant named Stephen (A nearly recognizable Samuel L. Jackson, hidden in makeup and some prosthetics), who will have a part to play in the last half of the movie. I think Quentin Tarantino has outdone himself once again. Being in the filmmaking game for 20 years now, you can't deny and even reject his style in what he is bringing to the screen (He also has a cameo in here as well). His dialogue is like reading a book that grabs you and makes you want to know what happens next. The look and scope of the film is magnificent, thanks to a brilliant Oscar-winning cinematographer Robert Richardson and the late production designer J. Michael Riva. The performances in this film are brilliant. Having won an Oscar for "Ray", Jamie Foxx continues with his breathtaking performances that wows us. Here as Django, he is certainly fearless, baring his soul (and body) playing a man who is free from slavery, but can't be free by the rules and limitations of slavery. Christoph Waltz looks like he was born to be a part of Tarantino's entourage after his Oscar-winning performance for "Inglorious Basterds". Here, once again he brings humor and vulnerability to Dr. King Schultz. Never before have I ever seen an actor go that far and doesn't go over-the-top like Leonardo DiCaprio. As Calvin Candie, DiCaprio is certainly Oscar-worthy as a man who runs a tight ship by running a place where male slaves fight to the death and female slaves are being prostitutes and he seems to be the kind of guy to like even though he is a villain and he speaks Tarantino's dialogue like a pro. When he has a scene in which he reveals three dimples from a skull that belongs to his father, he is literally terrifying. Kerry Washington is superb as Broomhilda and Samuel L. Jackson is the real scene-stealer. The supporting cast is great from Walton Goggins, Jonah Hill, Michael Bacall, Michael Parks, James Remar, Robert Carradine to a small cameo by Franco Nero. "Django Unchained" has a lot of things to say about slavery and how cruel it is. But at the same time, it provides the fact that if Tarantino rearranged history by shooting Adolf Hitler to a pulp while everything blows up at a movie theater, he can do it again by having a former slave whipping a man who used to beat him and his wife. Now, that's entertainment. This movie really is off the chain. It's not only one of the most captivating films of the year, it's one of the best films of the year. Go see it, it will be worth your time. Keep in mind though, there are characters, especially Django, Stephen, Candie and Schultz that uses the N-word numerous times in this movie. That seems relevant to the time period, don't ya think?


                
At first I didn't want to see this movie because of some political remarks made by Jamie Foxx and Samuel Jackson, two of my previously favorite actors, but Quintin Tarentino is a great director, so I broke down and saw it. Glad I did. This was absolutely one of the best movies of the year. Although Jamie Foxx has top billing, this film would not have been anywhere as good without Christoph Waltz. He stole every scene he was in. Brilliant acting and great comedic delivery. Leo was great too. Lots of blood, something expected in most of Quintins movies, but a great story. Also expect to hear the N word about 2000 times. Cristoph Waltz should get the Oscar for his performance. Should get nominated for best picture. This is absolutely a must see.


                
I rarely bother to give reviews after watching a movie. But holy crap this was a good movie. I'm pretty sure it is the best movie i've seen all year. and yes i saw dark knight rises, avengers, flight, Argo, hobbit, etc... Tarantino delivers and then some.. Every actor is on point. Awesome performances, great story, it will definitely take you on a ride full of surprises. I would recommend everyone to go watch this film, it is truly a great film.. unless you're a little kid.. don't go watch this movie if you're a little kid. I've seen all of Tarantinos movies and I have to say this has been my favorite. It is just awesome in every way. I'm usually very harsh on movies. I mean ill watch just about anything, but for me to think a movie was actually "good", takes a whole lot. DiCaprio was like i've never seen him before, and being one of my favorite actors, it was a little weird at first. But he does an outstanding job at selling his role within seconds of his first appearance. Waltz delivered as i knew he would. and Jaime Foxx, well he did not fall behind. Last but not least Jackson was hilarious and also did an amazing job... Go watch the movie, it is worth it.


                
I know claiming "Tarantino's Best" is quite a statement with such films as "Pulp Fiction" and "Inglorious Bastards", however I truly believe it is. Django Unchained is superb from start to finish, it's a 2 hour and 45 minute movie yet you're on the edge of your seat, eyes glued to the screen for the whole ride. It's the closest thing to a flawless movie I have ever seen. Before I continue my praise of this movie, let me say this "the movie is not for everyone." Clearly its rated R and it has several gruesome violent scenes, it also contains vulgar language and numerous uses of the "n" word. Some may claim it's excessive, but I personally appreciate how realistic it portrays the horror and tragedy of slavery. That being said, I am torn if I am more impressed with Tarantino as a writer of this movie or its director. He simply is a cinematic genius. The casting of this movie alone deserves an Oscar. Jamie Foxx, Christoph Waltz, and Leonardo DiCaprio all put on Oscar worthy performances, and frankly, I would be astonished if they all did not win. I truly can't picture any actor on this planet being able to play any of those three roles as magnificently as these three actors did. I sum this movie into three general thirds, First: where Waltz steals the show, Second: where DiCaprio steals the show, and Third: where Foxx steals the show. I have only seen Waltz in "Inglorious Bastards" other than "Django Unchained" and he is rapidly climbing my favorite actors list. Leo is my personal favorite actor ever since his performance in "The Departed" and it was incredible to see him take on the challenging role as his first villain, Calvin Candie, possibly the most evil character I've ever seen in a film. Finally Jamie Foxx from start to finish played his best performance in any movie to date. Simply phenomenal. I loved how the audience sees his character evolve from a powerless slave to a confident powerful man. In addition to these three remarkable performances, Kerry Washington and Samuel L. Jackson also deliver. Washington goes through living hell yet remains a strong woman throughout. Jackson plays a very interesting role as Stephen, Leo's loyal house slave. Trust me, you will hate him yet at the same time he is hilarious. Now's a good time to mention, this movie is funny! Tarantino perfectly tosses in frequent bursts of pure laughter throughout the movie to lighten up from the serious aspects of the movie. There is one scene in particular, involving Jonah Hill and Don Johnson, which had the crowd roaring in laughter for a solid full minute. Which brings me to my next point, the cast is absurd! The rather small roles for such big actors such as Jonah Hill and Don Johnson, just shows how honored actors are taking any role no matter how small for a Quentin Tarantino film. I recognized famous actors and actresses throughout the entire movie. There is one brief scene, where I believe I even saw famous rapper "Childish Gambino" for literally just a few seconds as a slave in Mississippi. This movie was done perfectly to a tee; even the remarkable soundtrack caught my attention, nicely combining songs of the past with modern day songs. This movie is a western, a drama, a tragedy, a comedy, an action, a thriller, and at it's deepest roots a romance. If you haven't already, stop what you're doing and see this movie today. Whatever you're doing can wait but this movie can't. Just make sure your 17, have your license, and have a stomach for more of the most gruesome violence I have yet to see on a screen. In conclusion, I've heard rumors of Tarantino pondering the idea of retiring as a director and Oo what a sad day that would be for movie lovers like myself, but if they are true at least he's going out with one hell of a BANG!


                
I do believe it goes without saying that Quentin Tarantino is without question one of, if not, the finest film maker of the past 20 plus years. His latest effort, Django Unchained does many things but chief among these being, it solidifies Tarantino's place as a great, GREAT film maker. His unique style of fantastic specifically worded dialogue and impeccably perfect scenes is undoubtedly his trademark along with unusual yet perfectly used soundtracks.Django Unchained has every single element of a perfect Tarantino movie with the added pleasure of being done almost better than he has ever done before. Pulp Fiction is without question his calling card film and it has since become a piece of Hollywood lore and for good reason. That being said Django Unchained may go down at some point as Tarantino's greatest film.This is the story of Django a slave in the south 2 years before the eruption of the Civil War. Django is soon acquired and given his freedom by bounty hunter Dr. King Shultz played to perfection by the always entertaining Christoph Waltz who is quickly becoming Tarantino's muse much like a Scorsese/ De Niro type relationship, which I would say was one not many people got sick of. When King Shultz asks for Django's help hunting down his 3 former slave owners he quickly discovers Django's knack for the bounty hunting game. After agreeing to help King Shultz hunt criminals through the winter and teach him what he knows Django soon finds the help of Shultz to help him find his wife and bring her into freedom with him. After they discover her new owner is the prominently rich plantation own Calvin Candie they form an elaborate scheme to acquire Django's wife, Broomhilda.With absolutely expert story telling, Tarantino manages to get Oscar caliber performances from every major principal in the film, from star Jamie Foxx to a short lived character of Big Daddy played by Don Johnson.Django is Tarantino literally at the peak of his craft. With several elements from other films from rarely seen westerns to his own films such as Reservoir Dogs. Django is a very much stripped down effort from him but it never feels like it is lacking in any aspect of the film. With not one camera angle out of place or one song that doesn't feel perfectly used. Tarantino has a cast assembled that has the chemistry and feel already that you can imagine no one else playing every single role. He has masterfully directed every aspect and while Inglorious Basterds was the film that was thought to be his opus prior to release, it is clear Django Unchained simply will blow and cinephile away and casual fan of westerns and/or action will be enthralled. It should be noted the violence can be extreme and even leave a jaw open once or twice much like he did with his Kill Bill films, but this will in no way be it's defining mark at all.With several recent Golden Globe nominations by the Hollywood Foreign Press, who has always shown him great love, there is no doubt Django Unchained is a serious contender in every category and will be so once the Oscar nods come out in a few weeks.This may be his year. He has a best screenplay Oscar on his mantle already but it may have some company and more than one as well. Loveyourmovies.com
Being a big Tarantino fan, I was exited for this film, and I did not get disappointed! It was fantastic! The film played truly to Tarantino's style and with the use of good music, I felt it was a 'Tarantino film'.Lets start off with the actors, most of the cast did a great job performing. However, Christoph Waltz, Samuel L Jackson, Leonardo Di Caprio and Kerry Washington stood out the most! When you have all of them in one scene, you know its gonna be a good one! Jamie Foxx did a great job as Django, but didn't shine like the others.The actual film was amazing! The plot was more complex than it sounds, it's not just 'A slave gets revenge on a plantation owner who has his wife'. There are many other paths the film goes into. The film was longer than most Tarantino films and you start to think, 'Mabye a couple of scenes should have been taken out'. But then it's hard to think of a scene to cut out! I suppose the KKK scene wasn't very relevant, but it was a great scene! This film should not be missed!


                
Django Unchained is filmmaker Quenton Tarantino's latest off-beat adventure for the big screen. Highlighting this film are great performances by Christoph Waltz, Jamie Foxx, Samuel L. Jackson and an ensemble supporting cast that includes former television stars Don Johnson, Tom Wopat, Bruce Dern, Don Stroud and Amber Tamblyn. However, it is the sharp performance of Leonardo DiCaprio as the cruel and merciless plantation owner Calvin Candie that steals the show in this violent tale set in the south prior to the civil war. Inspired by the 1966 Italian made western Django, Tarantino wrote a script for this film that accent and combine his unique style of filmmaking with the "spaghetti western" genre while presenting an eye-opening look at slavery in the deep- south during that period. In typical Tarantino fashion this movie was not made for the faint of heart with its extreme graphic depiction of violence and torture...so be warned. Even though this movie runs long at just under 3 hours it maintains your interest at a high level.
For the past twenty years, writer/director Quentin Tarantino has been entertaining us in a hilariously cringing way. Sadly, those twenty years have only brought us only eight films (not counting his writing and producing efforts). But yet each one of those eight films has a marvelous quality. One of his qualaties is his killer dialogue, which is always whip smart and hilarious.Another quality is this: Tarantino has a gift for making the most serious of topics hilarious. This was displayed three years ago with his last film, Inglourious Basterds (my favorite film of 2009), which revolved around a group of Jewish Americans known as "The Basterds", who hunted down the Third Reich. With "Basterds", Tarantino re-wrote history in an extraordinary way, which probably led to a lot of bickering from historians. His latest film, Django Unchained, is even more controversial. Historians might bicker again. Forget'em. Sit back, shut up, and get consumed by QT's latest revenge fantasy.Django (Jamie Foxx, who I don't like but is enjoyable here) is a slave in the 1800's. Enter Dr. King Shultz (the expectedly brilliant Christoph Waltz, whose show-stealing performance in "Basterds" led him to a much deserved Oscar),a dentist/bounty hunter who lets Django free and gives him an offer he can't refuse: If he helps him hunt down some people, then he will help him find his wife, Bromhilda (the always lovely Kerry Washington). Bromhilda, as it turns out, is currently the slave of a damn lunatic plantation owner named Calvin Candie (Leonardo DiCaprio, giving one of his best performances).Waltz is always perfect, but really when DiCaprio is on screen it is his show. Like Waltz's Hans Landa from "Basterds", Tarantino has written yet another scene stealing villain. Candie is a maniac, and once DiCaprio steps on screen, he, as he says in the film,"had my curiosity, but now you have my attention". Lastly, in his best performance in years, we have Samuel L. Jackson as Candie's conniving slave, Stephen. Almost unrecognizable in latex, Jackson's character is what the true definition of a bastard is. Great supporting work from the three. I expect to see at least one of them on the ballot this season.I have absolutely no idea where Django Unchained compares with every other QT film, because it feels like every QT film is better than the last. I can tell you that it's no Pulp Fiction, but that said, not many movies are as good as that one. What I can tell you is that this is one of the year's best, without a doubt in my mind. This is the funniest movie about racism, and that is probably a sentence that will never be typed ever again.But while being hilarious, it is also cringingly real, and it doesn't shy away from the fact that this period happened. The fact that a man could combine drama, action, and comedy together is really something to admire. Forget what Spike Lee has said. He's a hack compared to Tarantino. I loved every second of this film. I will admit that is does sort of run on a little too long, but really it's just a bloody good time from the opening credits and onward. A+
That movie is really cool. It seems Tarantino has the intention to tell the sad/bad story in his way of the slavery in southeast USA : I think he succeed because i could not miss a scene and a speech in the story. It's gripping He does it in his way but i loved it. Also i wonder if the movie mirror the real social schemes and relationship between black and whites before the American civil war I have been also impressed by the figure who Samuel Jackson plays. The black that become strictly connected to the master. How much in that times the social schemes drove the people's mind. Also tells the story of the internal conflicts and contrasts between blacks themselves The title also plays his important part. I thinks that he wants to say that when the blacks have been have given the freedom it could have taken big changes in the society with all the troubles and dangers the freedom involved but it was a necessary and important human step in the history. This movie helps not only to learn the past America but also the present? Maybe? Everywhere in the western world the blacks have been misused mistreated displaced beaten and abused oftheirs lives. That explain a lot their social disease now. A really nice movie, a strong look at the errors of the pasts, in order to figure out some feature the actual world. Bad or good they are, is the world we are living . There is some italy inside. A famous Italian actor Franco Nero plays the part of a man who bets on mandingo fights . He spoke in Italian. Also, Tarantino gives space to the German language, to make understands that the culture can be a prerogative of a slaved person, also. And some reference to French culture as well..etc..culture, languages, all of this breaks barriers. And is very powerful.I would add that the level of the actors is totally amazing.


                
This movie is a spoof on the so-called spaghetti western genre, but with the violence ratchet up to a level probably unimagined in years past when the the spaghetti westerns gained popularity. The entire story is permeated by violence, which is shown in all its graphic goriness. There is no act of violence too gory for this movie. People are shot, clubbed, knifed, blown up, whipped, cudgeled, mauled, beaten and stomped as well as humiliated, put down, made fun of, laughed at, bullied, and yelled at. The theme of this movie is that interpersonal conflict can be resolved only through violence, and not just nineteen-thirties type violence, i.e., a drive by shooting or a quick ambush, but by violence that is sadistic, that is, gives pleasure to the character perpetrating the mess. But along with the violence is the use of the "N" word which is uttered probably hundreds of times in the movie, and by all the principal characters, black and white. In a way, it seems that the "N" word has finally arrived. Now, is all this violence gratuitous? The answer to that question is NO! No way. Although the violence is Hollywoodish and played up to the extreme for dramatic effect, it still belongs in the movie because the story is set in a time and a place when physical violence as a way of regulating people was a norm and when people were openly exploited and physically abused. The idea of a white slaver raising a bunch of mandingoes may seem ludicrous, but such activities occurred. Black people were slaves; white people were masters, and the "N" word was part of the normal lexicon of the time. The acting in this movie is outstanding. Samuel L. Jackson and Christoph Waltz deserve special recognition, and the rest of cast is excellent too, especially Leonardo De Caprio who plays a villain to great dramatic effect.


                
Tarantino does not disappoint. His classic bloodbaths, intriguing dialog and black humor finally had a tribute that is "Django Unchained." Many people did not like the movie or for being too silly, or too long, or excessive violence. Will a Tarantino fan crazy as me, to realize the enormity of the great masterpiece that "Django" can be? Not only is one of the best of Tarantino movies, but it is the tribute that the writer-director make to his films, giving a demonstration of who he is and its material.Django is arguably the greatest production of Tarantino, but I know that size does not make the content, but greater in everything. Here we see the combination of the various elements of Tarantino's films, the title character and history elements, are there all together, just pay attention.At the beginning we see Django (Jamie Fox) as a poor, simple and sufferer slave, who meets the great Dr. King Schultz (Crhistoph Waltz), and with him the chance of vengeance of his old owners, and later regaining his love Broomhilda (Kerry Washington), these first 45 minutes of the film we see how Django grow both spiritually and mentally and becomes a killing machine that becomes later. Also in these first few minutes of the film we see elements of "Kill Bill," for example, the Bride of Uma Thurman, a sufferer with visions of the past in search of redemption and revenge against those who took her all what he loved. Django is her male version, and as The Bride is an expert on samurai swords, Django is in revolvers.In the next two hours we see the plan that Django and Schultz plan, a foolproof plan to recover the wife of Django from the cruel Calvin Candlie (Leonardo DiCaprio), a plan that seems to be impossible to know when Stephen (Samuel L. Jackson). In these two hours we see elements of "Inglourious Basterds" and "Pulp Fiction". From "Inglourious" is the plan that seems foolproof that will lead to an enhuge end with small twists and obstacles ahead, along with an intriguing dialog scenes, as the dinner scene where the 5 characters are connected in one intriguing line of dialog that lead's to the unexpected end, such as scene that resembles the scene of the German Pub. From "Pulp" is the friendly and contradictory partnership between Django and Schultz, that closely resembles the duo Vincent and Jules. Two people who are very friendly and respect one another but a small rivalry between the two in what has regarding their attitudes or as Schultz says "getting dirty". The end of the second act, delivering the third and final act where the unexpected happens, like any Tarantino movie, a tremendous scale of grandeur.Django might not show a Western as we think it would, mainly because the film is set in the American South, being then a Southern, but "Inglourious Basterds" did not show much of the war and not the situation of the Jews (only the beginning) and focuses attention on killing Nazis. Tarantino uses the environment to explore the southern's slavery that existed in America during the time, but at the same time maintaining the elements of a Western, not getting shot during a firefight; a small town with a old sheriff with a dirty past; a lone ranger looking for redemption.At the same subject, the characters, all well-established, and in them we can see several elements of other Tarantino films. Django seems a mixture of Jackie Brown, The Bride and Vincent See, all alike in gestures and attitudes but also their situation in the whole plot. A character a bit shy but very smart and they can even be BADASS, and their situations in the story that almost seems to be a secondary character; Schultz looks a bit like Winnfiel Jules (Pulp Fiction) and Max Cherry (Jackie Brown), a character cultured with a very particular vision of the world and with his own philosophy of what is good; Stephen is the mixture of Marcellus Wallace (Pulp Fiction) and Ordell Robbie (Jackie Brown), a "n#" who thinks superior to all others and can be really cruel. The only character who seems to be the same original was Calvin Candie, a cynical and cruel slave owner.Many complain that Django can hardly stands out in the film being the main one, but how many times in Tarantino's previous films the main character was half out when the secondary characters spoke. But here the very minor characters seem to stand out when they talk among themselves. When is a scene of Schultz, Calvin begins to talk stealing his scene; when is a scene of Calvin, Stephen starts talking and steals his scene; when is a scene is Stephen, Schultz starts talking and steals his scene. And so it goes on in this dialog triangle of secondary characters, and all of them in the Badass voice of Django appears as a roller-coaster doing everything shake. This just proves that Tarantino can still do screenplays with mastery and persuasion.The performances of the entire cast can also be fantastic, on the style of Tarantino, Jamie Fox can install itself in the world of Tarantino with a performance that is the beginning of a simpleton slave until its evolution into a BADASS lone-ranger; Chistoph Waltz superb as always and once again manages to be the favorite character of the movie for those who attend; Leonardo DiCaprio gives one of his best performances; Samuel L. Jackson proving to be one of the best supporting actors in the business. All amazing as the movie itself."Django Unchained" manages to be one of the funniest films of Tarantino, but also one of the most intriguing ones, with a really well written screenplay. A great product delivery that Tarantino has always given us and as always challenging and causing controversy in society, proving that it still has much to give.


                
Who's better than Tarantino? Nobody! Quentin has claimed that he will end his film making career after completing ten films. If the next three are as good as this one, he will have one of the greatest film track records ever! This film is the bloodiest, coolest, most entertaining film you are sure to see this year. And I understand that is a bold statement since the Avengers and The Dark Knight Rises came out this year. Still, I will stand behind my statement because I firmly believe it is true. The acting is outstanding, the writing is hilarious and brutal, the cinematography is beyond beautiful, the sets are amazing and the violence is awesome! This is easily the best film of the year and well worth the long wait. Oscars here we come!


                
I saw this with a friend who was equally psyched up to see this. We were the last to leave the cinema, as we paid proper respect and sat until the very final credits finished - we were rewarded for same ( unlike those other people with ants in their pants, who had to check their phones & depart immediately the film proper ended - more fool them, but hey it was nearly midnight on a rainy night in Katoomba). When we eventually left our seats and stood outside, my mate said "I think we've just seen 5 movies". My reply was "...it's probably more like 10". I began to list the various narratives: the Seigfried saga; the Spaghetti Western; the Deadwoodish muddy, bloody realism; the essay on sadism & cruelty - with artefacts ( not just the usual ankle chains but the hideous devices placed around people's necks - this I might add is the common or garden, public display of how the bodies of slaves were paraded & transported, what lurks in the dark corners of private property is even more disturbing); the power politics of small town snapshots; the comedy; the horror movie; the ode to the American landscape; the performing horse movie; the Downton Abbeyesque gaze on the Candyland dining room; the buddy movie - I could go on and ever on.What I had witnessed was a movie so carefully crafted by a writer/director at the top of his game, that it's left me with indelible marks on my soul and I like that in a movie. It's one of the ones that stays with you, the images that haunt, the lines that make you laugh out loud, the horror that makes you put your hands over your eyes and put fingers to keyboard in praise. I note that other reviewers have found it messy, long, unfocused etc. Maybe they just don't get it. Perhaps they have no knowledge of Gilgamesh, Homer or Virgil, but that's life you can't read everything, see everything, know about everything. When I was a kid, movies were often 3 hours long - with intermissions, especially the epics. If you want a 90 minute action movie - go watch T Cruise, but will remember a word he says? Maybe, the cinema is a broad church and everyone has their own devotions & ideas about entertainment or art or both.The film is so rich in stories and characters that it's practically impossible to select a favourite - it's like reading Dickens, there's a whole body of other work that supports what we've been offered to think about. Django is undoubtedly the coolest hero but he's got his buddy Doctor S to inspire him. It's a chicken and egg thing. Has Leonardo ever displayed more villainous instincts? Did I ever think I'd see Franco Nero on screen again? How 'bout Don J as Big Daddy? These are just fragments of delight. The real gems are Kerry Washington's face when she knows that Samuel L Jackson's Evil Stephen is on to her (the tension is unbearable) or when Jamie Foxx gets to pick out his own clothes for the first time - that electric blue outfit is still slaying me, or those fools with the bags on their heads - a beautiful portrait of white supremacists at their idiotic best.Christoph Waltz stole so many scenes, it's impossible not to love every minute of his performance and for his character's ultimate sacrifice - it made me feel complete. The German doctor decided on a fitting departure because he couldn't resist. I must congratulate Quentin on his Oz accent - I was worried for a moment that he was going to slide down the Seth Efrican side of things but happily he'd chosen John Jarratt to play against, which lifted his game considerably, classic screwball comedy - downunder style! A hoot. All the other categories of the film: art direction; casting; costumes; cinematography; editing; sound; writing and directing are sublime. It's my BEST PICTURE of the year - so who gives a fat rat's what the Academy decides?
One of the best movies I've watched ever. I love it


                
Django Unchained stars Jamie Foxx as Django, a slave who gets hired by an ex-dentist bounty hunter (Christoph Waltz) in order to find the wanted men that used to own Django. The story of the film is captivating, just as any Tarantino movie, and it keeps you thrilled for the entire lengthy runtime. The usual Tarantino style is always welcome and the over-the-top violence just makes the movie more entertaining to watch. Leonardo DiCaprio's villainous performance is Oscar-worthy and he is definitely the best part of the film. I absolutely love every aspect of this movie and rewatch it every now and then. It's most certainly worth checking out. 10/10


                
Django Unchained which is Quentin Tarantino's attempt at a western or as he calls it, a Southern is quite an amazing venture into filmmaking. Such well developed and fully dimensional characters with great performances. Jamie Foxx and Christoph Waltz are the main players in story and both deliver award nominate-able performances. Actually the whole cast is perfect for their roles to the point where you can't really see anyone else in those roles. Samuel L. Jackson, Leonardo DiCaprio, Kerry Washington all shine in their respective roles. The final shootout scene with Django and the remaining members of the Candie crew is really well done.
Last night me and my mates decided to watch a movie. We had a lot to choose from - 'Pulp Fiction', 'The Watch', 'Fight Club', 'Dredd' and last but not least - 'Django Unchained'. After a long discussion about what should we choose - we decided to go with Django.When the movie ended - me and my mates went like - 'Woa! That was AMAZING!' And it truly was. 'Django unchained features stunning acting (especially DiCaprio and Waltz), a lot of violence, a great soundtrack and most importantly - a well made plot.In conclusion, if you are looking for something to watch with friends or alone, if you want to see a good movie that's well acted, scripted and directed then 'Django Unchained' is for you!Simply - Tarantino at his best!


                
Django Unchained is the story of Django(Jamie Foxx) who is released from slavery by bounty hunter/dentist Dr. King Schultz(Christoph Waltz) to identify three slave owners. Django & Schultz make a deal that after they take care of the slave owner business, they will search for Django's long lost wife Broomhilda(Kerry Washington). After a little research they find out that Broomhilda is a slave owned by infamous slave owner Calvin Candie(Leonardo DiCaprio). After they reach Candieland, Candie's chief slave Stephen(Samuel L. Jackson) is suspicious about their intentions.This movie was freaking EPIC! Every second of watching this film was a delight. I liked it much better than Tarantino's previous work, Inglorious Basterds. A note on the performances. Jamie Foxx is effective as Django. However, Foxx's performance is nothing compared to the others performances. Christoph Waltz is hysterical in his portrayal of Dr.King Schultz. Leonardo DiCaprio is terrifyingly brilliant in his portrayal of the brutal Calvin Candie. Kerry Washington is great as disturbed & tortured slave Broomhilda. However, Samuel L. Jackson stands out as the evil & menacing Stephen. The slave is more wicked than Candie himself. However, this movie is not for everyone. If you are disgusted or easily disturbed by a lot of violence & gore then, you should stay away from this film. But, for everyone else this movie is a must watch. Go, have a blast!


                
Quentin Tarantino never ceases to astonish us with his exceptional ability of making good movies that leave a rather unforgettable impression of his uniqueness.The movie raises the issue of slavery in the Antebellum Era which is a bit spiky subject to bring around and shows how that the black people themselves were yielding and submissive to such degree that made their own masters' wondering why would not they rise against them, but in the course of the movie we see that this idea is proved wrong.Aside from that Jamie Foxx was a brilliant choice for the main character, Django, a freed slave who happens to have a great skill in handling a gun also he has this proud bad-ass look that I liked.Christoph Woltz is such a great actor who was fit for the role of Dr. Schultz, a sophisticated dentist from a German origin who also practices a successful career as a bounty hunter, and it's really interesting how the course of the movie brings him and Django together and how they become partners in pursuing wanted criminals to get the prizes on their heads, then Dr. Shultz decides to help Django to buy his wife's freedom.The events gradually escalate to gather both of them with Monsiuer Candie, the Francophile slave owner of the Candyland plantation performed by Leo Di Capreo. For me, he was the intriguing element in the movie. I loved his role the most and loved how he took it so seriously especially in the scene when he confronts Dr. Shultz and Django about pulling their elaborate scam on him in order to rescue Django's wife, Broomhilda played by beautiful Kerry Washington, at the moment when he was supposed to slam his hand on the table, he accidentally slammed his hand into glass and had it cut and bled but he did not break character and got his job done perfectly in the most climatic scene in the movie.Let us not forget about Samuel L. Jackson who played the role of the old servant of the Candie family, Stephen, who appears to be so faithful and obedient to his master and very harsh on his fellow black people, he also ignites the conflict between Dr. Shultz and Monsieur Candie which represents the climax of the story.I also loved the fingerprint that Tarantino left, as in his other movies, represented by a bloodbath scene and a short cameo of himself which are just a typical trademark of his work.I believe it is safe to say that this particular picture shows how Tarantino's works have evolved to give us such an incredible combo of both diversity in subjects and an outstanding performance by the cast.
Why isn't this movie in the Top 100? It got an 8.8! I hope this isn't some political correctness bull---t... There has been a lot of press about the 'racist' aspect of this movie. I think most sane people will argue that racism is a bad thing, but there is a subtle difference in a film that is actually racist and a film that is about racism. No one (at least no one with a brain) denies that the slave trade was a dark chapter in this country's past, and this movie acknowledges this fact. Most of the white people in the movie are repulsive characters, and Django is one of the smartest characters in the movie. He seems dumb at first, but that's because he hasn't been taught anything during his life of servitude. The ability to learn is what makes a person smart.


                
8.4 despite all the racist review bombs.Great Movie! Classic


                
Brilliant film, great story and directing combined with realism gory action and world class acting to make a truly great Tarantino production. Romance , revenge , action , drama and western rolled into one.


                
Quentin Tarantino does it again! Once would think we would get used to (and bored) of his style, but nope... he continually manages to impress!And that's what this film did for me - impress!It's refreshing to see a different era and landscape for him to challenge himself with, and his execution was perfection. Great to see he sticks with the cast that also never disappoints.Another winner for Mr. Tarantino!A perfect 10/10 from me


                
