First I must say that I rarely write reviews. Most are already there to help a viewer decide whether to see the movie or not. An experienced moviegoer can always tell if the reviewer knows what he's talking about. But with Django unchained, that was such a horrible flick with sky high ratings, I just felt the urge to write down how disturbingly flawed and deeply deranged this movie is and not in a good way. It's been a long time since I have seen a good Tarantino movie. This era ended with his story and his part in Four Rooms. And after Kill Bill, things went downhill never to crawl back up. Every once in a while, Tarantino's flashy and expensive garbage is being spilled on theater screens all over the world, and the somewhat schizophrenic director surprisingly picks up even more fans along the dodgy way. I expected more from this movie, since I couldn't even sit through that dreary Inglorious bastards, so things had to get better. And yet, even though he had a perfect plot setting in a cruel time and place for black people in American history, he casted the still boyish looking I-must- be-the-bad-guy-in-that-movie DiCaprio who really gives his best to sell it but falls short, and you get yet another long term drug use flashback in a form of give-me-back-my-money drive-in movie, with an hour long boring film within a film - during the visit to Candie Land that starts with what can only be described as the first MMA fight ever held in a living room. In this openly racist movie, and not because of the excessive use of the n-word, whose star later promotes gun ban while making good money by shooting every white creature in this film that has sudden twists from serious to absurd, from grave to bizarre. Here we get a bad writing, bad music, bad casting, mediocre acting from an all-star cast and awful, awful direction. The dynamic sound makes you jump off your seat when someone slams the door on screen. How cheap is that? Well, the music was OK, but not for one playlist and certainly not for one western. You just can't mix Rio Bravo style songs and Elvis impersonator with modern rap music and get away with it. Unless your main character can spill buckets of blood with just one bullet or massacre crowds of armed rednecks just after practicing his gunslinger skills by shooting down a few bottles. We also see a drawer slide mounted Derringer save the day one time too many. We see black slaves speak fluent German. But this is a love story, and yet these extreme action scenes are the high tide here with tons of ketchup spills all around, with over the top gore that would make a B-slasher-movie look like British rom com, and the drab dramatic part will bore you to death and make you consider leaving the theater. Twice. What Quentin tries to achieve here, style wise, is the bleak mix of Gibson's The Passion of the Christ and Jesus Christ Superstar. But someone should've told him both movies are bad. Also, Samuel L. Jackson's pathetic make-up as well as his cartoonish role do not make things any better. I didn't expect to see Open Range, but this charade is a kind of rich gumbo, made out of all the bad ingredients from previous hyped Tarantino grindhouse style obsession movies or his dull WWII affirmative action fairy tale, that was oddly not enough spiced with finger licking good hot sauce from Leone, Hawks or Peckinpah, hence completely ruining this bad taste cinema and rendering it inedible. Now seeing these ratings, no wonder Gangnam style is the most viewed YT video ever. No wonder Hobit, Harry Potter, Batman, Spiderman and Lord of the Rings top the Best 250 list.
I'll get to the heart of the matter. "Reservoir Dogs" was spot on. It was a realistic (in terms of the outcome) yet highly stylized gangster film. It said to the viewer, "I know you are expecting X, Y, and Z, but isn't it time you 'grew up' already? Do you want to see the same movie over and over again?" 'Bad guys' do bad things and usually self-destruct in one way or another at a young age. We saw that no matter how hard one might try, you cannot polish a turd, as they say.Despite the cute dialogue, these guys are bad, do bad things, and the results are bad. If that heist would have 'succeeded,' they just would have gotten themselves killed or jailed some other way. it was a 'wake up call,' an inversion, or perhaps the best way to think of it is that it wasn't what it seemed to be. It was just a bunch of 'simulacra' thrown together to resemble a feature-length film. It succeeded brilliantly, but Tarantino had nowhere to go after that, other than to stylize and fabricate as much as possible, creating ludicrous, absurd movies that had no point. If you saw one you didn't need to see another."Django Unchained" is more of a postscript. It's not as ridiculous or as historically inaccurate as it could have been, but even it if had been, what would it have mattered? He's been there and done that, and apparently can't figure out what to do now other than to repeat the past. He is in the "Woody Allen Zone" at this point (just substitute the "white," rich, self-absorbed complainers for retro and homicidal, yet more "diverse" and colorful characters in Tarantino's last several films), in my opinion, meaning that he's "mailing it in" for the money. The movie is too long and very quickly the viewer can predict the kinds of things that will transpire. I don't play violent video games (or any video games at all), but after watching this I was thinking that it would be much more interesting in every way to just do that; after perhaps twenty minutes (or less) I'd get my fill of this sort of thing and could use the other two hours and change to do something "productive."The following is my highly speculative, "inside the mind" history (or is it an anti-history) of Tarantino's "MO:" After "Reservoir Dogs," he had one last idea, essentially the end of the "Hollywood Blockbuster" disguised as a Hollywood Blockbuster (an anti-Hollywood Blockbuster?). It would be a highly stylized, very violent move that would appear to have several compelling "back stories." The reality is that it had none, and once the viewer figures this out, he or she should tell himself/herself that there is no reason to watch such films any longer, other than as some sort of "cheap chill," basically "violence porn." That blockbuster, of course, was "Pulp Fiction."The title "gave away" the director's thoughts: "stop watching my films if you are an intelligent, empathetic person." Of course you may have watched one or two more because you couldn't be sure, but at this point his movies are some sort of "post-modern," anti-film, non-story. Watch them, expecting something different, and as they say, the joke is on you. Instead, I suggest you consider taking a course on the history of film, film criticism, or something along those lines. Seeing "Django" is like being the "best" guest at a "dinner for schmucks." So, I guess the most interesting question now is, what do we make of a reviewer who realizes what is occurring yet still feels compelled to watch these anti-films in order to tell others not to be the butt of a joke? Is this an anti-review? A "pulp" review?
Like Inglorious Basterds, this is another juvenile cartoon by the perennially adolescent Tarantino. However this time he manages to make it a racist cartoon, as well. How is it racist? Tarantino plays out a macho fantasy game by featuring a strong though implausible African American protagonist and yet spreads the N-word liberally throughout the film. He's defended that particularly odious over-usage by suggesting that being "authentic" to the times demanded it. And yet much of the film's details are otherwise incorrect: the rifles are wrong for the time period, for example; and the soundtrack is a hodgepodge of rap, old pop (Jim Croce?) and music from other films. And most obviously, the racial attitudes of both white and African Americans are simply ludicrous. The taunting, insolent attitude by Django towards white people would never have been tolerated in the South, circa 1858. And certainly no Mississippi plantation owner would allow him at the dinner table with white guests. Tarantino has also led many to believe--dishonestly, this is his version of an Italian western. However, it hews closer to a sub-genre of Seventies Blaxploitation--Westerns (Buck and The Preacher, Take A Hard Ride and very obviously The Legend of N---- Charley and its sequel The Soul of N---- Charley, to name a few.) Of course there are the standard QT touches in the film: odd flashes of humor, odder cameos (Michael Parks, Lee Horsley, Don Johnson, father and daughter Russ and Amber Tamblyn) and over-the-top violence--although even the violence is handled ineptly. The gushing blood shots look more like exploding balloons over-inflated with red paint. QT hasn't lost his touch with actors and he gets good performances from his leads--Waltz, Foxx and especially DiCaprio. Samuel L. Jackson as the boss of the African American house crew gives a masterly performance reeking of evil. But all of it comes in service to a trashy, overlong and digressive film. Tarantino is over-due for a course in films not marketed to 13 year old comic book readers or grindhouse fans. Until he shows an adult perspective I think I'll forgo any more of his films.
It's quite an accomplishment to be cinematic adjective; Tarantino. (Or for pretenders to the visceral throne, Tarantinoesque.) Particularly when the Director/Writer is so young and with relatively few films on his resume.There is pressure on Mr. Tarantino to feed the descriptor, or none whatsoever when he makes films to amuse solely himself. The latter is the primary issue with the spaghetti-western-cum racist-tome direct from the Antebellum South, "Django Unchained."One expects the liberal use of blood squibs in a Tarantino, and "Django..." will not disappoint. (Tarantino's famed over-length as well.) What's missing in "Django..." is the cleverness and surprise in previous efforts: "Reservoir Dogs," "Pulp Fiction," and the lyrical "Kill Bills." The re-imaging of the War film so brilliantly accomplished in "Inglorious Basterds" makes the identically conceived "Django..." a self-parody of Tarantino. Just move the action back about ninety years and from France to America. Even place a scene using a foreign language as a way to speak openly in case eavesdroppers are within earshot. Hire the same pivotal character. Add the same cartoonish elements. And deliver the blood. This time add a few more laughs. (Slavery is far funnier a topic than the slaughter of millions of Jews.)As a writer, Mr. Tarantino's pen is running out of fresh ink. That the important issue of racism (and his favorite motivation - revenge) is the spine of "Django Untamed" does not excuse this film is merely a number of scenes tossed ascreen that do not make a convincing, complete film. Mr. Tarantino is listening to the hype and lost (at least with "Django...") the ability to tell a good story without requiring the audience to hold what's dear to Tarantino to their breasts as well. Spaghetti westerns are a cheap genre from long ago that were mostly awful - save a few starring Eastwood. The corollary follows: "Django..." is a conceit by a man venerating crap. The result is crap. And that's insulting to an audience. (Using titles from other films as illustrative of the genre for his current film is also becoming an annoyance.)The story in a nutshell: 1858, slave and wife are branded then separated when they are sold. Waltz, a Bounty Hunter, finds slave to help him track down some baddies. Slave becomes adept at Bounty Hunting and he and Waltz conspire to save slave's wife from another plantation owner. Then Shosanna runs a Parisian movie theater and hatches a plot to kill all the important Nazis.Samuel L Jackson is terrific as the self-loathing Black Slave Supervisor nastier than any White. (And whiter as well.)Jamie Foxx is a comatose-robot-killing-machine with a fast gun and little depth. (No wonder bigger Black stars turned this role down. Probably due to embarrassment at the portrayal of Blacks.) Watlz' sympathetic-to-slaves 180 turn from Hans Landa in "Inglorious Basterds" is serviceable yet will certainly garner another Oscar.DiCaprio chews not only the scenery but some furniture as well. It's a fun turn but not enough to save the film.Tarantino populates smaller roles with TV faves from formative years when his nose was three inches from a Philco. (Casting these has-beens also saves a lot of dough.) "Django Unchained" is rife with lots and lots of padding and self-indulgence galore. A few more films like this and Tarantino will be the Director of whom it is asked, "Hey, whatever happened to that guy who made those really bloody movies? He used to be good."
If you do not have 30 years of heavy drug intoxication as Mr. Tarantino, who would need to be hospitalized, or if you're a masochist eager for 3 hours long treatment, little worthy of attention would have missed if you would not see this movie.The only fascinating fact about these film is the phenomenon of "TARANTINO" who , with a smile on his face, feeds us with a pile of crap for all this years,and we,full of gratitude,paid him for that.Snap out of it people! Enough swallowing piles of crap at the expense of so-called "artistic freedom".Leonardo's masterful performance is a rare bright spot.To him aging obviously feels good.


                
I thought it was absolutely idiotic. OK, so Django gets a couple lessons in gun play and then kills 200 people without ever taking a bullet the rest of the movie. Not to mention he takes down 30 people at the end of the movie by himself. They should have just called it Rambo VI. Christopher Waltz is pretty grand in it but his character makes out Germans to be this great altruistic people. Ya, uhm dude, hate to inform you of this but Germans become the worst humans in history. Personally, I think it's just too touchy a subject to make an action comedy about, but to each their own I guess. Honestly, I believe the most intriguing character of the film is the one Samuel Jackson plays as an obedient former slave to Candie/DiCaprio. His character would be an intriguing study but in this film he merely gets a few scenes.


                
Having quite enjoyed Kill Bill and Inglorious Basterds, I was curious about Django. And in many respects I got what I expected.The start was promising, and Christoph Waltz was very good to watch, with Jamie Foxx easing into the role of the wronged avenger. And the bit later on with the hooded gang complaining about not being able to see as their hood's eye cutouts were too small was hilarious! But mainly it was just comic book cardboard cutout characters killing each other, with the ridiculous amounts of spurting blood reinforcing the unreality of it all in the final shootouts. The take home message? Justified revenge is the way to happiness, even if you have to destroy an entire race of whites to achieve it. But the most shocking aspect of this film to me isn't the film itself, which was in the end just silly to me - it's that so many critics and fans seem to think it's brilliant! Have we now become that indifferent to violence that corpses spurting blood everywhere is all just jolly good fun? If so, it might go some way to explaining the current gun crisis in the US, which only seems to be getting worse. I'll leave the statistics out, there are plenty online. Finally, obviously the film has the evil of slavery as the background against which all the revenge is justified. But there are a few people, Spike Lee included, who believe that this kind of Pulp Fiction treatment of "what was effectively a holocaust" is disrespectful of the countless victims of it. I tend to agree, but what does QT care? He keeps making PF-comic type films, and we keep lauding him for it. So expect to see his greatest masterwork anytime soon - my best guess is a Nazi concentration camp revenge flick, where the inmates get to kill the SS guards, probably in acid baths and many other torturous ways, and then go on a rampage killing the inhabitants of the local German village for turning a blind eye. All good clean revenge fun. In bad taste maybe? - who cares if it's the great QT, and he shoots it on old school cameras to keep the nerds happy!
I really hate to rain on the parade of positive reviews, but I want my 2 1/2 hours plus back. First, it is way too long. Second, I watched this right after an excellent foreign movie, and the contrast in the acting didn't favor this experience. As usual, most American movie stars don't really act, so much as just repeat the same bit in all of their movies--in other words, Jamie Foxx was Jamie Foxx and Leonardo DiCaprio was Leonardo DiCaprio, and that's that. They just basically play themselves, as opposed to occupying the character. It didn't help that Tarantino cast himself in a small part. He is not a good actor, but he didn't seem that bad compared to the others, which says something unfortunate about his fellow thespians in this production. Except for the costumes, all of the characters just seemed to be lamely pretending to be from the civil war period. In spite of what some ill-informed people have claimed, nobody should confuse this movie with history. Third, I realize that this was supposed to be a homage to B movies with some irony thrown in, but these ambitions totally fail, and it just wound up playing like a B "B movie". It is easily Tarantino's worst movie. I get the feeling that this was Tarantino's attempt to show how much he really cares about injustice or society or something pretentious like that while still making one of his trademark films, but in reality this film is just a sloppy, self-indulgent mess. At the very least, please Quentin, if you don't follow through on your threat to retire, in the future stay behind the camera, not in front of it. You'll be doing all of us a big favor.


                
I'm working my way through the top 250 movies on IMDb, and well.....there is no way this movie should be in that list.It's totally over-rated, and if the name Tarantino wasn't associated with it, maybe it wouldn't have been in that list.Whilst there are some great scenes and characterization (Shultz and Candie are awesome), the main character Django lacks any sort of personality. You would think that as a black slave who has suffered so much hardship, we would find something empathetic and endearing about him, but it's difficult to warm to him, and his character gets less and less likable in the second half of the movie. By the end, I actually saw him as the bad guy for mindlessly killing innocent folk simply because they were white. And no, I am not a white person myself.The ending is so over-the-top and cliché it's laughable. The final scenes of his woman clapping him as he blows up the mansion, and does a little jiggly dance on the horse is something that might appeal to school aged kids, but seriously? What was Tarantino thinking? And to play modern hip-hop music whilst this is going on? I think by that time Tarantino had gotten so carried away, that he didn't even bother to make the movie's ending remotely realistic or believable.
This is as typical Tarantinoesque ultra-violent "race"-message as one could expect from start to finish in its unnecessary length of 165 minutes, and I for one am really getting fed up by it. Its obvious occasional funny bits can't compensate the dullness of those innumerable "transit"scenes and everything that happens with Leonardo DiCaprio and afterwards.On the other hand, at least DiCaprio approaches the seeds of truth when he explains the black man's "willingnes to submit" to their "white masters", instead of fighting back from day one or die trying; there would had not been such thing as 'black slavery'. And this Django-character here actually proves that point: since they simply didn't refuse to be slaves, the black man's only hope was that there would emerge some kind of miraculous black superhero who could overcome and kill all the white people. Of course there never did. It was only the white man who had the power to took and eventually give back (well, kind of) their freedom. And only because it was the white man who came up first with e.g. powerful industrialism and agriculture the things weren't other way around completely ("for some reason" the Africans were never much of a threat for Europeans but Mongols and Ottomans among others definitely were).By the way, how did Django the Slave learn how to read, shoot a gun and use a whip like a pro only Tarantino the Writer knows.All above said, Waltz is very good once again as expected and even Foxx of which I never liked too much in other movies ("Ray" of course being an exception) performs OK in his "impossible" role. But as some have already mentioned, it's the final 1/3 or so that destroys this movie almost utterly in all its stupidity.


                
OOOOOOHHHHHHHHH.....Hey everyone, Tarantino has a new movie out and it's controversial and uses the word ni**er a lot. It must be good. No...it WILL be good because I want it to be so badly.Thanks a lot you hoighty toighty Harvard educated critics - you're supposed to protect us from this crap.This movie is sooooo overrated. Save your money and your time. Long gone are the days of 'dogs' and 'romance', Tarantino has lost his touch.Ugggghhhhh....


                
Once again, Tarantino has failed to deliver. And, he's been doing that ever since he finished the respectable Reservoir Dogs (1992), his best attempt at making movies.The storyline synopsis on the main page is sufficient to get the main theme. Instead, let me present a few points that make this effort as Tarantino's worst effort so far, imo (he is consistent though – each successive movie has been progressively worse than the previous).First, it's supposed to be satire, but it degenerates into campy excess, throughout. Second, the gratuitous violence is simply bizarre, especially the bloodbath in the third act. Third, the treacly, anachronistic, overly loud sound track is boring, distracting and just plain stupid. Finally, and worst of all, a topic about slavery in the Deep South doesn't deserve to be presented like one of Ed Wood's failed projects (and I'm denigrating Mr Wood by saying that).I should add, also, that the movie was at least an hour too long. On the plus side, the filming, editing and special effects are okay.However, there have been much better movies about slavery in USA, beginning with Birth of a Nation (1915), then Gone with the wind (1939), Mandingo (1975) and others.Don't waste your time and money to see DU. I didn't pay a dime, not a cent. But I did waste 165 minutes of my life.Give this 2 out of 10. Not recommended, period.


                
Never felt the need to write here before but this film has had so much hype and so much controversy for another Tarantino tripe export.Now don't get me wrong here I am not a cool Tarantino hater, Reservoir Dogs is in my list of top ten films ever made (the list is one of about 100 interchangeable movies.)But after that masterpiece and going to the cinema with a friend seeing this awesome intro for Pulp Fiction and excellent credit sequence and then it all fell apart. (Uma Thurman drawing a square and saying don't be a square, douche.) Funny enough this had the same affect, brilliant start, good credit sequence and a good start Django and Dr Schultz in the bar scene. Alas it goes downhill from there.The acting was alright for what they had to work with. Christopher Waltz was great but as a character became more of a novelty with no development. Interesting to see Samuel Jackson do something different but his character had no facets really. Never been a big fan of his work only really liking him funny enough in Pulp Fiction oh and Die Hard with a Vengeance. Jamie Foxx had this weird arc of one second being a slave and with no transition becomes a gunslinger.I love the Franco Nero Django, one of my nephews couldn't wait to see this remembering me showing them the flick with the cowboy who carries around a coffin. The only relation this film has to Spaghetti Westerns is the poster.I have read stuff about this being really violent and gory it even being more violent than Scarface. What? It was comic violence with no visceral intensity which for me doesn't count as violence, more cheap really.All the controversy about the use of the N word (IMDB won't let me write the word even though it is integral to the movie.) and its portrayal of slavery. Who cares? It's a piece of trash written by a middle class, white, male westerner who has no intention of informing. He just wants to do what he thinks is cool and set the standard. I agree with him when he says if he was to portray the real brutality of slavery it would be unwatchable and also slavery is actually more complicated than bullshit skin color. If you are going to see a Tarantino piece of trash for a history lesson then that says a lot about you.I am sorry but I am sick of being disappointed by this dope and angry at myself for always getting sucked in because of the unbelievably brilliant Reservoir Dogs.I had to give this 2 out of 10 because there are flicks I can't sit through like Tim Burton's Alice in Wonderland and I did sit through this.Tarantino is as an overrated US export as Big Macs and The free market.


                
This film is shameful on several levels. First, it disgustingly violent. Second, it glorifies violence. Third, it shows violence as funny. Fourth, it is outrageously racist- every white (other than a German) is sinister, and most are stupid. Fifth, this racism is used to justify the first three points. Sixth, while some of the plot twists are clever, several are just ridiculous, and covered by the typical device of moving so quickly that you don't have time to consider how improbable they are. Other than the foregoing, it is pretty good- fast-paced and sometimes funny. But how can anyone be so desensitized that he/she does not appreciate how offensive and dangerous this is? There is more to life than entertainment.


                
Well, since I watched this movie I gave it a couple of days to sink in, that I might not write overly critically of it in the moment. Nothing has changed however. The movie just didn't do it for me.Not that I was 'offended' by the racism, or depictions of racism, nor of the depictions of virtually all whites with the exception of the doctor protagonist as shallow, hateful and prejudiced. That didn't colour my opinion.Not that I was offended by the violence and the expected over-the-top gore of a Tarantino work, in fact I laughed at the campy treatment of the lawyer in the big shootout, repeatedly getting unintended hits in the crossfire, spraying gore and howling at each new injury. (kind of sick when you think about it, but I laughed as was intended)Not that I was bothered by seeing Tarantino in his hubris, again insert his awkward and unconvincing actor self into a cameo role in one of his films, though the cameos would work better if he didn't look so much like a shorter Richard Keil knockoff ('Jaws', of James Bond fame) and stand out so obviously.The movie was just too damned long and too... boring. The 25 minute long dinner scene for example. Some think it brilliant and if they think so, well and good. But to me it shows a lack of editing. Tarantino must believe so deeply in his own cinematic excellence that he cannot allow what he has deemed should be filmed, to be trimmed. All footage stays in. But that's what editing is for, to keep a scene concise and keep the production from dragging, and folks, a 25 minute dinner scene doesn't build tension the whole time, it drags. Hitchcock would agree. Ditto the handshake scene. "Shake my hand, it's what we do around here." "I won't shake your hand" "Shake my hand" "No, I won't"... on and on. It doesn't build, it drags. By that time the movie is already two and a half hours in and desperately needs to end, and lo and behold here the viewer is treated to a silly protracted argument that could have taken place in any playground, by little kids.Some epic tales such as Ben Hur are convoluted and involved and they take a long run time to depict on the screen. This is a short simple story that has been drawn out far longer than necessary and longer than it is comfortable to sit through.If I may employ a metaphor, Tarantino the film maker has always given me the impression of an impulsive adolescent who has taken dad's powerful sports car without permission, and is doing crazy things in it. He does things behind the wheel of that car that others haven't done, that the makers of the car never intended it to do, and people see it and say "WOW, did you see that, that was amazing!". But the more often you see Tarantino drive, the more it becomes apparent that what looked at first to be an astonishingly talented new driver, is in fact just a rather rash and undisciplined driver who is willing to take wild chances. Sometimes the result is brilliant, but things don't always work out for the best on every outing.This one, Django Unchained, wasn't one of Tarantino's better drives.


                
Well lets come out and say it, this is an awful movie, I don't care what blinkered Tarantino fans say, this is trash. No one dare say anything against this guy , but hopefully one day someone other will seriously look at this and will see through the hype and say no the stuff he makes isn't pastiche of films from yester year, lets be fair about it , the movies of this ilk were crap then and nothing has changed. The camera shots are those of an amateur, the acting for most part is wooden, (Fox in particular acts like a Pinochio puppet with all the emotional charisma of clotted cream ) De Caprio is perhaps the only sparkle in this drab, very drab affair. The script is laughable and the repeated shots of the worst Kensington Gore I have ever seen being thrown up walls is quite truthfully childish. As for the end shots , surely a candidate for the raspberry awards. Sorry, if this thing had been made by anyone other than this director then audiences, even American ones, would have given it the thumbs down. But I guess all will hail this masterpiece of garbage and not see it for what it is. A poorly made piece of amateur stuff whose plot just doesn't hold up, made by actors who at times look embarrassed to be there, shame they were really.
The word that best describes this movie is "unpleasant." I know Tarantino crafted the film to impart the horrible nature of the subject matter. It works in that regard. Still, it's unpleasant from start to finish and in a drawn out and poor fashion.Part of Tarantino's charm is that his often juvenile sensibilities shine through in all his work no matter the subject matter. His work is usually entertaining and crisp first and foremost. Here, what's delivered is neither. There's his trademark bloody, cartoonish violence but none of it feels rewarding or is even captivating to be honest. The unpleasant message is hammered home time and again but with no charm. I certainly wasn't expecting a feel good film or a Charles Bronson revenge flick but I was expecting to connect with a character or two and was expecting more of a thrill ride. I found nothing of the sort in this film. What I did find is an almost three hour film that feels like five. I guess that's part of the creative decision but he seemed to sacrifice all entertainment value for a chance to drive home his white guy guilt angle. What results is a simplistic and poorly written plot with one dimensional stereotype characters drudging through as unpleasant of a story as possible.That's a tough way to spend three hours at the cinema.


                
A new Tarantino movie, sounds great! Sorry people, where do all the good reviews come from??I see the point, this movie is also created to make a point of how wrong racism was, and this is the good thing about this movie. But unfortunately the actions of the people were in my view totally unrealistic, Django and his friend are the good and ethically perfect and pretty much all other characters are evil people, as evil as it gets. I know Hollywood movies like the good and the bad thing, but for me if this is all there is, and a bit of shooting around it is not enough...The worst thing is the "handshake moment". OMG...At some point whole thing got all too predictable and boring. For me the movie is a big waste of time.


                
After Django Unchained it became clear that Quentin Tarantino has been on his way to make movies in every genre he liked while working in the video rental in his early days. Just think of this sequence: Kill Bill, Death Proof, Inglorious Basterds, Django Unchained.Anyhow, the photography has been wonderful again, the colors warm and the actors dressed smart. The script is Tarantino's ego tripping and leading nowhere, but there have been enough splatter scenes to keep the audience amused. Christopher Waltz has been great again, the rest of the cast less so.And there we reach the same old mystery surrounding Tarantino's work. An army of connoisseurs tried to explain the higher plane of his output. In the case of Django Unchained, the message is supposedly anti-racist and elevated to the level of some ultimate anti-slavery pamphlet. Strange, since from his interviews i understood that Quentin Tarantino has been a movie buff and has been making movies that he himself would like to watch. I haven't been able to detect any higher meaning there...


                
This movie is horrendous. I have been a long time fan of Tarantino films, but... this one just plain blows. Being a huge fan of western movies, I thought this should be great! Wrong. The plot started to pique my interest,but soon went over the top and became quite ridiculous. The music score was absolutely a train wreck, quickly changing from rap to some horrible Elvis 70's clone song. I also didn't like the insinuation that all white people were evil slave holders and Jamie Foxx was the black superhero avenging slaves by killing every white person he came across. Again, it's OK to hate Caucasian folks, but anything else is racist. The ONLY good thing about this movie, was Tarantino's use of "Two mules for sister Sarah", a song from an old Eastwood western. OK, that's it- I've wasted enough time on this garbage of a movie.


                
Before I talk about this god awful movie let me give you a little history. I was contemplating whether or not to see django unchained, or gangster squad since Im a fan of both western and mobster movies. I liked westerns more so I went to see django unchained, and after this movie I was left with a frown on my face. This movie is nothing to me but a cheap brand of cow manure, I have no idea why everyone said this movie was good. Okay let me name the flaws 1 this movie says, it takes place two years before the civil war and they are using winchester, and colt guns that weren't developed until the second year of the war. 2 this movie is nothing more then a dumbass in distress movie LAME. 3 its just a bunch of racist jokes and satire humor thats not funny. 4 django is not an interesting character he barely does anything all he does is travel around being the bounty hunters sidekick, he doesn't do anything really interesting until the last 3rd of the movie. 5 this is a Tarantino film and he has a lot of cool action scenes in his movies like pulp fiction, and inglorious bastards, in this film you have 2 count them with me 2 action scenes in this movie. The only characters I remember finding interesting were the bounty hunter, played by Christoph Waltz and the henchman played by Samuel L Jackson, they are interesting but they aren't enough to save the movie. If you guys liked this movie good for you, but me this movie felt like it was trying to be a western but failed in my opinion I give this movie a 2 and hope that people notice my words in this critique.


                
I was looking forward to this movie and even more after I learned that Christoph Waltz, who impressed me in Inglorious bastards is playing here as well. The idea of the movie was ... interesting, director did a great job, Christoph Waltz was again flawless and Quentin Tarantino did again very good job at taking only inspiration from the original and not just copy it (which I value highly in these times when big percentage of Hollywood movies are just copies). So... why only 6/10? I know that black had it hard in times of slavery. Everyone does (at least I hope everyone does). So why I have to watch testament to it in action movie? The movie would be great if it didn't waste one hour on this topic. This way it was just long and I was yawing from the middle.


                
The whole movie was a parade of questionable scenes. Was Tarantino shooting for a gory inside eye to slavery? If so, it turned out looking and sounding a lot like a zombie movie with the blood and guts splattered across the screen. I do have to admit, the "chemistry" between Dr. King Shultz (Christoph Waltz) and Django (Jamie Lee Foxx) was intriguing and entertaining with a handful of perfect humor. But I knew from the opening credits that this movie would be controversial and confusing at the same time. Though there were realistic aspects of slavery such as masks and whipping and on towards even more gruesome aspects. In all honesty it was entertaining at some points but to be quite blunt, it was insensitive and unnecessarily gory movie. Overall I would suggest to NOT see this movie.
This idea : pulling a black man off from slavery condition to become a Western hero seemed rather smart.Unfortunately Tarentino had been really lazy on this one.Here is "Django", our hero supposed to free himself from the yoke of human-object condition, shot out there, as a comic-opera cowboy with Hollywood sunglasses, provided with immediate horseman and sharpshooter talents persuaded by this good Doctor Schultz, without no plausible reason to play a merciless black slave driver. Django free from his slavery condition seems to be Dr Schultz puppet : the last straw! USA history is replete with inspiring black heroes examples able to give a better inspiration.A clumsy sentimental story mixed with the duo-cliché : immoral ferocity give the right for savage revenge supposed to relieve our conscience from the past. We have the feeling that Tarentino use this guilty conscience by creating this soulless hero. What was the main accusation against slavery if not admit these people has their own soul?Some tacit rules had been set by Italian Western revolution. A subtle mix between drama and strong acid humor, at least one epic scene, a characters association about an unequivocally and strictly material goal. In this "Django Unchained", of course humor is present but in a very Monthy Phyton's way that cuts all kind of tension effect. What is supposed to be dramatic is not in as much as these violent scenes are directly inspired by "Hitchy & Scratchy" a self-proclaimed parody. The characters association ? A bounty hunter ready to risk his own life (plus his money) to get join two lovebirds, ...come on!Remains the excellent Christoph Waltz, his mannerism, his diction have a true impact contrasting in the middle of this environment. Leornardo Di Caprio plays both with refinement and amplitude a real first class bad man. Dialogues between these two composers are the most delicious moments in this movie unfortunately underused and quickly interrupted. Once these two sacrificed, we yet know the end and no more than half an hour of movie remains.So half an hour I passed picking up paps around. This nth blockbuster discount scene where our hero make the bad man's house blowing up and where he stands here without even loose his hat. They really have to find anything else to wake us up. Our hero doing some style figure from riding school, <U+0085> this... a Western?This recycling in Tarentino's movies is not too surprising but concerning the soundtrack, we are far from a remake of the original, so isn't it too obviously easy to take back tracks from Corbucci's original "Django" ? The "buttonhole flower bleeding" took back from "Il Mercenario" from the same Corbucci from who Tarentino took back the same soundtrack for "Kill Bill".More than a tribute this is pillaging.May be I loved too much Tarantino's "Pulp fiction" and "Jackie Brown" and too much Italian Westerns too. May be was I too much excited to see a good mix of this.
I am a huge fan of QT. Since "Kill bill" a movie I believe is the best action movie ever made. After that movie I think QT has lost much for his talent on movies that does not lives up to Kill Bill.To me Django is a movie with Franco Nero a silent cowboy that comes and cleans up.So after been watching 10 min of Django Unchained you say to you self "What the hell is this" where the story starts in the south where a slave is set free!, WTF!.So Quintin Tarrantino WHAT IN THE HELL HAVE U DONE TO DJANGO. ?? I am very disappointed


                
