I am a hardcore Tarantino fan and I must say I had great expectations for this movie. I can now honestly say that in my opinion Django Unchained is Tarantino's worst film to this day. Lets start with the first major flaw. The soundtrack. Usually Tarantino has great taste for his soundtracks and on most of his movies (pulp fiction, reservoir dogs, kill bill) it actually is a fundamental part and complements the film. On Django it seems that Mr. Tarantino got Lil Wayne to choose some of the tracks. Hip Hop in a western?? Completely ruined the movie for me. Second, the length of the movie is ridiculously long... Almost 3 hours. Usually films of such lengths have intricate plot lines and/or are made to tell an exceptionally long story. Not in this case. The movie could have easily been 100 minutes long. If it wasn't for the excessive and unnecessary dialogues, the useless KKK scene, the first 45 minutes of the movie which have almost nothing to do with the main plot line. The last 30 minutes of bloodshed serve to no use and I guess is just a fetish of the director. Mr. Tarantino seems to lose the sense of time and you can never tell where his ego ends and the plot begins.Third, bad acting. Jamie Foxx is impalpable. Besides a few punch lines and some dramatic moments Foxx doesn't portray the slave from the pre-civil war era but mostly comes off as a thug from the hood. Di Caprio is too pretty-faced to seriously be the villain in this movie and if it wasn't for the horrors happening around the character (Candie) you could hardly tell he's the bad guy. Waltz and Jackson on the other hand with their excellent performances keep this movie together. I was really hoping Tarantino, with such an all-star cast, could have pulled off a both socially relevant and at the same time entertaining film, but again I was mistaken.
One thing that you can always guarantee with a Tarantino film is hype. The film will often be a financial success before it's even been made, ending up as the usual bloodbath featuring naughty language. This time out, with 'Django Unchained', Tarantino takes his hand to the Spaghetti Western, using his usual brand of cinematic homage and borrowing.Now, as you may have guessed, I'm not much of a Tarantino fan. There's something about his films, and the man himself, that just irritates me. While his films are generally entertaining gibberish, I've always been left a little annoyed by them. I did enjoy 'Pulp Fiction' and Inglorious Basterds', but on the whole, his films just don't really do it for me.As with 'Inglorious Basterds' before it, 'Django Unchained' was always going to come amid a wave a controversy. This time Jewish revenge against the Nazis is replaced African-American revenge against their white slave owners. With the main talking point about the film creating enough 'controversial' publicity, let's get on to talk about the film itself.Plot-wise, 'Django Unchained' is quite simplistic: a freed slave sets about on a journey for revenge and to find his wife. Freed by and partnering a German bounty hunter, he travels across America, often finding himself unwelcome due to the colour of his skin and/or his freeman status. Close to their goal, the pair's plotting and deceiving is soon unearthed and an inevitable bloodbath ensues.At close to three hours in length, watching this is like overtaking a National Express coach (not my words). Large amounts of the film are filled with long stretches of dialogue and storytelling, particularly by Christopher Waltz and Leonardo DiCaprio. While both are good in their respective roles, they do feel designed to dominate scenes, with a 'remember how much you liked Waltz's monologues in 'Inglorious Basterds'?' feel to them. There are also drawn out moments to facilitate a piece of music that have little purpose beyond aesthetics.There's a bit too much self-indulgence on display here. The overuse of special effects in shootouts goes a bit too far, being neither frightening nor comic. The script – that a decade younger Spike Lee would have had a lot to say about – is full of parables and monologues, many of which are unnecessary.This is all at the cost of creativity. While much of what has appeared in his previous films are ideas taken from other, lesser known works, there is still a sense that he is trying to add something to them and make them his own. But with 'Django Unchained' it seems that a long- winded script, overly-comical gunplay and a controversial subject matter are the draws, with none really enough to make me want to sit for 165 minutes, especially when it started with Villa 2-1 up against QPR and I had to wait a good three hours to learn of the final score.politic1983.blogspot.com
I should start off by saying that I love Tarantino. I should also mention that I went into this movie wanting to love it. But even with my pro-Tarantino bias, I only found a handful of scenes and characters the least bit interesting.The main problem with it is the cheap humor and reliance on vengeance to have the viewer connect with the story. It's some new (unfortunate) genre of slapstick-ultra-violence. The laughs are awkwardly placed into a mostly serious and action-packed narrative (and I use the description "laughs" loosely). Combining laughable moments in a serious scene, even a bloody scene, is one of Tarantino's strengths ( think "Oh man, I just shot Marvin in the face." -Pulp Fiction), but the attempts at humor in Django are childish and silly (a clansman going home because no one values his wife's KKK masks, wt-f?). They border on Wayans Brothers' type humor (not a compliment).My second point: The reliance on vengeance to keep the audience interested is, unfortunately, the foundation of this film. It's almost as if a group of frat boys got together and brainstormed on how to stick it to racism. "How about the racist dudes get shot in the balls?!" "Yeah! F*#k racism!" And, again, this is territory that Tarantino has covered brilliantly before (anti-Nazi sentiment throughout Inglorious Basterds) so he should be able to pull it off. But unlike Eli Roth smashing in the skull of an SS officer with a bat, Django's bloody scenes are pointless Van Damme-style shootouts that appeal to only the most base emotions.Maybe the difference in the successful examples from previous movies and those of Django are the two-dimensional nature of the main characters in this movie. Django, doesn't change very much from the beginning of the film to the end. And I don't just mean emotionally...for some reason, he's already a pretty good shot when he first picks up a gun? Django's character is more about the surface-level bad@*# imagery than, say, Vincet Vega, who is a bad@*#, but who is capable of emotions and character development within his role as a bad@*#. Django is just a cardboard cutout of a character with black sunglasses and a six-shooter.I guess I should mention the good parts of the movie too: Samuel L. Jackson's performance is great. His character has some of those attempts at cheap laughs, but the quality of his acting and the believability of the character make you forget about the cheesy moments. I also thought the scene where Dr. Schultz lets Django choose his own outfit was honest and believable, not to mention one of the more clever moments.I know I'm in the minority, but I was greatly disappointed and would not recommend seeing it in theaters.


                
Just for a moment imagine this movie being made by an unknown director. It would be savaged by the critics for its low quality, insulting story and lackluster performances. I don't know what this movie was supposed to be. The apparent possibilities are: Spaghetti western, Blaxploitation film, Gore fest, spoof,.... In the end it was some of all. But the acting, except for the good Dr. Schultz, is miserable. Everyone is a caricature. If I was black, I'd be offended. Foxx doesn't act, he just looks mean. The settings are all wrong....I mean snow-capped peaks in the South? The firearms are not period correct. You can even see the Italian proof marks on them. No effort was made to put together anything other than a 3 hour endurance test for your bladder. It's cheesy. It's lame. It is predictable. Think of this as a mediocre pizza. It looks like fun. It has lots of colors. I even looks like it is consumable. But in the end it is just another rotten pizza.Yes, I understand, the director or producer of this knows that everything is wrong. I guess that is part of its so-called charm. But don't call this great cinema.


                
Is it possible to dislike anything made by Tarantino these days? YES. And he even makes it real easy for us. While Tarantino's talent is still clearly visible, he seems to have gotten too famous, and too arrogant for his own good. It seem like there really isn't anyone in his entourage (anymore?) that tells him he's going too far.Both Django and his previous film Inglourious Basterds are supposedly "revenge fantasies". Bad periods in history revisited in such way that this time the 'good guys' win. In Inglorious Basterds World War II is being revisited into an entirely different outcome (didn't we already win in the original? Yes, but this time it's even quicker, and more graphic!). And in Django Unchained the slave goes after the owner.It's like the fantasies of a 12yr old, where the little kid beats up the bully for a change. It's nice to dream about (when you're 12), but way too simplistic for an actual movie. Predictable and aiming for a quick burst of satisfaction. It's like cooking a three star dinner, and making it liquid for easy digestion.And to make manners worse, it's soooo looong! Pretentiously slow, unnecessary spread out and completely over the top. Which can be good (Grindhouse was over the top great), but here the film is simply taking itself way too serious. It's arrogantly staring the audience in the face, grinning: "I'm made by Tarantino, suck on me!"Maybe his stature has become his problem. Remaking a B-film into a big movie only works with the lightheartedness of the B-film industry. it won't work with giant expectations and supersized egos like Tarantino's anymore. We all know he's talented, but it's been so long since we last saw that...


                
Another disappointment from Tarantino. A juvenile, self-indulgent and boring movie from a video rental clerk that repeats the same gimmicks as all the previous movies since Jackie Brown, his masterpiece. Pointless music, pointless violence, pointless humor and a pointless story. A western blood-fest with a hip-hop soundtrack made to look like a black power movie, please.Still hoping that Tarantino would group up and become the great film maker that he was becoming with his first three movies. Now he just makes pointless and violent genre bending movies with no ambition. The movies have become his persona playground with no artistic vision or ambition.


                
I was looking forward to a great western including what I presumed would be a deservedly negative portrayal of slavery. There was a clue right in the beginning of the sickness that would come to dominate the film, but it takes a while to realize where you are being taken. So the clue: Advice from our hero to some freed slaves that they should murder their subdued captors, said with a smile.The movie continues with a sense of joy and happiness in sadistically killing people. Two bounty hunters head off initially killing wanted men (criminals), but then it branches off into killing white southerners. When Django (one of the bounty hunters) is asked what he thinks of their task, he responds "killing white people and getting paid too, what's not to like." In the same way, perhaps early Nazis got a piece of paper from a superior authorizing them to round up men, women, and children, and have a great time killing them, this movie develops that strange sense of moral "okay" because it is written on a piece of paper. So, for example, because a warrant says dead or alive, the bounty hunters take this to mean that having-a-blast killing has now been authorized. So, instead of easily arresting a criminal, you shoot them, put them in pain, and then before a crowd, and with a smile, kill them dead.In another great scene, as the movie slips further into its killing spree, a wanted man is plowing a field with the help of his son. So from a distance, they shoot him and listen to the horrified son say, "Oh, dad." You would think that this is somehow setting up for making a deep statement about slavery. Well, no. Our bounty hunters (one white, one former slave) eventually decide to rescue the former slave's wife. Why not just go get the wife? It seems they want a properly documented sale. Back to this notion that be it a warrant or a bill of sale, these pieces of paper are all controlling. An interesting point, but it gets lost in all the joyous killing.One last example: Django asks a couple of female slaves to say goodbye to a southern bell, and then shoots her (along with all the other whites). I guess he was worried she might curse at him---how can Django been seen as anything other than a murdered? I had hoped for some sense of morality, of review of slavery, of a fantasy of righting some wrongs. However, the movie just wants to have fun murdering and with different reasons, setting up people to be casually executed.It is worth noting that it was Abraham Lincoln, having witnessing the horror of all the killing, wished to purge slavery and heal the nation. The north did not send out squads to murder the southern white population in joyous revenge.I object to presenting a movie that carries with it the message that given some basis of moral authority, you are then free to enjoy and needlessly murder to your heart's content.
I have to say that it's the love people brought for the creative talent in to this film that has won the day...not the film itself. People have passion and apparently blinders on for Quentin Tarantino, Leonardo Dicaprio, Jamie Foxx, and Christoph Waltz working together. It is the ONLY reason this tedious and poorly crafted movie is rated high at any site. It's blind love and certainly not justified in this case because the movie itself is terrible and one dimensional. I've read proper reviews that call Django Unchained a most unpleasant experience on par with the mindless horror films others rightfully dismiss. That fits and it certainly doesn't quality as entertaining or high quality. I have no problem with violence or the subject matter. I have a problem with bad writing and poor pace.Anyone rating this higher than a 6/10 really has the blinders on.


                
Tarantino at his most epic (as said by some) defeats for me the whole point. Overlong and sloppily put together, the film mainly suffers from Tarantino's specific philosophy, or lack of one. He is a writer first, writes frothy scenes of some tension but never pays mind to the submerged undercurrents of soul, the actual life that give rise to the tension, and then separately pulls visual skin from several places to dress his short sketches, films, music, cool tidbits of pop culture. At its best, this can create a narrative energy that carries you along, it's infectious in short spurts. This time, he has delivered the sketches in the form of the western he has long threatened to make, in this case Italian. I have seen most of the spaghetti westerns he takes from, probably all. These differed from their American counterparts in a key way—the stories were not about a clean sweep of destiny from one coast to the other, because Italians wouldn't know Kansas City from Santa Fe, which liberated them to do a sort of abstract comic opera of the West. Films like Django were all about the visual sketch and archetype, entirely about the image of the man dragging the coffin. The sensibility goes back to centuries of comedia dell'arte, an appreciation for mannered masked life, episodic gaffe and irony, countered in the films with the rustic simplicity of the western. Being a writer first, few of Tarantino's episodes are visually thought out, the effect is nothing like Good Bad Ugly or Grand Silencio, where wry humor or absurd violence is chiseled to rise out of silence with the cicadas. In tandem with this is my main complaint. By all means, have the frothy patter, it's Tarantino's staple and one he is good at. But he is simply unable to visually integrate his wordplay with images, just can't do it, probably he doesn't even think it is an issue, or it's how movies work. In the film, you have individual scenes anchored on the spot in some kind of bartering going on, and wholly separate visual interludes, usually a montage of cool music video shots played over to music of his choosing. These are entirely independent of anything, sloppily slathered from the outside; blood spraying on cotton, slow-motion riding and shooting. It's such a sloppy way to make a film, sloppy like the man we see in interviews. There is not a single image here I will carry with me. Which wastes Waltz and Jackson putting on an excellent show, and to a lesser extent Foxx.And of course, all filmmakers reach out and borrow, Tarantino's problem is that he borrows fashions and what is incidentally attached to it, never the inner logic, the notion of life a certain way that on the outer level is the image we see. Let me illustrate this in the film. Django being a slave, in order to freely go about in the slaveholding South he has to be in disguise, Dr. Schultz tells him to pick out his costume and character. The rough-hewn ex-slave picks a frilly Little Lord Fauntleroy costume, and we get the silly image of him on horseback.How about instead of Fauntleroy for a quick snicker, Don Quixote? And borrow with the costume the logic of self-deception, and patiently mold and weave this through the film. Foxx in his pointy beard, and sculpted intense face does look the part, a black Quixote on heroic adventure. Schultz as his Pancha, an educated Pancha who 'writes' him into the story. I'm just throwing ideas. Instead of simple scattershot amusement, something that more deeply involves. And take this in a million directions. And visually distort truth, and fool with Southern chivalry and have us question the heroism. How about a Broomhilda as Dulcinea who doesn't know anything about him, but goes along because it means freedom? How about this as love, meeting someone that sets you free?I'm not saying this will be deep because in itself the theme is something, or it references a respectable work. It can be deep, in the sense that you more deeply involve more of us in the viewing. Tarantino has grown, but only the size of his canvas—a small view stretched to epic length.


                
Quentin Tarantino was trying hard to remake Inglorious Bastards of the slavery era and it was just horribly obvious. This isn't so much cashing in but more about QT and his incredible ego. He has made a name for himself and sometimes he deserves it. Not this time though. He isn't nearly as creative as he thinks he is. It's worth seeing but I wouldn't pay top dollar. Just wait for Redbox or Netflix. The acting was outstanding in many parts and the script was true Tarantino. I just wish he hadn't made such a mirror-image of Inglorious Bastards. This ended up being an offensive and weirdly racist movie with so much of the history of slavery being completely made-up and absurd. That technique worked once with Inglorious Bastards but is just tiresome seeing it again.


                
Apparently it is sacrilegious to have a bad opinion about Tarantino movies. But Im gonna disturb the status quo and say that this time Tarantino got it wrong. Not cool. I love most of Tarantino, and this movie started actually OK, if somewhat incredulous, until they got to Mr. Candie, when it took a turn for the worse. I accepted a lot loose ends, such as how come from a slave that wasn't allowed anything even to ride on a horse, he was suddenly good at riding a horse and shooting like John Wayne? Or what was happening to the bodies they were accumulating? Or how come Mr Schults was so damn sure about everybody's course of actions as to enable him to be so cocky? And how come James Remar gets killed at the beginning then gets to be another character later on, this wasn't a comedy sketch? Or how come the black women in Mr Candies establishment Cleopatra club were all wining, dining and dressed and behaving like white ladies if they were slaves and therefore beneath them? But when Mr Candie appeared, it just took the biscuit, I thought Caprio was so miscast in the role, his southern accent was absolutely horrendous to my ears (Im no expert) and he looked so uncomfortable in them period clothes. He wasn't at all menacing, which I thought he was supposed to be, not even when he threw a bit*h fit at the dinner table. I admit I found it so boring that after the part Django surrendered, I just skimmed through till the end, but enough to see a Tarantino putting on an, what it seemed, English accent or something? He looked and sounded ridiculous! Another ridiculous sight was Django, now a free man, choosing his own clothes, ending up choosing to look like a buffoon in bright blue. Damn funny that was! Same for Samuel Jackson in that role of the demented, dunno, administrator? He was so annoying and may I dare, ugly as hell. I didn't mind the N word or the violence and brutality, after all this was expected in a movie about slaves. The part where it didn't make much sense to me was buying Django's wife. If they were prepared to pay top dollar for her, why didn't they just offer Candie top dollar for her instead of putting up all that farce about buying a wrestler? And why were Candie and Jackson ticked off about it, since there were merely doing business? But if they did that we wouldn't have had the pleasure of seeing all that guts and brains spilled all over Candie's sister lovely hallway, now would we! I have now become convinced that Tarantino loves violence and brutality in general, but particularly against women, and since he cannot act on it, putting it in his movies seems the best choice. I would not say don't see it, save your time, etc, but Im sure you wont enjoy it a fraction as much as other of his movies, this one is very inferior.
Last week I managed to watch Django Unchained and I have to say that I am a little disappointed about what on the screen happened. I expected an outstanding movie which presents well done dialogs, awesome screenplay and compelling atmosphere.In my opinion none of the points above were fulfilled. This was Tarantinos worst done movie. Just too cheesy and low for being nominated for an academy award. Compared to the previous movies, Django Unchained is a boring nearly 3 hour torture. Everybody in my environment is keen about Django, but I can not understand why. Hopefully Kill Bill 3 will be better than Django Unchained! Sorry Django, 4/10


                
Great start, Tarantino is a favorite of mine but this goes on, and on, and round in circles, and on... and I thought it would never get to the point, or end. Not tight, too much corn-pone corny dialog, was hoping they'd shoot the bitch and get it over with. Don't know why it won anything, a famous director wallowing in his own cleverness.More specifically, the film is not tight, like I expect from Tarantino. Why spend hours in tense dialog and repetitive situations when you can just get to the point. And the endless tension of "ooh he might kill or do something nasty to the black person" gets boring, and it's to easy. And for once his musical interludes just annoy me and sometimes seem totally inappropriate.Watch the start, leave early and miss the last two or so hours.
...because you've lost it. Maybe you've lost the clarity of vision, or perhaps your taste compass is spinning waywardly, leaving you adrift in the doldrums of worn-out pop culture. Dude, if you were out to make a spaghetti western vengeance film - a) you made it too long and the pacing was off, and b) you all but ruined it with your "cool" soundtrack.Yes, the movie has merits - eye catching cinematography, a few funny lines, etc. But I'm sure you can find others gushing over this stuff elsewhere. I just want to discuss why this movie was made and what's in it for the audience.Was this a "serious", "high art" film? No. Though Tarantino has been preoccupied with race relations for a long time now, he misses a chance to make any real headway with these themes. The most he has going here is in the way he stocked the film with "collaborators" - slaves who have milked their positions of relative power for all they're worth, achieving some sort of status while oppressing their fellow slaves. The depth this is explored to is questionable and open to various interpretations, but frankly becomes kind of hard to swallow when juxtaposed with the glossy, saturated portrayal of southern high society. So yeah, money and power attracts scummers...yay, we get it! Hardly a poignant, nuanced observation there, though.If Tarantino was not going for highbrow, he must have been trying to entertain us. Which he could have easily done if he DIDN'T MAKE THE MOVIE THREE HOURS LONG. He could have easily shaved fifteen minutes off the film if he chilled out with the slow-motion. Yes, it's tempting, I know - those top-grossing Hollywood actors just look so darn COOL strutting around in their snazzy costumes, and it's hard not to throw a glamor shot in there every, oh...five minutes or so. A few unnecessary scenes could have been cut. This is an action revenge western, after all! Pacing!! (Which, by the way, really suffers in the anticlimactic final quarter.)However, the biggest flaw in the film was the music. A hodge-podge of modern, hip genres works well in movies that depict the modern world, with its multitude of sound sources and stylistic variety. An oldie comes on the car radio and swells across the frequencies until it is in its full-spectrum glory. The camera enters the club, and what was at first a low rhythmic rumble becomes a full-blast techno number as the lead character resolutely shoves his way past sweaty people shaking their assets.None of that needs to be present in a western, yet Tarantino seems not to have budged an inch from his now-formulaic treatment of soundtrack. Which is the most frustrating aspect of this film - everyone knows Tarantino is an obsessive movie nerd, so one would assume he's seen not just the Leone films, not just the American genre classics of the 60s and 70s, and not just all the famous Djangos – but pretty much every Italian (and non-Italian) western of any interest to anyone whatsoever. If so, he should know that the soundtrack is integral to the atmosphere - but the atmosphere itself is sparse and austere like the landscapes, punctuated mostly by silence. The Morricone soundtracks of old, with their hairy surf guitars and weird rattling noises, are what the genre knows and likes. (A comparatively recent example of this done right is Neil Young's hair-raising work on Dead Man.) But Tarantino chose to populate his film with rap fight songs, lyrical pop, and funky overproduced incidental music that belongs more in a hip heist flick where everyone wears clothes costing half your yearly salary - in other words, music that he thinks is "cool". Which is ultimately the overarching problem with this entire film - the excessive worship of "cool". Many people will harp on the ultra-violent gun splatterings, the exploitation of slavery imagery, and the glamorization of vengeance. But that didn't bother me half as much (or, to be honest, at all) as the lounge scene in the Candyland mansion, with the hip (slave) bartender, fancy clothes, beautiful women, and the ever-present slow motion. If Tarantino truly wanted to make an homage to his favorite ultra-violent spaghetti Westerns, why not actually follow the formula? Sure, he gets the close-up faces right - but by introducing a distracting soundtrack, he completely cuts the ambient tension, which is the only point of showing these people's faces up close in the first place. And don't even get me started on the homage and obscure reference stuff - WAY over the heads of most people, and worst of all, done at the expense of pacing. It's as if, instead saying, "I want it to be like this" or "this belongs here", he asks himself, "how cool would it be if...?"In short, this is an honest attempt at a genre film made by someone who cannot see a foot past his own ego, even though he suffers tremendously from a variety of doubts and insecurities. You can see fragments of a thousand different westerns reflected here, but none of them add up to anything. You won't miss much if you avoid this one.


                
Displaying the same disturbed imagination of a twelve year old that has made him the darling of hipster film watchers Quentin Tarantino's Django is filled with all the predictable heavy handed juvenility one has come to expect from the "vaunted" writer director. It is his typical mix of gratuitous violence and sadism, hints of humor and a script sprinkled, no plastered with his two favorite spicy words. Marinated with heavy hand and pretension it is a slow go from the outset buoyed along by intervals of explosions and gun play to keep you awake for it's nearly three hour run.Bounty hunter/dentist King Schultz (Chris Waltz) buys ( in a very violent fashion naturally) slave Django (Jaime Foxx) from some surly traders and sets out to train him as an assistant in the bounty trade. It becomes a lucrative partnership for the pair but Django yearns for the return of his wife Brunhilde (a subtle Wagnerian touch by QT) and a strong desire to shoot surly unkempt Southerners. Arriving at the plantation of Calvin Candy (aptly called Candyland) in Mississippi he finds her and they try to create a ruse to win her release. House slave Stephen (Sam Jackson) however suspects something is up and it leads to the same blue print mayhem to be found in Tarantino's films, in this case a Kill Bill rehash with lead instead of swords.As Django, Foxx mopes and Eastwood's most of the way while the rest of the cast overacts ferociously, particularly in scenes between Candy and Stephen. The rest of the cast is relegated to being as unctuous as possible with pull cords reciting the same two words.For Tarantino fans it will probably not disappoint with its lusty bloodletting, tough talk and folks getting blown up. But with little to add to a canon of work fraught with heavy handed self indulgence it remains another one of his coloring book fantasies with dirty words and buckets of blood. The only difference is his cartoon characters have changed costumes and time traveled to other lands. Everything else is the same. It is another one of his big budget B movies.


                
I had hopes for this movie, and maybe that was my mistake. So many lists listed this film as being good, but that's a sham. It is entertaining on the surface, but anything deeper than a general surface look at the film and you'll be destroyed by it's unfulfilled potential.This movie couldn't care less about historical accuracy, and I am not sure I even saw 1 weapon used the entire film that had been in use at the time the film is supposed to have taken place, let alone have them in such quantities. The laziness of the screen writing is evident throughout - and to think this piece of literary garbage won best original screen play probably says more about the academy awards than it does about the film. The idea that a man brought up in slavery could pick up a rifle (a model not available for another 20 years) and hit a moving target on horseback from a distance with his first try is laughable, but is consistent the fact he also has perfect aim when first practicing his drawing a six shooter. It's explained away with the line "he's got talent". Nearly every white character in the movie dies. The excessive amount of blood and gore are only outdone by the Hollywood style lack of aim for anyone firing at the protagonist. Guns that were shoot through multiple bodies just seconds before (or moments after) cannot penetrate one if Django is behind it. Not to mention that the only guy the idiots at the door can hit, is the poor white guy wounded on the ground 2 feet in front of them (though they do pepper some poor guys corpse a few dozen times, while Django is using it for cover, but isn't really behind it at all). So, after ranting a bit, if you're looking for a senseless, bloody mess without much deep plot, this is your kind of movie. But, if you want to see a movie that at least attempts to be believable (and even the most fantastic Super Hero movie is more believable), then pass on this one and look for something else.
The story and the acting were good but the implementation could have been better. The main character is nothing more than a black Clint Eastwood, so in that respect it's kind of a rip-off of his spaghetti westerns. The musical score is terrible. It doesn't come close to matching the era or the scenes themselves. Gunfights are very graphic and most will find them over the top. It's not something I'd put in my collection, neither is it something that is good for repeated viewing. Everyone seems to give it rave reviews but I think it's because they are just Tarantino movie fans and are letting his reputation feed into their opinion.


                
I am not a Quentin Tarantino fan. I am not a Jamie Foxx fan. Christoph Waltz gives me the creeps. All of the pre-film cons aside, I still didn't like it. It was actually not bad for Tarantino, not too gritty and over-the-top. Jamie Foxx was not ridiculously over-acting for once, and you actually get used to him after a little while. Christoph Waltz played a really good guys and you end up rooting for him till the end. I still didn't like it. I can't say exactly what it was. The story too far-fetched, or maybe too much just rubbing me the wrong way. I think parts of it may have been played to casual and others too dramatic. I watched it, and I am not disappointed because I expected to hate it. I just dislike it. Leonardo DiCaprio, stellar performance as always, even as the bad guy, and thanks Tarantino for blowing yourself up, I could watch that scene again and again!
Since Inglourious Basterds Tarantino's style has evolved and as a Tarantino fan, I am not very much glad about that. Unfortunately, Django doesn't feel like it is an old fashioned, classic Western in Tarantino style! It is rather an anti Western or a postmodern Western. I have not any problem with this directly, but for example by watching Kill Bill, you can get the taste of 80's karate or kung-fu movies, vigilante movies, by watching his friend, Robert Rodriguez's film Planet Terror, you can get the taste of horror B movies, exploitation movies etc. but you can't get the taste of spaghetti Westerns or old fashioned Westerns by watching Django unfortunately. One of the biggest problems of the movie is it doesn't take itself seriously, in other words, Tarantino doesn't take his movie seriously. The first half of the movie is pretty good, interesting, entertaining considering some little flaws, but especially the second half, the movie loses his appeal and becomes dull and even uninteresting at times. Before that, I want to mention that I couldn't buy the character Django itself. A slave who suddenly becomes a cool cowboy didn't work for me (in contrast with The Bride in Kill Bill) At the same time, I didn't think that Jamie Foxx added anything special to the character or to the film and as a cast choice, he was pretty bad. He was plain and simple without any spark like the movie itself. He couldn't an unforgettable figure in the movie and can't be even likable. Christopher Waltz was again the star of the movie, he steals the show from everybody, he was just great and he deserved that Oscar! I am sorry, but without him, the movie would have been almost unbearable for me. Di Caprio simply adds color to the movie without being a cartoonish villain. No word for Samuel L. Jackson. He is like a bulldozer in terms of acting! The movie was overly humorous at times like Basterds and I don't like that. Pulp Fiction, Reservoir Dogs, Jackie Brown and even Kill Bill were serious movies even if it has a certain amount of humor or funny moments. For example, in a scene Django wears a dress (it was blue as I remember) and as if it is made for laughs! In another scene, there is a "mask" argument and it is like you watch a Western parody! All those harm the movie little by little. With some postmodern touches and tricks like putting modern day songs into his movie, again, Tarantino tries to be different and the most important to surprise his audiences, to amaze his audiences, but if you ask me he fails. Instead of taking old classic elements and turning those into something modern in his hands like he did in Kill Bill, in this movie, he did something different which I would define as "anti". Also as said, the humor harms the seriousness of his movie. In the second half, when Di Caprio gets on the stage, unfortunately, the movie doesn't get better, just the opposite, it becomes uninterested and less exciting in comparison with the long first half. When they go to Calvin Candle's place (Di Caprio), somehow the movie lost its spark and also became less entertaining. May be it is because no "Western" anymore in the second half, instead a drama with lots of conversations and payoff! As said, Django is not a pure Western or a modernized Western, it is more like an anti Western or post modern Western. Welcome this "a breath of fresh air" choice, but in the end, it isn't a great, brilliant or that impressive film. Also I couldn't get that cinema feeling that other Tarantino movies have in this movie, especially in the second half. The another big problem of the movie was sudden, exaggerating and out of place violence scenes. After a slow paced drama, suddenly, the movie turns into an extremely bloody action movie. The blood effects were looking like red paint or a kind of superficial liquid which killed my suspension of disbelief totally. This is exciting! but also very superficial, exaggerating and out of place! I had expected some realistic, old fashioned but Tarantino style action, but couldn't find it. There is not any built up tension, no character conflict, no suspense etc. I can't say that Django was a solid or subtle film. The story editing of the film was problematic either. The movie starts like a revenge movie, but couldn't fulfill that, then it becomes a road movie for a short time, but it couldn't fulfill that either. Then, it becomes a drama, later suddenly action and it goes on. Also, the last one or two minutes of the film seemed me uninviting or subfusc. Django Unchained is Tarantino's Machete, a disappointing and uneven experience.


                
I don't understand why everyone got so excited about this movie. The acting was good but the plot of the story was horrible. It's all about a slave who kills white people unrealistically. The story did not make sense, especially the ending where the white guy kills the other guy because he didn't want to shake hands. if he was such an angry-crazy guy why did he went into all that trouble to get the female slave by tricking the guy. This movie for me had a-lot of potential but they messed up some really important skins which messed up the hole story. this is my opinion, overall, it's a nice ski-fi movie to watch and laugh without getting anything from it...


                
My evaluation of this movie is it was way too long, the basic story was good, there was a good logical flow of events, the depiction of blood spurting out of those who were shot was way over the top.I don't know how to classify this movie. It wasn't an adventure. Certainly not a comedy but that might be the best way to think of it as you watch it. I suppose if you call it a drama that would be closest but it was so far fetched it certainly isn't a serious drama.I don't have a problem believing that some plantation owners had many slaves and treated them poorly, or even treated them like animals. It sickens me to see that. No man or woman should ever be a slave to another human.What I do have a problem with is Django being such a good shot, with both hands, that he never misses, or never gets hit with many people shooting at him. This is where calling it a drama begins to fall apart.The way Tarantino directed the shooting scenes was simply outrageous. Bullets of that era, and of the type of handgun shown, would not likely pass through a mans chest and come out through is back. Being shot with a pistol wouldn't propel a person backwards. When a bullet hits a person very small amounts of blood would initially splatter at the moment of impact, not the pint to quart amount shown in almost every shot.Near the very end of this long movie Django shoots a woman from an angle with his pistol and she is violently yanked backwards to the point of lifting her feet off the ground.A lot more realism would have helped make this movie more believable. As it is all of that radically inaccurate depiction constantly left me shaking my head.I liked Jamie Foxx as Django and I thought Christoph Waltz was cast well and did a great job. The problems with this movie all came from the director, not the actors or story line.
I am missing the Tarantino in this, I loved in earlier films.Except for a the gun-fire that opens up to eliminate all possible misdeeds, and people who did a thing with a purpose, there was no much fun in this. It is a Sphagetti western film based in 1850's but it seemed so flawed that I was not so sure, if there were such cool goggles, guns and was the ride so easy to Mississippi. Yes Tarantino took liberties in showing everything from style to substance is what mislead the whole film. Maybe my problem is I expected too much out this, just trusting the ability and the genius of Tarantino. But he has disappointed me this time. And worse is it is overlong and is nearly 3 hours. Hey, Quentin what got into you man, you made a satire of a Sphagetti and not a tribute.Yes, I sincerely think this is more of a satire than a tribute. Look at the way the whole plan is chalked out, the way the music plays in background. King Schultz played by Christoph Waltz is the one to whom this whole film belongs to. Once he is dead, it was just an extension to make Django the hero in the latter half hour and that was not what I wanted. For me, Django is one in many, he would better be that. He is never shown to have a brain of his own, coz he is lead and dictated by Schultz for most time. Once Schultz is no more, he takes the mantel onto himself and destroys the whole of it. Wow, what does that mean now, for me it meant nothing much. Is such bloodshed, such a journey all for a wife, who could have been given may be by the wisdom of Schultz who was shown to have a wisdom of a very high altitude. The look, the style, the cinematography were well in place, but the heart was clearly missing. It's neither soulful nor so dead that there is no life in it. It's very much alive just that it's not so interesting as other movies from the same creator and that'w what my whole crib is about. Mundane is rather be a harsh word to say for such a western film, but its surely simplified story with eccentric characters and dialogues. Django by Jamie Foxx, is one of the weakest characters in the film and yet surprisingly the whole film is about him. Samuel Jackson as Stephen is a complete surprise package from looks to dialogues. Leanardo Dicaprio as Calvin Candie, the villain of the film is cunning just as needed to the script. Yet, Leanardo was not yet unleashed to the full potential as he should have been. Now, Chirstoph Waltz as Shultz makes the film his own, by displaying an array of cold bloodedness and makes the film his own. Despite, the presence of the other actors, Waltz shines and wow, I just loved him in this. Editing could have been taken care very well. Seriously, at least one hour could have been curtailed down. Taranatino, you mislead me this time and for next time, please make a much better one place. A 2/5 for an good film made as an average flick by one of the master directors alive.


                
This film is about a freed slave partnering with a bounty hunter to seek revenge and free his wife."Django Unchained" is a action western, but it is far too long to be interesting and engrossing. At almost three hours, it is a struggle to follow the story and keep being interested in it. There is far too much dialog to be an action film. For example, Christopher Waltz and Leonardo DiCaprio talk on the dinner table for literally an hour before anything happens. The pace of the ending ten minutes is very very quick, and if the previous 2.5 hours were that quick the film would have been shortened by at least 1.5 hours. It's a Quentin Tarantino film, so you know there has to be a lot of blood to the point of being almost comical, and that almost everybody dies in the end. So why not just cut to the chase and show us what we are expecting?


                
OK!! We get it! Tarantino has that second degree and his movies don't have to be taken literally and he did bring a whole new genre to cinema, and the technique and the music is amazing, and the actors are good, and the image is good, but... At what point does all of this just become a lame excuse to do another violent movie filled with clichés and empty of content. Really???? This is a movie about slavery?? It seems to me that it is in fact yet another bullshit excuse to portray spectacular killings for numb-minded viewers who can only expect this from a movie. Nothing makes sense in this movie, absolutely nothing. And it is the same as all the last Tarantino babies. It is better then kill bill and Inglorious Bastards, but what isn't? And overall it they are all exactly the same. Is there nothing else we can expect? Is this all folks? After almost a century of cinema we did everything there was to be done? Now we will repeat ourselves over and over again? If you haven't yet cached my drift i am extremely disappointed and this is probably the last Tarantino movie I will watch.


                
spoiler alert. there will be some scene discussion. I guess I'm the minority here. I just did not like this movie. I am fan of Tarantino but this was just sloppy. Exploitation film at its worst. jumpy plot, sloppy shooting style and factual errors abound. OK its fiction, I get it, but its just so childishly crude. the movie is too long and could have easily ended 30 minutes earlier, but no, we had to have a protracted revenge...but not on the person who separated and scared them to begin with? gun skill is explained away as just being a natural, yet slaves would not have any gun skills. training is a montage of quick draw bullesyes and no misses. I call bs on that. and every person seems to be carbonated judging by the amount of blood that jets into the air with every wound. django's pimp style and cutting circles with the horse, the running gag that the badguys can't hit anything and the whites are all evil sadists gets boring quick and really sets no tone. its like a video game on god mode. jumpy film style, too long, plot holes by the truck load and crude sloppy acting. yet. take a digital copy and do some home editing and this movie would be a great action comedy, a slavery kill bill, but as it is. its just thuggish and bleak.


                
