In hindsight, given how extensively he had been "inspired" (read copiously pilfered) from it in his previous 7 films, it seems somewhat surprising to me how it took Quentin Tarantino 20 years to make his own pastiche-cum-tribute to the Spaghetti Western. Rather than the taciturn Leone/Eastwood hero "The Man With No Name", he picks the sub-genre's second best-known icon to do so – which is just as well since he subverts him into a caustic smart-ass of a colored slave, thus enabling Tarantino to hit two birds with one stone and equally pay would-be homage to such infamous exploitation fare as GOODBYE UNCLE TOM (1971) and MANDINGO (1975). Where it does ape Leone's celebrated Western quintet is in the sheer time it takes to tell its simple tale of revenge (165 minutes as of this sitting) but there have already been rumors circulating that a lot of footage was left on the cutting room floor after The Weinsteins vetoed Tarantino's desire to release the film in two parts! As if wishing to stress the fact that his version of the critically much-maligned (if clearly beloved of film buffs) sub-genre is superior to and artistically more valid than its antecedents, he takes great pains to point out that his is a "Southern" (set in America's Deep South, y'see) and not just a mere Western. Such earnestness to be taken seriously would have carried far more weight if we were not subjected to so much cartoonish violence (with the fakest use of blood squibs imaginable) throughout the entire film! Carrying on from his previous movies, however, we find a typically excellent ensemble cast at work here with Christoph Waltz, Leonardo Di Caprio and especially Samuel L. Jackson and Don Johnson (seriously) shining the brightest. Just like any number of the film's blood-soaked corpses, it is also riddled with knowing cameos, from Franco Nero to Bruce Dern – most of whom, buried as they are under whiskers and the ravages of time, went by unnoticed (Robert Carradine, Lee Horsley, Ted Neeley, Michael Parks, Don Stroud, Russ Tamblyn and Tom Wopat); unfortunately, the egocentric film-maker does not even spare us from a bloated, middle-aged appearance of himself as a mining company employee sporting arguably the worst Aussie accent on record!The central couple of Django and Broomhilde Von Shaft (yeah, the ancestor of Detective John Shaft, dig it?) are competently enough played by Jamie Foxx and Kerry Washington but it is very evident (particularly in the film's tastelessly upbeat final scenes) that Tarantino had Will Smith in mind when he wrote the screenplay; besides, the clearly Homeric (or rather Sigfriedian, given her Germanic name) overtones intended for Django's long-winded quest would have been far more relevant had Washington been made to be Mississippi landowner Di Caprio's mistress rather than just a kitchen maid!! Their past lives, then, are intermittently displayed via a series of rather pointless and gratuitously flashy flashbacks. Frankly, however, (whatever our personal feelings towards the man himself might be) we do not keep on going to watch Tarantino's films for their pointed character studies but to see how they fare in the "coolly quotable dialogue" and "clevery obscure in-jokes" departments: even though there are predictably reams of dialogue here, on a first viewing only a handful register as memorable at all (chiefly among them the brief exchange between Foxx and Nero on the spelling of the "Django" name; another one between Di Caprio and Jackson regarding Washington's German heritage; and the animated rendition of Jackson's colorful insults usually hurled towards Foxx; Waltz's ludicrous conclusion that "Alexandre Dumas was black" is best forgotten, however). Telllingly, the film's highlight is not an action set-piece but a subdued confrontation between Di Caprio and Foxx on their way to the latter's lavish abode Candyland. What is worse is that the film is oddly repetitive in both dialogue (some words keep cropping up<U+0085>and not just the dreaded "N" word) and action (Di Caprio gets his comeuppance exactly in the same way as a sheriff did earlier in the movie!); Jackson's explosive end, then, seems like an impersonal one given how despicable he had been toward Django, his wife and their own race!! Finally, the film is marked by some significant changes in Tarantino's personnel, namely producer Lawrence Bender and his late editor Sally Menke; it is a shame, however, that he did not also dispense with the services of The RZA (courtesy of some ill-judged rap rants) on the soundtrack – which, includes the title track of the obscure 1971 Spaghetti Western HIS NAME WAS KING (used here as the theme tune of Waltz's character) and a rather blah new song composed by Ennio Morricone himself! For the record, DJANGO UNCHAINED has been named Best Film Of The Year by The American Film Institute, is up for 5 Golden Globes (but the winners will only be announced in tomorrow's ceremony) and has just been nominated for another 5 Academy awards (but, surprisingly enough, both Tarantino and Di Caprio have been snubbed)!


                
I am unsure how someone who is not a Tarantino nerd would take this movie. But if you like him like I and many others do, you will love it. Waltz is the star here and has the BEST dialogue in the first half of the movie. He fades in the second half unfortunately. Same for all of T's movies since Pulp Fiction where EVERY character and EVERY piece of dialogue was golden. In his more recent movies we just get glimpses of it. But it is enough for me! Other than that it is over the top violent which is expected but the gore has been taken up a notch (to a silly slasher flick level). Not sure of the reason for that. It was borderline cartoon-ish and for some reason detracted from the movie. It really pulled me out.Last. And again typical of Tarantino needed to be about 30 minutes shorter. He needs a good editor. But at this point he can put in whatever he wants for his own amusement. See the whole interlude where he is a character. It almost seems as if he just couldn't bring himself to cut his own scene. It was really self-gratuitous and unnecessary to have Django Unchained twice with that as the interlude.
My favorite quality of a Tarantino movie is that somehow he gets me to care about the characters while the narrative is filled with irony treading upon satire, but never crossing the line.Another reason why I think he's so great is that he has a way with violence. A lot of people were shocked and appalled by "Pulp Fiction" because we really felt those kills. It meant something when they happened.Same with Bridget Fonda's kill in "Jackie Brown". Absolutely stunning moment.My problem with "Django Unchained" is that the violence becomes generic. I can't believe I just wrote that. I couldn't believe I thought that about three-quarters of the way in.The joy of this movie is in that first hour with Christoph Waltz using his quick wits to get out of two huge jams. His charms are so effective that we let it go that it would be totally implausible for him and Django to have gotten out of those two pickles alive.And then the movie appears to be building us up to some kind of payoff that just isn't satisfying. It just sort of goes the way of most spaghetti westerns, with tons of people getting shot up real good, instead of being turned on its head in usual QT fashion.Perhaps one of the reasons for the generic, cartoonish violence towards the end is that we're not fully invested in Django as a character. Schultz is the character we gravitate towards and the only face we're watching up there no matter what shot he's in. Django never breaks free from being just a mythical creature of sorts.I thought Kerry Washington was wasted.I'm sorry, but this movie just doesn't have the gathering power from scene to scene the way "Pulp Fiction", "Jackie Brown" or the two Kill Bills did.This is OK QT, not great QT.


                
Interesting plot, story and events. Above average soundtrack and good actors who are really amiable and suitable. Excellent photography and directing of the movie. Holds excellent messages though many things need to be clearer. Just enough comedy to be mixed with drama. Sequence of events is good to very good but could've been much better. The movie was very good and had just the perfect amount of western style inclusion but for most people I think they expected more in addition to the amount of drama. The movie showed how crucial the slavery of black people was but didn't show how crucial it was for the other blacks (other than him and his wife and couple of others) and this was very disappointing taking into consideration how long the movie was. I think the movie should've been also count as a drama and an action. Overall, the movie was very good and fun to watch and sophisticated in a way, plus it was just enough western and drama that will not make you depressed. Rating: 7.125/10 Final rating percentage: 71%


                
Quentin Tarantino is quite possibly the master of popcorn cinema - entertaining films that give an illusion of depth while actually being incredibly shallow. This is another fine example of this genre and if you take it for that, you'll be sure to enjoy the film immensely. Especially the first half is incredibly funny and Christoph Waltz shines as the incredibly subtly named "Dr. King" that frees Django and turns him into a bounty hunter. There's good dialogue, decent action scenes and just enough of a story to keep you entertained for almost two hours. Sadly, the film lasts for almost three and would have greatly benefited from some serious editing. At some point, I just wanted it to end, especially when Tarantino's usual gore-fest took over in the last third of the film. If you are trying to find out whether you'll enjoy the film: that's quite easy. If you like any other Tarantino film, you'll like this one. If you don't care for his "style", this one won't change your mind. So really, it's just more of the same, solid albeit uninspired entertainment.


                
No kidding, Samuel Jackson just absolutely nailed his Uncle Tom role. He was hilarious. Not the best role for DiCaprio but he did OK as well. Don Johnson was cool and James Remar is always good. Not Tarantino's best but an enjoyable slice of historical fiction even though it was rife with plot holes and quite unlikely scenarios. Fan's of Samuel Jackson should consider it a must see. Even though I really like James Remar, Tarantino should noy have used him for two separate roles. It was a bit confusing. Especially when all of the other cameos (Lee Horsely, Tom Wopat, etc)were cool and he could have dredged up so many more forgotten actors to appear.


                
This movie is once again a feast for the eyes and ears, though it tends to sag halfway through. And it never recovers. This hasn't exactly much to do with DiCaprio or Jackson, whose characters are introduced around that time, OR those characters. It's just that the movie entered a section where my thoughts apparently tended to wander off. That's never a good sign. It's then that I stopped being fully engaged and it's where I became aware that I was watching just another fun, silly movie that was starting to get really top-heavy. Also, and this is kinda serious, Django the character was kinda.. BORING. This might have been the intention. For example, it could be that Django was mirroring one-dimensional gunslinger heroes of classic westerns, but when you hear these accompanying musical odes you can't help but to expect more. A bit more fleshed out character and even some added spice. I liked the fact that the original Django had a cameo, plus that there where these original songs written especially for the movie this time. Especially the song 'Ancora Cui' by Morricone. Not that it really matters, but if you're gonna hand out a damn Oscar, give it to Morricone and Elisa Toffoli instead of Adele.


                
I have learned to take Quentin Tarantino films with a sense of fun. They may have so many offensive things about them, especially the gratuitous bloody violence and the excessively foul language. But they, this is what people want out of a Quentin Tarantino film! It would not be a Quentin Tarantino film without these mercenary things! And indeed, "Django Unchained" is a trove of them, 2 hours and 45 minutes of it!Django (Jamie Foxx) is a slave sometime before the Civil War broke out. He was rescued from his new owners by dentist/bounty hunter named Dr. King Schultz (Christoph Waltz). As Schultz gives Django his freedom and makes him his partner, Django expressed his desire to find, rescue and reunite with his beautiful, German-speaking wife Broomhilda (Kerry Washington), who was now owned by the sadistic Calvin Candie (Leonardo DiCaprio). All hell breaks loose in Candieland when Django unleashes all his suppressed anger to get his wife back!People who are not used to Quentin Tarantino style (or maybe even those who are) would shirk their eyes away from the screen many times for every cracking whiplash across a slave's back, every explosive shotgun shot going through a body and every bloody punch in that graphic Mandingo fight. Eventually, in the final Grand Guignol scenes, maybe everyone in the audience will already be desensitized despite the interminable fountains of blood that will shoot out of countless bodies in what seemed to be thirty minutes of continuous gunfire. That is classic Tarantino for you!The actors all attack their roles with outrageous glee. Well all, except probably the lead star Jamie Foxx, who plays it "cool" in stark contrast with the rest of the hyper cast. Christoph Waltz already won the Golden Globe for Best Supporting Actor for his role of Schultz, but honestly for me, this is practically the same type of acting I saw from him in both "Inglorious Basterds" and "Water for Elephants." Now, Leonardo DiCaprio, I think he was robbed of a nomination here. He was evil incarnate here, such a different Leo from what we are used to seeing him in. Special mention would have to go to Samuel L. Jackson, whom I did not immediately recognize as the conniving Stephen, the sinister head manservant of Candieland. Those piercing eyes of his baleful glare were something else!It was a great idea to bring the spaghetti Western genre to the deep South. The music was so 70s with those jangly guitars, except for the occasional anachronistic incursion of rap music. The sense of dark humor was all over it, under all that bloodshed and gore. There was a scene with cameos of Jonah Hill, Don Johnson and their KKK masks which was outright hilarious. Funny but I realized that THIS is how Tarantino would tell a love story!But if you ask me if this will win the Oscar for Best Picture, my answer would probably be NO. I do not see this type of film appeal to generally conservative Academy voters. But the fact that it even made it to the final 9 nominees is already recognition enough for QT.


                
A really entertaining film when you are in the cinema watching. I have no problem with the length of the film as you become engrossed in the story and characters and the time then passes by quickly. Christoph Waltz is again brilliant but if you have seen him in Inglorious Bastards and Water for Elephants you can certainly see similarities in his style and characters. My overall impression is that its like watching a comic and is very funny in places, maybe in other places a bit silly, but thats what you expect from a comic. Then it gives you the other end of the extreme and some of the violence belongs more in a horror flick?We again get the tense and trade mark dialogue around a table, think of the bar scene in IB and you have it here at the plantation, again very good and entertaining. I came away from the cinema feeling I had been very entertained and had a really good laugh, then on reflection having watched the film one thinks thats maybe not what you should be feeling.So it does entertain you, it does make you think, you go in to watch it caught up in all the hype, after all its been a while since inglorious bastards (which is better in my opinion) and its only after a couple of days if you look back and think that maybe you feel its not as brilliant as its made out to be.QT puts in a cameo appearance and after seeing him promoting the film and on various chat shows I found it a bit of a distraction and would rather he had not put himself in the film, his acting is not as good as his writing and directing! Definitely worth going to see on the big screen, it may just leave you a little confused as to how you feel about it afterwards.


                
QT makes another pulpy homage to genre movies from the past. It sometimes works, often doesn't but at least it is never dull! For the most part, this movie is a solid, re-imagined western that includes black people often absent from the traditional western narrative. Great characters, great story, great action but then it all goes super pulpy with silly action. It is a pity because if QT had just pulled it back it could have been great but instead it is just great fun. The real shame is for the first half it is excellent but there comes a point when you begin to doubt that even racist evil plantation owners could have said N1gg3r as much as they do in a few scenes, then like the language the action becomes overblown.We still watch "Man with no name" films and "Once upon a time in the west" decades later, I doubt this will stand the test of time. It may seem like I am down on this movie but honestly go and see it you will enjoy it.I also think not being able to type N1gg3r on a review about a movie that says it about 700 times is ridiculous and I pity the sensitive souls who are so fragile that they allow this word to have so much power and suggest they avoid using youtube and reading the comments otherwise they will find themselves trolled by 12 year olds.


                
This is a sloppy movie. Maybe the sloppiest I've seen all year. It beat out TDKR and Alien: The Beginning. Let me start by saying I think Tarantino is a very talented director. It doesn't always show in his movies, but he's very good. I'm tired of his movies that are always too long, and uneven. While this movie is long I didn't feel it and I didn't get that sense of him just having characters talk just to talk so he can hear the dialogue he wrote for himself. Basically QT is a kid who uses actors to reenact his favorite scenes from other movies he loves. I do believe he redeemed himself a little , because I was getting sick of him and his indulgences. I think he gets too much credit for doing stuff other actors get hanged, poor choice of words, for. I think Edgar Wright is a much better director and will soon pass him and hopefully get more credit. Now that said I'm going to try my hardest to make more sense then this movies tone.First off let me start off with the bad. This movie is all over the place. I though Inglorious Basterds was crazy , but this takes the cake. I actually have to give that movie more credit, because it felt like it was working towards something and everything fit in a crazy sort of way. You're going to here this a lot. This movie has 3 different parts and everyone who reviews will say what I'm saying verbatim. The First hour is a buddy cop western, The second hour is a tension filled game of deception, the last hour is the action. The problem is that the transition is not smooth at all, there's no balance or real order and you will know what I'm talking about if you go see it. Think back to Kill Bill and how different the two volumes where. Now Imagine if it was in one movie. The pacing is slow, but for Tarantino it's a step in the right direction. Really the movie can't make up it's mind and it damages the film a significant degree. From the trailer I thought Jamie would be one note, but he turns in a solid performance. Kerry Washington has the worst performance I've seen in a Tarantino film. She is so underused and has absolutely no character. No wait. There was a worse performance. Tarantino has a cameo and it has to be the worst performance of a director in his own movie I've ever seen. He should be ashamed of himself.Next I'm going to touch on the issue of race and the use of the n-word. I'm black and I'm pretty lenient on the n word. I say it my friends say it, some of my white friends say it. I don't care it's just a word. If this was any other director I wouldn't have minded, but it's by a guy who constantly pushes the boundaries of good taste and not in a good way. I understand that it is in a time where the word was probably used a lot, but the way the movies uses it is a little gratuitous at times. I feel like Tarantino tried to fit it in when he could as opposed to using it occasional to shock people. Next is Samuel Jackson's character is extremely coonish . Once again it's hard to fully criticize, because he's playing a cliché house negro, but even then he's such a cartoon it's hard to accept. Basically like most Tarantino's recent films, it's all about if you love Tarantino or are tired of him. Me being Tired surprisingly was mildly annoyed, but as his performance went on he was given some depth. I'd be okay with all this if this was a serious movie about slavery with Western elements. But really it's a goofy western with moments of seriousness that doesn't fit. Tarantino wants to deal with slavery, but it's so cartoonish when he does the only message you can take away was "Slavery was bad" Good Job Quentin definitely a revelation.Now the good. Wow the action in this movie blew me away. It's incredible and it makes me wish there was more of it. The Gore was refreshing from movies where it looked to bright or was CGI. This was all practical and it gave the action scenes a real sense of beauty and coordination. There's no doubt someone got shot because they'll be a huge splash of blood that highlights the trail of the bullets. Next performances all pretty much top notch . Leo is amazing , Sammy is good, Waltz is good. I love westerns and this one is a good one.Unfortunately I have to give this movie a 7 or a Matinée. It felt like Tarantino was sleep walking through this one. Too much light comedy where it doesn't belong and too much deep ugliness that doesn't fit. I did feel more positive then negative even though the movie needed more scenes of tension and action. I'm giving it the benefit of the doubt and I even debated sneaking back in the theatre to watch it again. Any 2 plus hour movie that makes me want to not only sit without breaks, and rewatch right after is either called Fight Club or GoodFellas. Definitely a must see, but not one that you need to rush out and see.
DJANGO UNCHAINED (2012) **1/2 Jamie Foxx, Christop Walz, Leonardo DiCaprio, Kerry Washington, Samuel L. Jackson, Walter Goggins, Dennis Christopher, James Remar, James Russo, David Steen, Dana Michelle Gourrier, Nichole Galicia, Laura Cayouette, Don Johnson, Tom Wopat, Don Stroud, Russ Tamblyn, Amber Tamblyn, Bruce Dern, M.C. Gainey, Cooper Huckabee, Doc Duhme, Jonah Hill, Lee Horsley, Zoe Bell, Ted Neeley, Tom Savini, Michael Parks, John Jarratt, Robert Carradine. Quentin Tarantino's messy and bloated take on the mythic "Django" spaghetti westerns and "Mandingo" era blaxploitation films has Foxx as a vengeance seeking slave forming an unlikely alliance with bonkers bounty hunter Waltz in hunting down those responsible for the whipping of his kidnapped wife (Washington). Among the brimming cast of Character Actors Past, the purple prose and far-too- long overtly graphic climax (Sam Peckinpah is turning in his grave), the one redeeming factor is DiCaprio's field day extravaganza mustache-twirling worthy turn as the sadistic villain slave owner and the Uncle Tom/Uncle Ben caricature of Jackson's equally nefarious loyal manservant. All for naught in the grand scheme of things and a bit of a disappointment. And yes that is Franco Nero as the original Django in a cameo.
Django Unchained is a bit of a conundrum, largely in part due to it's creator Quentin Tarantino. I have had long love/hate relationship with his movies. When he debuted in 90's with Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction I rode shotgun on the Tarantino bandwagon, but as time wore on and more and more of his personality came to light I started to sour. Tarantino strikes me as that kid in middle school that got crammed in a trashcan and rolled down the hill and who was rejected by cheerleaders in high school. He has spent the rest of his life trying to prove to all of us that he really is cool. That desperation for hipness bleeds through in everything he makes. This is not to say he is without talent because he does have a sharp eye and a feel for jaunty banter. He also has a encyclopedic knowledge of film history and flair for homage. That can be double edge sword though, what differentiates insightful reference and a lack of his own voice?That brings us back to Django Unchained which is Tarantino's spin on spaghetti westerns. It's Tarantino through and through. From soundtrack to visuals it all screams "LOOK HOW COOL I AM!" and occasionally it's right. There are scenes that feature genuine humor and visual flash as well as some solid performances in particular from Sam Jackson, who steals all of his scenes. All of this is smothered in Tarantino juice and there's the rub. If you love him you'll the love movie but if you think he's a pretentious douche bag this movie won't change your opinion. So many of his conceits took me right out of the movie from his typical "hip" soundtrack to Jamie Foxx's sunglasses.Django Unchained like most of Tarantino's movies is unapologetic in it's violence and often wanders the gray wastes of where just tasteless ends and where offensive begins. One has to question if he makes these forays for anything other then shock value. Despite all of Tarantino's efforts, he doesn't quite drive me away. Beneath it all Django Unchained is a serviceable revenge tale with several water cooler moments but beyond that? ... More shock then awe.... and this has been The Mack Minute. Find more of my reviews @ http://mackminute.blogspot.com/


                
The plot: Django is a slave, rescued by Dr Shultz because Django can identify some wanted men; the two then team up as bounty hunters, and eventually rescue Django's wife.The cinematography is good; the film has a nice gritty look to it, and looks authentic. Tarantino writes quite well, and the dialogue is snappy. There's plenty of gratuitous violence and over-the-top blood splatters.The script is a bit uneven. The plot meanders here and there, and some of the set-ups don't pay off. For example, the opening few scenes set up Dr Shultz and Django as bounty hunters, but the film never really takes advantage of it. Yes, we see them killing a wanted criminal, but it's just a minor piece that is referenced later in the film, rather than a plot point. A more substantial use of the idea would have benefited the film greatly.But while it's got plenty of style, it ultimately lacks substance. Whilst watching it I was mostly entertained, but by the end it had left no impression on me. I recognise that it's only meant to be light entertainment, but the film left me wanting something more. There's plenty of southern racism, and Di Caprio plays the villainous Candie very well, but the film really lacks any sort of emotional core.There's no cheering for the good guy because despite the evil baddies, the good guy barely acts at all. Jamie Foxx is so devoid of any sort of emotion it's hard to know if he's even got a pulse. The other characters are paper thin and lacking any sort of depth. With so much potentially incendiary material to be found in America's racist past, Tarantino is either oblivious to it, or ignorant of it.All in all it's not a bad film. Tarantino is a talented filmmaker, but a lousy story-teller.
Well I finally saw Django Unchained last night, and I've got some good things to say and some not so good things. First of all, I am a Tarantino fan...always have been ever since Reservoir Dogs. I know what to expect when it comes to his films. I expect a lot of blood, over the top violence, great dialogue, interesting characters, dark humor, and one heck of a story. And all of that was present in Django Unchained. So why do I feel like, somehow, Django missed the mark a bit. Well...and I never thought I'd ever say this about a Tarantino movie...I guess I wish he'd just restrained himself somewhat. For about 80% of DU, we have a masterpiece. At that point in the film I honestly felt that I may be watching Tarantino's best movie ever. And then something happened. Tarantino got in the way of Tarantino. And here's what I mean by that. 80% of DU is a classic buddy movie with some of the best interactions I've seen in quite sometime between characters. Jamie Foxx and Christoph Waltz (who, once again, gives the best performance in a Tarantino film) are brilliant. There was so much chemistry between them, that their growing friendship and partnership in the bounty hunter profession was the most authentic thing about the film. You honestly come to care for both of their characters. And don't get me wrong. There was plenty of ruthless bloodiness along the way, and as always, the violence was quite graphic. But then, with about a half hour, or so, to go in the movie Tarantino ratchets up the bloodiness to Kill Bill levels. Now, that type of exaggeration was fine in the Kill Bill movies. Heck, that type of exaggeration is fine in just about any Tarantino film except Django. Here I wish Tarantino would have pulled the reigns in. Because what was, up until that point one of the best movies I've seen in a while, just becomes more grind house, comic book-esque entertainment. Of all his films, this should have been the one where Tarantino said, "This time I'm going to come at a film in a more serious manner." The plot certainly lent itself to such seriousness. I'm not saying there shouldn't have been any bloody violence. On the contrary, and again because of the storyline, a lot of violence should have been expected. And it was there. But then Tarantino turns the knob up so high, that the full-blast nature of the carnage actually gets in the way of this otherwise brilliant film. Now...all of that being said, I still liked this movie. There are so many things to like about this movie. But the ending isn't really one of them. Too bad...because what came before the preposterous conclusion was so doggone good. But, as I've said before, that is just my opinion.
"The D is silent!" a quote that made so many people laugh and applaud. It's Robbie K again, this time reviewing Quentin Tarantino's latest film Django Unchained. The plot for this film is about a slave named Django(Jamie Foxx) who is rescued by a German bounty hunter named Dr. Schultz(Christoph Waltz). Apparently Django is one of the few men in Texas who knows the identity of a band of outlaws named the Brittle brothers. As payment for helping him, Schultz promises to track down Django's wife Broomhilda(Kerry Washington) who is currently owned by a chauvinistic plantation owner named Calvin Candie(Leonardo DiCaprio). If you've seen Tarantino's work, you know that the man is very extreme in his movies and makes no attempts to censor his work. Django Unchained follows the same path, which for some will be enjoyable for some and rather grotesque for other. From the very beginning, Django starts off with blood as gun shots paint a messy shower of red. Yet the madness has only begun, as Shultz takes Django under his wing and helps him develop the killers edge needed to be a bounty hunter. As Django evolves, so too do the kills as the dynamic duo updates not only their arsenal, but techniques as well. The end result of this training are numerous scenes of gun blazing goodness, usually resulting in some sweet kills and bloody bodies. Are you sickened by the description? If so, then skip this movie as the cinematography captures enough detail to make some stomachs turn. Head shots, knees exploding, and a shots in the neck are common scenes in this movie. Some of these kills are not quick though, and the poor victims who suffer usually have some ugly wounds associated with them, some of which involve a person being torn apart or tortured. For me extreme gore isn't my cup of tea, as violence doesn't always have to mean a river of blood to follow. Despite the messiness though, Tarantino does still provide some other entertaining qualities that somewhat made up for the weaknesses. His choice of actors was well selected as both Foxx and Waltz work well together as the bounty hunter duo, each balancing out the other's character weaknesses. Waltz in particular uses his charm to not only swoon the various extras, but also as a tool to make his lines even funnier as he adds a pompous atmosphere to the conversation. Foxx on the other hand sticks more to the rough necked outlaw motif, saying little to his victims before firing the shot, though the little he says is more than enough to get a few chuckles out of the cast. Washington is just as lovely as ever, but doesn't get to do much other than scream and cry. While she can play a damsel in distress very well, this character was a little lacking compared to some of her other work. As for Jackson, his character is both fun and malicious. Jackson's overacted rants and cascade of stereotypical insults were hilarious to me for the most part, yet his character too sometimes overstepped the appropriate boundaries. As for DiCaprio, well the man is still on top of his game. Stepping out of the somber detective role, Leo's portrayal of the pompous plantation owner is incredibly captured in every detail from the rich debonair look to the heavy southern accent. The strongest aspect to his character is the viciousness he has to develop throughout the course of the movie, which starts with simple enjoyment at a blood sport, but turns into an anger that can't be controlled. Yet like many movies, Django does have its faults. For one thing the editing and filming require a little more polish to meet the qualities of his other films. Various settings don't match up with the areas they are supposed to be in, for example a rocky outcropping in the state of Tennessee, or a dried up wasteland for Mississippi. The grainy nature of the film is also a little harder to enjoy, though it may have been used to help develop and depth to the Western world. Pushing past the editing, the time limit of the movie was a little hard to deal with at times. While the pace of the movie was rather quick for the most part, there were a few times where I felt the scenes were pointless or overdone. The end of the movie in particular could have been modified to deliver the same entertainment in a fraction of the time. What may have contributed to some of these "slower" parts was the episodic element this tale seemed to have. Instead of having a nice linear plot with twists and turns, Tarantino sort of divided the story into 3-4 tales some of which lasted for minutes before the plot was just dropped. Perhaps it was just a means for introducing more satire and laughs, or just another excuse to add more gore, but some of these short stories could have been replaced with something to make the story deeper. Yet my biggest weakness was the uber amount of crudeness, Tarantino put in this film. I know that he designs this movie without a care to criticism, but his rebellious nature was a little out of hand this time. In particular the bloody savageness and filthy language were excessively overused to the point where it was no longer enjoyable, but annoying, despite the cultural relevance to the time period being portrayed.Django was a fun movie to watch, but it still has some flaws that need to be tweaked. Perhaps when the movie comes out on DVD the editing can hammer some things out. While it is not his best work, it's still enjoyable and will please any fan of his work. Just make sure to exercise caution when planning to take younger audience members to see it, as the crudeness factor has stepped up a bit.


                
It's hard to find oneself a little torn about a movie from one of your favorite directors and came with high expectations. I'd like to say that I loved this new film, but I honestly didn't. Where should I begin?1) The LENGTH of the movie included unnecessary scenes that jeopardized the DEPTH & QUALITY of the story. Sure I appreciate the inclusion of classic Tarantino humour and unexpected scenes... but it's starting to get old... Unlike Basterds, every scene was mind blowing, tense, and tied together... but this one had way too much excess fat that just highlighted the director's need to "meet his own criteria" and be ha-ha-ha at the expense of the storyline.2) Nonsense strategy that involved Django & Dr. Schultz playing an elaborate unnecessary role to face Monsieur Candie... when am sure if the director had gone a different route, it would have been more intelligent. I can't put my finger on it, but the whole thing was quite.... bombastic. 3) I truly feel for Leonardo DiCaprio... this was supposed to be his year to FINALLY go home with an Oscar and with the hype that was attached to his acting in this movie... and THEN he shares 90% of his screen time with a perfect Samuel L Jackson who totally overshadows him. I was expecting him to stand out and leave a haunting impression just like Javier Bardem in No Country... but no... Leo was totally overshadowed by a brilliant Mr. Jackson. Don't get me wrong, Leo was good in this movie... but we've seen him in better roles... seriously.... Mr. DiCaprio don't ever take on another Tarantino movie ever again unless he gives you the LEADING role... you deserve it.4) The over dramatization of blood and gore is starting to be tiring and too expected.5) Tarantino cameos are becoming all to painful to sit through.The GOOD:1) Taking on a touchy, controversial topic, Tarantino is at his best with with some pretty funny moments! (ie. Big Daddy Mr. Don Johnson & Jonah Hill scene)2) The SOUNDTRACK3) Jamie Foxx & Samuel L. Jackson. Head on. Flawless acting.... and of course Mr. Cristoph Waltz is always a treat.Overall, it has that shock entertainment value and comedic substance that always comes with a Tarantino movie. All my friends who I watched with liked it, so am pretty much a minority. For it to compete with some of his best... I'm afraid it just doesn't live up to that.
When I watched the interviews I was curious to see this movie. I like Tarantino's movies, so I had to see this one. It would be much better than his previous movies, more action, more blood than Kill Bill 1 + 2. Both of them did not happen. I'm a fan of the Kill Bill movies. In my point of view they both are better than Django, even Pulp Fiction is better. Django Unchained is just newer, that's all.What is important is to know that Django Unchained is a good movie. It is funny like only Tarantino can make it. Good actors and actresses. And most important; very original. Like most of Tarantino's movies, you must not miss this one.
Like Quentin Tarantino's last film, Inglourious Basterds, Django Unchained is an historical revenge fantasy. This time it's a mash-up homage to Blaxploitation films and Sergio Leone Spaghetti Westerns. Its entertainment value stems from the primal satisfaction of watching a freed slave kill white slave traders in gruesome ways.We're treated to Tarantino's usual masterful dialog and to some terrific performances, especially the supporting players. Christoph Waltz and Leonardo DiCaprio are very engaging in their roles. And in what should be considered one of the strongest performances of his long and varied career, Samuel L. Jackson plays a house slave – the true villain of the piece.The story takes place in the American South, a few years before the Civil War. Jamie Foxx stars as Django, a slave who is unshackled by King Schultz (Waltz) -- a German dentist-turned-bounty-hunter who needs Django's help in tracking down a trio of fugitives. Django quickly becomes Schultz's partner. "Kill white people and get paid for it?" asks Django. "What's not to like?" But Django has another quest in mind that's more personal. He wants to find his wife (Kerry Washington), rescue her from slavery, and head with her to the North. Schultz agrees to help him, and the pair set out for the plantation of Calvin Candie (DiCaprio) so that Django can find his true love and carry out a little (okay, a lot of) vengeance.If you're looking for a thoughtful drama about a man overcoming slavery and yearning for freedom, this isn't it. No, this is really just an action movie about a man trying to rescue his princess. (The character of the wife, Broomhilda, is seriously underdeveloped and we're never really shown why Django cares for her so much -- other than the fact that, well, she looks like Kerry Washington – and really, that may be reason enough.) This also isn't an attempt to accurately recreate the slavery-era. It feels more like an attempt to recreate '70s movies about slavery.There are also very few slavery movies that will make you laugh this hard. The movie is, at its core, very much a comedy. In one scene, members of an early version of the Ku Klux Klan complain about their hoods and the fact they can't see out of the eye-holes. It's one of the best scenes Tarantino has ever written. The only thing more satisfying than watching Klan members getting slaughtered – is watching them look like buffoons. Tarantino isn't trying to make us think or learn lessons about history. He's trying to entertain us. And, for the most part, he does his job very well.Typical of a Tarantino film, some of the moments designed to amuse the most – involve spectacular bloodletting. Using ultra-violence as a punch line is one of the director's specialties. He paints deplorable portraits of certain characters, and then builds tension to the point that when their absurdly excessive punishment is handed out – it serves as a cathartic release. The director plays on the audience's darkest instincts, knowing that on some level, many viewers like seeing bad guys get what they deserve in especially painful ways. Especially if it's "just a movie." It's cheap. It's easy. But when choreographed by someone as skilled as Tarantino, it's also very effective.Not all of the violence is meant to provide perverse thrills, though. There are scenes that depict the brutality and inhumanity of slavery. They are difficult to watch, but serve to make the justice that Django hands out that much more satisfying. However, this creates a balancing act. Alternating between violence that is meant to horrify and violence meant to satisfy our blood lust creates a tonal inconsistency that plagues the movie.The violence isn't the only cause for controversy. There's also the frequent use of a certain vulgar, derogatory word for African-Americans. But its usage is historically accurate, and also mostly functions as shorthand to distinguish good guys from bad guys. If a character uses the word, it's a safe bet they're eventually going to get shot.My primary complaint with the film, however, is the pacing. Sadly, Tarantino's longtime editor, Sally Menke, passed away before production began and her absence is perhaps the reason why the movie drags. The beginning and ending are strong, but the second act is bloated and slow moving. The film comes to a screeching halt during a tortuously long dinner scene that's meant to build tension – but instead bores us. The long dialog scene is also designed to demonstrate the depths of Candie's evil racism. But it's unnecessary, given that his despicable nature is well established the moment he first appears on screen – a harrowing scene in which he revels in watching two slaves fight to the death. The long dinner sequence also mostly sidelines the movie's main character, causing the film's momentum to stall.Django Unchained is an enjoyable ride, albeit one that travels an uneven road and takes too long to get where it's going. If it had been steadier, leaner and about 40 minutes shorter, it may have ranked among Tarantino's best. But it's still quite an experience.
Django Unchained isn't Tarantino's most consistent work nor is it his best, it is however, still a truly great spectacle.The film initially focuses on Dr Schultz (Waltz) who is a skilled and charismatic bounty hunter. The good doctor soon enlists the help of a hopeless slave called Django (Foxx) who crucially can identify conclusively the men currently on Schultz's kill list. Shultz who is sympathetic to the black slaves of the deep south despite his own morally corrupt profession, soon sees the potential and merit in having Django around. Then the focus shifts as we learn that Django has been separated from his wife and the odd pair endeavour to rescue her from a plantation run by the eccentric and possibly psychotic Candie (DiCaprio).I'll start by stating the obvious, Tarantino is a Cinephile. This often works to his advantage but every so often its a hindrance, Django represents a good case to highlight this. Django's opening two acts are very strong, focusing on character and setting, providing us with a rich and inviting world that is equal parts grim and hilarious. However, much like Tarantino's more recent efforts Inglorious Basterds and Kill Bill, Django suffers from an odd and inconsistent tone. When the film is funny, it is very funny. When it is sad, it is truly heartbreaking (see all of the numerous torture scenes). However, when the shoot-outs and action began, by and large i switched off. The violence here is campy (as are most of the performances) but there is an odd cinematic grandiosity that simply isn't present in much of the rest of the film. It is strange to focus so much on character and development to dispel it so whimsically with a series spurts and loud bangs. Its mainly the last act that is afflicted with this problem, bullets fly and blood is spilt but the films bite and feeling gets lost in the mêlée. Django himself soon becomes a caricature, he becomes the movie equivalent of what his character sets out to be at the start of the movie and this is a shame. Thus, the last 45 minutes is shade too light and throwaway, seemingly at odds with the world Tarantino painted with his first hour and 45 minutes.The above being said the film is still masterfully crafted. Everything from the tawdry vernacular (i wont comment on the rights and wrongs use of the N word), to the costume design right through to the performances are simply sublime. Waltz, Foxx and DiCaprio are all great as the various shades of humanity on parade but its Waltz who again steals the show. His charming, effervescent musings mixed with his unwavering empathy make Schultz a force of nature from his brash entrance to his heroic exit in the film. All of the Tarantino-isms are present, the fluid use of time, witty villainous monologuing, extreme violence and an expert use of cinema language. Tarantino shuffles his deck like few can and once again shows why he is a true original. Most films struggle to nail down one mode or tone and Tarantino valiantly tries (with varying success) to juggle a plethora of moods with an intelligence and arrogance few can match. Case in point is the films tongue in cheek seriousness, even in the face of Django's vengeful retribution the film isn't afraid to jolt straight back into farce with the wink of an eye.It might be a little long for some and it could have been wrapped up more cleanly but hey, thats just not the Tarantino way. I think a more straight forward, more succinct ending would have been more effective than the one offered here but Tarantino is much more comfortable being subversive and revelling is his ever colouful, lovingly created pastiches. So in short, this is an often great but ultimately solid piece of cinema and yet another interesting chapter in the already bulging book of Quentin Tarantino.


                
All the references and tributes aside this is an entertaining mess of serious and cartoonish that doesn't, I think, quite work as intended. I could say more, but I don't want to.


                
Fun movie with spaghetti western/Blaxploitation and typical Quentin Tarantino film (over the top violence and humor). They original wanted Will Smith as Django, but Smith is not right for the role, the role was perfect fit for Jamie Foxx. Kerry Washington was pointless as Django's wife, she was more of damsel in distress. But really made the film was Christoph Waltz, Samuel L. Jackson, and Leonardo DiCaprio, you really know why Waltz won an Oscar for his performance because he was excellent in the movie and Samuel L. Jackson performance deserved more attention. Also there comic relief with Big Daddy (which the funniest and stupid scene you've ever seen), but the film show too many racist and disrespect scenes that will make everyone uncomfortable. The film's okay but not great.
A decent Tarantino effort, that helped him back to a form as such. Although it has the name 'Django' in the title, it looks (and feels) nothing like the original classic but to its merit, contains some strong performances and some exciting cowboy action. The great Franco Nero pops up, in the all time best cameo appearance. Spoilt only by a couple of nonsensical scenes and around 20 minutes too long. One final point:- Why does he Q.T, feel the need to act in his own movies, he's pretty awful.


                
The first three-fourths of Django Unchained are much better than the last fourth -- which is a shame, because most of the movie is great. The last act of the movie, though, has a darker tone and seems to be nothing more than an attempt for Tarantino to quench his bloodlust. Characters are found guilty by association and dispatched without reason or remorse. I'll probably watch it again, though, if only to enjoy Christoph Waltz's performance.


                
I'm not the biggest fan of Quentin Tarantino. However, this isn't bad. Performances were good, as expected. Jamie Foxx was great as the title character, brining a silent gusto of sorts that worked. Kerry Washington was good. Leonardo DiCaprio was a bit crazy, but I believe that was the intent. If it was, well done Leo! Sam Jackson was interesting and played his part well. As always, Christoph Waltz amazes. Not as much as in Inglorious Basterds (2009), but still a stellar performance.The writing was... interesting. I don't know if it deserved the awards it got. The characters that were crafted were quite good. The main writing that made it was the relations and dialogue between the characters. I just don't know.The direction was not bad at all. It felt a bit more like Inglorious Basterds (2009) than Pulp Fiction (1994), in a cartoonish kind of way, but was still solid. The pacing made it seem slower than it should have been and therefore made me feel as though I was in a movie for about an hour longer than I should have.One last thing that deserves praise: the environment that was created seems very much like the 1800s. From the production design to the props to the costumes, this felt like it was taking place during one of America's most difficult times.A bit much, but still good! 7/10


                
