I only had one thought on my mind for this Christmas: see Django Unchained. Quentin Tarantino's latest opus, a Western set two years before the Civil War, concerns a former slave named Django (Jamie Foxx). He is freed by bounty hunter Dr. King Shultz (Christoph Waltz) in order to help him with a bounty. Quite quickly, Shultz takes Django under his wing and trains him as his partner. But he made him a promise: that he would rescue his wife from a plantation owned by the ruthless Calvin Candie (Leonardo DiCaprio). And rescuing her is not going to be all that easy.What pains me the most about Django Unchained, as a die-hard Tarantino fan, is just how sloppy it all seems. I enjoyed every minute of it, but I could never shake the feeling of how messy and thrown together it all feels. Portions of the film feel episodic (the search for the Brittle Brothers, mentioned heavily in the trailers, begins and ends practically within minutes), and some scenes just seem to play out just for the fun of it. Another scene from the trailers involving a lynch mob with bags covering their faces seems added for comedic purposes, and has no real point of actually existing. More than any of his films before it, Django feels like Tarantino simply making a movie for sheer pleasure and with no outside motivations or controllers. The film threatens to go totally off the rails at any given moment, and lacks any real sense of direction or focus. It may sound ridiculous, but the loss of editor Sally Menke confirms a sneaking suspicion I always had about Tarantino – he needed a steady right hand to help encourage him as to what was needed and what was not. I do not want to criticize Django's editor Fred Raskin, but it is obvious he is no Menke and that works against the film heavily. It lacks the polish we have come to expect, and is practically stripped of the glossy/cool texture so prevalent in Tarantino's work up until now.But then maybe that was his intention all along, and perhaps Tarantino is airing out his frustrations with life and film in general. Django is deliberately shot on film (or at least from the print I saw), and looks very gritty and messy at all times. It is significantly more brutally violent than anything he has worked on before (the borderline cartoonish Kill Bill included), and has a very go for broke attitude about itself. The film seems to revel in how brilliantly it can splatter all the blood and gore (done through the use of squibs and no digital!), and how uncomfortably numbing it can make the violence. I know he does not care what people think of his films, but this movie especially seems like an emphatically raised middle finger to the establishment. And for all of my complaints about how messy it all feels, I was never once bored or felt like the movie was dragging itself out. The staggering 165-minute running time shockingly flies by faster than you might ever imagine.Acting wise, Tarantino stacks the deck with a number of recognizable character actors young and old for roles that vary in size. Most have very few lines, if any at all, and seem to just stand by, just as content as the audience is to watch the action unfold. It is a little off-putting, especially with how important some of these characters are initially made out to be. Washington as Broomhilda von Shaft (one of the most subtle references he's ever dropped) does well as the helpless victim and frequent dreamlike object – but she never really gets to show off any of her acting prowess outside of her facial reactions. They are increasingly effective, especially during horrific flashback scenes. But her work here feels ridiculously stunted in comparison to the other leads. Samuel L. Jackson, much like Tarantino himself, seems to just be having fun in his role as Candie's adviser Stephen. He plays on every ridiculous stereotype he ever has been associated with and then amps it up to a near ludicrous state. He is frequently hilarious, but the role seems to border on parody more than anything else.Surprisingly, Foxx takes a very long time settling into the leading role. It may just be the character, but it is quite clear from the on- set that he is not very comfortable in Django's shoes, and leads credence to why Will Smith, amongst so many others, dropped out of the picture so quickly. But once he finds his footing, he does a fantastic job walking the thin line between empathetic and sadistic. It is not an easy character to play, but Foxx makes it his own, bringing a sense of style and grace that are virtually absent from the rest of the film. And of course, he gets all the best lines.Waltz and DiCaprio are the clear standouts however, nailing every nuance of their sadly underwritten characters. While Waltz plays the straight man, DiCaprio is delightfully unhinged and vicious. Both are playing directly against type, yet are strangely comfortable in the roles. Watching them act circles around the rest of the cast, Foxx included, is the true highlight of the film. I just wish they were both given additional emphasis and more to do. For all of its numerous faults, I had a blast watching Django Unchained. It is hilarious, it is a lot of fun, and is wildly enjoyable. I genuinely think it could have been a lot better if there was more focus and direction, but this is very clearly a picture Tarantino wanted to make on his own terms. And for that, I applaud him for the effort. It is not his best work, but certainly not his worst. 8/10.


                
Django succeeds in so many areas - it crosses many genres, and despite its long runtime is propulsive and enjoyable throughout. It does have a great script with both funny and tense interactions. The plot is simple but effective as we are drawn into Django's story and Schultz's thoughtfully planned adventures. There is no doubt about the quality of the cast - Foxx and Waltz are excellent and Di Caprio steals every scene he's in, with a manic gleam in his eye. Tarantino is still a terrible actor and should really stop indulging himself with relevant roles in his movies. Race is at the heart of the movie, and I think Tarantino did manage to portray the time period and ideas appropriately. Where the movie turned from an equally fun and tense, sharp experience was the frustrating third act. The plot is shaky in Schultz acting so rashly and not prepared to kill the other men after Candie, and to a lesser degree in the willingness of the men to listen to Django's plan from the start. The biggest problem was the shootout, where Tarantino clearly couldn't resist making it a gratuitous, over-the-top spectacle. The deaths were wildly visually exaggerated, and while the movie had cleanly balanced its humor and intensity earlier, the shootout discarded both in favor of superficial, bloody action. It was so jarring to me as a viewer, being transported to this completely different tone and cinematography style. The ending message also does simplify the more complex plot and thematic developments to Django being a badass and getting revenge and his girl, which was a small letdown. It is epic, and the scene where Who Did That To You started playing was invigorating, that shootout scene just took me out of the movie, and minor errors like that kept it from being the knockout I was so ready to proclaim it.
Highly entertaining movie! It's Quentin, so expect some flying blood and language. The basic story was endearing, but of course I didn't come away feeling all gushy and stuff - which is good cause I probably would be rating this movie lower if I had. There were some very funny moments in the film. I laughed out loud numerous times. Also, there are some classic Tarantino shots - like all the gunman coming into the house at one time. Stuff blew up and people were in shoot outs - right up my ally!!!I wish I had a better memory cause there are some awesome lines in this. Samuel L. Jackson threw out some fabulous one liners. They probably wouldn't be as funny out of context though. Still, he I think had the best funny lines. Obviously, I recommend the movie. It's Oscar nominated for a reason. I do recommend you NOT let children see this though. It's Tarantino. Favorite Scene: The Klan discussing the bags. Don Johnson was great!
In 1858, in Texas, the former German dentist Dr. King Schultz (Christoph Waltz) meets the slave Django (Jamie Foxx) in a lonely road while being transported by the slavers Speck Brothers. He asks if Django knows the Brittle Brothers and with the affirmative, he buys Django for him. Then Dr. Schultz tells that he is a bounty hunter chasing John, Ellis and Roger Brittle and proposes a deal to Django: if he helps him, he would give his freedom, a horse and US$ 75.00 for him. Django accepts the deal and Dr. Schultz trains him to be his deputy. They kill the brothers in Daughtray and Django tells that he would use the money to buy the freedom of his wife Broomhilda (Kerry Washington), who is a slave that speaks German. Dr. Schultz proposes another deal to Django: if he teams- up with him during the winter, he would give one-third of the rewards and help him to rescue Broomhilda. Django accepts his new deal and they become friends. After the winter, Dr. Schultz goes to Gatlinburgh and learns that Broomhilda was sold to the ruthless Calvin Candie von Shaft (Leonardo DiCaprio), who lives in the Candyland Farm, in Mississippi. Dr. Schultz plots a scheme with Django to lure Calvin and rescue Broomhilda from him. But his cruel minion Stephen (Samuel L. Jackson) is not easily fooled. "Django Unchained" is a highly entertaining and funny movie by Quentin Tarantino. The story is a parody of the Italian spaghetti genre and works very well since the story is good and the cast is outstanding. Christoph Waltz "steals" the movie and the joke with Franco Nero is unforgettable. But I would never dare to say that "Django Unchained" is a kind of movie to be nominated to the Oscar but forgetting this absurd, it is a great movie. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): "Django Livre" ("Django Free")


                
This movie was like a soft-touched painting. Tarantino put his all in this movie. In my opinion this is one of his best so far right next to Pulp Fiction and Reservoir Dogs. At first it was a bit slow, but it was paced just right so you can get that exquisite taste in your mouth that Tarantino is trying to make you taste. It's a #1 in my book. I defiantly recommend anyone to watch this! It gives you a good look at slavery in it's truest form. Nothing that you would learn in a textbook at school. Tarantino made this raw, not for enjoyment, but to simply teach a lesson in life. how everyone deserves to get a taste of revenge! 10 out of 10! Watch this if you are a Tarantino fan, do not be lured away by bad publicity, this movie is well worth it!


                
A spaghetti western/blaxploitation mash-up from the mind of Quentin Tarantino? SOLD!And yet there I was, sitting through the nerve-wracking theater-going experience that was "Django Unchained". How Tarantino moves from moments of white-knuckled tension to other moments of sheer hilarity and utter enjoyment just boggle the mind. He makes it seem so effortless, and at the same time hard to stomach. Watching this movie made me wonder what exactly attracted this man to such a, shall we say, unattractive subject as slavery. I mean, every single horrible aspect of the material is right there, in-your-face and highly unpleasant. Much of this movie (not even the violence, really, which was typically "excessive-to-the-point-of-comical" Tarantino) was hard to sit through, with Tarantino trading his his trademark "f-bomb a minute" for the "n-bomb a minute" dialogue. But that's what makes the ending so damn gratifying. To see the horrors of what Django has to go through (and the horrific world in which he lives) just makes it that much more satisfying when he finally shows up and delivers a serious dose of ass-kicking to all involved. Seemingly in spite of the uncomfortable subject, "Django Unchained" was a hell of a good time at the movies. I haven't laughed so hard in so long as I did during the "bag" scene (complete with unexpectedly hilarious Jonah Hill appearance). The violence is the fist-pumping sort, that of the crowd-pleaser variety. And it's one hell of a well-acted movie. Jamie Foxx lends a tortured badassery to the title role, while everyone from the supporting cast to Don Johnson is noteworthy. DiCaprio gives a deliciously unhinged performance (it's worth seeing, believe me). And Samuel L. Jackson plays a character of such despicability that it's nothing less than shocking. It took way too long for someone to kill that guy. But it's Christoph Waltz who makes this movie, for me. The guy is extraordinary. His wonderfully dark humor and playful delivery just made him a sheer pleasure to watch. I couldn't take my eyes off the man. He was electric. It might be my favorite performance in a Tarantino movie, though I haven't seen him in "Inglorious Basterds" yet. Almost three hours long, and definitely not a boring movie. I went in with high hopes, and wasn't disappointed. Just an incredible movie, harsher aspects and all. 8/10
Here it comes, Quentin Tarantino's new blockbuster and Italo Western homage "Django Unchained". Personally, I happen to find Tarantino's movies quite a mixed bag as he has done anything from stupid disaster pieces such as "Kill Bill Vol. 1" up to very thought out stuff like "Inglorious Basterds". His new movie is among the better ones he has released but still not the best.What I immediately liked about the movie is the camera work with many wide angles, natural Stillleben and shots on the eyes of the actors to capture their emotions. If you like directors like Sergio Leone, you will know what I'm talking about and if you happen to like him, you will also adore this movie. The opening scene presenting the cast already gets you into an old school western atmosphere. The amazing soundtrack is another strong point all along this movie. After some very explicit scenes, Tarantinos puts a vivid and catchy track that grabs your attention and makes it easier to digest what you've just seen. Tarantino certainly has a good feeling for impressive settings and gripping atmospheres.He puts a lot of details in his movie once again but only good connoisseurs may detect all of them. In one scene, the new Django Jamie Foxx sits next to a bar and an old guy who spoke Italian asks him his name and how it's spelled. Well, this old guy is Franco Nero who portrayed Django for the very first time and that's what makes this scene so funny as he knows off course how this name is spelled. If you recognize Franco Nero, you will laugh out loud during that scene, anybody who doesn't know him may just find that scene overlong and strange. A similar event happens towards the end when Tarantino appears himself as an actor which is another funny moment.In general, this movie has a lot of humour once again that contrasts the long dialogues as well as the detailed killing scenes. This aspect works very well thanks to the acting of Christoph Waltz who is just amazing and incredibly diversified. He's not as great as in "Inglorious Basterds" but comes very close and would deserve one more Academy Award for his acting in my opinion. That being said, the actors simply do an incredible job in this film. Jamie Foxx is a quite diversified character and one really cares about his fate until the end of the movie which is very important. Samuel L. Jackson plays a great villain and does it in a very credible way. Leonardo DiCaprio happens to play in more and more dark and mature films and convinces once again as unpredictable maniac.This being said, everything about this movie seems to be perfect but one very important thing is missing: the story. The movie has no twists or surprises and also includes many lengths after a strong beginning and just before an explosive ending. These lengths include the scenes on the way to Candie Land or several dialogues inside the mansion. These scenes are only saved by the strong acting by Waltz, Jackson and Co. but would ruin a movie if they were done by average actors. This movie would have been much more fluid if it was cut down to two hours of running time. The original Italo Westerns like "Once Upon A Time In The West" had better story lines and a few mysterious characters that would only reveal their true intentions in the very end that are missing in this modern adaption.Nevertheless, apart of the story line and the lengths, this movie is a definite must see and lovely done homage to the era of Italo Westerns. Any fan of Tarantino should be satisfied with this flick even if it's not his best and even if there were a couple of better movies than this one in 2012.


                
Quentin Tarantino provoziert mit seinem prätentiösen, gewaltverherrlichenden Werk einmal mehr Diskussion und Aufsehen. Von der gewohnten Intensität an Brutalität abgesehen, wird als heikles Thema die Sklaverei nahezu grotesk inszeniert. Leonardo DiCaprio, als überambitionierter Sklavenbesitzer Calvin Candie, beweist uns wie sehr doch Schauspielkunst unsere Perzeption überlistet und präsentiert sich als frankophiler Plantagenbesitzer der der französischen Sprache nicht mächtig ist. Als Hybrid profiliert sich Christoph Waltz nicht nur durch Sprunghaftigkeit bezüglich seiner Profession, aber auch seiner Rolle. Vormals Zahnarzt, jetzt Kopfgeldjäger, streift der Deutsche Dr. King Schultz durch den Wilden Westen und scheint gekonnt zwischen der Rolle des führenden Lektors, als auch der des Sidekicks zu transzendieren. Durch die Vorstellung Djamie Foxxs (<U+0084>Das D ist stumm") als Django, setzt Tarrantino seinem Film die Narrenkrone auf. Dies wird lediglich durch ein skurriles Aufeinandertreffen mit dem Django-Original Franco Nero übertrumpft. Und doch: Voller Action, überraschender Wendungen und sensationeller Besetzung wirkt Tarantinos Hommage während seiner 165 Minuten kein einziges mal langweilig oder zu lange.
One of if not THE best movie I have ever seen. Not only is the scene throughout the movie very well presented but so is the fabulous acting. All the roles were played GREATLY. Leonardo Di'Caprio is not bad at being the bad guy, but I am just too used to him being the good guy :\. Christopher Waltz was my favorite. Jamie Foxx did well too. I think that this was a well thought out movie. The reason I gave it a 8/10 instead of a 10/10 is because it was lengthy. Which isn't bad but I personally can get impatient and there were parts of the movie I thought it would end but then the twist just went on. Also some of the no-aim shooting was a "bit" unrealistic.


                
Having built himself up as one of cinema's great auteur directors, Quentin Tarantino has struggled to surpass his finest achievement Pulp Fiction which became iconic for its constructive dialogue and fascinating characters when it was first released back in 1994. Though the likes of Jackie Brown (1997), Kill Bill I & II (2003/04) and Inglorious Basterds were generally well-received, they lacked the audacious elements of his second 'masterpiece' (his first being Reservoir Dogs!). However his latest film, the violent western Django Unchained, manages to reclaim those specific elements as he chooses to revive the 'spaghetti' sub-genre and blend it altogether with gratuitous violence as well as paying homage to several lesser-known westerns. There is also the small matter of its versatile cast which includes Jamie Foxx, Leonardo Di-Caprio and Christoph Waltz while awards recognition has already been sprung on the film including a couple of Golden Globe wins and several Oscar nominations. Mr Tarantino, you had my curiosity, now you have my attention<U+0085>.In the Deep South of 19th Century America, a slave named Django (Foxx) is rescued from capture by a charming but deadly dentist-turned-bounty hunter named Dr. King Schultz who decides to use him as a partner. During their pursuit of a couple of rival bounty hunters, Django reveals that once he is free, he intends to find his beloved wife Broomhilda (Washington) who has been forced to work under sadistic plantation owner Calvin Caddie (Di-Caprio). The pair travel to Caddie's home as they look to try and negotiate with him about taking on a bounty even though their main objective is to rescue Django's beloved from her suffering. However when things turn nasty, our slave-turned-gunslinger instigates one final confrontation to try and save his wife once and for all.As he did with his depiction of World War II in Inglorious Basterds, Quentin Tarantino presents an equally gritty look of the Old West as he relies on old Spaghetti Westerns to influence his film-making through its plot and misc-en-scene. The latter in particular sees him use a Ennio Morricone-style score that is played throughout the film which lends a nostalgic feel to the days of classic Sergio Leone-type westerns. A running theme that is beginning to occur in the maverick director's filmography is revenge which shows up here again as Django vows to find his wife but decides to take down those who have troubled the pair in the past. This is all graphically conveyed by the violence, a key part of Tarantino's films, as his illustration of brutality reaches an all-time best courtesy of the constant blood and gore which occurs throughout. He also refuses to ignore the shocking treatment that the salves endured as he places the Southern mansions and 'mandingo' fights into the film to remind us that this was a traumatic period for the African-American race and that while things are better now, there is no moving away from what went on all those years ago. But amidst the scenes of violence and long-drawn dialogue from the slick script, we do get some light-hearted relief particularly in one scene where a gang of KKK members (including Jonah Hill in a very brief role) have a frank discussion about the uncomfortable masks they wear. It is these type of moments in the film that makes us realise that the director is having a lot of fun as he did with other comical moments in his past productions. Another key trademark is having a black and white duo as the leading characters which worked out well in Tarantino's renowned Pulp Fiction as the heart-warming friendship between our two heroes allows us to root for the pair as their story progresses. Jamie Foxx has a lot of fun in his role as Django as he mixes empathy and coolness to his portrayal of a man who eventually develops himself as a bad-ass hero. However he is overshadowed by his more versatile co-stars including the recently Oscar-nominated Christoph Waltz who is terrific as the charming but deadly killer who initially starts out as an anti-hero but becomes more compassionate about the mistreatment of slaves in the film's final quarter. A complete surprise is the villainous turn from an-against-type Leonardo Di-Caprio as he tackles the role of the unhinged Calvin Caddie whose vicious and disturbing personality is truly terrifying to watch compared to Di-Caprio's previous on-screen portrayals. Just as tyrannous is Samuel L. Jackson as the vindictive and loyal butler of Caddie who is more prepared to betray his own race rather than to help a fellow 'brother'. The stunningly-beautiful Kerry Washington is sadly reduced to being the helpless victim who uses her facial expressions to show her fragile side and is never given much of a chance to shine but is still an alluring sight nonetheless.One major criticism that does detract Tarantino's directing style is his excessive use of racial language which is driven to complete overload as the 'n' word gets spoken hundreds of times. While this was a tough period in US history that was blighted by the harsh treatment of African-American people, it is bound to unsettle some audiences who won't be prepared to handle a film which overwhelmingly uses countless racist dialogue. Think of it as a dramatic (and present day version) of Blazing Saddles! The director also makes the bizarre decision to use a strange Australian accent in his short role (something he has done in his previous films) which isn't necessarily needed considering the time the story is set but at least he gets an explosive send-off! Despite its overly use of the 'n' word, the D stands for delightful as Tarantino's latest violent spectacle tackles the Old West with true grit and influential-style while the likes of Foxx, Waltz and Di-Caprio saddle up and give roaring performances.


                
Why you shouldn't see it:If you've seen Inglourious Basterds and thought once was enough, you're not likely to find much worth reviewing here. This is another of Quentin Tarantino's fantasy revenge flicks, of the sub- genre that rails on systemic injustices.Beyond that, there are a number of pretty obvious reasons that will probably jump out at you right off the bat, even if you haven't seen the movie. Most of these reasons boil down to whether or not you are comfortable with confronting humanity's occasionally (or frequently, if it's the deep south in the 1850's) ugly nature. This is a movie that makes white Americans uncomfortable with being white Americans in much the same way that Basterds probably made German non-Jews uncomfortable with being German non-Jews.This film unabashedly displays outrageous racism and almost cartoonish violence (frequently using the high visual contrast of bright red blood spattering on bright white set pieces). Two things that, like it or not, are prevalent recurrences in the way mankind has conducted itself through the years. If you like to close your eyes, cover your ears, and sing "The Song That Never Ends" when you're confronted with either of these things, because you like to think happy thoughts about the good ways in which people treat each other, this movie is not for you, and you will likely find it a tremendous waste of your time. Unless you really like singing that particular song, I guess.Why you should see it:It should be noted, however, that the way that Django and Basterds make an individual want to check his cultural baggage at the door is wholly unrelated to the way in which movies like Amistad and Schindler's List do the same thing. While the two Spielberg movies make you take a magnifying glass to our past somewhat against your will, the two Tarantino movies are more like your charismatic buddy who comes along and says, "Hey, check this out."Django takes American slavery, shines a bright light on it, and hands it a microphone so that it has the opportunity to show what it's about. In a way that possibly only Tarantino can do it, the movie takes a dark subject matter and turns it so ridiculous that the audience can't help but have fun with it. Everyone in the theater found a measure of satisfaction each and every time a slaver died, regardless of the colors involved. The movie also adds a sort of vindication for those of you who saw Basterds and would have rooted for Colonel Hans Landa if not for your disparate stances on the right of Jewish people to remain living. Pretty much the same character seems to travel back in time to strangely play a more (his name is Dr. King) or less (he's a white German) proto civil rights advocate whom you can really get behind and cheer along.There are a couple enjoyable moments that sort of jarringly take you out of the main thread of the story with their surprising cameos and/or humorous observations on otherwise revolting situations. I'm not necessarily a fan of Jamie Foxx or Christoph Waltz, as I find the former unmemorable and the latter both lacking in range and somewhat creepy in the one role that he has settled into. But in this movie, Foxx does a good job of taking his dynamic role and morphing the character throughout the course of his story arc, and Waltz is more fun when he's "on your side" (which, ironically, is the side that kills people like you if you're white). I will say, however, that the acting highlight of the movie for me is Leonardo DiCaprio going largely against his type of controlled and almost closed characters in other movies to boisterous and cartoonishly evil in this one.In Short:I had originally started writing this post by going on a long rant about Quentin Tarantino when I realized I hadn't really said anything about the movie itself. And maybe that's the point. Most of you already have a pretty good idea whether or not you enjoy Tarantino movies. I ended up giving this one an 8 out of 10, and I recommend it as a good watch.Exceptions to the recommendation: if you're someone who knows for sure that you just don't appreciate QT's work (which probably means that you just don't appreciate film and the history thereof (and may God have mercy on your soul)); if you're one of those aforementioned people who sometimes struggles with harsh realities; if you're someone who sometimes struggles with revenge fantasies; if you hate seeing Quentin Tarantino try (active word) to act; if you're a white person who sometimes forgets to apply your filter and uncontrollably repeats things that you think are funny; or, by extension, if you're an impressionable young child... hold off for a bit, and I'll explain when you're older.


                
I had high hopes for this movie as the best of 2012, but Tarantino went too far in paying homage for his favorite genre "Spaghetti Western" which was invented by Sergio Leone, to the extent that the movie emerged too cheap and slow-paced. If U haven't seen this genre before, you'll say it's a very good movie, but for me, nothing new here. Nothing of great significance here except the music and a handful of scenes.As for the scenario, it was a shallow one, not like what i expected from Tarantino as he always pushed the envelope too far in his perspective regarding the themes he presents in his movies (e.g. Inglourious Basterds) and which is a characteristic of QT that made him distinctive, and sure not an Oscar-worth-nomination scenario. As for Performances (which was the second element that disappointed me), no one gave a captivating performance except, and to my surprise, Samuel L. Jackson, which did a fine supporting role deserves recognition, Jamie Foxx wasn't the suitable lead, he didn't give a performance to engage the viewer with his story as the black hero trying to free himself and his wife from slavery; Waltz gave a weaker performance that his previous effort in Inglourious Basterds, DiCaprio did a good job but not what i expected from what i saw in the trailers due to his one dimensional character, the only role that took my attention was Samuel L. Jackson as Steven the Butler. Tarantino made an appearance which is the worst I've ever seen. What i said earlier concerning the scenario, can be said for direction; the movie lacked Tarantino's special view in direction which we usually see in his movies, even the camera work wasn't that special. But to be fair, this is the first time to be disappointed by a Tarantino movie, but as they say " a horse may stumble."


                
My biggest complaints about "Django Unchained" are ones that really won't matter to most people who see this film. After all, just about everyone knows that Quentin Tarantino's films are incredibly bloody, gross and self-indulgent. So, when you see a billion gallons of blood and bodies flying everywhere, you are not really surprised! This one does go a step further--there is some full-frontal male nudity and a few of the scenes were so gross and gratuitous that Tarantino has outdone himself. But still, you KNOW ahead of time that this is not a film to show your mother, Father Jenkins or your 6 year-old!! However, HOW far it goes will limit the film's appeal--you can be sure of that. Evan a large number of adults would be unable to stick with this one...it's THAT violent.The film is, in some ways, like an Italian western. I loved that much of the music was done by Ennio Merricone--the same guy who did music for such classic spaghetti westerns as "The Good, The Bad and The Ugly" and "Once Upon a Time in the West". It was a major plus. I also liked seeing that one of the many wonderful cameos was by Franco Nero--the original Django. But, if you think that this is a modern Hollywood version of an Italian western, you are mistaken. PARTS of it are--most is not. In fact, despite the western clothing on so many of the characters (anachronistic, actually), the film is mostly set in the American South just before the Civil War. People just didn't dress that way at that time and in that place. The film is, at times, sort of like a blaxspoitation western in style as well.What did I like about the film? Well, it was never, ever dull. The film never really gives you a chance--even though it clocks in at 2 hours and 45 minutes. Second, as I mentioned above, there were a lot of cool cameos--and some were real surprises, such as Tom Wopat and Bruce Dern! Third, although it was vile, the language was dead on--no politically corrected phraseology in this one! Nasty and blunt, that's for sure. Fourth, although it was really violent and gross, I will admit that there is something very satisfying in seeing all these racist jerks killed so violently. It appeals to the lowest instinct in us...but on a primal level is IS appealing. Finally, the acting was quite good.What didn't I like? Well, even for a Tarantino film it was violent---very violent. Also, I definitely agree that the first hour or so of the film was MUCH better. It was better paced, less indulgent and more enjoyable. The film did become a bit of a free-for-all blood-fest near the end and the 'mandingo fighting scene' was unnecessarily nasty. Still, if you have the stomach for it, "Django Unchained" is a heck of an enjoyable film.By the way, I did a little research and there appears to be no such thing as 'mandingo fighting'. This was made up for this film.


                
I went to see this after weighing up a number of reviews from different sources. I can only say I wasn't disappointed, but despite the film's strengths it has one major weakness. I'll try to outline these without spoilers.Strengths: (1) Outstanding performances from Leonardo Dicaprio, Samuel L. Jackson (both a big surprise as baddies and proving the versatility of these actors), plus Christoph Waltz was the most engaging character in the film, and Jamie Foxx was very good too. (2) Some excellent set- piece scenes, especially in the first half - the scene where Schultz meets Django is hilarious. (3) Also surprisingly, a really, really earnest attempt by Tarantino to grapple with the slavery issue on a visceral level. To criticize him for his use of the 'n' word and excessive violence is to miss the point. This is what slavery was like: nasty, brutal and racist. The film depicts the horror of slavery in all its repellent detail, and should be commended for this, not criticized.Weakness: Only one, but it's a biggie. The last part of the film, from the conclusive interaction between Dicaprio and Waltz onwards, lost me emotionally, where I had been very involved up to that point. After this it became cartoonish (perhaps deliberately?) and instead of the ending being moving it just felt empty. The scene with the Australians, for example, was just silly, not believable, and not even funny at all. That Django was even in that position after what he had done not long before was ridiculous. Although Tarantino has cleverly avoided falling into cliché, I don't think the resolutions he came up with were convincing in terms of some of the characters' motivations. There were other options, which one can identify simply through memory of several Clint Eastwood spaghetti westerns. The outcome could be the same, but the method of arriving at it needed to be more believable.I think, like so many directors and writers, Tarantino has struggled to get the ending right. Despite many claiming that the film is too long, I think in the end Tarantino actually needed to develop the denouement at greater length and more satisfactorily for it to have any emotional or intellectual bite. Kill Bill 2 suffered severely from similar problems.Overall, then, a very worthy attempt at a revival of the spaghetti western (one of my favourite genres), but the script would have needed a redraft in the last third.


                
Dr. King Schultz buys the freedom of a slave, Django, and trains him with the intent to make him his deputy bounty hunter, but both have common intentions..Instead, he is led to the site of Django's wife who is under the hands of Calvin Candie, a ruthless plantation owner...One cannot deny the fact that Tarantino can write a brilliant screenplay, no matter what the quality of film (Inglorious good, Death Proof not so) there is fluid, almost poetic dialogue, that keeps you fixed to the screen no matter what the actors are talking about.For example, Inglorious and the opening, Pulp Fiction and the pocket watch, and Reservoir Dogs and the beauty of Madonna.Here is no different. From the explanation to the Marshall why King killed the Sheriff, to the facing screen explanation of a slave camp by Jackson near the finale. Ir's all electric stuff and is as good, if not better than what he has done before.Again, one thing the director can do, is get performances from actors like no one else.Dicaprio has never been better than he is in this, his Candie one of the most colourful and sadistic of Tarantino characters I have ever seen, and Jackson too, funny and Scary in equal measures, it's a shame the Academy hasn't recognised him for this, it's his best performance.Waltz is on a par with Inglorious, and ironically Foxx is the weakest link here, having the blandest dialogue, and not really owning the film until Candie and King are long gone.The action is intense, and the final act in the house is well worth sitting through the run time.And this is one of the films biggest problems, it's way too long. we have a 105 minute cracking movie about vengeance, with an hour of bothersome exposition thrown in. Yes, we like the references to everything exploitation, but those movies didn't feel like a chore every now and again.Then we have the obligatory director cameo, which is terrible, and ruins the flow of the film slightly.Other than that, it's still a great movie, with some career best performances and dialogue that is too die for.
The two movies remind me so much of one another that I had to post this. From the blend of cultures and tales, to the improbability of the plots turns, the Stormtrooper effect-like ease with which non-major characters are defeated, and the scathing intensity of the villains, both of these parodical revenge-rescues flicks must be drawing largely from the same rich narrative traditions. Unsurprisingly, the character of Django is like Westly in many ways, from their unflappable confidence, to coming back from "the dead", and riding away victoriously on horseback from the fortresses they assaulted at the end. Gets fewer stars than I gave TPB simply because QT needs too much time to accomplish all of this and should learn to trim some epicardial fat.
John Ford , in his use of the western, was trying to reach a higher level of cinematic art. He was digging deeper into the myth of the West searching a more significant meaning than the usual cowboy movie. Tarantino in Django Unchained does not dig into the myth of the West, but in the pop culture of the Spaghetti western. And where he most succeeds is in the blending of the pop, but tragic mood of the Corbucci western, Django, with a shocking look into slavery. With the passing of time, people tend to absorb barbarities of the past, which we should never forget. By having a look at the racism and mistreatment of slaves, and the phony rationalization behind it so well presented, like in the great performance of Leonardo DiCaprio when he shows a human skull at the dinner table, Tarantino shocks the spectator, with a tremendous intensity. At the same time , by using the western genre which once again proves to be very popular he manages to relate with people all over the world. And in the main scenes with Cristopher Waltz I felt the adrenaline like I hadn't in a western in the last 20 years.


                
In this his seventh feature film, Quentin Tarantino has made it very clear what he's all about. The auteur's hallmarks litter the frames of "Django Unchained," the closest he's come to making a film in the style of his favorite genre (arguably, but it's not really a contest) — the Spaghetti Western.Watching "Django," it's clear how comfortable Tarantino is behind the camera in this Southern-set Western environment and with the characters he has created/molded based on his many influences. It would be a surprise to learn that this film was anything but one of the easiest filmmaking experiences of his career from a creative standpoint. He's a master of genre filmmaking, of giving his audience exactly what it wants (and at this point his fans exactly what they expect), and "Django" is consequently a breeze to watch.Jamie Foxx plays the titular hero, a slave who in the film's opening is purchased somewhat violently by the German bounty hunter Dr. King Schultz (Christoph Waltz). The two strike a deal that if Django helps him track down and secure the bounty of three men whom only he can identify, Schultz will not only give him a cut, but help him find and rescue his wife, Broomhilda (Kerry Washington). In the process, Schultz trains Django to be a good shot and a quick draw.It's Schultz who dictates pace and tone of the first half of the film, however, not Django. Just as he did for Tarantino in "Inglourious Basterds," Waltz dominates every scene he's in during this first act, dancing loquacious circles around all the other actors and using his charm and wit to turn the tension and conflict into putty. He's not as impressive as he was in that Oscar- winning role, but that could easily be attributed to the fact that his character is a good guy, not malevolence in its purest form.Django as a character comes into his own in the final act of the film when all the cards are on the table, or as would be more appropriate to say in a Tarantino film, the you-know-what hits the fan. That's not even a semi-spoiler, by the way, because it's Tarantino's M.O. — you know not to panic if you're over two hours in and there hasn't been all that much bloodshed. Anyway, Foxx thrives when Django is finally "unchained," but he's written rather curiously until then. His motives are simple enough (love and vengeance) and being a former slave the sympathy card is in play from the first shot of the film, but he's not written to be the most likable of heroes. He's a quiet partner for much of the movie who begins to slowly speak up more, and the things he has to say are brash and frankly a bit cocky. It's clear he'd rather start shooting sooner than talk, which will make you antsy up until the trigger gets pulled, in both a good and bad way.Tarantino doesn't wield as much suspense in "Django" as in other films. The stakes were so much higher in "Basterds," for example, perhaps due to the wartime, undercover nature of the plot and the involvement of Nazis. This made his lengthy scenes and fluffy dialogue keep you even more on edge, which happens in Django but not with the same sense of urgency. Instead there's a lot of racial tension, and while that adds an interesting side commentary, it doesn't have any bearing on how the events will ultimately unfold."Django" is also much more predictable than Tarantino's pervious films, but that's not necessarily a bad thing. None of the turns of events will be shocking, especially if you've ever seen a Tarantino film before. A lack of surprises always lessens the impact of a film, but there's a certain comfort and pleasure in knowing what's around the corner, because the result is absolutely satisfying.The biggest wildcard of the bunch is Leonardo DiCaprio as Calvin Candie, the Mississippi plantation owner who Django and Schultz discover owns Broomhilda. Not appearing until late in the film, we don't get to spend much time getting to know his character, so when he flips a switch it comes with a significant impact on the tone and the flow of the film. Still, there's not enough depth there for Candie to be a true villain, just a colorful one. Samuel L. Jackson is terrific as his housekeeper, Stephen, as well, but his and Candie's character arcs are disappointingly short. While Django is always motivated by Broomhilda from the start, there's no antagonistic thread that runs from beginning to end to make the payoff more than just carnally satisfying.As a piece of entertainment, if you're a fan of genre films, straightforward revenge-based premises or Tarantino, "Django Unchained" is nothing to complain about. It's expertly filmed, cleverly written, gloriously violent, funny and wholly satisfying. As obvious as it is in its methods from time to time, it never loses its stylistic edge and never falters in the mechanics of good storytelling. Tarantino is capable of being more clever as a writer and more dynamic as a director, but he puts all his best skills to use in "Django" and it doesn't disappoint.~Steven CThanks for reading! Visit moviemusereviews.com


                
This film is about Django- a newly freed slave who teams up with a German bounty hunter killing wanted people and claiming the rewards. The two of them then set out together on the mission of finding and rescuing Django's wife. This film includes a great cast with some well known actors playing very different roles. Jamie Foxx was endearing as the determined and likable main character. His German partner was also very likable and provided comic relief throughout which was nice when it was quite a dramatic film about serious issues. Leonardo DiCaprio portrayed his character fantastically and he really made some of the scenes with his brilliant acting. The story line is quite powerful and there were some very shocking and gory scenes in this film but because of the topic of the film those scenes just had to be in there.I think this is one of those films which everyone has to watch and at least give it a go. It is definitely memorable and despite it being a very long film, it is worth it.


                
Django Unchainted is probably one of the greatest modern westerns and one of the best films of 2012.The film has a lot of things to enjoy.It has an interesting,original plot that will make you feel like it is a spaghetti western made in the 60s but also has the right amount of modern touches like having some humour(besides that the film is mostly a drama) and that it shows the racism that existed at the time and how white people treated black people at the time.The film has great action sequences(especially some shootouts that were amazing) and has some gore and violence.It has incredible dialogue and amazing performances by Samuel L Jackson,Jamie Foxx,Leonardo Di Caprio and Christoph Waltz.The characters in the film were interesting and developed.Django's character was the most developed in the film.His actions and emotions were justified by his tragic past and he was lovable and the film made you care for him.The antagonist Calvin Candie played by Leonardo Di Caprio was interesting,intelligent and menacing and Christoph Waltz's character Dr Shultz was also very intelligent,likable and entertaining. It goes without saying that Quentin Tarantino's directing in the film was masterful.If you haven't see this you really should but I am sure that you already have seen it a thousand times.


                
Like director Quentin Tarantino's earlier movie, "Inglourious basterds", this one is about the return of the repressed. In the earlier movie, that was the Jew, with the added twist that this time he was taking the fight up to Hitler! This time, it's the negro slave just before the American civil war which outlawed slavery. Not sure if Tarantino has mined all the wronged ethnic groups...Jews and black Africans...that's it, surely? Stay tuned. In any case, like "Inglourious basterds" this is a highly entertaining day dream of the "What if...?" variety. A revenge fantasy in other words.The story involves a secret bounty hunter (Dr. King Schultz, played by Christoph Waltz) who poses as a travelling dentist, in order to find his latest targets, three brothers wanted for murder and robbery. He needs somebody who can identify the brothers for him, so needs a slave to buy who knows them by site. That turns out to be Django (played by Jamie Foxx). Schultz is a German and has an 'innocent abroad' way to him, as far as America's slave system goes. He marvels at people's reactions to what Django does when he is with him. It is curious to me why Tarantino chose a German to be in this role. Having recently watched the interesting documentary series "Civilisation: Is the West history?", I know that Adolf Hitler's views on race were shaped by a German 'scientist' in colonial Africa...in the late 19th century. This link came to me in a scene involving a skull in this movie...there is a very horrific story in the documentary series concerning this German 'scientist' and an African woman, also concerning the creation of a skull.Anyway, despite Schultz being no advocate of slavery, he realises he needs this cover for his bounty hunting activities (his main cover is that of being a dentist)...Django will play the role of his servant. For this reason, Schultz helps turn Django into an effective bounty hunter...a skill that will become useful to him as Django seeks to reunite with his wife, Broomhilda von Schaft (! played by Kerry Washington), who is a slave on a notorious plantation.In Hollywood movies or TV series of decades ago, you would often see African Americans in roles...as slaves or as house servants in modern set stories. For the latter, particularly, it's not clear to me exactly what the meaning of this is...that African Americans have 'improved' their lot in America? That they are now treated better by white Americans? There is no such mystery in "Django unchained". Django is the unconventional hero with a quest...where he gets to kill white people. Unthinkable decades ago in US pop culture...that would ordinarily make the character a villain.Things I liked in this movie: * A collage of visual styles, taking their cues from genre movies or movies from other countries.* The visual aesthetic of place...e.g. the boggy Main St. in some tiny town...it really made the place look like a dung hill...which is unusual for Westerns.* Leonardo DiCaprio's gaze of searching intensity on Django (DiCaprio plays Calvin Candie, a notorious slave owner who Django must deal with in order to get his wife returned to him safely).* An interesting question asked by Candie to his dinner guests, where he uses a human skull as a prop. Be interesting to know if the answer he proffers was the 'intellectual' explanation of the day. It's this scene which brought to mind the scene in the documentary series "Civilisation" and the question of why Tarantino had a German play the role of the bounty hunter. Irony? * I especially liked the scene where Big Daddy (who I didn't realise was played by Don Johnson...hey, I never watched "Miami vice"!) discusses with one of his female slaves how she should treat Django...it's witty and shows real human character and psychology at play. Good screen writing that.* There is also humour in Django's early fashion sense, once he becomes part of Schultz' quest to claim the bounty on three brothers.* Speaking of actors I did not recognise...I had heard that Samuel L. (for "Ladies love..."?) Jackson was good in a disturbing role in this movie. I was enjoying the humour of a certain character in this movie and then...it dawned on me that that was Mr. Jackson hisself! Most amusing was his character's paraphrasing of William Shakespeare's Richard III (who, by the by, has recently been discovered under car park in England!). Other points of interest: * I was browsing a newsagent magazine rack and noticed a feature on this movie...there was a particularly horrific picture from the movie...it might have been on the cover of this magazine, which was a horror magazine. Glad to say that this scene is not in the movie...even though the movie is bloody and violent, this particular shot (which I assume to be in the slave fight scene in Candie's mansion) was just too gruesome, in an over the top manner. Which begs the question: has the Australian release of this movie been censored? If not, is that scene to be included in some 'director's cut' of the film for DVD? * Quentin Tarantino plays an Australian in this movie...for some reason. Australian John Jarratt also is in scenes with him, playing an Australian. This just seems really random. Jarratt piles his 'Australianness' on thick and Tarantino's accent is good in parts. Well, good in part, singular. Still, Robin Williams could no doubt learn something about Australian accents from Tarantino. Which isn't really saying much! All this stuff is anachronistic, but fits in with some of the caricatures of Americana found in this movie.* Story wise, I did find it odd how Schultz' and Candie's final interaction with each other played out, considering what was at stake...beforehand, it was Schultz always advocating Django to be judicious.


                
It will be a big shame if you try to rate this movie because it's up to be rated
This is just a note to anyone who has not seen the film: yes, I'm a Tarantino fan and yes this film is very, very violent. If you generally don't like Tarantino and violence in films, this is not for you. Otherwise: watch it!!! I don't know why but all sense and objectivety is left out of 90% of the bad reviews I've read! The acting in this film is very good, the dialogue is funny and crisp, the film has a special atmosphere, the cinematography is great... It is very long and it feels long, but if you like what I'm saying, you won't be disappointed at the end.


                
I start by saying that I do not like western movies, but I love Tarantino's films. I must say, however, I imagined different apple and that fortunately mine is not a classic western film as there is a lot of blood and a different comedy. And maybe that's why I liked it. I put only eight because as I said earlier apple I imagined different much more western, then I think a couple of songs do not enter much with the film, and then because the protagonist seemed very trivial as a character in fact I preferred other secondary characters such as German dentist. Anyway, I really liked Franco Nero's cameo, it's really good.
The unfortunate death of the long-time and faithful Tarantino's editor, Sally Menke, is felt on this movie for the first time. The editing feels less sharp, less nimble and less focused. Nevertheless, the direction, cinematography, and overall tone of the film paid great homage to the western genre without tripping over itself while attempting to do so. Although a case could be made for the somewhat unpolished and short arc of Django's character, it's still very clearly a Tarantino movie in every aspect. It may not be his best work so far, but it's still worth checking it out for the cast's exceptional performance.


                
