In Quentin Tarantino's Django Unchained, there is a scene in which Django (Jamie Fox), soon after being freed by the incredibly likable dentist turned bounty hunter, Dr. King Schultz (Christoph Waltz), shops for new clothes to wear. Schultz tells Django to pick out whatever he likes. Django looks at the smiling white man in disbelief. You're gonna let me pick out my own clothes? Django can't believe it. The following shot delivered one of the biggest laughs from the audience I watched the film with. After the white man confirms that yes, he is indeed letting the black man pick out his own clothes, we cut to a wide shot of Django riding his horse, now decked out in his very own (outlandish) cowboy outfit—an all blue with white ruffle get-up. It's a great little scene that provides humor and allows the viewer to further warm up to the two main protagonists. But it also does more than that. It's a simple scene that speaks for the whole film. It's an affirmation that this man of color is now free and able to make his own decisions. The choice he made concerning his extravagantly loud outfit acts as a warning to those that plan to stand in his way—watch out, here I come, I ain't gonna be quiet no more.And the humor the scene provides echoes the entire film—it wants us to get comfortable with our hero. Tarantino knows that a man of color makes an unconventional hero in a revenge- flick—that's why he made the film. When was the black man going to get his revenge film? It's been long overdue. With Django Unchained, that film has finally arrived and it has arrived in style. Beautifully shot, wonderfully acted, and meticulously written, it's Tarantino at his most epic.


                
By incorporating a multitude of thematic Tarantino elements Django is the best Tarantino movie SINCE Pulp Fiction. Not as good as that great movie since this one is a little more bloated and less novel, it nonetheless is Tarantino's second best movie. This was great because it used many of the best aspects of the other Tarantino films. Such as the friendship between a black and white antihero (a hit-man like in Pulp Fiction but now the male bonding is as bounty hunters), also the violence art similar to Kill Bill and the Gut Warming, heart pounding, pulpy thrill of revenge against an evil like in Inglorious Bastards. There were many other aspects of Tarantino's movie in this one. To start off the complete unpredictability is what really draws you in. You really do not know what is going to happen next which is refreshing to those that frequently see movies. The episodic scenes have such a high degree of unpredictability that it mesmerizingly keeps us on the edge of our seats.There were some really amazing characters created which was not wholly due to the writer/director but the great actors who infused their talent into the roles. These characters' eccentricities were so unique that you might have never seen characters like this before. A trademark oddity in how they spoke, what they said and their ultimate actions reflected without any creative barriers the moviemaker's soul. If you thought Christopher Waltzes and Jamie Foxx's character were great wait till you get to DiCaprios and Samuel L Jacksons. You really wanted to see more of these characters despite the nearly 3 hour length of this Tarantino epic. Dicaprio's character was probably the best; he was so amusing with his warped, semi-depraved, megalomaniac eccentricity. DiCaprios acting was really good here too. Samuel L Jackson can blurt out the necessary profanities with the appropriate rawness making him the perfect actor for some of Tarantino's parts.The greatest thing is the psychological aspects to these characters and how that plays out in the scenes. There is actually a lot of psychology going on which builds multi-dimensional characters and creates scenes of intense unpredictability. There were other scenes of brilliant hilarity mocking the dark side of the old south, or genre film itself. As the movie progressed and where it could have ended well and uniquely alas a contrived scene was thrown in to showcase Tarantino's signature brand of violence art, reminiscent of Kill Bill. This weakened the movie as a whole and made it drag however it was pure fun to witness the slow motion blood splattering and detailed depiction of body parts being shot with blood shooting out like geysers drenching the place in red.I think I heard Tarantino is criticized for rehashing old movies or copying from other films. I guarantee whether or not that is the case you've never seen something like this before.


                
Django Unchained presents the larger-than-life tale of a slave named Django (Jamie Foxx) who collaborates with Dr. King Schultz (Christoph Waltz)—a German dentist-turn-bounty hunter—in order to rescue his wife from the servitude of a ruthless Mississippi plantation owner, Calvin Candie (Leonardo DiCaprio). The story begins in the US state of Texas in the year 1858—two years prior to the start of the American Civil War. The tone of the movie is set by Luis Enriquez Bacalov's original "Django Theme Song" sung by Rocky Roberts—taken as it is from Sergio Cobucci's Django (1966)—which plays with the opening credits. Django Unchained is Tarantino's tribute to the visionaries of Western filmmaking—those who conceptualized the decorated genre and more so those who prevented it from dying by reinventing it. The Western genre has always fascinated Tarantino. Right from the beginning of his career it has been his dream to make a Western of his own. Sergio Leone and Sergio Corbucci are the two filmmakers who seem to have inspired him the most. With Django Unchained, Tarantino finally seems to be living his lifelong dream of emulating his childhood idol. And what makes Django Unchained even more special is the fact that it comes at a time when the Western genre once again finds itself on the brink of obsolescence.While the classic works of John Ford and Howard Hawkes epitomize the golden age of Western filmmaking, the grotesque, tongue-in-cheeky works of Sergio Leone and Sergio Corbucci—often referred to as Italo-Western or more prominently as Spaghetti Western—clearly represent its new age. At a time when Western genre was looked upon by most filmmakers as dead and buried, Leone and Corbucci not only rejuvenated it but also changed its very face for the better. The Old West which was once governed by the tenets of pride, honor, chivalry, machismo and idealism got metamorphosed into a brutal realm inhabited by realistic, grey-shaded characters that despite their endless flaws couldn't be deemed completely devoid of human virtues. While Leone is often regarded as the master creator of Spaghetti Western cinema, people often overlook the indelible contribution made by Corbucci. With movies like Django (1966) and The Great Silence (1968), Corbucci succeeded in adding a whole new dimension to the Spaghetti Western canvas by painting a nightmarish world haunted by fascist ideologies. In fact, Corbucci's depiction of the Old West was so lurid, stark, brutal and vicious that it made Leone's portrayal appear remarkably dull and placid in comparison.There's absolutely no doubt whatsoever that with Django Unchained Quentin Tarantino consummates his trademark style—built around the uncanny combination of gore, glamour, grotesquerie, and dark humor—which is often described using the adjective "Tarantinoesque". The movie's filming style also bears a striking similarity to Sergio Corbucci's sanguinary, majestic Spaghetti Western masterpiece: The Great Silence (1968). In Django Unchained, Tarantino fiddles with history (but falls short of rewriting it unlike his previous film Inglourious Basterds) to present his own perspective on several delicate issues mainly concerning slavery. Tarantino's naked display of uncorroborated brutalities associated with the inhumane practice of slavery, especially Mandingo as its extension has given rise to discontent among certain sections of the white community. Likewise, the movie has received condemnation from the likes of Spike Lee and Tavis Smiley for glorifying the n-word in the tradition of blaxploitation films. Django Unchained features special appearances from Jonah Hill, Don Johnson, Quentin Tarantino and Franco Nero who had played the titular role in the 1966 Spaghetti Western classic Django. Tarantino's imaginative direction is well backed up by some commendable acting performances from movie's lead as well as supporting cast. Jamie Foxx delivers his best performance in years, one that is perhaps bettered only by his Oscar-winning portrayal in Ray (2004). Despite bearing several similarities to his multi-lingual part in Inglorious Basterds, Christoph Waltz portrayal easily forms the backbone of the movie. Tarantino once again takes full advantage of Waltz's polyglot abilities and uses it to great effect at different points in the film. Waltz's Schultz is basically a representation of all those white men who raised their voice against slavery and contributed to its abolition. Behind his facade of a cold-blooded bounty hunter we discover a righteous human being whose superior intellect is well matched by his great sense of compassion. He inexorable resolve to rescue Broomhilda and his sacrifice in the end inexplicably brings to mind of the great sacrifice made by Abraham Lincoln. Schultz is a symbol of white men's conscience, courage and virtue in the same way as Samuel L. Jackson's Stephen is a symbol of Black men's pusillanimity, servility and hypocrisy. Thus, Stephen in many ways is Waltz's antithesis and the movie's true antagonist. And to Jackson's credit, he plays the part with great subtlety, guile and conviction. According to this critic, it's his best performance since Pulp Fiction (1994). Leonardo DiCaprio, in a rare negative portrayal, delivers a thumping performance as the sadistic Calvin Candie. A megalomaniac who dresses with the perfection of a fop, Candie is quite easily one of the most menacing Western villains of all time. Kerry Washington plays the part of the slave-girl Broomhilda—the only major female part in the movie—with exquisite charm.Overall, Django Unchained has its flaws and suffers from anachronisms and incongruities, some deliberate and some not so. But, Tarantino still manages to pack a strong punch. From the cinematic point of view, Django Unchained is undoubtedly a lesser work in comparison to Inglourious Basterds (2009). But the audacious yet effective manner in which Django Unchained retraces the history, fiddles with it, and presents its dark side makes it an important work of cinema. Django Unchained is unusually high on style, but luckily there's enough substance to keep an intelligent viewer interested. Highly recommended!A more detailed review of the movie can be read at:http://www.apotpourriofvestiges.com/


                
Django Unchained is a Western film that is thematically about revenge against slavery and racism. The film clearly understands how terrible this condition is, thus it gets interesting to that point. Since this is a Quentin Tarantino film, he never abandons his own style. Just like any of his films, it is brilliant in craft, gives a set of memorable characters charmed by the performances, and a high entertainment quality. The journey is quite enjoyable, though towards the end it disappointingly creates a misstep but it's all good anyway. Django Unchained hasn't beat Tarantino's best but it still can be memorable and undeniably enthralling.Any movie fan, especially of course Quentin Tarantino's fans, would definitely love the experience. The most obvious reason is his pure cinematic style. There's violence, great characters, and classic filmmaking. It's easy enough to get satisfied by those. The storytelling is pretty much of a Western story can be. The film takes a serious theme that keeps the plot intriguing. It sets an uneasy context and displays the violence of those times. At the point when Schultz first reacts at Django's whip marks and the depiction of that cruel history, there's a sense that the film might go extraordinary than just another cinematic pleasure. Disappointingly, the final act suddenly transforms the whole movie into an insane sweet revenge story. It seems like it's suppose to be a fan service or it's trying to be faithful to the Western genre, but it's random from all that was set up on the first two acts. It's not bad. It's just random. Again, it's still enjoyable but it could have been better and much compelling.The performances are as fun as a Tarantino film could ask. Jamie Foxx convincingly shows the personality, swagger, and the pathos inside of Django which is great enough to the character. Christoph Waltz once again steals the show. Mostly because his character gets to do more things than Django. Waltz is just being Waltz but his performance still shines as he brings charm to the character. Leonardo DiCaprio stands out, not only because it's an unusual performance from him but he also manages to hide the unknown sinister behind the villain's awkward charisma.The filmmaking is, without a doubt, stunning. The direction shows off many styles and impressive shots. The script is witty and makes the entire film entertaining. Even from the very first sequence, you already get the sense of fascination on what's happening. The production design is classy enough to make things look good. The cinematography is indeed perfect for a Western film, and the music score fits to every scene. Everyone will definitely find the action exciting even if the bloody violence may look too splashy.Django Unchained is a spectacular cinema despite of its mistakes. At least it never avoids portraying the ugliness of the setting. The dazzling styles can't even gloss that over. There is still something missing in the end which is sort of difficult to forget, but all the strange fun, humor, and intrigue will always grip you throughout the experience. The filmmaking and the performances are already remarkable to be fascinated. It's a near masterpiece. If only it was less ridiculous and less forced at the third act. Though, this flaw isn't really that bad. In fact, it's probably one of the best looking flaws you'll see. No one could make a flaw this good like Tarantino. Overall, it has plenty of memorably great moments and achievements that indicates that the film is still amazing.


                
Quentin Tarantino is perhaps the only mainstream movie director that can give us a movie like this and still get away with it. If you can call him mainstream, that is. Perhaps commercially successful would be a better term. Or perhaps well-known. Regardless of the exact term, we don't usually see films this full of violence and gore outside of indie films. Which is a shame, because in my opinion this is an excellent film. Excellent.Though don't get me wrong. It's not a good film just because it has a lot of brutality, blood and extreme portrayals of violence. It's a good film because it has excellent characters, an interesting story and it is shot so well that you're transported right into the infamous antebellum era from the very first scene. It's a brutal film yes, but the era was equally brutal, and I give this film props for not shying away from that fact. Sure Mandingo fights might never have existed, but slavery was still a horrifying phenomenon, and this film deals with the subject admirably.The things I enjoyed the most are by far the characters. Tarantino has always had a talent for writing unusual and intriguing personalities and this film is no different. The dialogues are not quite as quotable as in his other films and there is not a clear winner for the best scene in this film, unlike in his previous ones, but the whole still holds together. The actors are equally as capable, though Christoph Waltz once again steals the show as Dr. King Schultz, which isn't necessarily a bad thing. Leonardo DiCaprio and Samuel L. Jackson are also very good in their roles. The only real nitpick I have is that perhaps the character of Django (Jamie Foxx) is a bit too bland compared to the rest of the outlandish characters, but then again he is the audience surrogate, so it kind of works. Perhaps he would have needed a bit more spice, but that's just my opinion.As for the story, I quite honestly feel that the ending dragged a bit too long. Or should I say that there was one ending too many. The film almost reaches a resolution, but then it suddenly throws in a twist that keeps it going for another twenty minutes. The twist has a purpose and it has been foreshadowed, but it still feels unneeded. But before that the film is pure gold. Especially the first hour or so, which is full of crazy scenes, intriguing character development and great atmosphere.Who would like this film? Well, if you're a fan of Tarantino, you're probably going to love this one. It's full of his unique style and visuals and the man is still going strong. If you're unfamiliar with Tarantino, you're going to like this if you're a fan of blazing action, interesting characters, westerns and/or great storytelling. However, if you're squeamish about blood, violence and gore, even by a little bit, stay as far away from this film as humanly possible. It's a film for adults, pure and simple. And for what it is, it's perhaps one of the best films I've ever seen.


                
Django Unchained (2012)(A second take at the bottom after seeing it again six months later.)What a wild, imaginative, provocative, beautiful, disturbing, excessive, nuanced movie.Is it a masterpiece? Maybe. Or yes, absolutely, as long as you can stomach some of the bloody mayhem. In terms of the core qualities of any "great" movie there is no argument here. The story is well told, filled with turns, believable in a fictional way, and entertaining. The acting is superb (or at times incredible). The photography and lighting and editing--the visual basics--are all excellent. The sound and soundtrack (including odd and wonderfully varied anachronistic popular songs) take you by surprise with their validity.The movie is overtly original in that Quentin Tarantino way that is firmly rooted in classic movie-making. It refers to older styles openly, including the ridiculously bold red lettering of the opening credits which are a little like the orange-red lettering of the first widescreen color movies in the mid 1950s. The music at times invokes spaghetti westerns, and the broad landscapes echo that (and in fact the cowboy theme takes us very close to these 1960s movies which Tarantino so loves).So, yes, this is a great movie in all these ways.Can you address the content more directly here? Is this movie about morality, about slavery and justice, about love and walking through fires to achieve it? Yes, of course it is all these things. But, many ask, does it tell the right story about these things? The first answer is, who cares? The director can say what he likes, right? Well, maybe maybe not. He can, of course, but he has to face the music of his critics because in fact movies are not just about cameras and storytelling conventions. They take on meaning, they move people to think, they cause palpable reactions.And so I'll come to the defense of the movie in the simplest ways. First of all, the ambiguity of the main character, the white bounty hunter played by Christoph Walz, is balanced and provocative and without real judgement. He's a cold blooded killer on the path of righteous judgement, a kind of John Brown revolutionary with a hankering for wealth, which he never gets to spend. Likewise the other lead, the black slave played by Jamie Foxx, is both victim and filled with bloody vengeance. It isn't automatically easy to justify everything, but it makes sense on some level, too.I realized when it was all done that the movie pulls off something I hadn't quite seen before--the real horrors of slavery. I think Tarantino "gets away" with it because his style is so exaggerated and unreal. The hyper-fable approach makes it possible to be comic and horrifying. If a movie just went ahead with a straight on with torture and brutality to show how bad slavery was, almost like a documentary, it would be unbearable, almost unforgivable. But here we see the worst kind of injustices as part of an approach that at other times forces you out of total verisimilitude, and you cringe and hate it but you go with the flow. Don't mistake things. This is one bloody cruel movie. To make people blow up with more guts and blood than usual so that it's like a comic book death does not make it less bloody. Blood will soak some scenes like graffiti art. And sound effects are used with amazing clarity to emphasize aspects like people's guts flying through the air--or, in a totally opposite way, to hear the searing sound of the ash on a cigarette as someone takes a puff. It's that kind of up and down, deeply thoughtful movie.See it? Of course, if you can stand a little over-the-top violence. It's morally sound, it's exciting and funny and fun and moving. It's beautiful. It's comparable in many ways, formally and in terms of content, to "Inglourious Basterds." If you liked that, you'll like this. I thought it amazing through and through. Masterpiece? Why not?Second take: I had a slightly less overwhelming impression this time. It's still a masterpiece of filmmaking, for sure, but some of Tarantino's decisions--what kind of bloody excess, how much to say derogatory words, how to push and pull the plot--seemed slightly contrived. As if his style was forced on the movie, rather than used to further something within the movie. I also watched Inglourious Basterds again recently, and found I still am perfectly amazed by that movie. For now, it's the better of the two (and they have a lot in common structurally, and thematically). Anyway, the rest of what I felt goes. Especially the necessary revulsion. Necessary. A terrific movie.


                
Django Unchained is about a hero who saves a damsel-in-distress. The 'damsel-in- distress' is a classic theme in literature, art and film. The damsel is usually a beautiful woman placed in a dire predicament by a villain, who requires a hero to achieve her rescue. In Tarantino's film, Dr. King Schultz, a German bounty hunter, takes great pains to compare Django to Sigurðr and Broomhilda to Brynhildr (the latter characters from the Norse Völsunga mythology). Broomhilda/Brynhildr is a stock character of fiction, particularly of melodrama. However, never in recent memory has an African American chattel slave from the 1800s been cast as a damsel-in-distress... deemed worth saving. This alone was worth seeing the movie.In Alex Haley's Roots (book and television mini-series) Kizzy is a would-be Broomhilda, a beautiful young slave woman who is savagely and repeatedly raped by slave master Tom Moore, producing a son. Kizzy becomes resigned to her fate (as Master Moore's comfort woman). Kizzy is never saved, unlike Broomhilda in Django. Another reason I mention Roots is because of the excessive use of the n-word. BET recently re-aired the mini-series as part of a holiday marathon, perhaps as a lead-in to the Dhango Unchained opening. The n-word was used in Roots about as much as it is used in Django Unchained. The n- word was what slaves were called during that time period and it was (and still should be) a term of hate. Thus, the use of the n-word in Django is more historically correct than in prior Tarantino films. Tarantino's research of chattel slavery in the U.S., during the 1800s is highlighted in the film and he addressed issues such as phrenology (measurement of the skull) and drapetomania, a supposed mental illness described by U.S. physician Samuel A. Cartwright that caused black slaves to flee captivity. At one time science was used to justify the enslavement and brutalization of African slaves in the Americas. Django is just the tip of the iceberg. The knee jerk reactions of some critics regarding the excessive use of the n-word and it being a "slave revenge" film was not helpful. I ignored these criticisms and saw the movie for myself. I applauded the performances by Christoph Waltz, Samuel Jackson and Leonardo DiCaprio, among the others. Samuel Jackson channeled the Boondock's Uncle Ruckus to an extreme degree. If anything, I felt Jackson had too much screen time. Also, there were a few pauses in action and dialog that seemed out of sync with the flow of the film. However, there were also quite a few humorous moments that kept me in the narrative. Towards the end of the film Tarantino pays homage to a beginning sequence from Sergio Leone's "Once Upon a Time in the West," when a Native woman is told to flee the scene. A long time Ennio Morricone fan, Tarantino often makes extensive use of several Morricone pieces from several 1960s film scores. The 2009 film Inglourious Basterds also uses many Morricone pieces, as well as sharing "Il Mercenario (Ripresa)" with Kill Bill.To conclude, rather than label Django Unchained as a 'slave revenge' film (bringing to mind the historical fear of revolt) I find it more helpful to think of what the film attempts to do for African Americans: offer us a fictional, historical revisionist retelling of Roots with substantial alterations in the characters, to revise views shown in earlier work. The goal, here, is not to bring or keep African Americans down but to insert new mythology into a classic narrative to elevate us and maybe even unite us.
This is a film that I couldn't help go in with some high expectations. First of all, close friends told me how amazing it was. In fact some said it was one of the best movies they had ever seen. Critics have been raving and audiences have been bubbling and now awards all over the place. Django is a great film. Its a revenge western done the only way Tarantino does it, exploitative, insane violence with a 70's Grindhouse vibe. It fits the bill in every way. You can't say you didn't know what you were in for if you know Tarantino. Its well done and its entertaining and stylish in his style. I actually hoped this would be a huge ten for me because I do love Tarantino though I only discovered him in the last ten years or so. As good as it was, I had some issues. I hate saying a film is too long because I love every second I spend in a theatre but it was a massive three hours long. It could have easily been split into two in the same vein as Kill Bill was. That being said I give him kudos for not milking a film the way so many series are nowadays. Still I think with some better editing, the film could have been chopped ever so slightly and still kept its integrity. I found a certain issue with the plot as to why Django and the Doc went through such elaborate hoops to trick Candie instead of offering him a ridiculous amount to buy Django's wife. I know I'm not the only one bothered by this plot from the IMDb boards. And finally I felt like Jamie Foxx's lead performance of the title character lacked something. He didn't feel like the hero or anti-hero. He wasn't quite as bad-ass as I expected and with two or three really exceptional performances, Foxx felt less than stellar.Jamie Foxx plays Django. He's a former slave who has been beaten and mistreated. He is supposed to be dark and brooding and he is that but sometimes he plays it too much because he seems almost monotoned and almost boring. Yes he has some scenes where he really steps up and blows away his enemies but he doesn't really shine in his role and its too bad. Foxx is an amazing actor but I felt like he missed the opportunity to really impress. I wanted more Clint Eastwood's Man With No Name or something like that. Now for the absolutely amazing performances. Christoph Waltz is scene stealing. He is truly outstanding as the intelligent smooth talking Dr. King Schultz. He deserves his Oscar nod and proves once again in a Tarantino film how great he is at making his character come to life. I like Leonardo DiCaprio, you can't deny his outstanding career, but he truly blew me away in this film. He is just simply outstanding in his role as the quick talking businessman and pseudo villain Calvin Candie. This is easily one of the best roles I have ever seen him in. The scenes with him and Waltz are magic and some of the best chemistry I've seen on screen in a long time. Samuel L. Jackson, who does everything, actually really shines in this film. He is deliciously bad and you'll love to hate his maniacal and grouchy old Stephen. Combine the three of them and you'll have the three best characters in a 2012 film hands down. Kerry Washington is decent as Broomhilda. She fits her character well but never really impresses. She is just there to fill the plot point and she does that. The supporting cast are terrific too including some stand out performances from Don Johnson, Tom Wopat and M.C. Gainey.I knew as I watched the film that it was boiling up to an all out blood splattering revenge battle and it fulfilled that 120%. No one does blood splattering revenge like Tarantino. He certainly shows a lot of style in the film and the cinematography is well done. It shows from the typical western town to a southern plantation. Much has been said about the racist content of the film but it is a product of its time. That being said I don't think there is a lot of true history behind this story. I still don't feel that it showed racism in a positive light by any means and considering the black slave is the one who literally rips every single person apart in the end...I think he gets his vengeance. If you love Tarantino then you'll be pleased with Django Unchained. It is epic in every proportion and while not a perfect ten in my books, it certainly gets honourable mention at being stylish and entertaining through and through. 9/10
As an avid fan of Quentin Tarantino, there's a level of quality that I expect from each film that he makes. I expect to connect with his characters, but not necessarily like any of them. I expect to see a film that satisfies the film geek in me. More than anything, I expect to see a film that entertains throughout the prerequisite bloated running time."Django Unchained" is nearly three hours long. But it never feels that long, it entertains and surprises every step along the way. When I first checked my watch, we were already two hours into the film. All of Tarantino's films are usually about this long. Tarantino has been having fun with fictionalizing historical periods lately. This started with 2009's "Inglourious Basterds", which was easily one of the best films of that year. My eighty-something year old grandmother, who lived through the time that the film depicted - World War II - said that if events actually happened as they did in that film, that we would be living in a better world today. I think that's a pretty high compliment, especially since my grandmother is not Tarantino's target audience. He was able to design a great story - not an idealistic view of that time period, but still a pretty fascinating one."Django" is about slavery...a taboo subject in any film, a strangely popular one, recently, as the same time period is explored in "Lincoln". It's about Django (Jamie Foxx), a slave who is bought and then freed by Dr. King Schultz (Christoph Waltz, one-upping himself from the fantastic performance he gave in "Basterds"), a dentist turned bounty hunter. White supremacist slave owner Calvin Candie (Leonardo DiCaprio) bought and enslaved his wife Broomhilda (Kerry Washington), and Django and Schultz are out to correct the grave injustice done to both of them, and this doesn't mean just capturing and killing Candie, but many others who are responsible for the trauma experienced by Broomhilda.Christoph Waltz has got to be one of the finest living actors in Hollywood. He's incredibly charismatic, but he cares about his character, first and foremost. As the prime antagonist in "Basterds", he was positively horrifying. In this film, he's the hero, but at the same time, he's anything but that. He brings humor and depth to a character that wouldn't have worked this well otherwise. Jamie Foxx does a good job as well, but I don't necessarily see him winning anything this Oscar season.I'm half-tempted to call "Django" Quentin Tarantino's superhero movie. Django is by no means that, he's an oppressed figure with no real "super powers", however he's a kick-ass guy who the audience roots for from the very beginning. He even has his own theme song! We don't know how he appears to be more literate than other slaves, and he is somehow always able to outsmart those around him."Django" shows Tarantino having slightly more respect for genre than he ever has. It's a western revenge epic, first and foremost. It's also kind of a comedy, with some of the most clever dialogue I've heard in a film in 2012. It's also a romance, displaying the forbidden love between Django and his wife. But it's first and foremost a western, and Tarantino sticks to that.This film isn't perfect, however. One thing I expect from Tarantino is well-developed strong female characters. We don't have that in "Django". I was hoping that Kerry Washington, who is also badass protagonist Olivia Pope in ABC's "Scandal", would be smart and strong-willed enough to get herself out of the problems which are out of her hands. I was hoping for Tarantino to give her some snappy dialogue, to show that her character is, like Django, superior to all of the other slaves around her. She isn't. She just kind of stands there and whimpers. She's helpless, and I wasn't expecting that from Tarantino, who has written some of the best female protagonists in film.Other than this, "Django Unchained" is a masterful film. It takes a lot for a nearly three hour long film to be engaging the entire way through, and it is. It's wickedly funny, and at the same time, extremely dramatic. With its graphic violence and filthy mouth, it isn't for the faint of heart. All of the actors here, especially DiCaprio, seem to be having tons of fun here, and it shows. Tarantino loves to fictionalize history, and if such films are as good as "Django Unchained", I think he should keep doing it. It's a vision of history that only Tarantino can bring us.Grade: A-


                
Absolutely crowd pleasing Western (okay, probably a bit too violent for some) but the artistry in mounting this epic that owes a great deal to the Italian Westerns of the 1960's does deliver on that foundational promise of the revenge Western. What elevates Tarantino's homage is the undeniably great performances he has captured from DiCaprio, Foxx, Jackson and most especially Christoph Waltz. Add the spectacular cinematography, costuming, set design and the clever but not overused anachronistic song score all underscore what is inarguably a supremely compelling story punctuated with a dozen or more memorable quotes that should be popular in the pop culture universe. Actually, I may have enjoyed this more than Inglourious Basterds and I have a feeling many others may very well also. May I also add, make the effort to see this in a theater, it is truly a stunning looking film that I feel would be singularly diminished irrespective of how large your flat screen may be.


                
Schultz performance was imperious
Foxx is perfectly cast
Leonardo just brutalA Tarrantino masterpiece


                
Filled with serious action and comedy, a lot of surprises, and sarcasm. I really can't say a lot about movie details because they're all so well made. At around minute 50 of the movie I told myself "Oh wow the fun isn't over yet!"However I'd mention that it got a very professional cast and crew that successfully approached a dark historical period in such a dangerous (sarcastic) way -- which also makes reason why some reviewers totally disliked it, leading to underrating this great movie. This is a very entertaining action movie. Recommended to be watched carefully. 9/10 and I'd give it a whole 10 if the end was less hilarious. I liked it!


                
Dejango was a very good movie overall. Even tho most people might say it is to gory or it is to sad to watch. I loved it as im watching these types of movies I just gotta think it's just a movie this isn't really happening and then I won't feel all sad while watching it. Dejango just had this aggressive feeling to it with all the action scenes and all the blood. That kind of feeling really makes me get into a movie. Dejango the main character is black so he isn't treated as well as the white people because this movie was taking place so long ago, slavery was still there. But he finds a wealthy white person who is nice to him and takes care of him you could say. I really enjoyed that within the movie. My favorite part is the last scene it's so intense with some dark humor and It is very bloody it's the best scene in the movie. Overall dejango was an amazing movie.
This is a typical Tarantino movie. The dialogue is very well written and very entertaining. The characters are brilliant. We have some strong performances of Leonardo DiCaprio and Christoph Waltz which deserved his second Oscar. If you are familiar with Tarantino's work, you probably know that there will also be a lot of shootouts. Shootouts very well done by the way, very bloody and gory, but in my opinion this is the weakest part of the movie. The movie was good enough with the characters, dialogue and the landscapes, it didn't need so many guns and explosions, but we have to accept them since this was a tribute brought by Tarantino to the classics "Spaghetti Westerns". Overall, this was a good movie. If you like Tarantino's work, then this is a must-see for you.


                
What separates Quentin Tarantino from other mainstream filmmakers is that he isn't afraid to cross the line. Others wade in safer waters, but Tarantino ventures into the deep, shark-infested waters of good taste. His films are bloody and sometimes profane, but they are always fearless and inventive. Dialogue for him can be a soliloquy so original that you wonder how he thought of it in the first place.Yet, he has never treaded more tricky waters than in his new film Django Unchained, an action western about slavery that never veers away from the ugliness of the subject. What is trickier still is that he manages to offset material that might seem offensive by making a film that is also wildly entertaining and often hysterically funny. The film ventures deep into some taboos that make you kind of wince. The film contains not only buckets of blood and gore, but also to a pervasive use of the N-word, which is peppered throughout every scene.Django Unchained, is a cornucopia of genres. It is a spaghetti western, a buddy picture, a romance, and a revenge fantasy packed so closely together that they seem to happen on top of one another. It reminds you of the old western ballads about a lone, broken man who acted bravely and whose name lived on in history, or at least in song.The story takes place is 1858 and centers on a slave named Django (Jamie Foxx) who is freed one day by the effete German immigrant Dr. King Shultz (Christop Waltz) who offers to buy him from his owners before turning them all into hamburger with his side-arms. Shultz passes himself off as a dentist (complete with a ridiculous over-sized springy tooth atop his wagon) but he's really a bounty hunter and he sets Django free in order to help him find his latest target.Shultz likes Django and sees that he has the chops to be a serviceable tracker, so he teaches him the tricks of the trade and finds him to be an eager student. He also learns that Django has a beautiful wife named Broomhilde (Kerry Washington) who was sold to a plantation to be a "comfort girl." They agree to partner up and try to find her and Shultz helps Django transform himself into, not only a brutal fighting machine, but also something that is completely unheard of in the 19th century American south: a black man of pride, skill, sophistication and intelligence. Foxx's performance is mostly made up of deep, pained looks. He can't reveal too much too soon, but you can see that the bondage of Broomhilde is breaking his soul.The trail of Django's wife makes up the film's first half. The second is given over to a grand set-piece at the Mississippi plantation called Candie Land, mastered by a dandy named Calvin Candie (Leonardo DiCaprio) who pleasures himself upon the alter of slavery, not only holding his slaves in bondage or instituting a brutal activity called "Mandingo fighting", but in head games that are cruel and unyielding. Some of this is quite uncomfortable. Tarantino's vision of The Old South is probably closer to reality than we realize. This isn't the land of cavaliers and cotton fields. It is an unyeilding landscape that shows slavery for the apocalypse that it is.Candie thinks that Shultz and Django are there to buy a fighter, but something in Django's gaze gives an aged house slave (Samuel L. Jackson) that these visitors are not what they claim to be. That leads to a long and very tricky stand-off loaded with buckets of blood and Tarantino's trademark dialogue. This is where the movie really finds its legs. As Schultz and Django find themselves in a battle of wits with Candie, we come to realize that there is more to this plantation owner then meets the eye. At a moment when he is clued into their deception and the movie seems to be dragging, out comes a brilliant moment at the dinner table when Candie reveals his racial misanthropic vision of the separation of black and white by dissecting the skull of his father's late barber, which he seems to have kept around just for this purpose. DiCaprio, ever the nice guy in movies, reveals a adept skill at playing a villain. Young, smart, good-looking, with the smile of a Cheshire cat, he seems to revel in his world of enslavement and mental bondage. It is a great performance.If Django Unchained has one weakness it may be that when it is over, there is a feeling that Tarantino has indulged himself a bit too much – his final showdown is as bloody as it gets. He loves the genre of cheap exploitation pictures and he is willing to give them every accordance that he has at his disposal. He is willing to throw everything into this film and there is a lot of material for such a simple story. It is hard to carp when in the presence of a director so eager to please. You may come away from this film with doubts, but never at any single moment are you bored or disinterested.
DJANGO UNCHAINED is yet another film I was in absolutely no hurray to see . This was mainly down to the fact I thought INGLORIOUS BASTERDS was easily one of the worst films to ever have nominated as Best Picture at the Academy Awards . An overlong self indulgent mess that wouldn't have been made if the name Tarantino wasn't associated with it . Add to this much of the reviews stated that the best thing about it was Christoph Waltz similar to what critics thought was the best thing about IB and I was under the impression I'd be watching an identical movie this time where the war genre had been replaced by a Western one and I don't like Westerns so no reason to watch what I believed was going to be utter rubbish .I went in to DJANGO UNCHAINED with very low expectations which helped a lot but much of my enjoyment of this bloody black comedy was down to seeing 12 YEARS A SLAVE . Now that was a serious true life tale on a serious subject and was totally sombre and humourless but I found myself constantly comparing the two movies with not too dissimilar themes and an identical setting in time and place . Indeed if 12 YEARS A SLAVE was the prior piece then I'd jump to the conclusion Tarantino was not only inspired by McQueen's film but was actively spoofing it . Slavery is wrong of course and laughter is the best medicine so what better antidote than combining ludicrous dialogue and situations on a serious topic ? A deconstructionist film similar to BLAZING SADDLES ? Yeah why not ? The early part of the film is very episodic and doesn't really get to the main bulk of the story until about halfway through . If you don't like the opening scene then it'd be a good idea to simply switch off because there's more than two and a half hours to go . There's extreme violence which is a homage to the great Sam Peckinpah and unrestrained racist language but neither is meant to be taken seriously in my opinion and would have liked to have seen this in the cinema if only to gauge the audiences reaction . Anyone who doesn't laugh like a drain at the over the top deaths and racial slurs might just be in danger of being called a hypocrite . That said there is a murder involving a pack of dogs that isn't graphic but by the same yardstick feels very jarring in tone with the rest of the movie and there's no indication of any humour being meant unlike the rest of the film and one wonders what point the director is making by including it ? Everyone has already praised Waltz and just to make it official his peers gave him a well deserved Oscar as best supporting actor . Everyone has also praised DiCaprio who is very much cast against type . A lot of people have praised Foxx who seemed to disappear from the radar after his Oscar winning role in COLLATERAL but he's very good here . For me the stand out performance was Samuel L Jackson as housekeeper Stephen who despite being black probably uses the N word more often than anyone else and no one can pronounce the mofo phrase entertainingly well as Samuel L Jackson . It is one of the most memorable screen performances of recent cinema and it's a great pity Waltz stole all the acting acclaim and awards for this movie . Jackson deserved a Oscar nomination at the very least I didn't think I was going to enjoy this especially since it clocks in for two and three quarter hours but as the end titles came up I found myself still wanting even more . I'd consider this Tarantino's masterwork and even found myself forgiving him for INGLORIOUS BASTERDS . Please Quentin I want some more


                
Django Unchained is a strangely funny and serious film that tackles one of the biggest issues the US has ever experienced. I do not think I have ever had so much fun watching a movie. For being rather long, time was not a concern because of the constant flow of the film. With a perfect cast, Django Unchained will blow you away. Tarantino follows up Inglorious Basterds well with this incredible film. With his strange ideas coming to life, it is hard to hate. Christoph Waltz is superb, and Jamie Foxx also shines. There is a reason that this film had so many nominations. This is my obvious choice for the best film of 2012. If you have not seen this movie, go see it now!


                
What's not to love about this film, Leonardo Dicaprio gives a brilliant performance Jamie Fox's is also fantastic.


                
Finally watched this movie all the thru and its pretty damn good. Full of action and has a bit of comedy. Definitely worth a watch if you haven't seen it yet.


                
I had been looking for a good comedy and this was so stupid and funny. The edgy humour is amazing, too bad nowadays people would cry if this was made.


                
Well, It is indeed a Tarantino Movie through and through. From first frame till the last, you can feel tarantino all the way. 
So if you are the fan of brutality and unexpected situation getting more unexpectedly worse, a true tarantino style. This is truly a gem for you.Even if you are not familiar with tarantino, go for it. Acting was great, Cinematography was beautiful. Just go for it.Multiple times watchable.


                
After all the hype, all the articles and reviews, after all the controversy over the 'n' word, after all is said and done, Tarantino kicks butt again and comes up with a terrifically entertaining movie. Notice I said entertaining and not necessarily enjoyable. There are a number of scenes that are clearly not enjoyable, in fact, downright troubling like the dog attack of the black slave D'Artagnan (Ato Essandoh) and the hot box scene involving Broomhilda (Kerry Washington). But over all, Tarantino has fashioned a well told revenge tale modeled on the Spaghetti Western genre of the Seventies. And it begins immediately with a classy credit for the 'friendly participation of Franco Nero', the original coffin dragging gunslinger from the 1966 film who's name is resurrected here because frankly, it just sounds really cool.Now here's the problem I have with folks who find racism around every corner - when a movie depicts events or themes that have racism at it's core, it doesn't mean that the picture or the film maker is racist or is making a racist statement. The entire controversy in the media surrounding the use of the 'n' word here is a prime example of critiquing the movie as a racist film. Personally, whenever I heard it used in the picture, it sounded to me like part of the era's vernacular and not as a pretext for sensationalism. So here's a question I have for the critics - when will you put Jamie Foxx and Samuel L. Jackson on the spot for their participation in the project? Are they being racist, or are they artists? Or is it only Quentin who has to answer for the film's language and subject matter? What I didn't expect from the movie was the amount of humor and comedic dialog that came along with it. The bag head scene was surreally comic and just mind blowingly funny, but you really have to listen to the dialog to get it. The guy who was upset over the critique of his wife's working on the hoods was something one could easily relate to, and yet it sounded completely ludicrous even in context. I guess you have to be a little warped to come up with something like that, but warped seems to be right up Tarantino's alley. He proves it once and for all when he has Django blow himself sky high with the bag of dynamite. Priceless.As for the violence, well it's red meat bloody and about as visceral as it gets, so if you're on the squeamish side, there are a few scenes that may give you the heaves. It's one area where the director explicitly goes over the top and much of it is quite unbelievable. I have to admit though, the 'say goodbye' scene with Miss Lara Lee (Laura Cayouette) was the best, and it wasn't bloody at all. That was one of the times the picture entered 'Kill Bill' territory.As for a recommendation, you'll just have to guage your own preferences. I'm a Western movie and Tarantino fan and there was no way I was going to miss this. Casual movie goers with a low tolerance for gore and gratuitous shoot 'em up scenes should most likely stay away. Finally, for those hung up about the media's fascination with the 'n' word, I tried keeping up with the count as the picture progressed. I've read accounts that placed the number at well over a hundred, but I came up with seventy seven myself, realizing that I probably missed a few because it's easy to have your attention diverted by other elements in the story. No reason we can't get a recount with captioning on the DVD when it comes out.
I was surprised that my wife was keen to see this, having no interest in gore nor action films. She left the cinema saying of Tarantino "He's an absolute genius".That this can be accomplished given the copious gore, ample guns and a steady supply of explosive (and expletive come to that), is testament to Tarantino's mastery. Most of the film is spent in casual dialogue, effortlessly delivered amidst knife edge tension. The racism is up front and centre, breaking new ground where Blazing Saddles feared to tread. Jamie Foxx is more lovable the nastier he gets, Cristophe Waltz is moving beyond legend status into something else entirely. While he was familiar to me, I didn't even click it was him until the movie was finished. Now of course his performance seems amplified in it's magnificence when you stand it alongside Inglorious Basterds. I read that this is the first film that DiCaprio has been in where he was not given top billing. This surprised me (Gilbert Grape anyone?) but in many ways I feel that this was one where he would have deserved it. This comes of as a career defining performance. He totally breaks his own mould. It seems Tarantino has helped him to keep his trademark enthusiasm menacingly in check until given the all clear to explode. When he does, it's sickening, chilling even. DiCaprio unchained with a scene that leaves even Waltz lost for words. For a moment at least. And what a moment!Django Unchained is Tarantino at his best and devilish worst. My wife is right. The man is a genius, and he has given me leave to order a Quentin Box Set for a month or two of great Sunday viewing with the missus. Quality time.


                
Django Unchained is another one of those Tarantino movies where you think: "Only Quentin Tarantino can make a movie like this!" It's true... And it's awesome! This movie was much better than I expected! Not that I expected it to be bad, but I just didn't expect it to be that good! It's hilarious and entertaining throughout the whole movie, and despite it's running time at almost 3 hours, the movie never lets up because of awesome lines and scenes, tons of crazy Tarantino-action, and amazing characters! Of all of Tarantinos movies, I've only seen Pulp Fiction and Inglorious Basterds. And I thought Django Unchained to be better than Basterds, and slightly up there with Fiction... And that's a huge compliment!Unchained is about a slave named Django (Foxx) who is "rescues" by a dentist named Dr. King Schultz (Waltz). In return for Django's freedom he is to help Schultz to track down and eliminate the Brittle brothers. And then Schultz will agree to help Django save his wife (Washingon) from a brutal plantation owner (DiCaprio) and his butler! Tarantino once again impresses and demonstrates to the audience, that he is a ferm and competent screenwriter, given that the movie contains lots of memorable dialog! Tarantinos direction is also very good! Although, sometimes I thought that this movie was made entirely for the fun of it! That's not necessarily a bad thing, but just saying. One of the great things about Unchained, is how expertly the story is told! You start from the beginning along with the characters, and you end the movie with the characters! I must give my congratulations to Mr. Tarantino!Much people have complained about the movies portrayal of slave trait in those days! I didn't really care because I knew it was a Tarantino movie, and he isn't one of those who think to much about how offensive his movies might be! He shot up Hitler in a movie theater, for gods sake! It's just for the fun of it!Jamie Foxx seems slightly uncomfortable in the role of Django at first, but he quickly makes up for that and evolves with the character. That may have been the point! A job well done to Foxx! The true stars however is Christoph Waltz and Leonardo DiCario who both completely disappears into their roles, and deliver every single line with finesse! Waltz deserved the Oscar nom, and Leo was robbed of one! Samuel L. Jackson also delivers a comedic and an over the top performance as Stephen, Candies man servant and butler! Kerry Washingon doesn't have much to do, but she delivers a decent performance! Django Unchained is an hilarious action movie with great storytelling, amazing characters, great performances, great directing, amazing script and action filled with CGI blood, that will make you laugh so hard! This is definitely a great movie by Tarantino! I can't say if it's my favorite, given that I haven't seen to much of his movies, but an amazing movie nonetheless! A true gift for the year of 2012!9/10


                
From the day I heard about this movie (this was still when Will Smith was in talks for the lead role), I knew I had to see it. That was almost three years ago, and finally it has come. This movie, a twisted, bloody, alternate-history story about a slave seeking revenge on his wife's captors, is one of the best movies to come out in recent memory. It is also one of the best Westerns I have ever seen, only behind Leone's "The Good the Bad and the Ugly" and Peckinpah's "The Wild Bunch". It heavily borrows from the work's of Mr. Leone, and much like Tarantino's "Inglourious Basterds", is largely a homage to his directorial style. Let me address some of the major complaints I've heard about this movie. I've heard that the movie is racist because of its heavy use of the n-word. I will not say the movie doesn't use it a lot, but this is a movie that takes place in 19th century Southern America. You don't have to be a history professor to know that this was not a kind place or time for African-Americans. Another complaint is the film's historical inaccuracy. And, while the film makes several anachronistic errors, it is important to remember that this is very much an exploitation movie. If a movie like Steven Spielberg's "Saving Private Ryan", a very serious film about World War 2, makes a mistake of this nature, then I see a point in pointing it out. But why, in a movie about a slave becoming a bounty hunter, is that important? And the only complaint I really had was the lack of clever dialog. There were many quotable one-liners, but there was a lack of the quirky and delightful conversations that Mr. Tarantino is famous for. Now the numerous things I liked about "Django Unchained." The movie borrows heavily from Sergio Leone, enough that I wish Mr. Leone was still alive so I could hear his opinion of it. It was well shot, but a scene that stood out was the final gunfight in Candyland. This was one of my favorite movie shootouts ever. The soundtrack is also incredible- there's some Ennio Morricone, a great opening song, Jim Croce, and even a James Brown/ 2pac mashup! The acting was great, but the two stand-out performances, to me, were those of Leonardo DiCaprio and Samuel L. Jackson. DiCaprio plays a fantastically over the top villain that reminds me of Dennis Hopper in "Blue Velvet", or Gary Oldman in "The Professional". Sam Jackson plays a house slave that is an interesting and unlikeable character. I particularly liked that Jackson did a role that seemed very much unlike him. This movie already picked up some Golden Globes, and with the Oscars not too far in the future, we are left to wonder how "Django" will fair. I can only hope for the best, but I believe the Oscar crowd will once again be afraid to give a daring movie such as this one the recognition it deserves.
