The primary flaw with this adaptation is the portrayal of Hannibal. The actor plays him overtly creepy, yet none of the other characters seem to notice. Hannibal would need a great deal of charm to pull off the things he does, but this guy is as appealing as a cockroach. For some reason, the autistic genius profiler can figure out everything but the fact that Lechter is a killer. And Lawrence Fishburn is sleeping-walking through this thing. Thomas Harris must be spitting up fava beans watching this. This show is hopelessly bad, a combination of cheap '70s slasher shlock and poorly, poorly miscast actors. They are flat one-dimensional figures who evoke no more sympathy than an inert sofa. I'm sure the creators had great intentions but unfortunately they were not realized in this series. Hazy story lines, strange directing but worst of all, the two main characters, Graham and Dr. Lecter, are extremely unlikable. And not unlikable in a deliciously evil way, unlikable in a I-really-want-this-to-be-over-soon-way. The two main characters, Hannibal and Graham, who are being set up for a frenemy bromance are annoying at best and boring at worst. Being a fan of the books and (most) of the movies, I had high hopes for this show. It's obvious that they didn't intend for it to be a carbon copy of the original which is a good thing but they could have at least tried to create something mildly interesting and watchable. Sad to say it wasn't meant to be.


                
Poor acting, lazy writing, uninteresting and unlikable characters, superficial instant psychological mumbo jumbo, self serving psychedelia and shock... and the soundtrack... oh, god, please make it stop!The only redeeming character is Mikkelsen, although I would prefer him to be a bit more of a charming, charismatic jester, to pull of his disguise... but he's just creepy. And where is all the smart cynicism? I guess there was no room for that in this slow, gloomy train wreck.I hate CSI, but at least it's not pretending to be something it's not. And for all the Dexter comparisons, this show starts where the show Dexter went bad, where will it end? ...I hope Lecter has them all for dinner, soon!


                
This show seems to be written by a half-witted, no-talent writer who thinks that because they saw all the Hannibal movies 20 times each, they can regurgitate their memories, rearrange things a little, and POW! we have a show. Wrong. Frighteningly bad writing here, folks!!The backdrop of this show is the long series of wildly elaborate murders by the as yet uncaught "Chesapeake Ripper."There is no indication that anyone within 500 miles of Washington, D.C. is aware of the crimes, which, if they were happening in real life, would have the entire region in a grip of terror.But it's as if every single murder is staged purely for about 12 persons at the F.B.I.There is NO WAY anyone could get away with the murders that remain unsolved.Hannibal was a suspect but they never searched his house.Will Graham is arrested as the ripper, then later released, but again, it's like no one in the entire western hemisphere notices.There is no way that 3 of Hannibal's victims: Miriam, Abigail and Beverly, would ever have investigated Hannibal without leaving ANY information about what they were doing. Especially Beverly, who basically broke into Hannibal's home, which would have rendered anything she found there inadmissible as evidence.Can anyone tell me how it works out that this certain small group of F.B.I. agents are invited regularly to eat at Hannibal's home?Mads Mikkelson's acting is one-dimensional, so boring it's almost lethal.
After a marathon of Hannibal, I can't recommend it. Yes I was compelled by the characters and the writing is an emotional roller coaster but the finale was the most unjust thing I have seen on TV. I do not understand how people can be such a fan of this. I am used to plot twists and like shows such as The Walking Dead and Dexter but those shows are nothing like this show. Maybe this is all true to the book and if so it should have been adapted. I have never been so repulsed by a show. It makes me wonder if all the fans of this show are sadomasochists. Much like the main characters, I feel the writers have crossed too many lines.


                
There really is only one way to describe this highly anticipated and controversial series. Pretentious clap trap dressed up as serious Television. Obviously inspired by the work of David Lynch (and one suspects Stanley Kubrick) it falls woefully short on every count. There are plot holes so large you could drive an Airbus through them. The only redeeming element is Mads Mikkelsen who makes the part of Hannibal Lecter, very much his own, even managing to cast off the giant shadow of Anthony Hopkins. To all those acclaiming and applauding this snooze fest as the next best thing in intelligent Television, there is a little voice calling from the throng... "But, the Emperor is not wearing a new cloak".


                
I'm just curious - how on earth this show, and many more similar ones, become "tv hits"? How on earth those shows could be meant for "adult viewer"? I mean for example "Dexter", or "Game of Thrones", or this piece of TV trash....Statement: Those shows have nothing to offer to adult viewer.Q: Why? A: Because adult viewer looks for HUMAN DRAMA. Q: And what is the base for successful human drama? A: PSYCHOLOGICAL TRUTH.Q: And what are the tools to build psychological truth in storytelling? A: OBSERVATION, EMPATHY, HONESTY.Q: And - finally - why 'Hannibal" isn't for adults? A: Because STEREOTYPING is not an OBSERVATION, COPYING is not an EMPATHY, and GORE is not HONESTY.I have managed to watch only two first episodes of first season, and I just don't want to waste more time. Bad, pretentious script with unrealistic comic-like dialogs, Which leads to: Bad directing. Which leads to: bad acting based on cheap "faces". Which leads to bad editing :)This show is for 14 year old kids with no parental guidance in terms of good taste


                
with great expectation i started to watch hannibal. After 2 episodes i got annoyed, the series is very dull boring unrealistic program i find it a big very big disappointment The character who plays hannibal actor Mads Mikkelsen plays well, no questions asked, the writers of the series however don't do their job well he just cooks and eats. And with every bite he takes we have to think about what kind of meat is laying on the table . OMG then comes Will "the super FBI agent" who just is a mental patient i mean come onnnnnnn someone like will would belong in the clinic for mental illnesses but no he is the main FBI agent i don't recommend the series i gave it a 2 because the graphic of the murders was beautiful


                
Please do not compare this series with Dexter. The whole uniqueness of Dexter is the elimination of negative characters consequently bringing fairness and pleasure since evil bastards are getting what they deserve. I might be old fashioned but wrongdoers must be always punished. Here however Hannibal is evil himself, killing for no purpose rather than pleasure. Of course he is pretentious, posh mannered and wears vintage or unusual clothing, but that's just modern perception of 'cool' and 'unique' diverting the main point of good fighting bad. There is a potential for him to get punished or bring a sad heartbreaking story explaining that his social life has forced him to eat people alive and he is a really good guy, but I just can't be bothered to wait for that small chance. Every episode is a cliff hanger and new ones randomly recall events which had happened 2 episodes ago. Very disappointed and amount of negativity bring no reward for a viewer. In addition Mads Mikkelsen is just a terrible actor. I hope the show get cancelled.


                
Nothing keeps you watching this show episode to episode and it just drags on, no huge cliff hangers and it just feels like another watered down second rate cop show. Maybe fans of the book will appreciate it more but a couple of big words and long speeches about psychology from dr. Lecter and a little bit of cooking like he does doesn't mean sophisticated or classy for me.I was expecting some deranged psychopath or something along those lines eating people. Kind of like Dexter x10. The special effects really wow you in the 5 episodes I've seen when it comes to the murders and it's cool seeing Will go into the killers shoes. The first episode had some promise but this is a show I'm not the least bit excited for to finish. The guy they got to play Will I would have got someone else I cannot take him seriously either. I see such a high rating on this show and I'm really scratching my head why. The Following was 100x better than this. The only thing going for this show is you can turn on pretty much any episode like say the simpsons gets the point across easily or some sitcom and you can watch really any episode without having to catch up.great visual effects , great scenery in some of the episodes , acting is good except for Will I guess I just hate his actor and the story I don't care for at all. Just watch Dexter , The Following , The Mentalist or anything along those lines.


                
First of, I'm Danish like Mads Mikkelsen who plays Hannibal. I don't know whats worse, his horrible English, which is impossible to understand without subtitles or his wooden acting.Why the Americans love this guy so much is beyond me. He is ugly and clearly, don't get the Hannibal character. But it might be bad directing as everyone on this show sucks, including Hugh Dancy.The show is an insult to every Hannibal movie ever made, including Hannibal Rising, a movie I did'nt like, that still manages to be ten times better than this crap.The show is going nowhere and it's boring and the gore is pointless and disgusting.


                
Why would we waste great photography/theatrical skills/glamorize murdering our own kind? Homicide rates in this country have significantly increased including those that are sociopaths. This show glamorize/sensationalize the killing of others. Why not use those visual/acting/and promoting skills to something useful like the horror of our water supply and how it is wasted by the common man. Or why not have a show on parasites and how they are related to different mental health/physical health and how to do a parasite clean out? Why not have a show that glamorize the problem of food and how it has increased in price to 75% in the last 3 years? Hannibal is stupid it teaches to hate. It teach intolerance and it insult to my intelligence. I will do everything in my power to get the word out that it is a stupid, stupid, stupid SHOW!


                
Don't believe the ratings and reviews here, they are obviously shills or written by the tasteless.This show is hot garbage just like everything else you find on NBC. IF you can't get enough of garbage shows like CSI you will love it. If you love to see NBC do Dexter, you will love it.Anyone with a brain watches it and sees right through it and knows the NBC can't do a show like this. A show on NBC will never be dark enough to make it realistic or entertaining.Don't waste your time on this piece of junk and LMAO at how desperate NBC and companies are to create fake reviews, although I shouldn't be surprised consider the millions of fake twitter fans for Gaga and Bieber. Again, this show is garbage


                
I tried twice to get through episode 1, and both times, I turned it off. I was so excited about this show because I love the Hannibal movies, with the exception of Manhunter and Hannibal Rising. Mads was a terrible choice for Lecter. Anthony Hopkins portrayed him as charming and polite, whereas Mads was rude and not charming in the least. I tried watching a couple clips from the show, but that just made it worse. The clips that I watched showed that the show sped things up much too quickly in order to throw everything from the movies in before the show's end. I saw the end scene of the final episode. They basically took Lecter's and Graham's "relationship" from Red Dragon where they were using a sort of quid pro quo system and turned it into them being in love basically. That is sick and stupid. Thank God, the show got cancelled and the writers were unable to get to a season where they brought in Clarice or a Clarice replacement. Take my advice and stick with the movies, a better use for your time.
Godawful writinglaughably bad charactersincoherent dialogue and storylinepathetic, pretentious nonsense from start to finishgore and violence for the sake of gore and violence (just like equally godawful Game of Thrones)etc etc etc etcLiterally anyone who considers this ridiculous, embarrassingly levels of terrible tripe actually "great" (as the typical tasteless trolls of IMDb have predictably come out in droves to voice as they never fail to do) well......you're factually wrong. The End X )


                
A cultured man with SMI. Those are a dime a dozen. Visit any court in session to verify. All people who give good reviews should stand in front of a mirror and read the review out loud. Verbally constipated doesn't begin to describe your feeble attempts at writing.Some are more prone to diarrhea of the mouth. Check out Bates Motel. It's a much better show than this.THere are ten lines required so here they are. There are ten lines requires so here they are. Did you know that Amazon own IMDb? Do you think the rating system is fair or stacked? Has anyone seen my innocence? Like the morning dew.


                
Only just got round to watching this on Netflix and after sitting through three episodes it seems I haven't missed much. I have never wanted to punch a main character so much as the whining, 'troubled' character Will Graham. The distorted time-lines and nonsensical incidents, stag daydreams, more stag daydreams, a killer shooting a cop in broad daylight and then leaving a witness so he can be traced, walking into a hospital and managing to get an orderly's outfit and moving a patient without any questions being asked... It's awful, just awful.


                
Man they try so hard to look smart, pretentious etc. but what happens in this show is just absurd, stupid and damn frustrating. What i really don't get why is everybody, i mean every single person that appears in this trash show , have to tell this Hannibal everything they know. And, guilty or not guilty u don't just go to this guy and share every single tiny thing with him, because everybody knows what Will accused him for, hey maybe he's not guilty but still u would have a little doubt in your mind. They try to be so smart, look at our snob killers, our pretentious cooking, annoying sounds, some little opera here and there. And how many serial killers can Boltimore have in such a short time? And of course the classic, "I'll go to investigate and tell nobody about it and then die". This has got to be one of the worst garbage i ever seen, i kept rolling my eyes like every 5 min.


                
I could kick myself rotten for enduring this total garbage, I sat through season 1 and thought, OK, this is a bit stupid but lets see how it develops, now at that point I had made my mistake, have you ever picked up a rock and thrown it over the edge of a cliff? It's drops like a bomb and crashes and lo and behold that's what happens here, it's just stupidly unrealistic, muddled, confusing physco bable trash, I just wanted it to end, please go away Hannibal, it was sleep inducing nonsense, really I'm baffled at who could have enjoyed watching this, it really is that bad, I'm in disbelief at the garbage we get to watch these days, and Hannibal sums it up especially series 3, I can't stop laughing at how ridiculous it was, shocking.
The character of Dr. Hannibal was the only good thing in the show , so realistic and consistent.
Rest of the characters was fluctuating all over the show with unrealistic reactions , new characters entered in the episodes of the last season means that all main characters lost the power to land the show at a good finale so they needed support .


                
I really, really was trying to like this show. I like Mads Mikkelsens visage but everything except that was just bad. Bad acting from all, like high school theater, pretentious, pathetic, bland, empty, emotionless, would-be intellectual gibberish. Feels so "TVshowieusly" i would cry. 1/10 for MM.


                
Whoever wrote the scene about the girl killing the elk, which becomes a whitetail deer once it's lain on the table in the cabin, wherein they begin to gut (field dress) it..... y'all need to write in accuracy and authenticity. Unless you are a city boy, you field dress, ah um, in the field. It makes the body lighter, for one thing, and the woods critters dispose of the offal so you won't have to when you get home. And you don't kill a cow elk and have it miraculously become a whitetail doe once it's on the butcher block at home. Idiots. Another reason to quit watching tv.


                
