Anthony Hopkins can be proud of having created one of the first original horror characters of the postwar era. His Dr. Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lecter has rightfully earned a place in the pantheon of legendary monsters. Hopkins was only the second actor to have won an Academy Award for playing a villain, the first being Fredric March for his remarkable performance in the rarely-seen "Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde" (1931). The American Film Institute lists Hopkins' Lecter as the #1 screen villain in movie history.When I first heard about "Hannibal" the TV series, I cringed. Each installment in the film franchise had been exponentially worse than the one before. After Ridley Scott, Brett Ratner, Peter Webber--and even Thomas Harris himself--had tortured Hannibal near to death with their increasingly idiotic sequels to "Silence of the Lambs," a TV series seemed like the sad, humiliating final nail in the doctor's coffin. Would this be "Dexter" redux, or another numbingly unoriginal CSI ripoff? Or worse, a tedious 5-season story arc following the personal trials of a young, idealistic, ruggedly handsome, perfectly stubbled Lecter as he spends 65 television hours' worth of time that I will never get back transitioning from noble psychiatrist to vengeful but justified killer? (Note to self: cock hammer, place barrel against temple, pull trigger.) Thankfully, "Hannibal" is everything I expected it not to be.I wasn't sure Danish actor Mads Mikkelsen--or any actor, for that matter--could play such an iconic character without being overshadowed by its grand progenitor (i.e., Hopkins), however "Hannibal" is so beautifully written, acted and directed that it transcends the inevitable comparisons. Hopkins played Lecter with hellish glee. He was the serial killer as prankster, a thinking man's Joker without the facial scars. Mikkelsen's Lecter is quieter and deadlier. He's almost like an alien predator, or a velociraptor in human form. When he smiles, you're probably about to die. Mikkelsen is chilling, funny, and blazingly brilliant. He totally makes the role his own, but that's not to take anything away from Anthony Hopkins. Asking who makes the better Lecter is like asking who's the best Dracula, Lugosi or Lee. They're both great, they're just different.I dislike police procedurals. They bore me. But "Hannibal" is different. There's something special about it. Bryan Fuller respects the characters and he understands the fans. He's given Lecter his first legitimate resurrection since "Silence of the Lambs," and I am completely hooked. (And to think that we still have Eddie Izzard and Gillian Anderson to look forward to!)Fantastic show. High kudos to NBC for having the courage to air it.


                
First of all, this has the BEST script EVER! a script worth to be learned by heart, the delivery, the word choice are so aesthetic.Then, the story is compelling, the BRUTALITY is tempting, the Music is fascinating, the elegance is inspiring, the cooking is appetizing ...Hannibal characterizes the natural perfection, his facial expression is so cold and lifeless yet shines with an unearthly abnormal confidence. He's a multiskilled person who has an encyclopedic knowledge, He honors his carcasses by displaying them in an artful piece and also by not wasting their organs.This series will make you have several EYEGASMS and EARGASMS ! This is not for the simple minded half wits of course !!!


                
If one can put away all the movies aside, store you're memories of them some far off vast empty place in your mind, and watch Hannibal without any recollection of the previous films, Hannibal will blow your mind! This show goes where no one has ever gone before...deep into the mind of Thomas Harris. Deep into the minds of all his characters from Red Dragon.Will Graham is a memorable character, as well as Hannibal Lector. However, I am most in awe of the Francis Dollarhyde character (which was beautifully depicted in Red Dragon novel) and can't to see the show when he comes into play. I'm curious to see who is going to play Dollarhyde.My only fear is that I hope the show doesn't get pulled. I hope NBC can continue the show and keep it afresh for each endless season. I know, it's asking a lot. I don't normally what any a lot of shows, but this one's got my undivided attention. Kudos to it's creators and cast. Brilliant work!


                
This is more than a TV show, it is a work of art. The cinematography is amazing, it is filmed beautifully and every image is a well-thought-out picture. The dialogues are deep and full of subtle meaning, as the characters mostly try to understand each other's way of thinking or try to manipulate one another. Throughout the series Hannibal and Will get to know and understand each other and as a viewer you get to experience the same thought processes, as empathy is a major theme in the show.The images with dead people are so horrific but gorgeous at the same time that you find yourself mesmerized by the beauty of death. Also, the series finale is in my opinion one of the best ever. It is truly an amazing show.


                
My favorite three shows right now are Mad Men, Game of Thrones and Hannibal, and while they are vastly different in subject and style, they share several traits that make them a cut above the rest. The writing is excellent, the acting well played and the actors perfectly cast, and all three have a production value and aesthetic that elevates them above your average show. There is a sense of perfectionism and obsessive dedication to quality by their creators, which I think is what makes their fan bases as loyal as they are. There is a sense that the authors are writing to an audience they respect. There is no spoon feeding of plot or dumbing down of dialog. Intelligent characters are consistent in their decision making; things play out in a manner that makes sense, allowing one to relax into the suspension of disbelief that is so addictive about good storytelling. Every detail is delicately handled and placed just so.Hannibal beings long before the events already so well known in pop culture due to the popularity of the films and books, so there is no rehashing of material (so far). It is delightful to watch as the characters unfold, giving tiny, succulent tastes of what is to come. The chemistry in the cast is electric, yet you can feel the camaraderie as well. The acting is of a caliber rarely seen on television, where nothing is exaggerated unnecessarily, and words are not used when a twitch of a lip or an eye flicker will do. The writing supports this, trusting the players to transmit their layered characterization and inner workings without too-obvious statements and unnecessary melodrama. While the subject matter is gruesome and intense in nature, it is surprising how beautiful everything is. In contrast to the turmoil and savagery of the proceedings, there are long shots of stunning locations and meticulously crafted sets gorgeously, perfectly lit, masterfully composed to speak as loudly as any dialog. It is the silences in Hannibal that are the most powerful to me, the long stretches of music and sounds which emote so strongly. It is a sign of great writing that I am not disappointed that when they are broken by speaking, it is to add to the tension, not break it. It is clear that this show is a labor of love produced by talents enamored of the material. With the first season half way through, there is no sign of the quality dropping and the show is seeming to hit its stride. If the ratings can keep up (it's recent acquisition by Amazon will no doubt help things along) I look forward to the show having many (7 or more, by the producer's plans) more seasons to flesh itself out. After all, the best dishes take their time to prepare, and these people take their palates deadly seriously. Even if serial killer horror shows aren't your thing, it's worth trying everything at least once. ;)


                
We have come through the last couple of years with some excellent TV programming. dialog, writing, directing, acting some of the episodes if not entire seasons trashing anything that was showing at the local megaplex. Just like most here I was highly skeptical at the idea of a made for TV Hannibal, as Robert Downey is to Iron Man and Hugh Jackman is to Wolverine.......for me Anthony Hopkins was to Hannibal Lecter. Well no more. When telling people about this show, that's what I use as an approach. When you think of Hannibal Lecter you tend to think of Anthony Hopkins. Well not anymore, what a tribute to Mads Mikkelsen that he could take this amazing pop culture character and and so firmly attach his name to it. If you have been skeptical or just not "seeing" you're doing yourself a great disservice in not checking this out. I absolutely LOATHE that comcast now charges for past seasons of network shows, but this is the only one that I would ever say is worth purchasing and viewing before season 3 gets here. Hannibal is excellent television.


                
The story is so packed with different things happening. It is forty minutes long, yet it feels closer to an entire film. It is quite fascinating and highly entertaining. It is not filled with eye candy, but with deeper dialog with some special effects. It gives the viewer a deeper insight into the borderline delusions of the main character.The dialog is fantastically written. It is a combination of imagination and horror. This blend creates a psychological horror that grips you to you very soul. The only possible bad thing that I could say about it is Dr. Hannibal Lecter (Mads Mikkelsen) accent. It should be a higher class a more aristocratic richness instead of the thick coarse German accent, but that is merely semantics.The series has a strong mentor-ship like connection between Graham and Hannibal Lecter that is improved by the clear mental instability of both. It makes you wonder what Hannibal Lecter sees for the future.The Graham character is not much like the one of red dragon, yet it is a great improvement with the modernization of him. This is a rather exceptional series and I hope to see plenty of it in the future.


                
Boy am I glad that I stumbled onto this series. I was pretty bored with all of the current TV shows which I've been watching (well, that's really only Dexter and True Blood at the moment) or they've been on break. Hannibal hooked me right from the first episode and after seeing the whole season I'd say it's right up there among my favorite TV shows. Mads Mikkelsen is a fantastic and charismatic screen presence and his portrayal of the understated and calm Hannibal is very unsettling and mesmerizing. I've loved his diverse roles in Casino Royale, After the Wedding, The Hunt and The Royal Affair and he doesn't disappoint in this show either. Hugh Dancy is also great as the tormented FBI profiler Will who can get inside the mind of a psychopath and imagine the crime occurring again. As time goes on this weighs on his psyche more and more. I loved his portrayal of a man with Asperger's Syndrome in Adam, he really seems to have a knack for portraying these kind of roles. The relationship between Will and Hannibal in the show is very interesting and filled with suspense as Hannibal subtly manipulates Will. The supporting cast is extremely solid as well. The visuals of the show are very arresting, some of the murder scenes are especially striking. I also really liked the scenes where Hannibal is preparing food and presenting it to his guests. Those scenes are really beautiful in a twisted way. One of the most critical parts about the show however is the sound design. The sound effects are tremendously creepy as is the music. They're used very effectively to create a creepy and disturbing atmosphere. There's an almost hypnotic feeling to the show's mood and tone. The killers Will faces in the show are very interesting and imaginative. I also liked that they weren't just "killer of the week" variety but that the killers are actually tied into the story in meaningful ways. Season 1 of Hannibal was really gripping and it's definitely my favorite of the newer TV shows. After such an intense season I'm really eager and excited to find out how they continue the story in season 2. However, I'm kind of hoping that the show won't go on for too many seasons because I have a feeling that it would get way too implausible. But so far so good.


                
I have to say I am very impressed with how the spin-off series of Hannibal Lector has turned out. While I was a little worried at first after hearing the idea to create a series based on the most famous cannibal in the history of film, the series have placed my fears to rest.The series follows Will Graham, a profiler for the FBI, and his journey into the minds of the darkest criminals. It is his daily job to think like the psychopaths they deal with and this has left a great toll on his mind. To protect what sanity he had left, he decided to leave. However, once he is manipulated into coming back to the FBI, he must learn new ways to protect himself from the dangerous profession he is involved in. So along comes Dr. Hannibal Lector, a psychiatrist who Will becomes close to. While Will confides in Dr. Lector his deepest, darkest secrets, he has no idea that the man he is speaking to is actually one of the greatest serial killers (and cannibals) the FBI has ever searched for.With such a dark story leading the way for this show, the fear would be that NBC just isn't free enough to do the material justice. A show such as "Hannibal" would be more suitable for cable TV channels such as AMC or FX, that would be the thought at least. However, NBC proves naysayers otherwise by showing just how fearless they can be when the time calls for it. They truly dive deep into a world that is dark and macabre in ways that even match "American Horror Story" by creating an atmosphere that is chilling and disturbing. They especially do this with terrifyingly graphic imagery. Honestly, with how far the show seems to go at times I am amazed they didn't end up having to tone things down or risk getting booted. Happily though, the show is still going strong with its wonderfully macabre world still intact.But it is the chemistry between the two leading actors that really sells the show. Hugh Dancy and Mads Mikkelsen do fantastic work in the leads. Dancy shines as the poor Will Graham. You can really see the tragedy behind his eyes as he goes deeper and deeper into a dark world where he might never come back from. And that is what makes him very different from the team on CBS's "Criminal Minds." Throughout the series you can see him as a truly broken man and what little of him that's holding together is also crumbling. All the while it almost seems he is entirely alone through this situation. However, he does have someone and that is Dr. Lector. Mikkelsen does some truly fantastic work as Lector. He brings the charisma and cultured intelligence that is Hannibal Lector to new life on screen. Of course he comes into the picture in the shadow of the great Anthony Hopkins who made this character what he is today but Mikkelsen does a great job at making this character his own. Both of these actors do great jobs at giving fresh spins to two very well-known characters. Fantastic work by the both of them.This is a great piece of television here. We find ourselves completely immersed into a world that is haunting on many levels and that is why this show works. The show succeeds by giving audiences an intelligent look into the mind of a man going slowly insane while giving us a look at one who has already gone insane.


                
The highest rated modern TV shows, tend to have taken the approach that 'bad is the new good'. The very best of these shows do not rely purely on the shock value of the darker topics explored, but on well thought out direction and acting, which is far more important for a show to have lasting appeal. The genius of Mads Mikkelsen's portrayal of Hannibal and Hugh Dancy's portrayal of Will Graham, (other than the exceptional writing), is in the complex layering of their characters which is evident throughout their performances. I would say that the tension, as well as chemistry, between the two of them, is what makes the show so gripping. This show is more of a psychological thriller than horror, although it is important to note that viewer discretion is advised due to the graphic imagery of the dead victims. Brian Fuller's vision was cruelly cut short after 3 seasons, but the brilliance of his overarching story is evident in each season. The story could have easily been rounded off in each of the three excellent finales. The ending is therefore fitting and very satisfying. This show is consistently excellent. Similarly to Breaking Bad, the build up is slow (but still interesting). The supporting cast is also consistently strong. By mid season 1, I guarantee you'll be hooked.


                
Series 1 & 2 were brilliant! And now... Season 3... What a disappointment. People who almost certainly died at the end of season 2, miraculously survive. And the fact that they just taken the movie and made a series out of it, is just a bloody shame. Series 1 & 2 had an original script with very interesting story lines. We know where series 3 is going. Watch the movie; Hannibal will be delivered to the cripple, maimed guy with the hungry pigs. I think that if the script guys don't find an original story for series 4, this show will end with this season. Such a shame of the acting talent of Mads Mikkelsen. He's a good actor and deserves a good original story. Fire the script writers or whoever decided that they should make a series after the movie.
This series promises to be incredibly entertaining. Notice the word promises. Here is why:Hannibal sees young Graham as either 1)An apprentice or someone that can follow Hannibal's footsteps or 2)As a companion in his dark path. I don't think he knows which one he wants Graham to be or what he wants. I think he will leave it up to Graham to find out.He feeds Graham human meat(Graham does not know). Graham talked about tasteless but finds the "sausage" very exciting. Funny enough Graham eats the same meat of one of the victims in his case. Hannibal is symbolically feeding him into his dark path with each passing victim. Great symbolism. This show promises great symbolism. You must look past the obvious. Graham choices down the path laid by Hannibal. I think this is going to be the greatest plot of them all. Choice VS. Nature. Graham by nature is like Hannibal but by choice he has been able to fight off his demons. For how long? I might add that the camera work is great so far... as well as the camera effects. What's most important about this show is that the director seems to be drawing in the viewer by ironically making him/her empathize with Graham(who empathizes with everyone). By empathizing with Graham the viewer might empathize with Hannibal as well. Choice or Nature?I hope they take their time developing the characters. That is my only fear.
I would like to thank Fuller and the rest of the crew and cast for granting us with such a show with such advanced (and beautiful) cinematography, superb acting, and an intriguing relationship with the two main characters especially. So intriguing, that, if not for a fourth season, we are only left to wonder just what happens next. Every character changes (for better or for worse), and seeing how that affects their ultimate fate is makes me want to watch the whole thing again. (On second thought, I will.) Now if you're debating on watching this creation, I only ask that you give this a strong chance. For there was (and still is) much potential to impress audiences; those who like complexity, drama, and a bit of gore, of course. Overall, a worthy successor to the story of Hannibal Lecter...and friends.


                
'Hannibal' is one of the most breathtaking, incredible, smart shows I've had the pleasure of encountering. Nothing could be fully compared to its beauty and elegance. Every case is unusual, unique and chilling, and despite knowing who Hannibal Lecter is, he still manages to surprise you at every turn. The intelligence, the sharp mind he possess is frightening, and while what he does is horrific, from some point of view his actions can be understood. Don't people kill animals, hunt animals, make tests on animals, considering them lesser beings? Is it so surprising that one day another monster can appear, one that would target humans instead? Hannibal isn't a supernatural creature, he isn't even very strong physically, but he's cunning, clever and manipulative, and he's always ten steps ahead. Almost always – enter Will Graham.Will is a character who I personally consider even more interesting and complicated than Hannibal. Hannibal doesn't consider human lives important, he's a very dark, yet polite, murderer while Will doesn't understand which side he is on. There are darkness and light in him, fighting for dominance, and you can never be sure which one will win. His gift made him open and vulnerable to dark impulses that have already been developing inside. The meeting with Hannibal forever changed his life.The relationship between Hannibal and William is one of a kind, romantic in a morbid, fascinating way. Love and hatred, resentment and forgiveness keep them apart and then unite them – only to break them again. They can't live without each other, but it's also almost impossible for them to live together, because no matter how much Will understands and 'sees' Hannibal, his moral compass is strong. The constant psychological battle between them is fascinating to watch.The episodes constantly kept me on the edge, surprised and shocked me. I loved every season, every episode, even though they were different. Some were procedural, 'monsters of the week', some were purely psychological, especially in Season 3, some were continuation of the stories told.There is blood, and there are deaths, and cruelty, but the elegance of it all makes you fascinated rather than revolted. It's shown beautifully and 'politely', even the most horrible of things. This is the show that deserves worldwide recognition, though it's not for everyone, considering how lazy to understand and analyze a lot of people have gotten.Hugh Dancy and Mads Mikkelsen are unforgettable and fantastic. I could watch them, and 'Hannibal', forever.


                
This is not a long review.If you're here, you've probably seen the Hannibal films (starting with the great Silence of the Lambs). Well, if you thought you couldn't get over Anthony Hopkins' Hannibal, think again! Mads Mikkelsen is up to the task and you will love to hate him after the first few episodes.Second season brings Mason Verger (the sadist who feeds people to pigs) into the series, played wonderfully by Michael Pitt (he even sounds like Gary Oldman in "Hannibal" - second film of the franchise).I have watch "a million" other TV shows. Nothing compares to this. 10/10
If you're wondering, this drama does not follow the story line of the previous Hannibal film franchise. However, it does not mean that the series doesn't pack its own punch in terms of tension and suspense. (I'm in such awe, I feel inadequate trying to leave a review for this show. I won't reveal any more than what is available on the wikipedia page.)Following protagonist Agent Will Graham (Hugh Dancy) into his mind and peering into the distorted lives and actions of serial killers, he comes across as a highly intelligent but often conflicted man, tormented by his own imagination and yet has to live it each day for the greater good. This sense of vulnerability and instability caused by his personality (largely introverted and antisocial) is preyed upon by his psychiatrist, famed Hannibal Lecter, excellently portrayed by Mads Mikkelsen, and as all this is played out, the audience, privy to this knowledge will be gripped by suspense, and the never ending tension, even on scenes where nothing appears to be happening, the mood takes on a somber and tense tone. For those who are concerned with the relative 'low level of gore', be patient. It takes its time to build and slowly escalate, bringing Graham deeper into the shadows and mental torment.I can't emphasize how good the acting is, how vivid and artistic the abstract dream and killing sequences are. the fact that the soundtracks are well selected and not obnoxious all plays a part in creating one of the best viewing experiences ever. As a fan of psychological horror, I feel privileged to be able to take a small peek at this show ahead of broadcast.


                
Best Horror and Thriller TV show ever made. It needs to be brought back asap. Hands down the most amazing show in the last 20 years.


                
I'd never heard of Hannibal before, but I was a huge fan of the books and the movies (well Silence of the Lambs and Manhunter), so I decided to give it a try and I was blown away. This show has a very Kubrickian feel to it, meaning that not only are there a lot of references to his films, but they film the show in such a beautiful way that everything has a deeper meaning. What you see on screen is not always cohesive with what you hear the characters saying. It's a total mind-game, and it requires you to think about everything you see. I do have to admit, it is a little gory at times but if you follow the story as much as I do you realize that the gore is portrayed in a way that makes it art. Hannibal Lecter sees things that us mere mortals consider horrible, as beautiful and gorgeous. The way they film the show, gives credit to that. The blood and the death is romanticized in such a way that allows the audience to question where their sympathy lies. Is it okay to sympathize with Hannibal? Is it okay to feel sorry for him? If you haven't seen the show, the answer may come easy to you. He's a cannibal so yes. He is a terrible person and deserves to be thrown in jail. However, you may think differently after watching the mesmerizing performance of Mads Mikkelsen as he attempts to befriend Will Graham (Hugh Dancy), and discover some friendship in the lonely life of Dr. Hannibal Lecter.


                
Mads Mikkelsen has been a favourite of mine since I first saw Pusher and it's sequel Pusher II: With Blood On My Hands (directed by Nicolas Winding Refn), so when I originally heard he'd be portraying Hannibal Lecter in this new series, I was absolutely in my glee. He inhabits Hannibal quite easily it seems; even watching him eat dinner with colleagues, drinking wine, you can see a man who is a connoisseur of fine food and drink; when Hannibal perceives rudeness, Mads' charismatic face shows the ever-so-slight murderer beneath the human veil. Lecter comes off with the intelligence Anythony Hopkins brought to the role, but Mikkelsen somehow manages to make the character colder, more distant, yet with the same frightening disposition of his predecessor; perhaps it has much to do with seeing Hannibal long before being incarcerated, as opposed to Hopkins' Lecter who was always either in prison, or on the run for his screen time (except for the brief few scenes at the beginning of Red Dragon with Graham and Lecter discussing theories). Regardless, this portrayal of Hannibal is absolutely amazing, and Mads' little nuances he brings to the character fit perfectly. One particular instance I love is when he is reading Freddie Lounds' report about the Ripper already being in a mental hospital (a guest starring role for the brilliant Eddie Izzard), and Hannibal calmly starts flicking his fingers, showing a slow crack in the outer mask he wears; you can see his anger towards someone else taking credit for his crimes, and you can almost see the coming storm it will induce.Will Graham has been played very well before by both William Petersen and Edward Norton in Manhunter & Red Dragon, respectively. However, I feel that Hugh Dancy really nails what Graham is all about here. Dancy makes Graham awkward, cold, and often quite strange, which fits very well with the character who has a unique, if not disturbing gift. When Graham is whittling away at the seams, Dancy shows it whether he is out sleepwalking, or simply waking to a sweat-soaked bed from having terrible dreams. Graham's inability to properly relate with others around him shows very well, and the weight of his 'gift' becomes very apparent with Dancy playing the role. The writing for this show is great, in my opinion. The relationship between Graham and Lecter develops beautifully; you can often see how Graham is blinded to who Hannibal really might be in many different scenes. One exchange I really enjoyed is when they find a girl impaled in the antler room of the Minnesota Shrike; Will and Hannibal are assessing the crime scene when the former comments something along the lines of "it wasn't so-and-so who did this", and the latter replies very quickly, "I know"- Graham stares at his friend briefly with a strange look, and you can almost see him shove it down deep somewhere, possibly thinking it was foolish to imagine that meant anything.I highly recommend any fan of Hannibal Lecter watches this, and don't be a snob- Anthony Hopkins was amazing, but they picked a very fine actor in Mads Mikkelsen to do this show, and I think anybody who isn't willing to at least give him a chance is missing out. 10 out of 10 stars. Very interested to see where the rest of the season goes from here, and I hope they might be able to continue it awhile without the writing going downhill, or simply becoming stale.
Let me start by saying that this show has what pretty much every other show and many movies lack; atmosphere, imagination and subtlety.This is a work of art in every way, from the awe inspiring cinematography, to the fantastic directing, the chilling sound design/soundtrack, actors performance, dialogue, editing, brilliant art direction. Everything works in unison and for the same purpose. I can't state enough how much this team did an amazing job. I've seen all the movies based on the books, Silence Of The Lambs being my favorite. This series is in a totally different level from those movies. Even Mads Mikkelsen is a better suited actor to play Hannibal Lecter than Anthony Hopkins and he does deliver a better performance.The story is told in a very subtle way, with lots of metaphors and meaningful visuals that help build tension and keep the suspense. While keeping some parts of it subject to interpretation, many pieces of information form a puzzle in which the viewer has to put together by himself. There are a lot of things that are not shown or told directly, the viewer has to be part of it to understand it fully.All seasons are fantastic, but the last season was a little bit weaker than the previous ones, mainly because they had to wrap the story due to the show being cancelled. And i think this show was cancelled exactly because it is not meant for the average viewer, it demands more and the vast majority of audiences are not prepared for this.Bottom line, this is one of the best shows ever to air on TV and it should serve as reference for movies as well. Most movies nowadays lack imagination and the world is saturated with money making blockbusters that no one will remember a week later. This one is here to stay as a future cult classic.


                
DON'T LEAVE US HANGING! WE WANT SEASON 4 AND MORE!


                
I can write one word, that would make my whole opinion about this show. Brilliant! BUT... I was skeptic at first, 'cause of my experience of the movies, except The Silence of the Lambs, but this show.. WOW. I've never stumble upon a psychological thriller-TV show that I got hooked on, already on the first episode. It has depth, excitement, thriller and psychological "horror" and yes.. some gore. But I connected with the main characters by the first-second episode. And that is something that takes me at least a few more episodes. And I cannot forget to mention the actors in this show, they cast the show really, REALLY great!You will like this show, even though you didn't like all (or some) of the movies - or haven't seen them all. =) So, what are you waiting for?!
The cinematography, the acting, the story, the casting, the writing, EVERYTHING is ridiculously on point in this show.The psychology involved unfolds amazingly, adding many layers of intrigue and mystery. Hannibal is charming and intelligent, the epitome of good taste... Minus the obvious flaw in his character of course. Will is a tortured mind, but in an extremely likable way, a mind you want to wander around in to help him find the clues he so desperately needs.A beautiful macabre masterpiece of a show. I truly hope this will get many a season.


                
The character of Hannibal Lecter has been examined in popular culture for over 30 years now, in literature and cinema especially. People cannot and will not ever get enough of the charisma and exoticisms that one of history's greatest and most intriguing characters exudes. But after a few too many mediocre rehashes, using Hannibal Lecter's métier, "cannibalism", as the primary method of creating cheap thrills (see Hannibal 2001, Hannibal Rising 2007), it seemed as if the franchise was sadly drawing to a close. However, with Bryan Fuller's new depiction of "Hannibal", this could not be further from the truth. This new television series has been gaining increased attention and with it the momentum and following it so assuredly deserves, Hannibal Lecter is undoubtedly "back on the menu" of today's popular culture.Naturally, comparisons to previous portrayals of Thomas Harris's famous characters hinges on some people giving the show a go, or not. I assure you, the Hannibal TV show is absolutely no exception to a line of previously acclaimed works like 1986's Manhunter and 1991's Silence of the Lambs. Brian Cox and Sir Anthony Hopkins both provided incredible visions of the psychologically terrifying Hannibal Lecter, especially the nauseatingly intricate ways in which he dissects the thoughts and minds of people.What Madds Mikkelson offers in his version of Lecter is refreshingly original, and in my opinion, more in line with the original character's exotic and erudite aesthetic. When in the company of others, Mikkelson's Lecter presents a delicious facade of politeness and impeccable style: his worldly sophistication and understanding of art and academia makes him intellectually inferior to no one. That is, except for one person, Hugh Dancy's Will Graham.Dancy's Graham is more akin to William Petersen's "Manhunter" portrayal of the Special Investigations agent, than Edward Norton's in the 2002 remake, "Red Dragon". But where Petersen's 80s typified dialogue and soliloquized phrases like "I'm gonna get you, you son of a bitch", Dancy's differs entirely. Dancy's portrayal is inherently more fragile, more isolated and therefore more susceptible to Lecter's incredible intellect. However, although this Will Graham is mentally fragile, he possesses an uncanny ability to analyze people with nearly unparalleled intuition, which makes him not only a formidable rival of Doctor Lecter's, but also an unsuspecting friend. This allows Bryan Fuller, the show's director to create an intricate and mesmerizing relationship between the shows leading characters, which in turn makes for an even more thrilling story arch.Bryan Fuller's Hannibal is an incredible show. It reinvigorates the Hannibal Lecter and Will Graham saga in a delicious and beautiful fashion, quite dissimilar to any way in which it has previously been served to us. Fuller masterfully captures the dark and pulsating dread we once felt in The Silence of the Lambs, and then immerses us in it for 13 captivating episodes. Season 2 could not have arrived any sooner, and I hope many like me, are fervently anticipating a second helping.


                
Graham is a wonderful character, brilliantly seen and read in Red Dragon. This pilot is interesting because it kind of fits more with what we have seen with Manhunter, and that is perfectly fine with me.I won't get into the plot, because we all know it. I will just simply say, this is a great pilot with some great familiar themes. My problem is it feels more like an episode of a miniseries rather than a TV show. I really hope Hannibal himself is pulled more into the background to allow for a network series gain some balance, because there is a lot of room for this to become a unique procedural drama. But I get nervous when an alphabet network gets a hold of a series like this because they inevitably begin to go for the cliché. Graham's visions, for example, I see becoming old if overdone. And if there is too much going on with the Lector story, this will burn out too fast.I give this a six now, it could become a ten, but I see some things to be cautious about. If the show is smart enough to keep Hannibal as the secondary character he is meant to be and focus on Graham and the FBI, it has a good chance. Hannibal is a great antagonist, but the puppet master should not be seen unless need me.This is NBC, there is a lot to worry about. If they want a Lector-heavy storyline then I hope they have an endgame in mind ala Breaking Bad, otherwise this will just burn out.Fingers crossed.


                
