Being that Hannibal is one of my favorite characters of all, I was thrilled to see what they would do in a series and one I saw it, I am not impressed. The GOOD: The cast is superb..Fiahburne is great at any role he takes on so he had my attention. Mads as Hannibal is deliciously brilliant. He gives me the same level of creepiness that Hopkins did...he's perfect. The actor playing Will is also great, he does his parts so well, he has transformed into will however only Edward Norton got Will Graham right...The BAD: the story line is filled with more holes than a south bend Indiana street. I gave this series the chance to pick up and become Hannibal but it hasn't. They put do much emphasis on the production that me as a viewer can't get to know the characters. The crimes are gory and hannibalesque, but the interactions between all the characters lack emotion or interest. Where is that emotion that reels a viewer in? Where is the story line that isn't faulty our simply boring? I see what they tried to do with this show...but when you try to make a show so sophisticated it all seems muddled and forced. I have literally lost interest in this show, it bores me to sleep...the music seems to make a scene far more interesting than it is. Nothing is horror about this show...it's just visually and musically appealing, and casted with great actors with bland across. I will stick to the movies in my collection for my Hannibal dose however...Mads is riveting...if you are to watch this show, watch it to see Mads play an amazing Hannibal
1. In real life, profiling is basically worthless. It has never, ever led to the apprehension of a serial killer. (Indeed, no sort of police work has ever caught a serial killer. The only way we ever catch them, ever, is when a victim escapes.) All TV shows about successful profilers are thus shows about people with magic powers.2. The Will Graham of this show may be the most magic of all, immediately guessing the amazingly complex (and utterly unfathomable) motives of the craziest imaginable killers. But of course it comes at price: spending so much time in the mind of crazies makes Will a very sad boy. So the lead character is mopey all the time, which gets old.3. The FBI of this show centers its efforts to find serial killers on this seer of questionable sanity. 4. The Hannibal of this show is obviously barking mad, yet the FBI also trusts him to work cases, never questioning why he'd abandon a thriving practice to work basically full-time as an unpaid consultant. (This is nearly as absurd as the idea that the Hannibal of this show could have a thriving practice. People don't really like spending huge amounts of money to talk to creepy guys.)5. The tabloid journalist is almost as magical as the protagonists. She can get into any building, get any bit of police information and generally investigate just as effectively as an entire police force. She repeatedly breaks the law in front of police officers but never gets into trouble.6. Doors, walls, and all other means of keeping people at bay do not work in this show. When it's convenient for a person to magically get into a room, that person magically appears, even if the room would have been surrounded by cops.


                
Being a fan of The Silence of the Lambs, I was ecstatic when I learned about the new NBC show that would center around Will Graham, a character whose portrayal I wasn't exactly satisfied with in the Red Dragon series. He had come off a bit too cocky, and a bit too "magical genius" for me to handle. I thought that maybe "Hannibal" the series would scratch my itch, after getting vague sense from a bunch of online screenshots that this time around, Graham would actually be working, failing, and occasionally succeeding like a real human being. And the promise of tormenting mind games made me salivate.Wow, was I wrong about that. Instead of "magical genius," the writers made Graham simply "magic" while throwing in the cringeworthy -bad excuse of "true empath." He literally stands at a crime scene, imagines himself in the killer's shoes, and voila! Not only is he correct 99.999999999% of the time, but everyone else just nods obediently to his hypotheses. There's barely any logic, and even though Silence of the Lambs arguably made leaps in certain aspects, at least you could see the line of thinking and pieces of evidence that led to each conclusion and reveal of character detail. This......this is just boring and stupid.The acting is subpar. Sometimes, I couldn't even tell that the characters were talking to each other rather simply making isolated statements; inflections, tones, and timing are really off, especially with the woman who plays Beverly Katz. At first, I thought Mads Mikkelsen as the quietly cultivated and silently sinister Hannibal might be an interesting take on the character, but, about 4 or 5 episodes in, I realized that that was the ONLY dimension to his portrayal. He acts bored and indifferent all season-long, which, in turn, bores me to tears with such a flat affect. It's as if he remains emotionally uninvolved in everything going on, though I would expect him, of all people, to fake concern when Will tells him about sleepwalking or when he sees Abigail with blood spurting out of her neck. Despite everything, I do absolutely LOVE Hugh Dancy as Will Graham, and it's delicious to watch him spiral into mental anguish as he is consumed by the horrors of the murders and of himself as the murderer. There's also something rather lovely in the beginning of the series with his nervous awkwardness and sense of duty.The writing is bad. It's like a fanfiction written by a high school student. The vocabulary of the dialogue probably doesn't exceed 500 words, plus or minus some neurological terms taken from Wikipedia. Sometimes, it feels like a monologue by a single person, except written so that different characters are taking over different sentences. The plot makes no sense.....does Will have no concept of a primary care physician who would at least recognize the symptoms of an infection? What is the deal with Hannibal calling Will his "friend"? What purpose is that supposed to have in the story?Anyways, I will say that the nice parts include the mood and the creativity of the murders. Those was interesting, though all were highly implausible and some were really just being used awkwardly as a tool to repeatedly bang on our heads that Will is unstable.Watch if you can take a big gulp of suspension of disbelief and if you're interested in looking at a new portrayal of Will Graham. Don't watch if you're interested in the story.
the first season of this show was great.. and the second season started out... OK.. but 10 episodes into it and you realize the writers aren't smart enough to make this show into the psychological thriller it could be.. all these murders and the show just keeps going.. everyone pointing the fingers at everyone else but nobody does the work to find out.. if this show took place in the 1900's I could see the characters getting away with it, but it takes place in the modern day so it's beyond ridiculous.. so much flip flopping, and doubt and accusation and bullshit. meanwhile all it would take to find out if Hannibal was the killer is to get a search warrant for his house lol.. What ruins this show is that everyone is so smart and yet they are completely oblivious to the people around them?? sorry not buying it.. i expect this show to be cancelled soon


                
After watching 4 episodes of what seemed like a very promising series, I must say I feel a little bit disappointed... Unfortunately, it's not another Dexter as some commenter had suggested, far from it. In Dexter, the focus is on the main protagonist's inner world, his terrible loneliness (to which we could, to a certain extent, relate to), this painful sadness which he calls his "dark passenger" that puts the knife in his hand and drives him to kill his preys. Whereas in Hannibal, we seem to miss the motivation that moves the characters: they seem cold, detached. There is too much emphasis on the depiction of sophisticated tortures and elegant cannibalistic practices, but not enough on human feelings, personal baggage and motivation behind one's actions. What's driving all that? What are they thinking? After four episodes and the preview of a fifth, I seem to have lost the curiosity to finish this show... One great thing about it though is the casting: Laurence Fishburne, well it's Morpheus!! (needless to say more), the main actor is not bad at all, and the greatest of all is the actor that does Hannibal Lecter: I wonder where they found this guy, he's absolutely amazing! Sadly, a good casting is not enough to make a great show. A humble request for the writers of this genre: give us dark emotions, sadness, fear, pain, loneliness... This is what makes a killer more credible, more human, and this is what will hook us to a show (well, hook me at least).
A lot of my friends and the whole web got hooked to Hannibal. I cant seem to know why. I stopped watching it after episode 4. The plot is so random, and they try to solve crimes by mere speculations not by hard evidence and facts. The relationship among the characters are not well established and their roles are not emphasized well. The only thing that i liked about Hannibal is the video production, the drama and art of how the video was shot and edited. Also the actor playing Hannibal is the best for his role just bad script and story. For me, a show with good presentation but with an unclear story is a bad show. A lot will hate me but i couldn't lie to myself. Dexters way lot better than this.


                
First of all I have no problem with the acting, or the directing, etc., it is a well produced show. In fact, I really like some of the actors.That being said, I just don't get this show.Okay the gag is that Hannibal is eating people, and disturbingly he feeds them to guests (like the chief detective) . You the audience knows this along, hah hah, okay.And then you see the main detective is some sort of physic. He can experience the almost constant heinous murders as if he was doing them himself. This is a neat vehicle for a show. You sort of see things through the eyes of the killer (yet he's the good guy).And somehow this guy is so sensitive he doesn't see Hannibal the killer right next to him every day?? That makes little sense.And that pretty much sums up the show. Repeats these same elements over and over again. As a series you know Hannibal can't be discovered because then that would be the end of it. Maybe, yea, he could be discovered then it would turn into more of a chase thing.You know there is no real ending to the show, no resolution, etc., just this repeat of the same shallow elements and scenes.I don't get how this show made it past even one season..
there is really nothing good about this show, Hannibal played by the Danish actor Mikkelsen is very hard to understand, its like "sylvester Stallone" in First blood. I mean honestly this is the best choice after a class actor like Hopkins that make Hannibal the super Movies that they are. And why is the show called Hannibal when the lead character clearly is Will Graham?! I hope that the show stops because its a waste of Viewers time. I am amazed that so many write positive Reviews about Hannibal... guess they are not paid to do so buy i would suspect that hahaha this really is a very bad show even i rate it a 4. Nothing compared to Dexter or the original Hannibal Movies.I just want to warn you :-)


                
I tried watching the premier for this show, but I couldn't finish it. The storytelling is too random and the characters are too bizarre for me. The acting is decent however, with an all-star cast. Lawrence Fishbourne plays an FBI agent and Mads Mikkelsen (of Casino Royale fame) plays Hannibal Lector. Less well known (to me anyway) is Hugh Dancy, who plays a troubled special agent. It does not follow the original Hannibal film series, other than the fact that Hannibal Lector is a cannibal. The plot follows the agents as they search for a serial killer/cannibal. Hannibal Lector assists the FBI in their search. Cutting down on some of the mystery, Hannibal is shown cooking and eating the victims organs. I prefer a little more subtlety in thriller movies/shows. It would probably also have been better if the concept hadn't already been established by the films. I was really hoping that this show would be better.
I was excited to hear of the further stories of Hannibal Lector. After watching episode I did enjoy the story line except I found it odd that Hannibal is a middle aged man in the series, surround with modern technology. Such as iPads and cellphones.Excuse me but in Hannibal Rising by Thomas Harris, young Hannibal was a child during WWII which had the setting of his development into a cannibal.So wouldn't this series have Hannibal being middle aged in the 70s/80s? It lost me.Mads Mikkelsen is okay as Hannibal but I would love to have found out how he transition from Europe to America and forming an American accent?
I confess I've only watched up to nearly the end of the second episode of the 3 available to me, and someone somewhere says it's only after the third that this stuff begins to grip, but I am certain after watching the two last night and then sleeping on it that this is an overwrought, over-kinky, over-violent and just generally overdone piece of parasitizing on the great original, Silence ...., still trying to cash in on the original as the producers have been doing for many a long year. I admit after the simple perfection of Silence that I found the gorgeous Hannibal rather flavoursome, and Red Dragon, even, okay, though the insanity was beginning to be over-weighty, but then Hannibal Rising arrived, a risible and disgusting piece of exploitative nonsense. Still trying to milk the franchise, the production company now comes up with this muck. A massive revision of the characters as we know them, but still they are the same characters and we still know, however it happens, how it will turn out. But now Lecter is the very spooky Mad M., who is a sinister looking gentleman with a rather thick Danish accent, sometimes hard to understand, and who frankly looks like a thug, quite unlike the genius Hopkins we have come to know and love, but like god alone knows what. And then there is Mr Dancy as Will Graham, who has Cruise-like problems with eye contact and a miserable look and 'pure empathy', sheer twaddle the lot of it. You certainly begin to wonder who the story is about, Will, Lecter, or the other ever more baroque and unbelievable murders cropping up on a regular basis. The reason I come here to IMDb to write about it is from upset, and from distress, and from sadness and anger that such exploitation is rife and will no doubt go on to sully the imaginations of generations younger than mine who witnessed the original.


                
I enjoyed Seasons ! & 2 of Hannibal but the third series was a complete let down with too much emphasis on politcial correctness or rather trying to be edgy in its poitical correctness and failing.I was enjoying the back story of how Hannibal came to get caught as shown in Series 1 & 2, however Series 3 came along and.....They changed the story completely, added surrogates, lesbians, a hom- erotic relationship betwwen Hannibal & Will and a completely different ending. The scenes in Italy were more about the directo being as artistic as possible than actual story and it was just not enjoyable to watch. This character is one of the cinematic greats but as the second novel was described you see where the writer had writers block and went off on a complete tangent...this series follows that mould.
I loved the season knowing that in the end Will Graham will win and Hannibal will get behind bars. How wrong I was. This series has a horrible ending, it doesn't play in with the concept of the book.(Spoilers) Honestly guys, why would they think it'd be a good idea to put the protagonist in the state hospital rather than the antagonist. In the book Hannibal's the one in the Hospital, NOT GRAHAM. Honestly, this season made me very frustrated. The ending was by far the worst part. In every other episode, Hannibal is shown as a friend of Wills. However, in this episode, he stabs him in the back. To whoever's reading this, stick with the movies; they are much better than this piece of crap.Giving this a 4/10 because I think it's that bad.
