FBI agent Jack Crawford enlists the help of a psychiatrist and teams him up with a gifted but rookie criminal profiler and lecturer to solve a series of murders. Without drawing too may comparisons to other incarnations Hannibal this is an interesting rework of the successful Hannibal book and film series. Fans of the novel may feel more comfortable with this series, while fans of the films may need sometime to shine to it mainly due to the lasting impression left by Hopkins portrayal. It's less spoon fed that most dramas, with the viewer having to fill in the off screen gaps based on the dialogue. Mads Mikkelsen is perfectly cast as Dr. Hannibal Lecter and is closer to the book and what we saw in Hannibal Rising (2007) with his substantial European accent. Here he is in prime, more dangerous and elegant with calculating simmering menace. Hugh Dancy while his American accent is occasionally slightly off is perfectly cast as Will Graham, here Dancy delivers an edgier more unstable and immersed Graham. Laurence Fishburne as Jack Crawford is solid as usual and the supporting cast are of a good quality of actors.At first you feel the first episode is a rehash of the Francis Dolarhyde story in Red Dragon/Man Hunter - thankfully it isn't and changes direction as the investigation progresses. Naturally lacking likable characters, there is good chemistry in the uneasy relationships between Lecter and Graham and Graham and Crawford which gives some much needed freshness to the proceedings. 2013's Hannibal is a sharp, flashy and slick production – although reminiscent of CSI/Dexter it is a welcomed we written, very graphic and bloody addition with some uneasy sound design and haunting visuals. A good TV series based on one of the most interesting serial killers put to paper and screen. As it develops it goes beyond simply finding it's feet, if anything Hannibal exceeded all expectations.


                
Okay, so this show is supposed to be intelligent -and to a degree it is. Compared to a show like NCIS, it's genius; unfortunately, NCIS doesn't exactly set a high bar. For example, Hugh Dancy's character is a guy who can empathize with serial killers. In terms of plot, this means that he uses this empathy to rapidly solve cases, pretty much single-handedly, by being able to understand what the killers were/are thinking. An innate ability to understand the killers motivations, a few clues tied together, and a possible leap of logic later, and voilà, they're knocking on the killer's door. Besides that, there's lots of other little stuff that bugs me. If I only I didn't demand intelligent programing to actually be intelligent, I might like this show. Regardless, this show has fallen short of my expectations. Oh, I do like Mads Mikkelsen as Hannibal though. I hope to see more of him in the future.
The Hannibal Lecter stories have played on the big screen as movies but now those who elect what the public will love have created a television series based on this human gourmand. In some ways it works and in some ways is doesn't.The series explores the early relationship between the renowned psychiatrist Hannibal Lecter (Mads Mikkelsen) and his patient Special Agent Will Graham (Hugh Dancy), a young FBI criminal profiler who is haunted by his ability to empathize with serial killers. Another physician has been added in Dr. Alana Bloom (Caroline Dhavernas) and the FBI lead is Agent Jack Crawford (Lawrence Fishburne). Without much introduction as to why Will Graham sees himself (in visions) murdering the victims we see in this first episode (and there are several grisly ones) we are supposed to understand that Will's special gift is that he is an 'empath' – a person so sensitive to the minds of others that he can understand their motivations and thus be a valuable assist in solving crimes. But so far Will (even as played by the gifted Hugh Dancy) is just another seemingly disturbed bipolar-like personality. Hopefully his character will be better developed as the season progresses. As for Mads Mikkelsen he makes a rather dull Hannibal Lecter as he munches on his gourmet servings of his victims: he will not erase the memory of Anthony Hopkins in the role, but the role may take on a whole new direction in this re-do. The series needs fleshing out (pardon the pun) if it is going to maintain anyone's interest for a full set of programs. It is wise to note that the author who created this concept – Thomas Harris – is writing the series with the help of Bryan Fuller. Wait and see<U+0085>.Grady Harp, April 13


                
I've watched this from the beginning, and was intrigued from the start -- the first two seasons were really good! ...then the 3rd Season came. What a huge disappointment! Sure, visually, it's very cinematic -- perhaps even too much so for TV -- but the dialogue became very distracting in its streaming of pithy little sound bites. I've been struggling for a while to come up with the right words to describe it: it's like streaming overly-dramatic one-liners together to make up a sentence. Terribly distracting!Then there's the utter confusion, the warping of space/time that Einstein would've been proud of witnessing. That was always the initial hook of the series, through Will, but it took a whole new level this season -- enough to be just utterly confusing and, honestly, less fun. So, while I've enjoyed the first couple seasons, and, have been struggling thru the last season, I see no other way for this series to end but by overproduction suicide: over-thinking it to death.


                
Beautifully shot and well-acted, 'Hannibal' Series 1 is an incomplete dish, though delicious in parts.The writers rely heavily on clichés to drive the narrative along, especially regarding characterisation and dialogue. For me, this is another 'magic detective' drama with a serial killer cliché. By 'magic detective', I mean that age-old trope of having a detective who can essentially solve crimes no other person could do, utilising a sort of 'magic' or 'superpower'. They often have an equal and opposite flaw, to balance the character and create drama and tension.Here are some examples: Sherlock Holmes - powers: incredible perception and deduction / weaknesses: antisocial, drug addictionMonk - powers: incredible perception and deduction / weaknesses: social anxiety, OCDMedium's Alison Dubois - powers: supernatural perceptionThe Mentalist's Patrick Jane - powers: incredible perception and manipulationWhite Collar's Neal Caffrey - powers: master manipulator / weaknesses: corruptible, disloyalLie to me's Cal Lightman: incredible perception and master manipulatorColombo - powers: incredible deduction, perception and master manipulatorPerception's Daniel Pierce - powers: incredible perceptionGhost Whisperer's Melinda Gordon - powers: supernatural perceptionUnforgettable's Carrie Wells - powers: incredible deduction, perfect memoryDeath Note's L - powers: incredible perception and deductionBody of Proof's Megan Hunt - powers: incredible perception and deductionNumb3rs' Charles Eppes - powers: incredible deductionSo on and so on... In Hannibal it's 'total empathy' which gives William Graham incredible powers of perception and deduction. Yawn.Hannibal isn't wholly good or wholly bad; there are some great sequences, creative visualisations, strong performances. But it's hampered by some silly writing and clichéd narrative, in my opinion.


                
Review by Matt:  When trying to adapt a specific character from another medium, say  literature or film, to television, its always a tricky proposition.  Since the character is already established in said mediums you have to  know the audience that already recognizes the character and make them  believe the transition is seamless, while still exposing the character  to a new market, fans, critics, etc. One of the most recognizable  characters in modern crime novels is Hannibal Lecter; the  psychiatrist/cannibal that haunted our dreams through the words of  Thomas Harris. Even if you're a "lament" you've heard of Lecter in some  way, shape, or form. Now we get to see Dr. Lecter on the small screen  as he assists criminal profiler, Will Graham, from the novel "Red  Dragon" to try and track down serial killers. While the premiere  episode of "Hannibal" was bumpy, at best, I'll still give it a mulligan  for what its trying to accomplish, at least for a few more episodes.  If you've seen, or read, "Red Dragon" or "Silence of the Lambs," you  pretty much know the deal. There is a killer on the loose, in this case  a killer impaling young girls on antlers, and on occasion one or more  of their organs missing (see where I'm going with this). Will Graham is  on the case, commissioned by Special Agent Jack Crawford, played by  Laurence Fishburne, to find the killer. Crawford brings in another  consultant, Hannibal Lecter, a respected psychiatrist from the  Baltimore-area. Graham and Lecter seem an unlikely duo at first with  each one trying to outwit the other, but Lecter sense a kindred spirit  in Graham with his ability to empathize with the killers he hunts.  Despite my misgivings about this show, the more I think about it, the  more I want to see where it goes. You know the end of the journey for  both Will and Hannibal, but now its the journey of how they both got  there. It's the cat-and-mouse game that will guide the show onward,  which isn't that bad when you think about it. With so much fervor on  origin stories about mythological characters (just look at every Marvel  Studios Phase 1 film) "Hannibal" has a chance to succeed with an  audience that wants to know; Why? and How?  While I've talked myself off the ledge about the storyline of  "Hannibal" my main concern is the casting; namely Mads Mikkelsen as  Lecter. For starters, I like Mads, I think he is a solid actor who  knows how to play a villain and steal scenes on occasion. But I just  feel that he is wrong as Lecter. For starters, he LOOKS like a killer.  The thing about Anthony Hopkins playing Lecter, or even Brian Cox for  that matter, was that he didn't look the part of a psychopathic,  narcissistic, cannibal. He was a posh doctor with a penchant for opera,  fine dining, and drawing. Hopkins was the ultimate wolf in sheep's  clothing. Mikkelsen, on the other hand, is a wolf in wolf's clothing.  If I saw him walking down the street I would run the other way because  I knew I was only a remark away from being served with a nice Chianti.  I also found myself struggling to understand Lecter when he spoke.  Since Mads has a pretty thick Danish accent, not all the dialogue came  through clearly which isn't great when you are trying to hang on to  everything Lecter is saying to get deeper into his character and  motives.  With that being said, I don't blame the casting either. If the creators  are basing this version of Lecter on the novel "Hannibal Rising" it  makes sense. Lecter, by birth, was Eastern European, not British as  some of us might assume. While aristocratic, Eastern Europe, namely  Lithuania, is vastly different than the British Isles. Can Mikkelsen  outshine Hopkins as a Hannibal Lecter for a new generation? Well, we'll  have to see about that.  From a literary standpoint, the show sticks pretty close to the source  material of "Red Dragon," which is good in my opinion. It sheds more  light on Will Graham and his special gift for empathy, but it comes off  as kind of a second rate Sherlock Holmes, more so the Benedict  Cumberbatch version than the Robert Downey Jr. version.  Bottom line, I'm giving this show a mulligan. I can't judge a show that  I have reasonably high hopes for by just one episode. Sure, there are  kinks to work out, and the show suffers from "a style over substance"  problem, and if another network had the rights to Harris' work, namely  an FX or dare I say, HBO, maybe the show could push the envelope a bit  more, but that's not really the issue. I think the biggest thing people  are having a hard time wrapping their heads around are the casting  choices and the overall mood. We fear change, and we've been spoiled by  the Hopkins' Lecter for over 20 years so when this new, "exotic" Lecter  comes along our first inclination is to bash him, and I fully  understand why, but before we jump to conclusions, divorce yourself  from preconceived notions of who Lecter was, and let this new  incarnation do it's own thing.


                
So, the series has come to what appears to be a definitive end. It's been an engagingly interesting and frustratingly bumpy ride that definitely took the scenic route. Season one showed great promise but was overburdened by too many distractions. The plentiful serial killers trying desperately to outdo themselves in needlessly convoluted killings only subtracted from what was the real thrill of the show; Hannibal and Will. It was as if the writers didn't trust the audience to find the dialogue and central characters interesting enough and felt the need to entertain us with shiny objects to keep us from changing the channel. Season two was an improvement in that sense. More focused the background wasn't quite as muddled and the main story was rightfully given more of the spotlight. Some strong supporting characters made for some great tension and despite some major logical flaws the build up and subsequent finale was as satisfying as one could hope for. In season three we're finally rid of all distractions. Essentially a remake of "Hannibal" and "Red Dragon" in reverse chronological order the first half of the season is mostly set in Florence. Though many scenes and the main plot is lifted straight from the book/movie it still has enough original material that makes it fit quite seamlessly with the shows unique tone. One can hardly accuse the show of appealing to the lowest common denominator. The startup is a challenging, slow paced and surreal introduction to the final season. Though visually stunning as always I found myself growing tired of the forced and sometimes over- pretentious dialogue that seems every bit surreal as the visuals. I kept wishing for some natural, realistic dialogue to break off the somewhat pompous, stuffy tone that permeated each episode and almost every character. Though I guess that is also part of the charm.The "Red Dragon" part is in that sense a breath of fresh air. Though still staying true to the aesthetic fingerprint of the show it is generally more fast paced and has a more obvious sense of direction and development. In most ways it's simply a re-make of "Red Dragon" and a lot of the scenes are pretty much copy-pasted from the 2002 film. It's however a very good remake, the visuals are astounding and the acting is top tier. Special praise goes to Raúl Esparza as Dr. Frederick Chilton and Richard Armitage as Francis Dolarhyde, the red dragon. They share an especially unforgettable scene i episode 12. A carbon copy of a scene from the movie but nonetheless spectacular. The finale is one of the more satisfying I've seen on TV. Though the buildup feels a bit rushed the end is simply poetic and beautiful. The show is not without flaws and annoyances. Season one was needlessly contrived, the dialogue isn't quite as smart as it thinks it is and the whole third season, though well executed and not without original minor plots and embellishments, is still basically a remake. It's a shame that the series was already in its death throes when it finally found a tone and voice that was a perfect balance between pretentious art and engaging suspense. Hannibal had all the potential to become a modern classic but fell a few short yards from the finish line.


                
Not being a fan of any of the Hannibal films or in excessive gore in TV/film I was surprised to find myself becoming intrigued and in the series.It is not without its flaws, after 5 or 6 episodes it seems the crimes get a bit random and I felt it lost my interest a bit around here, not really doing a good job of linking it to the story on the whole.Character wise, Will Graham is an excellent character for the most part, a likable main character with great depth in his story and you have empathy for him towards the end of the series. Saying that I found it a tad annoying how much it focuses and i'd say over plays his situation in the last few episodes.Mad Mikkelsen as Hannibal was great casting although I did find it hard to pick up what he was saying at some points with the thick accent.Laurence Fishburne is much as you would expect, plays his role well.Alana Bloom and Will Graham relationship works well due to the chemistry between the pair on screen.The characters of Jimmy Price and Brian Zeller (two of the forensic scientists) are terrible and annoying, it seems they are meant to portray some kind of comedy role which doesn't fit at all in the series.Good watch, can't wait for the next series to see how the rest of the characters develop, recommended


                
This series is fallowing the movie called Hannibal. First they told us how to became cannibal and how he caught by agents. after movies everybody expects to see a relation with movies.because novel is same but movies and series are different.this makes this TV series bad. first thing is Freddie Launds is a man in the movies(Red Dragon and Manhunter) and Freddie is a girl in the TV series. other issue is the year they shoot this movies and series. Movies show old Lecter but in the series we can see more technology. Hannibal in the series doesn't fit with the movies.In the movies you can see Hannibal attractive and out of control.they put his face in a cage.but in the series Hannibal killed Miriam Lass. it was a murder not cannibalism. I hope they fixes these things and then maybe this series become like Dexter and will have a great success.
The (British) actor who plays Will Graham actually has the speech mannerisms of William Peterson (Will Graham in Manhunter). I liked that a lot. I assume that is acting skill.Yes the cast are all your normal US casting mistakes - everyone is beautiful especially female characters who seem very forced into the story for the point of having some female glamour - it doesn't fit in with the ambitions of the show..I must say this show is grotesque and VERY graphically violent.It's unclear what Graham's FBI role is - It is made clear he is an ex cop but not FBI, yet in the first episode he has an unconcealed gun in a hip holster AND approaches a suspect directly when he knows his guilt (inadvertently involving Hannibal Lecter) resulting in at least one death due to possible incompetence.Yet in episode 2 he is both a fully fledged 'special investigator?', exonerated for shooting the previous perp 10 times and given free reign! Regardless of the silly US TV inconsistencies, the cinematography and sound are exceptional, the show is more grotesque and sadistic than Hostel and there is genuine promise and talent in this - I'll definitely be watching!
I'm not sure what my final thought is yet on this show. The first episode was fantastic and the rest have been good but I have slowly noticed a very slight decline happening. It concerns me that this is happening so early in the series and makes me wonder if it has the ability to last. The show could turn it around as it finds it feet but I have a feeling that it will keep heading in the opposite direction.I don't think I have any common ground with the characters or the cast playing them which is never a good sign for keeping someone hooked on a show. I shouldn't be all negative though because at the moment the show still is interesting and is a great idea but maybe that is the issue. It was a great idea that was done so well with Anthony Hopkins that maybe I cannot move past his performance.I don't know. I'm going to stick with it for now but I predict in the foreseeable future I will lose interest.


                
Season1 &2 was fine.season3(just ok) story was absolute vague and totally went on the wrong path.There are too many logic mistakes in it but it's not boring.so throw away the logic and just watch,you surely likes it.


                
First of all I deal with the positives. The direction and cinematography is superb. It creates a dark and very creepy world around Will Graham. The sound and music is fitting to the environment.The acting is also great. Hugh Dancy is spectacular in the role of Will Graham and the rest of the supporting actors are good at their roles. The other lead actor, Mads Mikkelsen, is very creepy as Hannibal Lecter, however, he never came of as the cunning psychopath we've all come to know Hannibal Lecter from the films, he just came off as evil. But I don't blame Mads for his characterisation I blame the writers.In fact the biggest flaw of the entire show is the writing. In the story Will Graham is an FBI criminal profiler with a gift. He can magically see through the eyes of serial killers in the past when they were killing their victims. I use the word 'magically' because how Will reaches his deductions is never properly explained; the writers lazily excuse themselves by using words such as 'gift' or 'ability to empathise with killers' to explain that he can. Such core plot point should be dealt with more care and detail.All in all the show is very entertaining if you're in the mood for something dark and mysterious. I have enjoyed it very much and I hope that the writers will write with more care and detail when they're showing off Will's gift in action in the following season.7/10 stars.


                
I was really hoping for this to be brilliant and like many i find the topic of hannibal very interesting. However for all the good elements to this series it was distracted by too many flaws and repetition.I personally love the slower counseling sessions and reading between the words in conversation, but i found there are so many scenes repeated over and over that i detracted from what could have been a more cohesive and interesting series.Firstly repetition of dreams while often stunning became a little tiresome and my word there are a serious amount of serial killers in this area! I am surprised there is anyone else left! And without giving anything away they are some seriously stupid FBI not to get a fairly good idea who the killer was!!!! I know people will say that the repetition is necessary as about madness of the mind as much as anything else which builds and builds but i would argue the audience got the gist and didn't need beating round the head with it to get the picture. Anyway, very brief summary but overall enjoyed it all but could have been a lot better considering some of the talented actors/actresses


                
I have now seen the first season and two episodes of the second season, and I'm impressed with this show. Making a TV-series based on Hannibal Lecter feels like a challenge. The character is so closely associated with Anthony Hopkins, and in my opinions, the quality of the franchise has suffered since Silence of the Lambs (in my opinion). I have read a few of the books and I was generally unimpressed. This show on the other hand manages to make something more out of it.What I like most about this show is how the story progresses with each episode, many times I feel that TV-series are afraid to go places. They tend to stagnate for a few episodes and not really move the general plot forward. In Hannibal there is a distinct wish to develop the characters and the story in each episode, and I'm still interested to see where it takes us.What I feel less ecstatic about is the level of gore in the show. I don't feel that you would really need this amount of blood and grimy killings, it doesn't add very much to the show and if you are averse to that sort of thing I imagine it could put you off. Also, there is a very dense amount of killing, many episodes feature a large amount of victims. This doesn't feel entirely credible, I don't have the statistics to know the number of serial killers in the US in the last decade. But here they seem to grow on trees.In general the actors do a fine job. Mikkelsen is a good Lecter, although I wish that he had worked some more on getting rid of his Danish accent. Maybe I'm more bothered by it than most (being from Sweden), but it doesn't entirely fit the character. Otherwise, no complaints.I would recommend this show to anyone wanting an interesting viewing experience, who is not really looking for casual watching, and who doesn't mind the level of gore or darkness that this show provides. It can be bothersome to watch at times, both visually and psychologically. But then again, that's sort of the point.7/10.


                
"Hannibal" had pretty big shoes to fill and mostly succeeds, with great craft and many good ideas; but there's also a few irritants-occasional, and chronic.Some actors do an outstanding job: Laurence Fishburne flawlessly portrays Jack Crawford's "misleading obtuse mien", Raúl Esparza actually elevates the thankless Chilton role, and Richard Armitage's chilling physical performance of Dolarhyde was arresting. Dancy and Mikkelsen are quite up to snuff, too, but could've notched down their respective extremes: Graham too often one breath short of epileptic, and Lecter a bit too inexpressive (though at least compensated by a livelier physicality); still, I wish they'd gone with a native English speaker for a character whose every meticulous word we're supposed to hold on to, and is never said in the novels to have a thick accent.Gillian Anderson is a fine actress and her Du Maurier character a good idea, but what was with the slow talk? If it meant her treading carefully to try and keep up with Lecter, it just left me drowsy. Mason Verger was another letdown: a hardly menacing baby-faced prat pre-Hannibal, afterwards he goes into a lame imitation of Gary Oldman sans the masterful underlying sadness.The visuals are evocative and classy, softening the relatively abundant gore, though the cinematographer may have been a bit too in love with slow-motion close-ups of splashed liquids (no, not just blood).What annoyed me the most is excessive quoting from the novels and movies. I don't mind a couple winks to the fandom, but so much of it became off-putting, especially as some of the quotes were so utterly trivial; "... and a modest outlay for two bags of cement"? Come on, it ain't Shakespeare.


                
I've got so far as Season 3, Episode 5. It started amazingly well. Every episode had me hooked and I wanted to watch more. The storyline was great, dark and psychological, you want to see more. Then Season 3 happened. I don't know why but the style of the episodes has changed. The constant slow motion parts, the dramatic unnecessary music - it's all a little too much. Maybe they got a bigger budget to spend on different shots and effects but sometimes less is more. I'm trying to finish the whole Series but Season 3 isn't living up to 1 and 2 at all for me.


                
I started out enjoying Hannibal thoroughly as a psychologically rewarding take on the character, and the prospect of an engaging cat and mouse game between Will and Lector. Over the course of three seasons I saw that promise dissolve into a gore-full shockfest, which I did enjoy in the way shows like that are enjoyable, but I had hoped this show would become more.The writers did away with the cat and mouse eventually and made everyone around Hannibal so horribly inept that it was hard to imagine his Brilliance let alone see it (except as a chef/connoisseur). They repeatedly introduced good characters and proceeded to fumble around with their story arcs, reducing the show to a intertwined brooding incoherent mess.It was interesting to see how the Book and Movies were referenced and subsumed, enough to make me go revisit them which was an enjoyable indulgence.
But by the third act all semblance of a story or structure were cast aside for egregious overindulgent psychological musings of macabre characters that you just wished would shut up already, in an attempt to make the writing appear intelligent I suppose. The promise it held in the initial season set up the finale to be a disappointment.Amazing background score, some great visual work, good but faltering storytelling and direction.
I would rate Season I at 9/10 for the immense promise it held, Season II 7/10 for it still kept me interested, and Season III a 5/10 for what a shadow of itself the show became.


                
Jump on the Hannibal show bandwagon a little later. I loved the movies. Seeing as the show is a "reimagining" of the books, namely "Red Dragon" and "Hannibal", I was very intrigued to see how the TV show would compare. The short answer is Eh. 
The first season was great. Intense, graphic, compelling. I couldn't get enough. I was a little put off by Will Graham's mental instability, but it never really stopped me from enjoying the show. The relationships felt natural, and you could care for the characters. Then something happened about halfway through the second season. The show went off the rails big time. Nothing made sense anymore. Jack and Will are trying to catch Hannibal, they are competing against each other to catch him, they are working with Hannibal to screw the other one over. It just didn't make sense. Luckily the show got back on track for the thrilling second season finale. It was brutal and shocking to say the least. It's to bad the third season couldn't carry the momentum I'm going to focus on the third season heavily for a moment because I feel it's a example of what went wrong with the show. The third season is a heavy reimagining/retelling of the books "Red Dragon" and "Hannibal", in which the season starts with Hannibal on the run in Italy. Right away we see the reimagining going on. Since the show never brought in Clarice Starling, Hannibal instead has romantic interests in a new character named Bedelia Du Maurier (played horribly by Gillian Anderson). She plays the character, who's supposed to be a psychiatrist much like Hannibal mind you, in a extremely monotone, nasely, sultry way that you want her off the screen as soon as she comes on. I was praying she was going to be killed. Much like the book/movie "Hannibal", Mason Verger plays the main villain for the beginning of the season. Again the show has sequences that make no sense at all. Jack Crawford beats the hell out of Hannibal one episode, only to have dinner with him and Will the next episode. The Mason Verger storyline is concluded hallway through the season, culminating in Hannibal finally being captured and imprisoned for his crimes. The show jumps ahead 3 years and introduces Francis Dolarhyde, aka the Red Dragon. This Red Dragon was never intimidating nor frightening. Nothing about him was intriguing or interesting. It's a shame they brought him in. I'm not going to spoil the ending of the season and series, but prepare for a facepalm and disappointment. For me, the problem with this series is there are 3 far better movies out there from the same source material. The movie "Red Dragon" is infinitely better than the 6 episode arc in this series. The show is great for one season, goes crazy for the second, then just loses steam for the third. If your gonna watch it, stop at season 1 finale. That's the only reason I gave it 7 stars. The strength of the first season was that good, plus the incredible season 2 finale.
