Two episodes in and I'm admiring this curiously crafted, visually stunning (and very risky) program. I entered into this show as a fan of the novels and films (with the exception of 'Hannibal' 2001). Last week's pilot was considerably rushed (I felt an extra 30 mins to flesh out the crime would have evened the pacing) however this 2nd episode really nailed me with the tone, and development of the characters. Hannibal and Will Graham, predator and prey (one character unwittingly). Sure there are some cheap moves for shock value and and certainly the investigations are rushed to make room for the greater psychological thriller, yet the time and craft spent on creating haunting atmosphere and imagery really help to dispel the smaller annoyances. This show is as sophisticated as the sauce being served with Hannibal's loin of pork. Even though this show seems intent on the trappings of a police procedural I am very seduced by the bonding (and manipulation) between Hannibal and Graham. Intellectual peers although one is weak and the other exuding strength. I thought this week was terrific in terms of setting up the trust between patient and doctor. Moreover, Mikkelson, who I found wooded and sterile in the pilot really begins to flex his characters charisma and control. Hannibal is a monster and Mads is perfectly cast. The show expertly sets the tension that he is already 5 plays ahead of everyone. Dancy impressed me as well. Two episodes in and your already experiencing the brilliantly frail and dark mind of Will Graham. The labels of 'finest china', 'broken pony' are perfect labels for his embodied genius who is also a tortured soul. Someone who suppresses the impulse to kill like a recovering alcoholic avoids mouthwash. I know many will knock the casting but after watching a decade of stale, wooden acting of 'Criminal Minds, CSI:Everywhere, NCIS's casting... and so on it's gratifying to see actors with depth and a script that allows them to emote pain and fear. And Larry Fishburne even elevates himself from CSI land (not a bad show, however this is a step up). I'm admittedly a pretty picky viewer. Since HBO's The Sopranos graced the screen there have been very little network TV that I've been inclined to tune into. Aside from LOST, The Good Wife and a few other programs that have been here and gone (cancellation) I've had a steady diet of serial based cable dramas to fill my TV time. BREAKING BAD, THE WIRE, JUSTIFIED, SOA, THE WALKING DEAD, THE KILLING, MAD MEN, DEADWOOD, THE SHIELD, HOMELAND, BOARDWALK EMPIRE... I could go on but the message here is that the networks offer me little to invest in. Kudos NBC and Bryan Fuller here. I could see myself watching this for 13 episodes (the series run). I don't shake my head at the screen and feel my intelligence is being cheated here.


                
The number of I-hate-you-then-I-love-you moments I have had during watching NBC's Hannibal since it started in 2013 until it sadly (for us viewers) ended last Saturday is too great to count. However, the disappointment I am feeling right now because I will see no more of Hannibal is a success in and of itself. At first I did not know how to go about this review in the most logical way possible (it is really hard to convince my mind to do so!) so I came up with the 'ingenious' idea of putting my remarks into points as randomly as they jump to my head:-Bryan Fuller is brilliant, there is no doubt. His decisions to carry Thomas Harris's novels to the surreal and metaphysical realm and to focus on the complicated/mind-twisting/homoerotic relationship between Hannibal Lecter and Will Graham are very bold. Nonetheless, Fuller delved so deep into surreality it sometimes cost the show its sense of realness. Do not get me wrong, I am and always be pro adaptation of all sorts and kinds, but Harris's Hannibal saga is basically a unique study of the human psyche and its psychological dimensions – something you cannot tackle without having at least one foot in reality. What makes Hannibal Lecter a truly frightening character is that he feels very real and if you drop that, all you have is a mythical character no different than Sisyphus or Medusa. This is my only problem with the show. The result was unmistakable pretentiousness in storyline and dialogue, especially in season 1. It is smart, I admit, but in which universe would a dialogue like that take place? It feels pompous and forced. Same can be said about some turns of events; each of the series primary characters has been stabbed, burned, or shot at least three times over the course of the show, yet they miraculously managed to come back to life! As a result I lost my sense of surprise. By the time I reached season 3, I was like "Oh, X lost his head. No problem, he'll somehow find his way back to the show." In Egyptian Arabic there is a saying that describes inexplicable events in films and it goes "el mokhreg ayez keda" which roughly translates to "because the director wants it so!" Fuller definitely wants it so.-If you get over the above mentioned problem you will find the show utterly phenomenal. The dynamics between Hannibal and Will especially in seasons 2 and 3 are captivating and make up for the sometimes awkward dialogue. In the last two seasons events move faster and become more focused on the Hannibal-Will relationship which gets compellingly more rounded. It is by far the most twisted and gripping romance of the 21st century. Season 3 is remarkable too with the introduction of the Red Dragon which pumps new blood in the aesthetics-invested season.-Want to know more about the aesthetics of voyeurism? Watch Hannibal. The imagery picks on the surreal side of the story and turns it into a feast for the eyes indeed. I will never forget the sinister Wendigo, the dying stag, and the wings of the Red Dragon. In spite of the gory nature of some scenes, the literally breathtaking cinematography transforms them into surreal sensuous/sensual paintings that you would want to see again and again. That effect is greatly aided by the artistic editing and the choice of music – end result is transcendental. The murder scene in season 3 finale "The Wrath of the Lamb" is an example. Imagine with me this stomach- churning scene: two men covered in blood trying to kill another man by stabbing, slashing and biting him. Naturally, nothing pleasant or aesthetic can come out of it; however, it turns out to be the most beautiful thing I have seen in a very long time. Surreal. Horrifying. Mesmerizing. Heart- wrenching. Also, Siouxsie Sioux' song "Love Crime" makes it hit deeper in the heart.-Everyone on the show did a brilliant job, even though Hugh Dancy (Will Graham) was overdoing it sometimes, but once you get used to his performance you can sit back and enjoy the chemistry between him and Mads Mikkelsen (Hannibal Lecter) play out. Richard Armitage was one hell of a pleasant surprise.The only person that was unbearably annoying is Gillian Anderson playing Bedilia Du Maurier. As a character, I couldn't wrap my head around her motives and development – I think Fuller put her there only to serve as a receiver of Hannibal's and Will's mind contents. As an actor, her poker face and slow articulation made me want to slit my wrists every time she was on screen.-Saving the best for last, let's talk some Mads Mikkelsen. I will try my best to put his overwhelming sex appeal and my apparent subjectivity aside.. but heck with objectivity! Objectivity is a delusion, so just let me take a deep breath and start rambling about this Danish talent. Anthony Hopkins' name is forever linked to Hannibal Lecter because of his legendary performance in the cinematic adaptation with no prospects of anyone even coming close. Mikkelsen did it. I am not saying he is better than Hopkins, all I am saying is he was smart enough to decide to play a different tune and show us a new side of Hannibal.. the charmer, the mind player, and the vulnerable as well. Thanks to Bryan Fuller and Mikkelsen, Hannibal Lecter's character becomes alive again with so much vigor and articulate details missing in previous adaptations. His clothes, his movements, his choice of words, his highly controlled facial expressions – everything he does unpretentiously and effortlessly oozes menace.If this show was a living being, Mikkelsen would definitely be the heart of it.Seriously, who would have thought that watching a cannibal kill people and cook them for meals would be that yummy?
Don't get me wrong, I like Anthony Hopkins. I think he is a fine Actor who has made many valuable contributions to cinema. However, I always felt his depiction of Hannibal Lecter was too hammy for me. "chianti and fava beans ffu ffu ffu ffu!" made me burst out laughing when I first saw it! The crazy character he portrayed didn't gel with the cool, calculating predator that Hannibal Lecter is. I always viewed Hannibal as the Megeladon swimming amongst the great whites; the Predator of predators, if you will. Now enter Mads Mikkelsen. His portrayal of Hannibal Lecter is simply exquisite. I find myself completely mesmerised when he is on screen. I actually watch each episode twice (sometimes even more!). The first time for the story and the second time so that I can completely immerse myself in watching Mads. The impeccable way he holds himself, every movement and every look meticulously thought out, the subtle smile that plays upon his lips, the flash of predatory fire that glints in his eyes all of it is absolutely sublime. For me, Mad's play the perfect Hannibal Lecter.There are other outstanding cast members; Lawrence Fishburne plays an excellent Jack Crawford. Gillian Anderson, who plays Hannibal's Psychiatrist is glorious. I particularly love it when Hannibal and her are on screen together; there is definite chemistry between these two. I love Hettienne Park as Beverly and Eddie Izzard is superb as Dr Abel Gideon. Finally, Lara Jean Chorostecki plays an excellent, if unlikable, Freddie Lounds.Most of the remaining cast are strong. Obviously there are many smaller characters that are needed but don't have anything to do with the development of the story so I won't discuss those here. There are however, two main characters that for me don't really work. The first is Caroline Dhavernas as Dr Alana Bloom. I don't know what it is about her but she is just not right for the part at all. I've read that she is an excellent actress (I've never seen her in anything else so I can't be the judge of that) and I know she is adored by many but she just grates me every time she's on screen. This is just a personal opinion and I'm sure many would argue that she does a fine performance so don't let that put you off watching Hannibal. The second is Hugh Dancy as Will Graham. His portrayal of someone with aspergers, while correct in some ways, is all a bit too theatrical for my liking. If I had to sum up Hugh Dancy's Will Graham in one word I would have to pick 'Fragile' which is not really what Will Graham character is about. Sophia Helin did a much better job of playing a detective with aspergers in Broen (The Bridge). Story-wise Hannibal is, in the main, excellent. The pace is good, particularly in the first season. The second season started really well but has suddenly had a lull for about three episodes now and I hope the story picks up soon. Overall though it's very good. There's plenty of tension and horror; prepare for some grisly scenes!So whilst this show isn't perfect, you should be watching it because it is definitely good! If for no other reason, dip in to watch Mads Mikkelsen's performance. Gets a solid 8 / 10 rating from me.


                
Hannibalprojecting such a dark topic is very tricky but the creator here keeps it smart by letting the audience imagine it until the series has taken hold of you and then shows you its real tone which is not easy to watch especially post second season. its stage is really set in a more metaphorical way which opens a dreadful door of the combination of horror and thrills that easily gives you the goosebumps. and in the end the heart of the series lies within the relation between the lead actors which is beautifully poetic.


                
Technically this series could be described as a police procedural, but it might be better described as an unusual take on the psychological thriller genre. Rather than building tension in the form of suspense, however, a combination of precisely chosen, expressive dialogue and carefully composed visuals are contrasted with the macabre, unrealistically elaborate efforts of serial killers to create a thoroughly creepy, disturbing atmosphere.The effect is suggestive of a series of tableaux presenting classical works of art, alternating between beautiful and grotesque subject matter. The precision and sense of the aesthetic maintained throughout serve to heighten this effect, giving us a glimpse of the worldview of the title character, Hannibal Lecter.The style might be described as a combination of Hitchcock and Lynch. It's surprisingly explicit for American network TV, though almost tame compared to some cable TV fare. It doesn't have anything close to enough gory imagery or violence to please fans of the Grand Guignol gruesomeness found in many modern horror/suspense films, but it has enough that a warning to the audience is appropriate.Each of the regular characters are developed and explored with care, and even the minor characters come to life. The dialogue has the quality of a good play rather than the commonplace, realistic vernacular one might expect from subject matter like a series of FBI investigations.


                
Hannibal is one of those great shows that comes along and breaks the norm. It does something completely different which makes it so great. The acting is top notch and the writing is brilliant, the twisted and disturbing ways people kill their victims is really well done. Mads Mikkelsen and Hugh Dancy both do an amazing job playing their respective characters especially Mads who really got the creepiness just right. The best thing about this is it shows how manipulative Psychopaths can really be and how they can change people like Will, make them become someone different. This show really delves in to deep psychological conditions and effects and those parts when will is inside his mind look so good.Overall I gave this a 9/10 it is really good and I recommend any fan of Thomas Harris' books watch this, or anyone who is a big fan of shows that do things completely different from normal.


                
I feel like describing Hannibal as a crime investigation show is very limiting because it is so much more. If I had limit the amount of facets this show has, I'd say that it follows the psyche of an FBI profiler, Will Graham, who is way too adept at emphasizing with killers. I read on another review that there isn't much time spent on the murder cases, but I believe that's because the show's focus is mainly on the psychological damage of profiling these twisted murderers and also the chest game between Will Graham and Hannibal Lecter, unbeknownst to Will. The way Will's psyche is presented in the show is visually stunning and holds a plethora of symbolic interpretations. The entire season has an arc and every episode is crucial to the plot. There are also beautiful motifs and easter eggs laid out from episode one. It is easy to see that Bryan Fuller is telling the truth when he says he had the entire season planned out before filming. On the negative, the gore is so graphic I'm surprised that it's even allowed on television. It's one of the prime reasons why I don't recommend this show openly to casual friends, it's really easy to write off on the first few episodes because it just gets more and more twisted. On a better note, if you appreciate deep writing, acting, and cinematography this is as good as it gets folks.
When I first heard about the "Hannibal" television show, I was ecstatic. I was especially excited to see Mads Mikkelsen as everyone's favorite cannibal psychiatrist, and boy, does he nail it. He makes the show. Sure, the rest of the primary cast is good, Laurence Fishburne is stoic, educated, and patriarchal as usual, and Hugh Dancy isn't half bad as the tortured Will Graham, but for me, it's really Mikkelsen who brings home the gold. Every bit as chilling and calculating as Anthony Hopkins, Mikkelsen also brings something new to the role of Hannibal; his accent. Mikkelsen has a very distinct Danish accent, which to some viewers may be a turn off, but I find that it adds a more exotic element to him. Not only does it make him seem more foreign and threatening, but it requires closer attention to understand what he's saying, giving his words an impact proportionate to the focus needed to understand them. In addition, "Hannibal" is the only TV show to ever make me cringe about anything, and at times it can even be a little scary. All of these elements, plus excellent writing and rich character arcs--well, for Graham and Lecter, anyway--make "Hannibal" good enough to eat. (Sorry, I couldn't resist the cheesy pun.)


                
It's taken me seven episodes to gage enough of a opinion to justify a review but here it is... It's FANTASTIC! We deal with adult Lecter who has yet to be caught for his horrific cannibalistic crimes and fbi drop out Will Graham who's been drafted in as a special adviser for the worst psychopathic serial killings the state's has to offer. Hannibal is a private psychologist in this series and is used, with will to help fbi investigator Jack Crawford solve these crimes, all the time oblivious to fact that Hannibal is one of the people he seeks, the infamous chesapeake ripper. The casting here is brilliant and mads mikkelsen is the most creepy Dr. Lecter to date, Hugh dancy plays a very different will graham than you'd find in red dragon or manhunter, he's more of a recluse, hates public situations and suffers from autism which he uses as a gift to get deep into the thinking of the killers they try to catch throughout the show. Lawrence Fishburne is also solid as jack and adds his usual gravitas to the role. Nbc took a risk with Hannibal and so far it's paying off, script writer Bryan Fuller is doing a great job at building the relationship between will and lecter and although direction duties are shared between three, they all seem to be reading from the same directional book as every episode has the same darkly candid undertones. The problem? The answer is narrative and story arc, it's simply following the same routine as most stateside crime drama's i.e crime is committed, evidence is gathered and a team is sent out to track down the bad guy, the only difference here is that one of team happens to like human liver and bacon for breakfast. How long can this show go on before Dr. Lecter is found out and how many "one killer per episode" stories can we stomach? With Bryan fuller already saying that five seasons have been thought out story wise... It could be a fair few.
I came into this show completely blank. Wasn't expecting anything. I'm not a fan of the source material or have read any of the books. I just thought 'lets give it a go'. Boy am i glad i gave it a chance. The darkness got hold of me and never let go. I'm truly impressed. Never seen anything quite like this before on TV. It's almost like watching dark poetry enfold before your eyes.Every conversation is deep and meaningful. The dialog is beautifully written. The relationship between Wil Graham and Hannibal is done really well. The psychological aspect is impressive to say the least. The most gruesome scenes are brought to life in an unrivaled artistic way. Never have blood and gore looked this beautiful before. The acting is mostly top notch. Especially by Hugh Dancy and Mads Mikkelsen. Speaking of Mads Mikkelsen, the Danish actor playing Hannibal, he is absolutely perfect in his role as Hannibal Lector! I had never heard of the man before but i'm an instant fan now.Overall season 1 & 2 are really good. Sadly season 3 is a bit of a mixed bag.


                
After finishing one of the best shows I have ever watched Dexter I automatically wanted to find an alternative to the blood thirsty vigilante. So everywhere on the internet pointed straight to Hannibal after the first episode I could not stop watching, I binge watched till my eyes couldn't stay open any longer. So I would like to say that the thing that most impressed me about this show was the music. The music brought me into every aspect of the show, the music made me feel like I was there with Hannibal cooking a spontaneous meal. Another part of the show I really loved was the cinematography, the imagery was amazing and I did not realize how significant cinematography was to a show until watching Hannibal. Honestly the gore and blood did not mind me whatsoever the first two seasons and then when I started to watch the third season I was so disappointed I nearly cried. Each episode was more boring then the other, I fell asleep in every episode I watched. The music and cinematography were still there but the plot and suspense was no where to be seen. I could tell that the directors were trying to hard to make the third season gory that it disgusted me so much I was angry. I would've deducted more out of my rating because of the third season but I was extremely delighted about the first two.


                
It's definitely unjust to compare Hannibal the series with any other crime shows, CIS-style, or even Dexter and Criminal Minds. Hannibal is not so much a crime show as it is a voyage into the mind, an exploration of the psyche, a disturbing peek into what's it like to be losing your mind. That's why, to be able to fully appreciate the series, the viewer must dispense with certain traditional perceptions and focus not so much on the plot, but on the main characters and the atmosphere, and allow to be led into a dizzying descent into darkness. The novels that this series is based on are serial killer novels, and all those delve deeply into the mind, mental illness and crime. I must confess I've never read any of them. So much for the better – it gives me a better appreciation of this superb show. Movies based on the works of Thomas Harris have had varying success to date, and of course, it's the theatrically creepy Anthony Hopkins in his iconic role that has set the benchmark and influenced the audience's expectations. I dare say, Mads Mikkelsen has reinvented Hannibal Lecter as a truly menacing and malevolent presence, made so much the scarier with his suaveness and charm. Such understated yet intense acting, putting his cold, impressive facial features to such fascinating use -Mikkelsen gives a simply magnificent performance. Hugh Dancy on the other hand conveys so very convincingly a tortured man, blessed with a cursed talent, teetering on the brink of madness, unsure of himself, unsure of his friends and his actions, sure only that his world is terrible, horrifying and damned – and so is he. Not a martyr, but a victim, Will Graham is the representation of humanity, the symbol of the fragility of our inner world, of all our worlds. A compelling performance, truly disturbing and on par with the icy demeanor of the true Satan, Hannibal Lecter. So convincing is Will Graham's madness, that it's more scary, more disturbing even than the graphic gore of the crimes, which has nevertheless been presented very elegantly. Should you get nightmares from Hannibal, it will be because of Will, not the blood and guts.Too bad the supporting cast leaves something to be desired. I cannot really say whether it's to be attributed to the actors, or the writing, but luckily they don't detract much from the cat and mouse play of Hannibal and Will, a suspenseful high stakes game. It's nice to see Gillian Anderson though, hopefully her character will get more time in upcoming seasons. The final scene in the season finale is the perfect illustration of the chemistry Mikkelsen and Dancy have on screen. So little is said, but so much is implied, leaving a huge field for fans' imaginations to run wild. This is where not having read the novels really pays off, because I can speculate and look forward to the new season with all the excitement of a fanboy. 8/10, hoping future seasons will give me reason to add more stars.
for the past couple of days I have been watching Hannibal and I am already onto season 3. I don't usually binge watch shows as I never have enjoyed watching shows from start to finish in only one sitting however I just had to with Hannibal since it is that good. it only took me about 4 or 5 days to get to season 3 and i have know decided to take a break from my binge and talk about the show. Hannibal is a show that is based of the popular books about Hannibal Lecter who is a serial killer who also likes to eat his victims. the character of Hannibal was first made popular by Anthony Hopkins in the classic silence of the lambs. in the show however the character of Hannibal is played by Mads Mikkelson and I have got to be honest i do prefer Mads performance. I know thats a bold statement and I'm not trying to put Anthony Hopkins fantastic performance down, its just watching Mads playing this character in the show is terrifying as you 100% believe that this is a real person. his performance in this show is so subtle and yet so brilliant, there are so many scenes that show Hannibal as this polite, sophisticated gentleman and yet when he does start getting into fist fights with various people and showing of all his different fighting skills you believe that this man could lash out like this and kick some serious ass.besides Hannibal there is also will graham who is essentially the main character of the show especially in the first season and he is played by Hugh dancy who is fantastic as well. Will is one of the most complex and interesting characters of the show as he is a man who has the ability to empathise with serial killers and get into the mind of them and see how they think which he uses to help the FBI catch different killers. Throughout the show you see how this ability haunts Will and it slowly starts to eat him up inside and Hugh dancy plays that brilliantly.with all that said about the fantastic performances in this show I think that the main attraction of this show is the cinematography because wow does this show have some fantastic shots. at times watching Hannibal is almost like watching art, there are so many breathtaking shots throughout the show that i am going to remember years from now. most of these amazing shots come from the inside of wills mind as he is haunted by his ability to empaphize with killers as well as being haunted by events that take place in the pilot episode which i will not spoil saying the show is well shot really is an understatement. the writing of the show is also great to and i found my self being surprised around every corner.there isn't really anything i can fault with this show but i suppose if really wanted to nick pick one thing i would have to comment on is the crime scenes and just how messed up they are. some of the ways that these body's are left to be found had me questioning how in the hell someone could come with this stuff, but with that said i suppose thats not really a negative as it does work for this nightmare like show, its just something that you have to bear in mind when watching this show, you are going to see some messed up stuff ( also do not eat whilst watching this show, just don't).in the end Hannibal is one of the best shows to ever grace the television, the acting is great, writing is great, cinematography in phenomenal and the sound editing is also fantastic. I cannot recommend this show enough especially if you are a horror/thriller fan. the fact this show has been cancelled since not enough people are watching it is such a shame and I really hope netlfix or Amazon save this brilliant show.


                
Seasons 1 and 2 were absolutely brilliant, despite Eddie Izzard's terrible overacting. Why on earth does this clown get cast in serious roles? I never found him entertaining or funny as a comedian either, but even for those who do I imagine the novelty of "HEY! THAT'S EDDIE IZZARD!" wears off quite quickly. Frankly, I don't think anyone would have complained if the series had just ended with the shocking season 2 finale and its post credit scene. Because at that moment all questions were answered, all dots were connected. Now here comes season 3: The first noticeable change is all the bad acting going on. Suddenly Eddie Izzard is joined by a whole slew of terrible actors. Even the good actors of season 1 and 2 started acting badly: Inspector Rinaldo Pazzi sounds like he's doing the voice over for the Italian character in an Asian kung-fu movie, Mason Verger became the kind of hammy overacted villain you'd expect to see in a high school play and Jack Crawford's emotional range was suddenly reduced to shooting disgusted looks at people. What on earth happened to this cast? But the acting wasn't the only off-putting thing in season 3. Unlike season 1 and 2 where the violence and gore served the plot and even had some aesthetic appeal, in season 3 the violence and gore became self gratifying. It seemed like it was there just to gross people out. Suddenly the series didn't feel like an intelligent well crafted crime series any more, but rather like a third rate horror movie, like one of the "SAW" sequels.In season 3 the characters stopped feeling natural and relatable. Why on earth did the concerned empathetic Alana Bloom suddenly become a lesbian supervillain? In fact it seems the whole cast more or less becomes supervillains. Alana Bloom, Margot Verger, Jack Crawford, Mason Verger, Abel Gideon, Bedelia, Jack Crawford, Doc Chilton, Freddie Lounds, it seemed like the "good guys" suddenly all became supervillains all plotting against one and other and the "bad guys" all became even hammier caricatures of supervillains. 
Suddenly the balance was gone which, if you understand the philosophy behind Hannibal, you'll understand why that is a problem.Because in Hannibal, on one side you have "the good guys": the crime fighters and morally upstanding citizens. On the other side you have "the bad guys": the psychopathic killers and unscrupulous journalists who contaminate crime scenes and ruin people's lives based on lies and half truths. 
What made Hannibal so scary yet simultaneously appealing, is that he was the link between those two worlds. He alone could crossover into both worlds. On the one hand he was a respected psychologist, an intelligent and cultured member of the community and a master of the culinary arts who would frequently organize parties for his friends and collegues. And on the other hand he was the Chesapeake ripper, who would kill people unfeelingly in cold blood and feed their bodies to their friends and loved ones whilst revelling in the knowledge of what they were eating. But when you don't uphold the balance of good and evil, or even discard the difference entirely. Suddenly the character Hannibal stops being interesting, he becomes mundane. He's just another killer in a world comprised solely of killers and lunatics. Well, that's exactly what went wrong in season 3. Hannibal, the star of the show was drowned out by an ocean of psychopaths and lunatics. And his character stopped being interesting, save for the fact that he was played so incredibly by Mads Mikkelsen.


                
No spoilers - though I do make reference to characters and known parts of the story (book and film) being present and absent, without going into the details. In many respects it is complete, albeit a little unresolved at the end. Such a pity it doesn't however go into other aspects of the complete story. We get Red Dragon and Hannibal feature heavily, without Clarice Starling however, and sadly no retelling of the Silence of the Lambs. It begins prior to Red Dragon, to further explain Hannibal Lecter's working relationship with the police, manipulation, and so on, while also working in some of the Mason Verger back story into those parts, making the Hannibal book story work, but for some reason or other they seemed unable to include Clarice Starling and Silence of the Lambs. There was some talk of progress forthcoming in that regard, but it all seems to have now been dropped entirely. As such, you could just watch this, and then when it finishes go into The Silence of the Lambs movie, and have it all end right there. You probably wouldn't want to go into the Hannibal movie however, quite simply because elements of that story pop up in the series.I've given it 8 stars rather than 10 because it wasn't able to fully embrace all parts of the overall story. I suppose there were some issues with rights, and all that, though I'm not really sure - can only assume.


                
I came into this series entirely by accident, simply by its name (I thought it was historical, about Hannibal Barca)but went ahead and watched anyway. It is a standard detective procedural, where you watch the good guys and bad guy maneuver around each other to build suspense for a climactic showdown. In the meantime the stories are part CSI, part Numb3rs, part whatever else they show 20x per week on primetime.While none of the characters are who you'd want to spend time with, they're certainly entertaining to watch, and the stories are entertaining as well, given how well-trod the entire genre is.I docked it a point for 2 things: 1)When the main guy goes into his "trance" the amount of loud throbbing sub-bass and the amount of time it lasts is really irritating. You could turn down the sound, but inevitably the next scene is someone having a quiet dialog and then you miss something. 2) Only 2 episodes in and they went for the cheap pulp-theology bit along the lines of 'God must love killing, He kills lots of people every day'. Fine, whatever. It just sounded less like the character and more like a Hollywood screenwriter trying to sound badass and edgy.All in all, this is a fine watch-it-when-it's-on series, but if you miss a week, don't hang yourself over it.


                
"Hannibal" is a rare gem in the realm of broadcast TV drama. The last decade everyone has been looking to cable for quality, thought provoking TV dramas, HBO and AMC being the leaders of the pack producing a long line of excellent shows. However now it seems that broadcast has found footing and is starting to release shows able to take the fight to the cable channels. No doubt that "Hannibal" is among the greatest current dramas on broadcast and a prime example of how far broadcast has come.The first 3 minutes of the pilot will blow anyone away, it is the best opening to a show since LOST's famous pilot episode, we are wasting no time and are quickly getting acquainted with the rather unnerving powers of Will Graham. But as his "powers" are turning from a tool he uses to solve crime into a manifestation that threatens to render him incapable of working with the FBI it becomes clear that he needs professional help. Hannibal is hired as Will's Psychiatrist to help him cope with the heinous crimes that he is trying to solve. The two form a unique partnership, Will the intelligent yet weirdly naive, unrefined and simple man versus Hannibal the equally intelligent but extremely well versed in etiquette, inter-human behavior and manipulation. If Hannibal thought Will would be an unfit opponent intellectually he has mistaken, Will is very much up to the task and that is what makes the show so great. The show does not have the rating it deserve, but there are a plethora of reasons for this. The show is airing during the TV graveyard on Friday evenings. It has a little known main cast to Americans (except for Laurence Fishburne, who does a great job). It is based on a book/movie franchise (which rarely does well in TV adaptions, omit GoT). And the marketing by NBC has been, what should we say, less than adequate. However the show has backing from European companies, so I hope that NBC can live with the reduced revenue from advertisers due to the ratings as they can to some extent rely on their overseas backing to keep down cost of the production. Hopefully Hannibal will keep getting renewed so we get a chance to see Bryan Fuller's exciting plan for the show come into fruition. It is a stunning show, an excellent acting (Mads Mikkelsen is nothing less than brilliant as the title character), disturbing murder-of-the-week episodes, and the source material is so abundant that the show should have quality material for years.Keep it cool NBC, you have a cult classic in your hands, don't waste the opportunity.


                
Great article http://fifaworldcup2014livescores.com/ this article i just so awesome, this will have a great impart on peoples mind.I don't normally review TV shows, but after seeing the pilot of Hannibal, I am compelled. As the (arguably) foremost monster of all time, Hannibal Lechter still fascinates and appalls us at the same time. His suave, debonair demeanor and taste, combined with his overwhelming brilliance makes him the most attractive monster since Dexter (or Gary Oldman in Dracula). So it was with great expectations and serious doubts that I approached NBC's Hannibal. After all, besides praising the Obama administration, what does NBC do well? I was very pleasantly surprised.Hugh Dancy (Will Graham) and Mads Mikkelson (Hannibal) are great. As they work together on the current case, they are probing each other's psyche and working to establish control, command, dominance over the other (naturally more on Dr. Lechter's part that Will's). In a take off on Dexter, Dr. Lechter is part of the team the FBI has brought in to help solve the latest serial killer problem. What is always compelling about Hannibal is that he always is in control. He has thought out how he will proceed, how he will step in the water closely with those who would naturally want to stop him in his curious habits, yet while always being able to protect himself. (Another good example of this is Anthony Hopkins in Fracture - if you haven't seen it, you should).


                
Hugh Dancy does an excellent job as Will Graham. The only thing I remember him from is Evening with wife Claire Danes, and while he was great there too this is quite something else! Mikael Madds seemed an unlikely Hannibal to me - mostly because when I think of Hannibal I think of a role immortalized by Anthony Hopkins. But setting aside the traditional Hannibal Lecter image he does a very good job. He's less obviously deranged, more business-like, and lacks the horrific grin that made The Silence of the Lambs one of the scariest thrillers of the nineties. He gives a very polished performance, which works for the Hannibal in this universe. The entire series is full of gore and aberrant violence, but is so ultra-polished in its execution it lacks the grimy dirtiness of having a job like Graham's (Dancy). That being said all in all it is a very entertaining, very gruesome, and very intense show. An addictive watch, definitely not having me look at my own watch. Roll on season 2. And watch out for Eddie Izzard in a bizarre, alien role. He's one of the highlights - part of a league of older actors who do surprisingly dark projects.


                
I wasn't sure about the content of this series....It has a demanding theme,it requires good acting,appropriate atmosphere and continuity and that's something quite dangerous since almost every series that has been put to the test has failed.... The first season was amazing but even better ware episodes 1-7 of the second season.The story unfolds with proper pace and the agony piles up.The situation skyrockets and you are left at the edge of your sit. The next episodes put me off a bit cause they were distant from what had happened right before and the situations were hard to keep up with....They were a bit surreal.You couldn't put yourself "in there" and feel what was going on cause it was too less smart and justified by the characters personalities in comparison to what we had seen up to that point....That though,didn't last long as in the last episodes everything return almost to their previous brilliance.I liked the end a lot but I am eager to see how they will connect the next season with it.They could have ended it right there beautifully.I hope they don't make us wish they had....
I am a HUGE fan of Bryan Fuller who has created such amazing shows as "Dead Like Me", "Pushing Daisies" and "Wonderfalls" but his one?? It takes you into a dark realm of serial killers and cannibals. The cast does a great job. The murders are horrific and something that nightmares of a twisted mind are made of. It is very dark and the imagery is haunting. Don't watch this before you go to bed! It is one of those shows that you don't want to watch but something about it pulls you back. The meals that Hannibal prepares are done with grace and aplomb even though he cooking human parts. The visions of Will are disturbing and violent. If you want happy, happy, joy, joy just run! If you want a thrill ride into a disturbing mind with blood and gore then this is your cup of tea.
For anyone who is a fan of Silence Of The Lambs, I highly recommend this series. (I am currently halfway through the second season).Lets start with the acting. Hugh Dancy as Will Graham is the stand out for me, with an excellent intense performance. Mads Mikkelsen also deserves a mention for being able to portray a character already made famous by Anthony Hopkins. Despite this, Mikkelsen manages to make Hannibal his own (something I have not seen since Heath Ledger's The Joker). Lawrence Fishburne is solid as Jack Crawford and the rest of the cast all do excellent work in their portrayals.The direction and tone for the budget given is just outstanding, with production values looking high and the tone creating a very eerie and uneasy mood.The writing, music score and all other aspects combine beautifully to make this a very compelling series to watch.I am a big fan of serialised dramas including shows like Breaking Bad, The Sopranos, The Wire, Game Of Thrones and The Shield and I feel comfortable in saying if you enjoy shows like that, then I strongly suggest you check this one out.


                
I've been watching this show since the beginning and it fascinated me. I've seen all the movies about Hannibal and read almost all the books(still planning on doing so) and I actually couldn't see anyone else then Anthony Hopkins pulling off Hannibal. Well, Mads Mikkelsen is in my opinion even better! Season one started with a lot of characters from the books, sometimes even switching their genders and the seasons more or less follow the books. It's not very faithful to the books, but it really builds a new world around it. There's a lot of psychological talk and things can get really complicated, but it's not really to hard to follow actually. But what really stands out in the show are the brutal deaths and fascinating (serial)killers. They are really well put together and make this show really interesting. I must say that season 1 is still my favorite. In my opinion it declined a little in the start of season 2 and regained it mid season 2. Season 3 is a little odd. It seems to me that the director goes more for semi-interesting visuals in between scenes and less on story and character development, which is an odd choice. It's still a good show, but it declined a bit.


                
Hannibal had a slow start. After the first episode I was tempted to give up on it as I thought there was no way I would get into it. However after reading some very good reviews I decided to give it another chance and push on with it. I'm glad I did. Hannibal is an interesting and engaging series that explores the minds of both Hannibal and his patient Will. It keeps you guessing as to what Hannibal's motives are and why he plays the mind games he does with Will. The show has a lot of blood and gore which adds to the realism. The aspect of the show which let's it down is the fact there are so many weird murders going on and none of the characters seem at all surprised that they are amongst so many pychopaths. People are not just murdered on here, they are always involved in some sort of pychathic agenda for example the violin murder and the 'animal' murders. The last episode of season 2 was great, very unpredictable.I am really looking forward to season 3 next week.


                
After the first season i was like: "why the hell did they canceled this show It's amazing" Then i started watching 3rd season and now i understand. To much artistic moments. Sometimes less is more. But still i love the show even with too much artistic parts in 3rd season. Also the music is unpleasently loud in 3rd and 2nd season and it should be dark and scary but Its just loud and unpleasant. The rithmic parts on "radiators" all the time Its just too much, and no melody just sfx. It will be forgotten thats for sure.


                
