Sergio Leone understood mannerism better than any director who ever lived and employed it to extraordinary effect in his spaghetti westerns.  In addition, his superb use of sound, detail and the closeup were rarely equaled in the history of the cinema. That said, his Once Upon a Time in The West is by and large a dismal, overblown failure of equally titanic proportions.  The acting is self-conscious not mannered, the details other than the opening sequence at the train station (brilliant in absolutely every regard, he should have quit when Charles Bronson says, "You've brought two too many.")are largely uninspired and the music is nothing short of grating.  Both of Leone's Once Upon a Time films (in America and in the West) were creative and box office failures as he bit off far more than he could chew.


                
I couldn't stand this ridiculous movie. It is one of the most pretentious movies I've ever seen, indicating that Sergio Leone had officially lost his mind and indulged in his own mania. What's so good about it? The Good, The Bad and the Ugly is far superior, as are the 'dollar' movies that preceded it. I guess it is cool that Henry Fonda is an evil piece of work, but other than that this movie really has nothing going for it, except Claudia Cardinale and her legendary beauty. The pacing was way too slow, the scenes were unnecessarily long and dragged often, and the acting left much to be desired. It's as if Leone tried to fuse an art film with his macho western style, and the result was a confused piece of action-art nonsense with no substance to justify the 'art' and too many stagnant and lifeless performances for it to be considered 'action'.


                
I saw this movie last night. Seeing as it was on the IMDb top 250 I thought, heck why not rent it out instead of watching The Godfather Part III again. Big Mistake. This movie was an absolute shocker. After the first ten minutes I was already half asleep, due to poor writing and tedious acting. In fact this movie is worse than From Justin to Kelly, and to believe that was bad.If you want a good western go and rent out THE GOOD THE BAD AND THE UGLY. It's got a better storyline, acting and camera angles. And guess what, the characters actually talk in a hearable way unlike this movie where they were pretty much mumbling.


                
After recently re-watching Sergio Leone's "The Good, The Bad, & The Ugly", I was recommended this film by someone who considers it to be the greatest western of all-time. Suffice it to say, it has been a long time since I have been so let down by a film.For a basic plot summary, "Once Upon A Time In The West" is a battle over a piece of valuable land owned by recently-widowed Jill McBain (Claudia Cardinale). Frank (Henry Fonda) wants the land to prop up his corrupt outlaw philosophy, while Cheyenne (Jason Robards) & mysterious stranger Harmonica (Charles Bronson) fight to help the widow.To say that this film can even hold a candle to Leone's earlier spaghetti westerns is almost an injustice. Whereas the "Man With No Name" trilogy (and especially "G,B,U") is full of drama, tension, and incredible atmosphere, "Time" is as dry and parched as the territory in which it is set. Leone westerns have never been known for their sterling plots, and this one is no better. The difference, though, is that his other efforts cultivate that incredible atmosphere of tension/mood. At no point during "Time", though, did I ever feel as if I were excited or emotionally involved whatsoever. An hour into it I was wondering when the action would pick up, 90 minutes in I knew I was going to be severely disappointed, and two hours in I actually even began fast-forwarding a bit (and I can't even remember the last time I did that with a movie).So, why is this movie considered one of the greatest westerns of all-time? IMHO, it is because of the nostalgia factor for those who remember the "Golden Age of Westerns" in the 1960s. First off, movies were just made differently back then; it being an "event" to see "Time" (something that will leave an indelible memory). Secondly, Fonda was a big draw back then, as was Bronson as the "man's man" (strong and silent type). While I can name movies featuring both of those actors that I thoroughly enjoy, their combination here is pitiful. A scene towards the end of the film that is supposed to mimic the graveyard scene at the end of "G,B,U" actually even elicited a laugh from me. The Eastwood/Wallach/Cleef chemistry is nowhere to be found here. The only reason I can see someone enjoying this is for the same reason that, 20 years down the road, I will get a kick out of watching movies (even some of the bad ones) from my generation. Finally, Claudia Cardinale is the epitome of 1960s sex appeal which, again, plays more on viewer nostalgia than actual performance.Upon completing "Time", I did a little research on its critical reception, finding that when it was released in 1968, it came in barely over budget. Essentially, it was kind of a dud. Only in subsequent decades did it obtain the reverent place in the western genre it holds today. Again, then, I would argue strongly for the nostalgia factor being the prime motive behind that reckoning. From an "outsider" viewpoint like mine (I've seen a lot of westerns, but was born in 1985), "Once Upon A Time In The West" is neither exciting or even particularly artistic. It is just a stinker.
Why do people love this movie so much? It was so painstakingly long and not in a way that built tension or suspense. The plot was so paper thin, yet they revealed it so slowly and so convolutedly that I found myself wondering what the heck was even happening most of the time. By the end I had more questions than answers (only because the story is full of plot holes). There were very few action scenes (not that a good western needs them), the characters were boring, unrelatable, unrealistic, clichés, and the dialogue was few, far between, and didn't even relate to what was happening on screen. They would spend 10 minutes talking about random things, just to fill in time for a conversation that could have been said in a few sentences. The acting was terrible to mediocre at best and I can't really blame the stars for them not having a good script to read. Like I said, this movie was LONG (over three hours) and most of that time was just close ups of peoples faces and stylistic camera angles. When the action did happen, it was as clichéd and fake as it gets; I really can't believe that people act like this film is so unique when it did the same things as most other westerns of the time only in a more boring fashion. The only good things about it were that it had an awesome soundtrack (reminded me of Red Dead Redemption), but it was forced in at odd moments, the scenery was beautiful, and the sets were put together well. I really wanted to like this movie; that's the only reason why I sat through the entire thing, but that's the only "Good"I could find in this "Bad and Ugly" movie.


                
Sergio Leone loves to keep the mood on edge by having repetitive annoying sounds, like the wind mill or insects overly loud. Not a real fan of this style, I know I am bucking the tide with all these glowing reviews, but the sound track is far to annoying to allow me to watch any longer, he would find a better use of his skills torturing audiophiles with chalk board scratching. As far as the best western ever, that I find laughable, another film firmly stuck in the time period it was filmed and it hasn't aged gracefully. This wreaks of spaghetti western, never an honest portrayal because the writing are always obtuse


                
