This was a unique western, one in which sometimes the action moves excruciatingly slow, which can either be fascinating or boring. Unfortunately for me, after spending big bucks for the DVD when it first came out, I found it more boring than fascinating. In my previous viewings, I always found it fascinating. Maybe I just had a bad day.The movie is filled with gaps of silence while closeups of the main characters' faces are shown. That's director Sergio Leone's trademark, and I believe he does it more in this film than in any of his others. When you get closeups of chiseled faces like Henry Fonda's or Charles Bronson's, it quite interesting but most of the movie feels like slow motion. At 165 minutes, this movie takes a lot of patience. By the way, the closeups of Claudia Cardinale's face were with a soft lens, so the wrinkles didn't show. That's so typical of older films with the vain female stars. Cardinale looks cheap, anyway, with all that 1960s-type eye makeup.At any rate, the action scenes are a decent and not bloody and the characters are quite real, meaning believable. I liked Fonda in here best even though I am not particularly a fan of his but his against-type villain role of "Frank" was excellent. I read where he said this was his favorite role. I'm glad to hear that. The best character in the film, though, was "Cheyenne," played by Jason Robards.The opening credits - spaced out over 11 minutes (which was rare in "classic movie" days) - are considered by many as the most famous ever, in any genre. The music in this film is different, too. It's not as memorable as the score from "The Good, The Bad And The Ugly," however, done by the same composer, but it has its moments. Early in the film we see some shots of Monument Valley which are the prettiest I've ever seen. I wish there had been more of that.Overall, this is a western in which patience is rewarded, I suppose. It certainly looks beautiful on DVD and the sound has been enhanced as well. Note: when this came out on disc, the rating of the film changed from PG to PG-13.


                
A squeaking wind pump, a dripping water tower and the baking sun. The beginning of Once Upon a Time in the West, in which three hired guns wait wordlessly at a train station for their target to arrive, is one of the best openings in cinema history. It is every bit as tense as Sergio Leone's finale in The Good, the Bad and the Ugly, which he filmed two years earlier.But good as this Western revenge saga is, it is not as accessible and a good deal slower than the other films in Sergio Leone's series of Westerns (namely A Fistful of Dollars, For a Few Dollars More and The Good, the Bad and the Ugly). What many reviewers describe as its "operatic" and "epic" nature can also be read as "occasionally mawkish" and "overlong".That said, this story earns its status as a classic for combining the gun-toting fun of westerns with the grand theme of the end of the Wild West, brought about by the arrival of the railroad. The railroad is the villain here as Henry Fonda plays an unscrupulous blue-eyed bad guy paid to force landowners to sell up cheap so the rails can pass through.Charles Bronson is a darker take on Leone's man-with-no-name character, but it is debatable whether that makes him more interesting then Clint Eastwood's version.The main characters each have a theme tune, opera-style, which is an interesting motif, but quite an irritating one when you have heard the harmonica tune for the 30th time.A fine movie, but claims that it changed the western any more than Leone's previous films or that it is better than The Good, the Bad and the Ugly should be taken with a pinch of salt.


                
What I did not like about this film is the "Harmonica" character. His way of acting is not realistic and usually repulsive. The scenes he is playing the harmonica have no point at all probably because: Charles Bronson's poor acting or the unrealistic sound coming from the instrument. I do not enjoy watching characters seem to be knowing everything and omnipotent or too heroic, in other words. Sergio Leone is well at reflecting the atmosphere of times and and locations of his films to audience. He does it by making us hear the sounds nearby and by slow- motion filming for minutes and minutes mostly in the beginning of the films. Remember the 10 minutes telephone ring at the beginning of the 'Once Upon a Time in America' and now the the sound of winds, signboards and the fly. I enjoy it. I like the story of a family founding a new town and a station at all. 'Cheyenne', Jason Robards is the most colorful character traveling on the thin line of goodness and evilness. Mrs. McBain by Claudia Cardinale is also well played and making us wonder and think what a lonely woman can do after losing his future family. Is she that lonely to sleep with her family's murderer? I did not know Henry Fonda up to this film but I understand that Leone has made a big surprise to the fans by making Fonda a bad character for the first time he appears on the films. A must watch movie especially for Leone and Western lovers!
Leone's now iconic film stands out for two very distinct things for me, personally. That is, number one: the brilliant, brilliant soundtrack that adds feeling; raw emotion and atmosphere as well as number two: editing and shot composition which differs between long, wide angled long shots to the gritty close up of the face for certain reactions and objects for certain atmosphere. Many things have been said about how brilliant the film is and in terms of the genre, this genre film is usually considered one of if not the pinnacle itself of the Western. But whereas the typical American western might include John Wayne or some other such hard bodied American taking on a role of 'honest as they come guy' who gets caught up in the wrong place at the wrong time, Once Upon a Time in the West is a slower and less-obvious film that somewhat ignores these conventions. Therefore it is a shame that I liked it rather than loved it once it had ended.The European influence grabs a hold of you right from the off in Once Upon a Time in the West. Afterwards I read a brief summary on the film stating it may well have the best opening to any film ever and that could well be the case. Leone's style here is to ignore the process of 'action, causes action, causes re-action, action, causes action...etc.' and show the guys who are a part of Frank's (Fonda) gang wait for a train to arrive rather than have the train arrive; have the gang arrive and then play out actions <U+0096> Leone pays attention to sound (windmill and the fly) and has tantalising long shots of the train track in the distance that announces to us that the train is not going to arrive anytime soon. Cut back to ground level and the guys are killing time before the train arrives <U+0096> we don't know why they're there and given it's a Western, they could be minutes away from death so the character's casualness and the build up through composition work really well.Once Upon a Time in the West carries a certain elegance despite its dirty, gritty and slimy nature. Characters look rough, wear dirty clothes and spit more than they need to and the dusty desert locations in Spain and The States work so well that to see the film is to almost feel hot and bothered. From the opening, the film develops with the arrival of Harmonica (Bronson), a man with no name indeed bar the one he's given by a fellow character for spending so much time playing said instrument. As a character, Harmonica epitomises the strange, the mysterious - a man that does not, you feel, belong in the film but a man who has his reasons and a back-story but the European influence is there again in the sense Leone chooses not to show it until well into the film. As a character, Harmonica brings diegetic music to the film in the form of his harmonica, an object he will never forget the manner of which he came across it. When it is played, it echoes and sounds louder than usual giving the man a presence that is almost uncanny <U+0096> the music teeters on the brink of being within the film and not being within the film and certainly maintains a brooding and unnatural atmosphere.But Leone does not limit his style to composition choice, locations and harmonica sounds. He broadens his arsenal so much so that at times, the objects are doing the speaking for the characters. Another character is introduced, she is Jill McBain (Cardinale) and she arrives, like Harmonica, into this town by train. The genius here is that a simple introduction of a character by train has been stretched out through having a prior tragic event happen in a preceding scene that will affect McBain <U+0096> how will she react? Then there is the brilliant cutting between her pocket watch and the station clock, creating a 'jump' in time between waiting there. Such a technique is rarely seen today and further acts as an example of Leone's ignoring of the 'action, causes action, etc.' method.But even that is not the first time it happens since later on, a card game will happen in a train caboose which doubles up as the only urban inspired 'space' in the film amongst all the dusty and dirty rural settings. The game is accompanied by odd sounding train noises which could be read into as the noises going on inside the player's minds as the pot grows and the tension rises. Once Upon a Time in the West is a film that can bring pleasure to its viewer but it's really brining its director the most pleasure. At 165-odd minutes, Leone is clearly in love with his unfolding of a film rather than his telling of a story and his style does overtake a lot of what I would've liked to have seen, that is to say more of an interesting narrative and less of the style once it had been established he could do it. But it will remain a film studied and looked at for years to come. Like I said with the original Japanese Godzilla film, you get the impression if they'd known it was going to be looked at and studied so much in the future, they might've made sure it would have held up a little more.


                
Rank No. 20 in IMDb list! There has been certain charm in viewing western movies. The landscape the people, their dress, horses, caps, style, guns etc. Who can forget The Good, the Bad and the Ugly? And who can forget its director Sergio Leone? Though I read that this masterpiece of his flopped in the US box office, it still remains one of the most well directed, well shot, and best western movie ever.The story is about a ruthless assassin Frank (Henry Fonda), who kills a whole family to build a rail road. His mission is finally stopped and the widow Jill McBain (Claudia Cardinale) is rescued by a stranger Harmonica (Charles Bronson) with the help of another notorious dacoit Cheyenne (Jason Robards).The plot is simple, but the narration is brilliant. The characterization, the silence, the style, the choreography of sound, and back-ground score is marvelous. There is a built up of suspense through-out the movie. Always seen Henry Ford as a hero, packed against a team of dacoit and stranger <U+0096> brings certain tension of purposefulness of the motives of the characters. In the end, Henry Ford emerges as a villain and Charles Bronson as a savior.The camera angle, the sets and costumes are fantastic. The dialogues are minimal. The love scene between Henry Fonda and Claudia is a bit too much and serves the only purpose of formulaic insertion in the narrative.The small details, the slowness of pace, the lazy movement of people, the sun, the heat the dust all add up the canvas being painted BIG. Not a movie to see on small screen. It is strictly for big screen viewing with stereo-phonic sound effect.Hats off to Sergio Leone for bringing so much style to the genre of western movies! (Stars 7.5 out of 10)


                
OK, I just flicked through a couple of reviews here and nobody seems to find this as misogynistic as I did. Maybe I saw a version that was missing a few scenes - I don't think so however.Basically the scene where Frank and Cardinale are in bed together bothered me a hell of a lot. There's no build up to this scene. We don't see him beat her or force her at gun point. It seems to be she likes this guy. This guy who ruthlessly murdered her husband and his family. What the hell. I was beginning to wonder if she was in on it from the start. She doesn't seem to be bothered by sleeping with this scumbag at all. A strong female lead like her would have stashed guns and set traps to kill this guy. Would have made a hell of a better film (also pleasantly shorter). Also why does Bronson and co leave her unguarded for such a long time? They clearly know she's in danger but leave her to be molested or murdered or both.Sure, maybe she had no choice but to sleep with frank - but why didn't they show these scenes? Also why did she seem so comfortable with it? I guess she didn't want to get murdered but in these circumstances anyone would be justified in calling the director misogynistic. Not exactly inspiring.
Released in 1968, Sergio Leone's "Once Upon a Time in the West" is an epic story of a mysterious stranger known as Harmonica (Charles Bronson) who joins forces with a desperado named Cheyanne (Jason Robards) to protect a newly widowed ex-prostitute (Claudia Cardinale) from a ruthless assassin, Frank (Henry Fonda), who works for a railroad tycoon (Gabriele Ferzetti).As my title blurb amusingly suggests, this movie is really slow. It's basically an hour and 25 minute movie stuffed with filler to make it twice as long. For example, a man merely getting off his horse and approaching someone to talk is made out to be an epic blow-your-mind event. Absurd. I'm not saying it's not a good movie; it is and it has numerous attributes, like the great cinematography, outstanding cast and hypnotic score. So it's definitely worth watching, but you have to be prepped for an epic, slow movie that's more of a piece of art than a piece of entertainment.Fans of the film defend its slowness on the grounds that it's an allegory of death. They suggest that the movie's always revealing and expanding itself until the last act, where it becomes clear how everything's connected. At this point the film becomes a catharsis as the plot points converge, ending with a duel. Then the picture loudly reveals its theme: The death of the west, the death of gunslingers and the death of the myth. My response: The death of the West and the gunslinger via the encroachment of civilization (here represented by the advent of the railroad) is a constant theme in Westerns, before and since this film. While it's a great theme for any Western, it was nothing novel in 1968. Speaking of 1968, that was the year "2001: A Space Odyssey" came out, which is sort of the Sci-Fi counterpart to this film. Let me put it this way, if you loathe "2001" you'll probably hate this one too.Some say that "Once Upon A Time In the West" is very different from Leone's previous film, the iconic "The Good, The Bad and The Ugly" from 1966, but I see a lot of similarities: The epic (overlong) length; the three main characters consisting of good (Bronson), bad (Fonda) and ugly (Robards); a fitting score by Ennio Morricone; and Leone's unmistakably mesmerizing style.Despite my honest criticisms, this is a notable Western and a one-of-a-kind film, highlighted by Bronson's laconic hero, Fonda's villainy, Claudia's curvy beauty and Robards' likable good-desperado. I can see why some hail it as an artistic masterpiece, but I can also see why others think it's repetitive and boring. My appraisal falls in between these two extremes, albeit closer to the former.The version I saw runs 165 minutes and was shot in Arizona; Moab, Utah; Sonora, Mexico; and Andalucía, Spain.GRADE: B


                
Quite astonishing for about 45 reasons, ONCE UPON A TIME IN THE WEST is a film that also took me 45 years to bother to see. Whilst I admired the over-all production especially the art direction and the photography, I found the convoluted and quite bewildering story presentation tedious and ultimately irritating. There are many absolutely gloriously spectacular scenes both in Utah and with the train; the created sets/houses/town etc are genuinely visually fascinating and stunning to enjoy and make you reach further into the movie. I liked the main casting, even enjoying Fonda doing Eastwood. You can see how Bronson became a superstar after this. Some soaring magnificent orchestrations and endlessly beautiful scenes... but oh, that slow pace really did get to me. An irritating magnificent western masterpiece. Probably what Cimino was aiming for with HEAVENS GATE but overspent. This superb production came in for about $6m and looks every well spent dollar of it. Bravo! Beautiful.... Boring.


                
But I would hardly say that this is one of the best pictures ever made.I liked this film very much, but I'm not a huge fan, as almost all of the other posters on this site seem to be.Leone does a wonderful job of focusing on the characters and using his camera to set a wonderful mood to the film. I think that all three of the male leads are excellent. And despite what some have said, I believe it is one of Fonda's best pieces of work. In my opinion it's the last excellent performance of his career. You can feel how tired and beaten Jason Robards is by looking at his hang-dog expression.I know that Leone had great affection for the American western, and he wanted to acknowledge as many great western films as he could by adding little hints during the movie. I thought this was a great idea and made the film even more interesting to watch.I think my favorite scene is the one in the beginning at the station. The lack of music, and just hearing the normal sounds really helped to build this scene into a classic.But I did not think much of the Claudia Cardinale role of Jill. While she is quite the central figure, we really don't learn too much about her. And I don't believe Cardinale was right for the roll.Overall, a very good film that I would like to see again, and maybe it is a classic western, but still a little unsatisfying.7 out of 10


                
Coming in at 2 hours and 45 minutes, and giving us vast canvases of the old west, this film from director Sergio Leone is truly epic in scope. The cinematography is fantastic, and while marveling over the wide shots, you really feel as dry and dusty as the characters. The overall tone screams old west, and while it takes awhile to get there, the final 30 minutes or so is stirring, and memorable. The film is legendary in reputation and adored by many, so I'll tread as lightly as possible in my criticism. I just found it fell a little short in its casting, in its muddled middle portion, and its treatment of Claudia Cardinale's character. I'll start with Henry Fonda, who is a mixed bag for me. I liked the contrast of his blue eyes with his dark character, and he certainly does things which emphasize his cruelty - killing a child in cold blood, knocking down his crippled boss, and committing rape. It's a decent performance, but to me Fonda didn't quite fit in the part. Not enough grit to be believable, and at 63, too old. Charles Bronson is similarly 'just ok', and he's certainly no Clint Eastwood. It may be unfair to compare Leone to his other work, but I liked 'The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly' much more, because of Eastwood, a more compelling plot, and that extraordinary musical refrain. The harmonica we get here kind of pales in comparison. While it's fantastic to see the beautiful Cardinale in the film, the rape scene made me cringe, and not because of the act itself, but because how Leone captures it. Cardinale is supposed to be pretending to go along with Fonda to survive, so some of what we see is to be expected, but to see no fear or disgust, and just waves of rapture instead, is sickening. Earlier Cardinale says that Cheyenne (Jason Robards) could bend her over the table and have his men have their way with her, and all she'd have to do is wash off with hot water afterwards. It could be the voice of the hardened prostitute talking, but the overall impression of rape this scene and the other give is that it's just a sex act, one a woman may actually enjoy, instead of an act of great violence with devastating consequences. So we have a male fantasy of rape to go alone with that of the fantasy of the fearless, cool gunslinger, the latter of which has plenty of Americans wanting to walk around carrying a gun, thinking they fit this image.My apologies if this is coming across unbalanced in the other direction, and too negative. There are plenty of great moments and great shots, both of the scenery and in close-ups. The relationship between Fonda and Bronson is effective, and as in Leone's other works, they share the mindset of the hardened killer, understanding one another as they circle each other's path throughout the movie. While we certainly have an idea of the backstory behind Bronson's character, the reveal towards the end is a powerful moment. If you like westerns, this is must-see. If you don't, I don't think I'd pick this one to try to convert you.


                
With the exception of Toy Story 2 being in the 60's on the imdb user list, this one could be the most overrated film.  The story and characters were poorly introduced.  Upon watching this film, and I wasn't distracted or intoxicated, and I couldn't follow what was going on.  Actually, I was distracted by Claudia Cardinale's beauty and her several close-call rape scenes.  Other than that, the story was a joke.  I don't know if anyone will agree with me on this, but I think Henry Ford was miscast.  All I could think about with him was 12 Angry Men and him being intensely moral.  He does have a moral, good-guy vibe coming off of him as a villain... just look at the difference between him and Bronson when you watch the movie.  The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly was a masterpiece with a great (well laid out) story and never a dull moment.  This film must be for Spaghetti Western aficionados, because I'm not seeing the greatness here. 7/10


                
I was told this movie would be a masterpiece, the best movie ever created.Well...I was so lost in the story I couldn't really enjoy it.I did not understand the harmonica guy was the brother of the guy killed in the beginning, and that he came to revenge.People told me later.It's a great movie, for sure, if you like Westerns.But the storyline was too hard for me to follow.Anyway, I can totally understand people calling it a masterpiece.It sure could be.
Sergio Leone.  What more is there to say?  Don't be fooled by the context: Charles Bronson, Henry Ford, the end of the 1960's, a "western"...no, no, my friend -- this movie is liquid style that transcends its own time period. Not even a "western" anymore, but a cool Leonefied experience.The best soundtrack ever (Ennio Morricone's famous thrusting ballad was composed first, and then Leone wrote it into the script).  Beautiful to listen to, fascinating to watch.  Claudia Cardinale (a delicious Italian beauty) plays the part of lead woman, which is the largest difference between this and the "Trilogy" Leone made prior.  Those had no women in them, except in small roles as the hostage and/or mother and/or rape victim and/or food fetcher.  Here Miss Cardinale is magnified under the Sergio Leone patented spotlight and transformed into the pouty grieving widow, in all her false eyelashed, holier-than-thou attitude and spicy comeback glory.And then people die.  Lust for revenge boils blood.  Threats are made. Threats are carried out.  Harmonicas play.  A beautiful, dusty, long, dangerously deliberate masterpiece plays out that curls your lips into an amused little smile by the time Jill serves the water to the men, and then the great opera finally ends.Leone was a great director.  Rumor has it he was in line to direct The Godfather.  All of his trademarks are in this one, including some surprisingly deeper poetic touches [the sound of the ocean as the cripple looks at the painting, which foreshadows his fate] and classic irony [the cripple on the train has enough money to afford everything, except his own health].  As usual, the sound effects are exquisite -- everyone's voice seems amplified, and the detail of smaller elements are emphasized, like the buzz of a fly in a gun barrel, or dripping water, or doors opening.Leone wanted Angel Eyes, Tuco and Blondie to make cameos as the 3 wanderers in the opening sequence, but Eastwood backed out so it never happened. Actually it turned out better this way.  Some have said that "Once" is too slow.  There is an obvious difference between "Once" and the "Trilogy," which was much more commercial.  This looks more minimalistic, and is moodier than the Trilogy.  Perhaps this difference in starkness and stubborn pretension via Leone is why it never became a huge hit.Italian directors are masters of this genre.  If you're starved for more, try to find "A Fistful of Dynamite (Duck, You Sucker)" -- it's another great, yet often overlooked Leone film.


                
Well , I like western movies, so i decided to watch this one , and I must admit, I am fully enjoyed , every thing was good (the story, acting,music, etc ) . although it was very long , but i never felt any boring moment . but let me be honest , when it comes to the "Top Rated Movies #36 " , I don't think so , in my opinion , it's overrated. overall 7/10


                
The amazing cinematographic touch of Leone is there, and his flawless capture of the grit and grandeur that MUST have been the west of 150 years ago is worth the price of admission alone. But amidst this visual feast are flaws that prevented a higher score from me. The first is the plot itself, which revolves around a woman, a "former" prostitute, and her three lovers- all of whom are major characters in the film who battle each other in some form or another. Actually, I read this afterward on IMDb. You could have fooled me on that one. Women have no place in a Leone western to begin with, and Claudia simply did not have the acting range to pull it off. She was in a lot of scenes but I never thought of her as the focus of the film. Sophia Loren cast in the role might have brought a magnetic quality to the woman, perhaps, but not Claudia. Which comes to the miscasting. With Leone's star firmly in the ascendant, it is clear that all of Hollywood wanted in on this one, and Sergio obliged, to the detriment of the movie. Jason Robards, as a commenter already noted, is dreadful as Cheyenne. He brings nothing to the movie and his hang-dog acting style is irritating and tiresome. Bronson as the protagonist Harmonica is too short and ethnic looking to be convincing as a tough guy. And the harmonica playing "hook" of the movie is laughable, though it makes some convoluted sense at the end of the movie. Hey, a tough guy has to be ready to draw his gun at ALL times. If you play a harmonica, not only do you use two hands, but you must concentrate on the melody. Just didn't work for me. The main theme was superb, but the secondary theme- where the banjo is being plucked in a jaunty tune- was out of place and WAY overused. Other plot holes are where the heck did McBain get the money to build a big house and purchase lumber and supplies to build an entire town? And if he had money, why would he marry a New Orleans prostitute? So a great movie, for it is a Leone, but with many, many flaws.


                
I will admit I didn't really get the sense that there was a plot in this western at all, but it didn't spoil anything, I was going to watch it regardless, from director Sergio Leone (The Good, the Bad and the Ugly). Basically the railways are being placed all over America, even the far west, in particular a small border town full of guns and crime. It opens with an inspired sequence seeing men sitting around doing not much, one guy traps a fly in his gun barrel, they are waiting for the train to arrive. Anyway, Arriving into this town is Jill McBain (Claudia Cardinale), who is shocked to find her new husband Brett (Frank Wolff) and family slaughtered, and the prime suspect is coffee loving Cheyenne (Jason Robards). The real killer however is gang leader Frank (Henry Fonda) who is trying to get his own way with the ownership of the railroad, along with the mysterious man known only for playing his Harmonica (Charles Bronson). Also staring Gabriele Ferzetti as Morton, Keenan Wynn as Sheriff, Paolo Stoppa as Sam and Marco Zuanelli as Wobbles. As I said, I didn't really get the plot, I just enjoyed the actors being cool and quite often quiet to effect, the violence and gun play, and some good music by Ennio Morricone. The critics describe it as some kind of operatic thing with the little dialogue, I suppose I'd agree with that, it is about fifteen minutes short of three hours, but it is certainly a different kind of western to see. Very good!
When Leone was propositioned to work on this movie, it was green lit through the lucrative funds that he would then invest on his dream picture but, however, it appeared that there could be another string of sequels that would watermark his name across another trilogy. "The Good, The Bad and The Ugly" illustrated the misers enabling an ethically ambiguous Eastwood to appear in good light; the amazing thing is that with our chasm to this, he is the best character in the movie as far as moral compass is concerned and realising this consciously is weird for me as he is a swindler and ruffian and yet with those qualities, he still manages to weigh on our empathy with him; this is what really gives him that perplexity and enigma that is so grounded in these movies.Incidentally while I watched one of the segments in the movie I kept on thinking invariably about the fact that the outlaw wasn't shooting Claudette's character that it was only a shrewd attempt at keeping her either faltered or of course for his own needs. I was thinking "god, man, stop waving that thing around! You aren't going to use it" - then the scene after that it elapsed into Frank's carriage and we hear those really cool and cynical words - "People scare better in death" - that was just one of the best responses that I ever heard and felt from a movie."Once Upon a Time in the West" stars Henry Fonda as Frank, Claudia Cardinale as the Widow and Charles Bronson in a role that I don't think mimics Eastwoods at all which I found really refreshing. The plot - through the beginning it left you alien in the west as we establish the bad characters. One of the running ideas in these movies are the characters actions - and they are really cavalier from the beginning, lazily lying around and only letting a fly roam around until it's trapped!The nuance with that harmonica that Bronson plays is never even considered from the beginning, so I was forced to assume that what he was doing with it was singing a wavering note just before he goes in for the kill. But this is what strikes me with Leone - he never really denies the significance of any apparatus - he wants it to be grounded in. Like for example, when Claudia tries to look for the thing that looks almost like a train set thing that represents it in toy form. I digress from that though. Unfortunately, it does take some time to be accessible but perhaps that was Leone's myth that this is an atypical western. While it still plays out the revenge idea, it requires music to make it strategically orchestrated.My favourite parts in the movie are Ennio's Score, the principle photography - it marvels me how wonderful that escarpment looks and then how it is a pedestal for fighting and I also find the outlaw to be somewhat like Eli Wallach, not in counterpart but rather in culture.Another thing makes this distinctive is the decision to put a more heroine orientated character in the boots of the forlorn woman; the death of your family either impels you to retribution or it bound you in the safety of your own house; however my expectation for that anti- heroine turn of behaviour was largely downplayed.Still with the mellow words of Bronson mixed with the brazen and incorrigible manner and threat of Frank make it eventually a very engrossing film - even though you know who wins, it's the mental subjectivity of his prey that orchestrates the mood and then brings the cause to creedence with answers... It shows its influence in Kill Bill 2's use of soundtrack and the way it's choreographed in fighting manoeuvres - even the bride - in fact, the whole incarnation, as we know it, is in debt to the ingenuity of Sergio Leone."It's not like that" - Yes, Bronson, we need this scene to navigate into the duality of the fighting prowess and tumult to be part of either the cerebral or visceral channeling - which will it be. Bronson shows with this in mind that Frank is no business man - "I'm Just a Man" - Now Revelatory that he's a freeloader - his business is diminished and Frank proves that he is nothing but empty shallow bags of remorse.This movie is the forerunner to that wonderful "Once Upon a Time in America" and on that note, "Once Upon a Time in the West" is slightly longer then I thought was necessary, but it had so much panorama on the surface and it's a real uncompromising tail, never conforming to the John Wayne archetype (Don't get me wrong, Wayne is an icon, but he was just canon as an actor up to that point).
In western days, Jill comes to remote Arizona outpost of Sweetwater to make a home with her new husband and his family. But they have been brutally murdered by Frank, an evil gunman for the railroad. Jill is helped by two men; the outlaw Cheyenne, whom Frank has framed for the murders, and the mysterious Harmonica, who seems to have an old and lingering score to settle with Frank <U+0085>This is a beautiful and melancholy film, perhaps one of the most exquisite and haunting westerns ever made. It's been described as, "an opera where the arias aren't sung, they're stared", and that fits it perfectly. Ennio Morricone's music (which was composed prior to shooting) is so rich and affecting it permeates every image, every nuance. This is a movie where all the emotion and atmosphere is communicated not through clumsy words, but through pictures, music, expressions, movements. Jill, Harmonica, Frank and Cheyenne are myths made flesh in front of our eyes, thanks to four stunning and contrasting performances, each of which is a study in old-fashioned acting skill. I particularly like Fonda here, an amazing choice for a heartless villain, given both his age (he was sixty-three) and his nice guy reputation, and the supporting cast are full of the usual Leone amazing faces, notably in the opening shootout with Elam, Strode and Mulock. Leone's biographer, Christopher Frayling, ranks this as the greatest spaghetti western ever made, though personally I think Leone's two previous movies are better. The reasons for this are hard to qualify. For me, this film is somehow just a bit too melancholy, a bit too rich in its excesses and its self-worth. What makes the Dollars Trilogy so special for me is its uniqueness in both style and wild characterisation. This movie is a little bit more like a conventional American western, with less action and less craziness, and Harmonica is more of a traditional moral hero than The Man With No Name. Also, I always feel that Leone never really managed to write or direct successfully for actresses; Cardinale is excellent here, and Jill is a fascinating archetype, but literally all the women in Leone's films are whores - she just happens to be the most prominent one. There is also a great sadness to this film I think; for all its brilliance, it essentially symbolises the end of Leone's tragically brief career. His follow-up, Giù La Testa, was a bit of a failure, then he languished for years before making one great final film, Once Upon A Time In America, but it was butchered to pieces and barely distributed. For a such an influential filmmaker this is a sad coda, almost as if he had become Cheyenne and Harmonica, struggling to stay ahead of the civilisation that the railroad represents and that they cannot be subdued by. However, what we have here is an exquisite, beautifully paced, lovingly crafted elegy to the myth of the American West, filled with rich and moving scenes and extraordinarily skillful craftsmanship. Superbly photographed by Tonino Delli Colli (see how many left-profile-enter-camera-right shots of Bronson you can count) at Cinecitta Studios in Rome and Almeria in Spain, with a brief but magical carriage ride through the buttes of Monument Valley in Utah. Written by Sergio Leone, Sergio Donati, Dario Argento and Bernardo Bertolucci. English title - Once Upon A Time In The West.
I love Leone's films - the Dollars trilogy in particular - and love the way he fuses film and music together with his long time co-worker - Morricone. I purchased this 2-disc DVD for the princely sum of 6 Euro, having wanted to see it for a long time. I was a little surprised to see it on the IMDb's top 250 list at number 18. A very high placing indeed. The opening scene at the railway station is great. A little slow for some people but I loved it. The creaking of the windmill, the fly on Elam's face, the inevitable shoot-out are all fantastically done. Nobody but Leone would have got away with that amount of time seemingly wasted on the introduction. If any other filmmaker had tried it - they would be slapped down as a pretentious showboater. The next big set-piece is good also - Henry Fonda's character gunning down an entire family as they prepared a banquet celebration. But - for me - the downward spiral starts from here onwards.The music is good, the characters are okay and Cardinale is certainly easy on the eye. But the plot, storyline and general story-telling is so muddled and disjointed that I was left very unsatisfied. Also, the character of Jason Robards is a strange one and to me, unneeded. What value did he bring to the story? None as far as I can see. Sure, Fonda used his trademark long duster coats as cover for the murders - but other than that - I cannot see what his role is. And as for his relationship with Harmonica, whom he meets in a bar, saves from a train and then ends up dying next to him, it is puzzling in the extreme. Harmonica and Cheyenne seem to have no connection to each other but yet Cheyenne goes out of his way to help him??? Curious???Also - there are some scenes which I could not comprehend. Cardinale's bedroom scene with Frank? What? Also Frank meeting Morton in a desert hideaway? What? And both of these scenes practically follow each other. Makes no sense at all.The final showdown is okay - but lacks a bit of tension for me. However, the extreme close-up of Bronson's eyes adds a point to the film's score on it's own. Very impressive.To me the film suffered from having too many main characters and not enough for any of them to do. You had Cardinale, Fonda, Bronson and Robards all vying for story-time when in reality one (or possibly two) of them needed to be culled. Too muddled and too confusing. And there is a lot of posturing going on too - people staring at each other wordlessly - must have happened 10 times throughout the movie. But the style and the music win it a 7/10 score for me. Good - but certainly should not be in the top 20 films of all time.
