I first saw this film as a 20 year old in the late 80's on VHS & ended up thoroughly disappointed. Every scene seemed to stretch to near-infinity and the action was too sporadic for what I normally expected from a western. Now, however, things are different! I saw it again a few days ago after reading so many positive reviews & I must admit to pretty much being bowled over! 'Once Upon A Time In The West' is not your traditional shoot-em-up western. Its an acquired taste and I wouldn't be too far off the mark if I say that it resembles a dish with near-perfect proportions of ingredients, slow cooked over an intense fire. Director Leone doffs his hat to several classic westerns and ends up with a film thats greater than the sum of its parts. The lovely Jill McBain (Claudia Cardinale) arrives in the old west to join her new husband & family only to find them all brutally shot dead. Clues apparently point to the bandit Cheyenne (Jason Robards) though the dastardly deed has in fact been perpetrated by the magnificently evil Frank (Henry Fonda). Also in this lethal mix is a mysterious harmonica-playing stranger (Charles Bronson) with his own covert agenda. From the classic opening scene to the explosive climax, 'Once Upon A Time In The West' sucks the viewer into its vortex of emotions as layers upon layers are gradually peeled away revealing each characters true motivations. Featuring a stellar cast who have probably never been better, and a haunting, evocative score by maestro Ennio Morricone, 'Once Upon A Time In The West' is mandatory viewing for all film aficionado's. My only (small) complaint is the occasional self-indulgence displayed by Leone when he tends to give style precedence over narrative.


                
thank goodness for IMDb !!! I remember over the years that echoing mournful theme song but since I missed this movie on first release I didn't make the connection, and it never played on television because of rights issues and the unusual length for the time.finally I bought it on DVD and there it was, that theme song that gave me flashbacks big time.then I finally knew what the interview with Jane Fonda was about where she described her recollections seeing her father Henry in the unusual role as archvillian, and another one with jack Elam about how it took all day to do the scene with the handgun and the fly.this is a remarkable western, despite some stretches of credibility.the railroad indeed was the thing that finally opened the west; it was the only way to move millions of tons of goods and tens of thousands of people over the long distances, wagon trains were too dangerous and got off the beaten path too easily and couldn't carry enough provisions. the railroad allowed in a symbiotic relationship, towns to be founded and flourish with mining, cattle herding and farming around them.and thus the premise of the movie, McBain is going to build a town right in front of the advancing railroad.the corruption, violence and greed depicted were certainly problems of the day considering the fortunes to be made. no different than today when a big factory is built and the land selected gains 20 times its normal value and those 'in the know' engage in speculation. or oil or mineral resources are discovered on land held by simpletons who mysteriously are murdered in a 'botched' robbery or some such nonsense. it does happen.the movie is so long I haven't seen it once yet without falling asleep which is not to be taken as a criticism, just that wailful haunting theme song gets to me ..... and it is close to 3 hours long.at least the good guy, in this case, the good girl wins in the end.gawd Claudia Cardinale is beautiful and still making films.


                
Once Upon a Time in the West (1968)On the heels of "The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly," is this equally sprawling and archetypal Western, this time with less obvious dubbing, and Henry Fonda as a kind of tie in to Hollywood's hero paradigm. It's indescribably beautiful, one of the most gorgeous Westerns ever photographed, indeed a model for good visual directing and cinematography in any genre. That alone makes the almost three hours a pure pleasure.But it's not a fast movie in any other way. It can't be. It depends on lingering over delicious details, small ones, shot up close in startling detail and ever deadpan looks and steely eyes. Nothing is believable and it's not meant to be. It's not even a fable, quite, but more a celebration of being inside an incredible film, as strange as that sounds. Not that the scenes are not believable--even the very last shots of the makeshift town and the railroad being built is about as realistic as it gets. Great stuff.Plot? You might, at times, wonder where the plot went. There are lots of bad guys, and you're not totally sure there's a protagonist, unless the one woman in the movie is the center of our concerns, even if she is clearly a bystander to it all. When it gets clear, in the last twenty minutes, it's again archetypal (and has echoes of the over the tops showdown in "Good Bad and Ugly"). A small bit of slow motion (not needed normally in a movie where everything is slow already) makes clear this is the key moment in the film, the thing that made the rest of it, with all its confusing and violent layers, sensible.For my money, I'd love all this incredible visceral stuff, the sounds and sights, filled in with some kind of deeply felt conflict, not a purely dramatic one. I watch and am shocked, or swept away, or impressed, or dazzled, but I'm actually never moved, not from the heart. And there are plenty of aspects here that should really move us--including feeling for the woman's plight, rather than simply recognizing that it is, after all, quite a plight.Still, another landmark Sergio Leone movie.


                
One of the best western's ever made, with fantastic directing, acting, and beautiful scenery, Once Upon a Time in the West is a true classic. The story has four characters coming together on a plot of land where a now dead owner was going to build a town around a rail station. From there, the violence ramps up toward a slow, wonderful conclusion.It has pretty much all the classic staples of a western. Despite not being as action-packed as most movies these days, the long portions of quiet and beautiful scenery give us a sense of the west and leave us wanting more. It's rare that a director can make such a quiet, dream-like film that leaves the viewer wanting to be part of that world.Beautiful, serene, and overall excellent, Once Upon a Time in the West is a grand film.


                
"Once Upon a Time in West" is part of a group of few pieces able to put together good literary content and entertainment. This movie is a good example of why Sergio Leone was a genius as a director. There is a good dose of mystery sometimes. In the beginning, you are not able to understand why each character is motivated to do what they do. Mysteries are revealed throughout the piece, when four main characters are completely developed in a very simple screenplay. Frank is a murder of an entire family, Cheyenne is a gangster with a conscience (chasing Frank by what he had done), Jill is the widow which survived since she was in New Orleans, and Harmonica is a mysterious outsider in town with incredible shooting abilities and guess what! He plays harmonica when he should talk and he talks when he should play, giving a dose of thriller and humor for this incredible character.
People who view movies as foremost an art say "Once Upon A Time In The West" is the best western Sergio Leone ever made. I say "The Good, The Bad, And The Ugly," but that's because I prefer films as entertainment. Films like this one judge you as much as you judge them.A family living on a desert ranch called Sweetwater is gunned down by a gang led by Frank (Henry Fonda), one cold hombre. He brushes off his boss's complaint he was just supposed to scare them by saying: "People scare better when they're dead." Frank in turn is hunted by a stranger known only by the instrument he plays, Harmonica (Charles Bronson). Every time Frank asks Harmonica what his name is, Harmonica gives him the name of someone Frank murdered in his dark and bloody past. Matters come to a head when the new wife of the head of the murdered family, Jill (Claudia Cardinale), stakes her claim to Sweetwater and incurs Frank's wrath.What you have here is an exercise in pure cinema, with incredible compositions, soaring music, an existential subtext that holds up to later reflection, and references to just about every western ever made. What you don't have is very much of a story, at least an intelligible one. Characters get in and out of jams without much explanation, people die suddenly from unexplained causes, there's a final showdown that could have happened at just about any other point of the story with a lot less collateral damage, the hero tears the heroine's dress for no better reason that to make us wonder about him.I don't even like this film as much as I do "For A Few Dollars More," maybe Leone's most satisfying film in its simpler way. But what you are getting here is magical, an expansion of the vocabulary of film. The astonishing opening scene, where three bad guys await Harmonica at a train depot, is alone a quantum leap from anything then in cinema: ambient noise, long shots of people staring at nothing, Jack Elam's battle with a fly.It's a different kind of spaghetti western, that's for sure. There may be less than 30 gunshots in the whole picture, and Leone is using a nearly whole new cast, with a female, Cardinale, as nominal lead. Bronson is a different kind of hero than Clint Eastwood was in Leone's earlier films: humorless, sinister, and laconic to the point of catatonia. The dialogue is still pretty quotable, but there's much less of it this time. An entire faceoff between Jason Robards' tough outlaw Cherokee and a dandy with an itchy trigger finger goes on for about five minutes and has but one word: "Bravo."It's really a western as epic, and an interesting response to anyone who might have thought Leone couldn't have done up anything grander than "Good, Bad, & Ugly." The use of themes and ideas from other Westerns, particularly those of John Ford, give this film a sense of taking stock of cinema's first genre. And Leone is getting it all in, even from the very beginning: That opening shot of Frank's pistol going off into the camera quotes directly from 1904's "The Great Train Robbery," the granddaddy of westerns.I love watching this film unfold in its gradual way, and can't help feeling a sense of exultation over how everything gels, but it's impossible to ignore the flaws. The film drags. There's little humor. Robards' character is never integrated into the rest of the film. Leone's disinterest in plot becomes more apparent, and disabling, as the film goes on.What is Harmonica's purpose here? Is he an angel from God? The Grim Reaper? He seems to serve some mystical function, as Leone's emissary bringing down the curtain on Fonda's Frank, the ultimate bad guy, and the West that spawned him."Once Upon A Time" feels like a dead stop that way, both for Leone (who would make only two more films, neither much appreciated in their day, in the next 20 years) and for the western. They were still churning out good westerns in 1969, like "True Grit", "The Wild Bunch," and "Butch Cassidy And The Sundance Kid," and even bad ones like "Mackenna's Gold." Just a few years later, they were hardly making any, a drought that continues to this day."Someday," Harmonica says when asked if he'd ever return to Sweetwater. It looks more and more like someday meant never.


                
I have absolutely loved the Sergio Leone "Spaghetti Westerns" that he made before ONCE UPON A TIME IN THE WEST. So, given that I have given very positive reviews for FISTFUL OF DOLLARS, FOR A FEW DOLLARS MORE and THE GOOD THE BAD AND THE UGLY, my being far from impressed with this film isn't because I dislike the genre or have it out for Mr. Leone! No, I have some legitimate reasons why I think the film is overrated--certainly very few of the IMDb users can honestly think this movie is one of the best 25 movies of all-time (despite its high IMDb score).The biggest problem is the terribly slow pacing. While none of his films of the genre are fast-paced, they are deliberately paced and hold your interest. However, this film could easily have had 45 to 60 minutes chopped out of it without a major negative impact on the movie. The buildup is just way too long and drawn out to allow this to be a great film. Self-indulgent in its pacing, yes, but not great. I don't want to watch Jack Elam blowing a fly off his face again and again and again. I don't want to see closeups of the actors eyes again and again and again. And I certainly do not want to have a scene take three times longer than it would in any other Western! The second biggest problem is that although the film seems like a meticulous labor of love in some places, a few other ones it is just plain sloppy. The absolute worst is the actor who seems to play a younger version of Charles Bronson. Not only does it look almost nothing like him, but the eye color doesn't even match--and considering all the closeups of eyes, this is just sloppy (Bronson's are bright blue-gray and the other has dark brown eyes). Also, in a few other places it looks like scenes were missing as the movie just jumped from one scene to another--and I DID watch the extended version of the movie, not the edited version. And finally, how Jason Robards was able to carry on the entire final portion of the movie--apparently fine--only to keel over dead in the very end just seemed ridiculous and sloppy.Now as far as what I liked (and boy did I want to like this film). I loved having nice-guy Henry Fonda play a cold-blooded creep. This was great. And, although I generally hated the long, slow pace, the opening scene was worth the very long wait. The music, while not Ennio Marricone's very best, was still excellent and haunting. My advice is see these other Leone Westerns and then compare them. Even THE GOOD THE BAD AND THE UGLY (a very, very long movie as well) is much faster paced than this film.
Everything about this film indicates that Leone set out to make a masterpiece. Having set the bar so high for himself it is even more remarkable that he has succeeded. The slow pacing, Monument Valley setting, typical Morricone score and all star cast are testament to how memorable he wants this film to be. You can picture him poring over each detail of every scene, even before shooting any footage.The story is a familiar Western tale of a railway baron trying to get his hands on the land he needs by hook or by crook. Unfortunately for him his chief henchman has not bargained on a figure from his past returning to wreak long awaited revenge.As the plot advances Leone treats us to a series of set pieces, with plenty of lingering looks, unspoken hatred and usually a dramatic and violent conclusion.The coup de grace is the casting of Henry Fonda, so often the good guy in his movies, as the black-hearted henchman who clearly loves his job. Claudia Cardinale, Charles Bronson and Jason Robards are all excellent.There isn't much point in going into much more detail in a mere review. The only way to appreciate this film is to set aside about three hours, draw the curtains and let Leone transport you to his vision of the coming of the railways to the West.
Once Upon a Time in the West is more a work of Sergio Leone , the master of westerns , the film already shows in the beginning a great photograph, a great wardrobe , and a great cast , Henry Fonda this great Charles Bronson this great also , Frank Wolff , Gabriele Ferzetti , Woody Strode , Jack Elam , Lionel Stander , Keenan Wynn , and etc. , the action scenes are great , especially for the time, the more I thought very long film, are three hours of film , and found the only medium pace , the film could have 20 minutes only , I thought the script was very drags at times, and even with good dialogues , some are middle unnecessary , more Once Upon a time in the West is a very good movie , with An excellent photography , great cast, excellent direction of Western master, Sergio Leone . Note 8.5


                
Instant gratification was never on Leone's mind when he made "Once Upon a Time in the West". This is a slow-burn in the strictest sense, and even character development doesn't happen until very late in the game. Up until that point, none of the characters struck me as very memorable - and even after that, not so much. They just sort of blend in. Although Henry Fonda was a genius choice; you don't get stone-cold killer from hearing that voice. It's beyond subversive.That said, this is a masterpiece in shot composition (widescreen, especially). The gunfight staging, the staggering scenery, gorgeous Claudia Cardinale; it's all in the visuals, at least for me. To watch this movie is to feel like you've just gorged on grand cinema; it's really more like an experience than anything else. I can understand the praise from a filmmaking perspective.8/10


                
Once upon a time in the west has taken its time to achieve classic status in comparison to Sergio Leone's other western. The reasons, no Clint Eastwood and Henry Fonda playing a bad guy which was a turn off for American audiences at the time.Charles Bronson plays Harmonica, the hero of the story but like Eastwood's cowboy with no name this is a hero with rough edges. He has ghosts to exorcise.Leone takes his time to tell his epic story, with visuals and music playing an important part as the story. There is plenty of sly humour, plenty of stillness.Bronson who started out playing bad guys and graduated eventually to hero status is inspired casting as Harmonica. Claudia Cardinale is beautiful and alluring as the former good time girl who comes to town and immediately becomes a widow. Jason Robards also gives a powerful performance as an outlaw with a heart and tenderness towards Cardinale's widow.Henry Fonda relishes playing a villain but I can understand the audience of the day being conflicted, just as as modern day audience would be uneasy seeing Robert Redford playing a bad guy in some Marvel film!The film lacks the immediate attention of the Dollars trilogy, but as you watch it you appreciate this movie just as time itself has been kind to it and its reputation has soared.


                
I guess this movie is probably thought of as Leone's masterpiece, delivering, as it does, a dose of the old west with immense style and self-assured presence. Much of the cinematic style used by Leone has entered the folklore of the west and is as much a part of that folklore as spitting, guns, dust and swinging saloon doors. I can't imagine a duel any other way than through Leone's eyes and I now expect a Western to always have a 'man with no name' character who says virtually nothing.This movie has it all...the waiting, the heat, the sweat, the dust and then the swift, deadly violence. The story is not bad either, pitting our hero and an outlaw against a murderous railway man who is seeking to get a recently widowed ex-whore out of her inheritance. But what it really has is great shots of the amazing scenery, and real, palpable tension. Leone described the film as having the rhythm of the last gasps of a dying man. It is very much like that, and this builds a very strong sense of foreboding. Everyone will not walk away intact, death is woven into the fabric of the movie. As we move from one convulsion to the next the tension is ratcheted up to extreme levels so that the eventual violence is almost a relief. The end result is an amazing movie that helped to create the legend of the old west, and that is now a part of the legend. It looks amazing, it's a rollicking good tale, and it'll leave you desperate for a beer!
This movie has some of the best atmosphere. The sets are wonderful, with so much detail. There are panning shots of rooms that clearly show the whole room as an actual location and absolutely filled with stuff. The towns look real and lively. The camera pans are used to a great effect. This film goes far to build up its tension and atmosphere. It would not be too much to say that it is its most distinguishing feature.Moreover, the cinematography is smart, like there is a scene of a person drinking from a bottle, thereby raising his hands and showing that they are in handcuffs. That is smart writing right there.Ennio Morricone is responsible for the music, as with most Sergio Leone's Westerns. He brings a good variety of noticeable tunes. There are emotional strings mixed with a choir or a female solo, and of course the main star is the iconic dramatic harmonica theme of the main protagonist that gets mixed with a menacing guitar. Music in this movie is definitely not part of the background.One of the most interesting actors is Jason Robards (I had to check twice it wasn't "Roberts") as a gang leader. His high acting ability is mixed with a warm charisma. The main villain played by Henry Fonda is well acted but is a little plain. The protagonist is covered with the spaghetti part of the spaghetti western. His signature harmonica thing is cool but then he plays that same tune in situations that do not call for it. And of course he talks with the rim of his face covering his eyes. And of course he is mysterious and shoots perfectly.The main lady role is played by an Italian Claudia Cardinale's. You can read a lot off of her subtle facial expression changes. Unfortunately, this lady is rather clearly dubbed at times.There are also a few other characters who do not appear on screen for long but are nonetheless memorable.The dialogue is good. There is not much of it, but it is good and to the point.This Sergio Leone's film was a memorable one, with many interesting characters, unique musical score and good tension.


                
Let me just say that I really loved this movie. The actors cast for each role are absolutely stellar and really pull you into the wild west. The cinematography is also outstanding. Closeups of faces coupled with dramatic lighting and atmosphere make every scene a treat. The action sequences are intense and the story is very well written. That being said I do not believe it ranks more than an eight. As a disclaimer, I am not a western aficionado so this might be par for the course. I found many sequences of the film boring. The opening scene is 10 minutes long and nothing is really happening, just a creaky old windmill. I understand that sequences like this build atmosphere, but this movie could have been 15-30 minutes shorter. Also some entire sequences were not shown which would have reduced a lot of confusion later in the storyline. A few really small things stood out to me also. Like Cheyenne cuts his face shaving and then minutes later there is no cut. Sometimes the audio is out of sync ( I was watching the 2011 remastered version ) when people are talking.Overall the positives really outweighed the negatives. When you watch a film from the 60's you sort of expect these kind of things. The superior acting, directing, and storyline make this an outstanding film.


                
Once Upon a Time in the West is an epic western focusing on the fate of four different persons, with roots in the past and extension of railways in the background. Life is hard, with lots of violence and injustice, and all means are good for increasing wealth... Apart from directing, camera-work and music, the cast is great as well, particularly all protagonists: Claudia Cardinale as Jill McBain, Henry Fonda as Frank (looks like younger Jack Nicholson - or vice versa), Jason Robards as Cheyenne, Charles Bronson as Harmonica. Their expressiveness is great, boosted by long camera shots; today's fast alternation of events (= often shallowness) does not need such acting anymore - pity... And many filmmakers today would create a max 1,5 hour movie from such a script.For many contemporary viewers, some scenes are too long and out of context, but as there are tensions behind and it is a color movie, then they do not become annoying. I saw the movie on DVD, in a cinema, of course, to sit 2 hours 45 minutes continuously can be a challenge...


                
I personally don't watch a lot of westerns. But if I did, I'm sure this would be one of the top ones.It is slow and intense, the story is thrilling, and you capture the whole feeling of the old American ways.Think younger generations, can't appreciate the movie on a higher level, like the people that were alive when it came out.I'm sure this was what people wanted back then, and the movie delivered.Just like there is a "superhero" era right now, westerns were just as hyped in their own day.This is actually a decent movie, even if you are not fan of the genre.8 out of 10


                
This is Leone at his best, absolute genius. I don't even know how to begin to describe it. In the beginning, it is all just sounds. There's nary a single word of dialogue. Three figures, their identity unknown, walk into the foreground. They wait for a train. One tries to rub off an annoying fly on his face. Another has a problem with water droplets on his head and catches them with his hat. At last the train comes and no one gets off. The three men turn to leave, but at the last moment, the notes on a harmonica start to play. A man appears from behind the train. 'Did you bring a horse for me?' 'Looks like we're shy one horse.' 'You brought two too many.' Seconds later, all three of the killers are down, and the man (being dubbed Harmonica) is shot in the shoulder.Thus, Once Upon a Time in the West begins. The acting is absolutely marvelous. Claudia Cardinale is absolutely perfect as Jill. Her eyes show all the emotion, making her face the story of the shot. Charles Bronson plays the silent and mysterious character. He is a reincarnation of the Man With No Name and is perfect for the part. Silent and distant. Who could ever forget Jason Robards? He plays Cheyenne with an amazing silliness that it just seems natural for him. Of course, they're Henry Fonda as Frank. He plays the coolest villain, so seemingly natural that he seems almost good. He plays it with smoothness to the role, like a prince. Thus, the four roles become the great centerpiece of the story.The plot itself is complex, taking time to build up. There are many minute sub-plots that all tie into the motives of the characters, specifically Harmonica's past, that along with smooth editing, keep you guessing until the end. The focal point in the story concerns the woman called Jill, and her attempts to try and keep living after the massacre of her husband and his entire family. The man behind the massacre, Frank, learns all too well that there is a surviving member of the McBain's, and attempts to go after Jill. Cheyenne is the outlaw wrongfully accused of the murders of the McBain's, but tries as best he can to protect Jill. And of course, Harmonica is the loner, the Man with No Name, out to destroy the evil of Frank.The direction is perfect, as are the cinematography and editing. However, a great triumph here is Morricone's score. Fantastic. Each individual character is assigned his or her own theme that, as the relations grow between characters, interplays and combines to form truly fantastic cues. Just listen to the music at the final showdown, or the part when Jill first arrives at the station. It is truly beautiful. This whole movie is truly beautiful.


                
Though it may not be as fun and light hearted as The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly, it is certainly much more artistic. Whether that's a good or a bad thing, I'm not sure. The shots and scenes sometimes seem to linger just a bit too long - the Jason Robard character's introductory scene, for example.Certainly the best things about the film are the soundtrack and the inevitable showdown at the end. Leone has few equals when it comes to the use of a soundtrack. Likewise, Ennio Morricone is one of the very few composers accomplished enough to have his own rabid fan following.Claudia Cardinale is simply breathtakingly beautiful. Henry Fonda is delightfully evil. At first I was disappointed that Eastwood wasn't in the lead role as with Leone's first three westerns, but Bronson's coldness fits the Harmonica's single-minded revenge oriented character far better than Eastwood's sly and ever-composed Man With No Name could.Personally, I think The Good, The Bad, and the Ugly is a better movie, mostly because of the Tuco character adding some much needed levity to such an exhaustingly long film. Once Upon a Time in the West is certainly worth seeing, though, and is still far and away one of the best westerns ever.


                
Many people have written about this movie over the years, therefore this is just another positive comment about probably the closest to perfect movie you will ever see.My collection of Western movies is endless, from Alan Ladd to the master of the cowboy Clint Eastwood. But this movie leads the pack just ahead of the Good the Bad and the Ugly.The story is simple and complicated at the same time.. if that makes sense. It is constructed in such a way that you become deeply entrenched into each characters persona, and the story as it unfolds slowly. Sergio Leone is the master of turning a standard scene into a small story in its self. He describes a character not with words but with actions. The scene with Snaky (Jack Elam)and the fly is classical Leone as are many other scenes with no dialog...brilliant! Dialogue is not plentiful but it is perfect. Its Quality rather than Quantity in this movie!The settings around the movie capitulate the whole story and is probably the closest you would get to reality in the West.If you want to watch a classic film that you will never forget, then Once Upon a Time in the West is it.You really cannot call yourself a fan of the Western if you do not love and appreciate this movie!


                
The familiar face of Clint Eastwood was replaced with that of Charles Bronson in this western and not a beat was missed. Bronson played the steely-eyed, rugged gunslinger with a penchant for playing the harmonica. Harmonica play has a whole new meaning to me now. For me, the harmonica chords in this movie are right there with the whistling soundtrack of "The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly." The story unfolded in a rather unorthodox fashion with the various characters but it was all tied up in the end.


                
My second Leone film, and I expected to see another Western masterpiece, with a gorgeous Morricone score, stunning cinematography, and incredible stand off's, stares & shooting scenes, but that is more serious, and not as cool as, than The Good, the Bad and the Ugly, and that's almost what I got. But what I didn't expect to see is one of the best, and most profound, contemplative movies ever made!Signifying the end of the Old West, Sergio Leone loaded his near-three-hour sprawling epic with symbols. The symbolism is seen in almost every aspect of the movie; the setting, the costumes, the music, and most importantly, the characters. In fact, each character stand for an iconographic Western role. But Leone did humanize them through his melodrama, and the result is that all the characters became some of the most interesting and compelling characters ever!What amazed me is how rich the plot seems despite its simplicity. And as convoluted as the narrative sounds, the movie never lost me. That's simply because the story is actually pretty simple, but the sophisticated themes and symbolic characters gave it mythic feeling.Aside from its remarkable opening scene, which became one of my all-time favorites, I found the first hour of unbearably tedious! I usually don't mind watching movies with a deliberate pace, but almost the entire first hour gave us nothing but glances of each of the interesting characters that I totally invested in afterwards. The extremely strong, compelling, sympathetic, interesting and memorable characters portrayed by a spectacular charismatic cast definitely made me forget how bored I was during the first act, but also definitely didn't make me forget that I was about to fall asleep a couple of times!(8.5/10)


                
With "Once upon a time in the West" Sergio Leone made an another masterpiece. "Once upon a time in the West" is a movie which has action and is a classic western, it has gunfires and all of that. It's one of the best western movies of all time.This movie has to do with an assassin who wants to kill a widow and from the other hand we have a mysterious and strange man who protects this beautiful widow from the assassin.Claudia Cardinale (Jill McBain - the beautiful widow) makes a great interpretation and she is a pleasant presence who beautifies the movie. Henry Fonda (Frank) and Charles Bronson (Harmonica) made an also good interpretations.


                
Sergio Leone is most definitely the face of the modern western. Leone revolutionized the genre with his raw, brutal, and visceral films that matured and revitalized the spaghetti western and made it into something so much more grand. Once Upon a Time in the West is arguably his most ambitious film, and the biggest production he has ever tackled. It's almost three hours long and boasts an all star cast and very impressive sets. The film is about an assassin working for a massive railroad conglomerate who is out to get a beautiful widow. A mysterious harmonica playing stranger joins forces with a notorious bandit in order to protect this widow and stop this madman. The story is one of epic proportions that spans many large set pieces and an all around epic scale production. But along with all that, it is also one of Leone's most passionate homages to the spaghetti western genre that inspired him to make the classic films he did.Once Upon a Time in the West is slick, cool, stylish, and at times painfully overdrawn. However, it all plays up to the kind of film this is. Sergio Leone is obviously trying to do something so specific with this film and he may have overshot that, but it doesn't detract from the fact that this is such a wicked film. You can easily strip the film down to hard boiled men staring at each other for extended periods of time, but Leone has a way about him to where he can capture those long stares and make them intense, invigorating, and all too captivating. After the first two hours of this you begin to realize how over the top and extraneous these moments are, but a part of you doesn't care because it's the absurdity of these situations that make the film as a whole so much fun.It is in no way a poorly made film, in fact it is quite the opposite. Leone directs with a suave nuance that pulls you into the intensity of the moment and makes you never want to look away. Leone proves his status as one of the greatest directors in history with this epic saga. He couldn't frame his shots any more perfectly. He couldn't capture the heightened emotion and rigorous sincerity any better. He couldn't bring out any more talent in his already incredibly talented lineup of actors even if he tried. There is an elegant purity to the style of this film that is never overbearing to the story, but always remains an incredibly significant element in making this film as epic and as ingenious as possible.I'm not going to say that this is a particularly easy film to sit through. It's not. It is very long and it drags out every scene possible, squeezing every drop of sincerity and intensity out of the story. I would go as far to call it grueling at some points when you just wish the film would move on. But somehow it all pays off in the end and I still managed to love this film. It is what it is, and Leone captured exactly what he wanted with this epic scale production, and I have a lot of respect for that. Under the right circumstances I might sit through this film again, because it is incredibly good despite anything negative I can say about it. But, love it or hate it, there is no denying that Sergio Leone did things for the western genre no other director did during the latter half of the 20th century. And for that, my admiration of Sergio Leone grows exponentially, and it brings me around to having undying respect and love for Once Upon a Time in the West.


                
A magnificent, dense, sometimes angry, exhausting film about the end of the West or the western for that matter. Its about the arrival of the railroad and the decline of the old ways. We got Fonda, the killer for hire with business ambitions, we got a noble bandit framed by Frank's(Fonda) men, Harmonica Charles Bronson, the enigmatic gunfighter seeking revenge and Jill, the New Orleans reformed prostitute, heiress to The McBain family farm and thorn in the side of the railway company. The real subject of the movie is other westerns. This is a film that proves the impossibility of the western surviving the screen and brings it all to a lovely and noble end. All the characters in the movie are western archetypes, they all have there own Morricone background music and they speak in lines from previous westerns, and they move in slow, stylized sequences through a conspicuous cinematic landscape. Its a kaleidoscopic view of all American westerns put together, done successfully.


                
This is a really good movie, as I expected since it is rated so high, but it is so long that it can't help but become boring at times. For that reason only, it is flawed. It drags at times, and it took me several days to finish it. Other than that it is a really good old western that was well executed and crafted.8/10


                
