I wouldn't recommend this film. This film is considered to be a really good film so I guess I expected something good. But tbh, the whole in a nutshell is pointless. There is no real plot. The film focuses a lot on drugs but not in a way you would expect. This is one thing I admire about the film, it's not "drugs is cool". Aside from this there is nothing good about this film.I can't emphasise enough how pointless the plot it. I'm not the type to always want to see action all the time. But this film simply has no plot and no purpose.The film has some good quotes on life which makes me think that somewhere the script is good. But the actual film is rubbish.


                
Looking at this movie more than ten year later do your realize that it was very bad them but you didn't dare to say so because everybody was raving about it.I didn't like it and I don't like now, it is a complete lie and full of nonsense, specially the way the main character goes into heroin and cleans himself... if you have had the bad luck of knowing junkies, you know it is don't true.The movie is repulsive and try to make a lot of shocking scenes, one after another, like a Tarantino movie, and the end, when he betrays his friends, but it is shown as the right thing to do.


                
Guess as I get older I just don't get it anymore. If you like movies with feces in them, then this is your kind of film. Two scenes I can remember anyway. Dead babies, friends who don't give a damn about each other and an overall feeling of filth is what I think of when I think about this lame movie. How this ever got in the top 250, I'll never know.


                
Rubbish! Shock value high, with human feces top of the list. Dead baby, toilets, fingers in anuses, 345 uses of the c**t word, homicidal maniac with a knife but no known motive. You get the picture. It's got a high rating, don't be fooled; that's probably from all the scat-fetish people. Excessive, boring and unnecessary over-narration during the film attempts to shed light on this waste of celluloid and give it some meaning, but that fails too. Perhaps the editor got it backwards and all the good bits went into the bin and the rest became Toiletspotting. They succeeded if the attempt was to portray the effects of a drug addiction gone bad, waiting for the end to come to our suffering, even if that means death, because that's what you'll be wishing before this movie is over. Please God, kill me now. What amazes me is how trash like this gets funding! If this is the best Scotland has to offer...Choose life, choose a movie with a story and some redeeming social value. By the way, principal narrator, it's 'three piece suit' not 'three piece suite',(Soot not sweet). The fact that there wasn't a re-take to get that right should tell you loads about the production values.
Apart from the fact that I nearly lost my dinner watching this garbage, I really don't think that the mere fact of a film having a message makes it a good film. If you try to warn someone about something you have to make them see the relevance to their own situation. However, the characters in this film are so far removed from most people's everyday life, that I fail to see how this can convey its message to anyone. It's dreary, dismal and revolting, which no doubt is what was intended, but it holds NO appeal to me!


                
I figure that all the people praising this film must be young. I usually have no problem with profanity but it was over the top in this film. The film also has an obsession with excrement. I know that life has its ugly sides but what this film shows grossly overstates the negative side of life. I recall a film I saw in the late 1960's that did a much better job of portraying drug addiction. I don't get the relationship between the parents of the girlfriends and the guys. Is it usual in Scotland for the parents to let the guys stay overnight? Finally, the accents were very hard to follow. I say this even though I usually have no problem with accents. Not a good film for people over 40 and I do not understand IMDb requirement for a minimum of 10 lines. Why are they promoting verbosity?


                
If I could give this a zero, I would have. Would a hackneyed pile of c***. Maybe you have to be a drug addict to enjoy this twisted tale. You certainly have to be stoned to follow the machinations in and out of reality. This movie should be flushed down the toilet with the same zeal that the characters flow down the drain.


                
This movie was definitely worst of all I've seen in last few months ... I really don't get the point of it ... When i saw start of it i thought that I'm sitting before something really important and big and after it has finished i was swearing that i hadn't gone sleeping ...There wasn't any deep point or ideas in this movie, there were only toilets full of **** in which they were swimming all movie and u were swimming in it with em. My only feeling about this film is that its disgusting !!!Its big Shame of IMDb that this one is in top250 movies ... ... i don't understand you people, what made you loving this crap... By the way, if u enjoyed this that much, u can buy from me videos of how I'm putting a brick or how I'm fetching up, that will be quite equal to this one.


                
it is a complete lie. full of nonsense. How this ever got in the top 250, I'll never know.his movie should be flushed down the toilet know. There wasn't any deep point or ideas in this movie. Junkies don't act like that. See, real junkies are just sad and scary because they're on a slippery slope to death or getting locked up somewhere. This film is highly overrated and unworthy of anyone's time and money. I don't think that this movie could ever match up to the likes of Snatch and Requiem for a dream.But this film certainly doesn't deserve high points from IMDb and I didn't understand why the commentors are so interested in this film.


                
This is the most horrific piece of trash I have ever seen.  I rented it based solely on the comments here, and this, this one time I have to say that IMDB viewer comments let me down.I have never been so disappointed in a movie.  How Ewan McGreggor ever got another gig as an actor I will never know.  The rest of the cast is unknown to me.  But Ewan is now Obi-Wan.  Go figure that one out, and post a comment here explaining it to me.I could deal with the subject matter; the heroine addiction.  I could deal with the swimming in "The Worst Toilet In Scotland".  I could even deal with the THICK accents.  But human dung being splattered all over the kitchen, food, and people was just too much.  What the h**l does that have to do with anything?!?!?Oh well, I am just not in touch with this and it is just me.  NOT!  No one that was watching here with me liked this movie.  It SUX... it sux the substance right off the bed sheets.  (Don't understand that last comment, watch the first 30 minutes of this gawd-awful movie.  Better yet don't!)I gave this movie a rating of 1 (awful), and it is only that high, because IMDB will not permit negative responses to a movie.


                
I think Bob the Moo's comment about Trainspotting not promoting drug use is absolute bullshit. Of course it does, and it is utterly condemnable because of this. Impressionable young people will be influenced by the character of Renton who is portrayed as cool, amusing, and attractive to women, but is also a drug addict. Addicts are also portrayed as hard, take-what-they-want, and outside normal society, appealing characteristics to disaffected teenagers. The scene where taking heroin is referred to as better than a thousand orgasms or whatever is atrocious. This film is grossly irresponsible and should never have been released.


                
I was disgusted with this film within ten minutes.If the film has a point, I will never know it.I was repulsed.I became physically ill.Junkies don't act like that, and they certainly don't slap their arms like that.What was the point with being forced to watch Ewan McGregor take a crap and then play around in it?This film was nominated for an Oscar.This film was influential with the youth of America, if not the world.This film was not funny.This film was pointless.This film was retchingly creepy.And then, Siskel & Ebert gave it Two Thumps Up®, so everyone knew that it was wonderful and an Oscar contender.Not exactly Great Expectations, but what can you expect from the generation that listens to Fifty Cent?


                
DEPRESSING JUNKIES IN A DEPRESSING FILM!!! what a terrible overrated Piece of crap!!! I just wanted all the VILE JUNKIES TO DIE!!! nothing else to say????? Utter garbage & i HATED EVERY CHARACTER in the film


                
I checked out this movie from the library because it was recommended by a friend. After trying to watch it, I realized that I just can't handle this type of movie. The same thing happened when I tried to watch Requiem for a Dream. It's too real. Maybe because there's addiction in my immediate family. I could only watch about 10 minutes of this movie before turning it off. I just don't see the point of making entertainment about this subject matter.


                
Most boring movie I ever watched. no story in it , total waste of time , I don't know why many people like it !!??. and some reviewers here gave this crap 10/10 !?! , seriously !!! , I turned it off after 40 minutes . not recommended.0/10


                
A movie that necessitates narration is usually poor in my opinion (a notable exception may be Goodfellas). This is worse however due to naivety of the movie which does not feel at all realistic.It has that pretense of 'hey, I've just watched a drugs movie, I'm cool' about it.Compare it to Ill Manors (by Ben Drew) which is far superior in every way possible.For this reason I personally have little respect for Danny Boyle and was very happy to hear that Cary Joji Fukunaga is replacing him as director of Bond 25.


                
