After reading some of the reviews that trash this film I had to speak up.This film is gritty and dirty. There is content which is not pleasant, swearing and violence amounts other things. What else would you expect a film about drug addiction to be about? Well more than that actually, it about choices and what you Choose! Never at any point did this film make drugs look at all appealing to me in any way, I never did understand why so many people thought that it did. At no point did it ever say "Look at this, its cool." For those who think the level of swearing in this film is too much then they clearly haven't spent any time with working class people in Britain, not just Scotland. I being one of them can say its fairly accurate in that account.That being said, those things do not take anything away from the film, the quality of plot and story, or the acting which is Stunning! Robert Carlise as Begbe was excellent, and Ewan MacGregor shined. Also the character Spud was worth a mention he really was quite good.This film is in my Opinion a work of Genius, that represents the book accurately.


                
In the aftermath of _Pulp Fiction_, much of the filmmaking of the 1990s thrived upon attempts to appear "edgy" within the constructs of independent films, or merely to provide empty shock value cliches. And no film ever came close to the sheer cleverness of Tarantino's masterpiece._Trainspotting_, however, somehow manages to take the excesses of the mid-90s and rise far, far above the cinematic cliches that it easily could have become. A film that tackles any hot-button social issue can, and usually does, simply become a didactic propaganda piece. Thankfully, _Trainspotting_ is vastly more intelligent in its edginess and its shock.In order to appreciate _Trainspotting_ fully, the viewer must abandon any preconceptions about what defines truly great cinema, because this film defies convention at nearly every turn. And with the rapid pace of its plot, that's quite a bit of ground to cover.Though a great deal of the picture's brilliance is derived from director Danny Boyle's consistent rejection of typical cinematic techniques, the most satisfying and _best_ aspect of _Trainspotting_ is that Boyle creates a film that is neither pro-drug or anti-drug. Instead, he maintains a rare objectivity throughout the film, depicting this fascinating array of complex, beautifully acted characters with an honesty that it seldom captured on film. And, given the life that each character lives, it's nearly incomprehensible that a director would refrain from influencing the viewer's impressions in any way, yet that's exactly what Boyle does.The dialogue-- or at least what portions of the brogue-drenched dialogue American viewers will be able to comprehend-- is alternately hilarious, raw, and brutal. And Ewan McGregor, Jonny Lee Miller, and Robert Carlyle bring a remarkable compassion and depth to their portrayals of characters that could have easily lapsed into cliche.Despite its sheer brilliance, _Trainspotting_ is not a film that's easy to watch. The viewer is bombarded with images that transcend visceral discomfort in their horror-- this movie contains two of the most graphic, horrifying scenes I've ever encountered. But, amazingly, none of these elements is used merely for shock value. Though the viewer will be mortified by some of the things that happen onscreen-- the well-documented dive into Scotland's most vile public toilet, for example-- these scenes all make _perfect sense_ within the context of a masterfully told story.In order to notice all of the subtlety that also exists in _Trainspotting_, repeat viewings are necessary, primarily to reduce some of the most powerful shocks ever-so-slightly, though their effects are never lost entirely. Some of the images will likely haunt even the most cynical, jaded viewer for weeks.RATING: 10 out of 10. Never patronizing and completely unpretentious, _Trainspotting_ is one of the most daring, unconventional films ever made. It inspires a level of discomfort rivaled by very few movies, because, even at its most graphic, Boyle never insults the viewer with mere shock tactics. Brilliantly acted, directed, and written, with a truly rare objectivity that allows each viewer to interpret its story on his/her own terms.


                
I remember what a raw shock of creative energy this film was when it came out, and I still marvel at what an imaginative way the director found to tell this crazy, immoral tale. The superb cinematography; the amazing cast of young actors (who have all gone on to become hugely successful in film and tv since); the iconic soundtrack: it all just fits together perfectly. 'Trainspotting' is as hilarious as it is deeply disturbing, but most importantly (and unlike many other films concerned with addiction) it's one hell of an entertaining flick and doesn't drag for a second.We all know drugs are bad. The problem is, they can also be fun - at least at the beginning, which is one of the reasons people are drawn to them. 'Trainspotting' is the first movie I remember watching that actually conveyed that seductive quality of drugs and managed to honestly portray the reckless, hedonistic lifestyle a part of my generation - the so called "Generation X" - fell victim to. It's an amazing achievement, in every regard; not only does it manage to be true to its serious subject matter without resorting to moralizing, it's also masterclass filmmaking and a milestone of British Cinema. 10 stars out of 10.Favorite films: IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: imdb.com/list/ls075552387/Lesser-Known Masterpieces: imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-Movies: imdb.com/list/ls054808375/


                
Danny Boyle's "Trainspotting" is a film in which everything goes the right way. Few films are fortunate to 'be' at the right time and right place and take the world by storm as "Trainspotting" did, but the ultimate proof of this film's greatness is that if you watched it alone or with a large group of people, in 2008 or in 1996, it has the same effect- absolute power. This film is nothing more- or less- than one of the most effective and perfect artistic works ever committed to celluloid.The film follows the lives of a group of drug attics in Scotland in the late 1980's but is constructed less as a conventional narrative and more as a series of vignettes connected by characters and set to the film's dazzling soundtrack (the fact that I mention the scenes being 'set' to the soundtrack is proof of its importance in this particular film). Almost every scene is as powerful as the next, with three montages in particular being possibly the definitive examples of how to do a memorable cinematic montage.Pop culture has been kind to "Trainspotting", remembering it as a unique and great film, especially in Britain. I certainly do not disagree with this consensus, but I feel the film has been hurt by familiarity, with even television series like "Family Guy" parodying the film's well-known scenes (and badly). This doesn't mean that the film's popularity is being hurt, but that it doesn't feel as fresh and original to people now as it did back in 1996. This is hardly the thing the film's reputation suffers most from however, with the significantly large number of people who claim the film supports and promotes drug use. I have to ask, and forgive my rudeness, how stupid can you possibly be? No, drug addicts in this film are not vilified, but they are consistently shown in a brutally realistic and horrifically tragic context, and just because the film doesn't go out of its way to emotionally manipulate you into completely hating its characters doesn't mean that it promotes drug use, it means that it's a knowing film careful enough not to become a sappy, melodramatic Hollywood product. The acting is phenomenal, the music is terrific, the film is a pitch-perfect example of energizing editing and brilliant use of montage, and its script is one of the best ever written, alternately hilarious, horrifying, tragic, and benefiting from a rare level of depth and resonance. A British classic is what Trainspotting is recognized as, and a British classic is what it is. 10/10


                
It's ironic that I'm saying "many people missed the point" because I did, too. My original review on IMDb gave the film a negative rating. I deleted it months ago because I have since purchased the Director's Cut on DVD and fallen in love with it.The movie is energetic, imaginative and unique. It's taken from Irvine Welsh's novel, which I now really want to read. It's about a group of heroin addicts (led by Ewan McGregor's Renton) in Scotland who can't seem to live past their addiction...everything centers around drugs."Trainspotting" was condemned for promoting drug use, but I agree with fellow reviewer Bob the Moo who claims this was a misinterpretation on the media's behalf - yeah, it may show drugs as being "funny" at times (like Renton's wacky hallucination) but it certainly doesn't glamorize them. Some of the sequences are sickeningly realistic and depressing - like the scene with the baby. That's tragic stuff, and totally unexpected. It's also effective because by that point in the film we care about the characters enough for it to affect us on an emotional level.The movie was really popular in the UK but never got much acclaim overseas. Americans in general will always be less liberal and be quicker to damn films for their messages. "Taxi Driver" was hailed by Europeans in '76...can't really say the same for US critics - it was a huge split in opinion at the time.Ditto here. Most Americans didn't really "get it" and the only attention it received was the controversy surrounding the appearance of Mr. McGregor's genitalia. Oh, the humanity! If you haven't seen "Trainspotting" yet, I highly recommend it. Don't be turned off at first by its bleak humor and sick content - I won't lie, it IS a rough ride...but by the end, it's worth it.


                
#1 BEST FILM OF 1996 Young filmmaker Danny Boyle's film adaptation of Irvine Welsh's incredible novel, about a band of social misfits that just so happen to be sleazy heroin junkies, is the movie that got me hooked on independent flicks. One late Friday night I was cruising through the movie channels on Satellite and I stumbled upon a channel called IFC (Independent Film Channel). On it there was this film 'Trainspotting'. I watched it and immediately fell in love with it. I never really saw anything quite like it, it was stylish, cool, depressing, dark and disturbing all at the same time. After this I got hooked on IFC channel, and if it wasn't for the smash U.K. hit 'Trainspotting', I might have never watched an independent film.Following the novel surprisingly closely, 'Trainspotting' revolves around a band of friends. Most are heroin junkies, one is an alcoholic psycho and the other is actually a good guy. These friends play soccer together and hang out all the time. They are led by Mark Renton (played by Ewan McGregor - Star Wars, Moulin Rouge) the central character and narrator of this macabre yet intriguing tale. We watch him as he tries to get off heroin and how this effects his friends -- Spud (Ewen Bremner - Snatch., The Acid House) a silly, naive, never-hurt-a-fly kind of heroin addict who serves as the film's oaf; Sick Boy (Jonny Lee Miller - Dracula 2000, Hackers) a selfish, sneaky and manipulative heroin junkie obsessed with James Bond who Renton secretly despises; Tommy (Kevin McKidd - The Acid House) the only honest friend of Renton's who is drug and alcohol free; and Francis Begbie (Robert Carlyle - The Full Monty, Riff Raff) a deranged, alcoholic violent madman with a mean temper and a large knife. The story follows Renton's struggle to get off drugs and start a life while interacting with his friends and eventually arranging a drug deal with them at the end to strike it rich.'Trainspotting' is a nearly perfect picture with extraordinary acting, directing and writing. The performances are nothing short of first-rate in 'Trainspotting'. Ewan McGregor gives perhaps his finest and most unfairly ignored screen performances as our hero and struggling heroin junkie. He plays the role with such authenticity and passion for the craft of acting you'd never think he wasn't a heroin junkie in real life. Ewen Bremner is funny as the film's idiot, but Jonny Lee Miller surprisingly gives an outstanding performance as Renton's slippery so-called friend. Kevin McKidd is good as Tommy and Kelly MacDonald does a fine job with her acting debut as Renton's underage lay who becomes kind of like a mentor to him as the film progresses. One of the absolute finest performances in this movie is by Robert Carlyle, most known as a British acting coach. It's hard to explain why he's so wonderful, but I'll try. He plays the bad guy in a way that it makes you uncomfortable and scared watching him. That takes talent and it's not easy to do for any actor. Danny Boyle provides us with breathtaking camera work and has some Tarantino-ish qualities, that makes him one of the most talented filmmakers working in the independent film industry. There is a scene in which the main character, Renton, is going through withdrawal and he has a hallucination of a friend's deceased infant child crawls up on his bedroom wall and spins his head all the way around in a kind of Linda Blair Exorcist style. It's a freaky scene but it's also a carefully layered and admirable scene that proves Danny Boyle's directing talents to be most impressive. John Hodge (who writes most of Boyle's films) does a phenomenal job capturing the material from Welsh's groundbreaking and provocative novel that should have won him the Oscar in the 1997 Academy Award ceremony. The cinematography is consistently amazing but the film editing is a tad choppy. But, that's not really something to get bent out of shape about, because the rest of the film is always engrossing especially the magnificent and extensive soundtrack including music from Blur, Lou Reed and Iggy Pop.All in all, 'Trainspotting' is an astounding indie achievement from British filmmaker Danny Boyle who also did the highly successful indie romp 'Shallow Grave' starring Ewan McGregor and the major flop 'The Beach' starring Leonardo DiCaprio and Robert Carlyle. If you've never seen 'Trainspotting' and have a very strong stomach and an urge to see something peculiar yet brilliant, be sure to rent it your next stop at the videostore. If you've seen it and liked it enough to purchase it, be sure to get the the 2-disc special edition DVD with some excellent extras including full-length audio commentary with some insightful information. 'Trainspotting' is the film that started my love with indie cinema. Be sure you don't miss it. Grade: AMADE MY TOP 300 LIST AT #27
Trainspotting is the best movie I've ever seen!  Danny Boyle did a excellent job of directing a movie based on Irvine Welsh's bestselling novel about desperate and hopeless Scottish heroin addicts.  And all the cast did a superb job acting some of the most outrageous and offensive characters I've ever seen.  The only downside of this movie is understanding those thick Scottish accents, but that also adds a bit of humor to the movie.
What I liked best about Trainspotting was the characters.  They were the most unbelievable low-life, junky, sleazy, immoral, trash I've ever seen. I loved it! They'll make you both despise and pity them while loving them at the same time.And the plot (which can be credited to Irvine Welsh) was unbelievable. Although some of the shocking elements this movie had distracted me from the story at first, repeated viewings of it made me appreciate it as one of the most profound stories ever.


                
I may only be young but not many films can effect me like 'Trainspotting'.It is able to pull you into the lives of the characters and makes you empathetic to their feelings while still in-keeping with Boyles contemporary look and style of film making.Its give you a different look about being Scottish which many of my friends have pointed out.Ewan Mc Gregor shows his best acting skills he shows that he has an amazing way of keeping you watching.He has proved himself a skilled actor and has contributed greatly to the British film industry.We are thankful.Its a film i can watch over and over again and still smile at the end.NOt one to miss.A must see!!


                
The film tells us that life is totally in our hands, the way we want it when we want it either to choose easy happiness or hard happiness, or not to choose anything at all. It could be one of the most impressive films about drug addiction. I also think it is the film that best describes the life style of the '90s, and the life of the teenager lost in this fast paced age. The best thing about the film is that, just like real life, the film can be interpreted by different people in many different formats. Nowadays, it is possible to find people who see this movie as a lifestyle. And because of youth criticism this film can be likened to Fight Club. Among the views about this movie are the comments of two groups of people who are really opposed to it. A group claims that the film is trying to spread drug use, while the other group claims that the film criticizes drug use. This certainly reveals the ability of the director and screenwriter. Because the film director is extremely neutral. Renton and his colleagues show drug addiction both in ways that ruin life and in life-changing aspects. Any comment from here is completely dependent on the locator. This neutral point of view on drugs in the film is the most important element that makes this film different from other films about drugs. Beyond everything is actually a journey story Trainspotting. Mark Renton's trainspotting, from Scotland to England, from a drug crisis, and a different kind of spiritual journey, without needing any curtains. The name Trainspotting is the name given to the act of recording the number of trains passing by on a train station, usually made by young children in England. Trainspotting characters, especially Renton, are always a move, a quest for the exact opposite of this still activity. While the whole world is still standing and watching the passers-by, Renton and his colleagues are on a journey with a head- up, a break from everything and everyone. Renton and his friends have resisted this moral, bourgeois lifestyle, all the norms set by society, and the tragic life that has been like Trainspotting, which has kept the human being motionless and killed the soul. It is a film that starts with irony and ends with irony. "I do not want to choose life" in response to Mark Renton's Lust for Life song, and at the end of the film, Mark tells a story with a full irony speech, It can be said that the two scenes that make the best use of irony in cinema history. To sum up, Trainspotting is the story of those who are not afraid to hit the bottom. Acceptance of life filled with short and disappointments. The story of those who chose to be hungry with the truths of life, filled with empty stories.
This film is, to use that old cinematic cliché, a rollarcoaster. The film portrays the lives of a group of friends, most of whom are heroin addicts and the story of their seemingly relentless march towards simultaneous self destruction and discovery. Having lived in Scotland all my life the film does what few mainstream box-office smashes dare to, which is to give an accurate and truthful (if not slightly comical) portrayal of life for drug addicts and the lower classes in Scotland. This is made all the more poignant by the fact the story is set in Edinburgh, a city renound for its beauty and wealth, but which has a seedy underbelly of poverty, violence and drug abuse in the city's peripheral housing schemes (ignored by the wealthy inhabitants of the city centre). A strong plot excellent characters and a brilliant soundtrack all contribute to this masterpiece.


                
Trainspotting is what film should be: honest, imaginative, surprising, and groundbreaking.LIke Goodfellas, Trainspotting is a meandering movie that manages to grip you the entire time. It is funny and heartbreaking at the same time, anchored by Ewan MacGregor's absolutely devastating performance as Renton. Put his performance up against the Best Actor nominees in any given year and I dare you to say it doesn't belong.Contrary to what others have posted, Trainspotting absolutely made an impact here in the States. That may have been to Danny Boyle's detriment as he's never quite reached the same heights since.But for us, in the U.S., you have to realize that it was basically a foreign film because you can't understand about 25% of the dialogue because the accent is so thick. Begbie's dialogue is purposely opaque, I think. Not that it matters - the performance is rock solid.If you haven't seen the movie, go out and get it. It's in my all-time Top 10, and it holds up beautifully over time.


                
I've seen a lot of films that are either pro or most of the time anti-drugs, this film is neither.The film makers just want to tell a simple story of a junkie, Renton, played very well by Ewan McGregor, who struggled to get out from Glasgow's drug scene and in the process fighting the gravitational pull of his friends and the drug itself. No preaching and that made this film wonderful.The portrayal of drug use and effects of its depravity are disturbing and surreal and fresh owing to Danny Boyle's style of shaky camera movements.
Robert Carlyle's performance as Begbie is brilliant, even though most of the times I don't quite understand what he is talking about because the dialogue is extremely "Welsh" (from author Irvine Welsh).Worth watching: 10/10


                
Wildly inventive, extremely funny (often sickly, disturbingly so), filmed with an insane sense of energy and pace, and an eye for truly inventive surreal images, and a soundtrack full of great songs that all fit perfectly. Not to mention a bevy of superb, brave performances. This study of 4 young mates in Scotland, 3 drug addicts, and one addicted to violence reminds me in some ways of Paul Thomas Anderson's "Boogie Nights". Both take us behind the scenes of dark, dysfunctional works (drugs, porn), but do so with a sense of humor and humanity that transcends clichés and makes us relate to these characters as human beings, not just porn stars or drug addicts. These are both films full of ideas about choices and morality, without ever feeling moralistic or judgmental, and both use their central world as metaphors for the bigger worlds around them. You might escape porn, or drugs, but you can't escape the forces that push people into them,(spoiler ahead!) Indeed I'm surprised to read so many reviews claiming Trainspotting's ending is optimistic. Yes Renton is walking away from drugs, but he's also stabbing his mates in the back, and joining a world that's just as obsessive about money, success, drink, sex, material things, as an addict is about drugs. To me, that's what the whole, chillingly ironic 'choose life' monologue that bookends the film is all about. Really 'choosing life' is about a lot more than just saying 'no' to drugs. Not to mention the title 'Trainspotting' which refers to the innocent, but still obsessive, humanity-disconnected hobby of noting down types and times of trains that go by. Perhaps a slower death than drugs, but a turning away from living life just the same.
This film should be seen by every 14 and 15 year old. Anyone doing drugs after seeing this film is most likely beyond help. It is one of the funniest films I have ever seen as well as one of the scariest. I would also say it uses its soundtrack to enhance the film rather than just tagging on a few popular tunes. the best Brit movie since Lawrence Of Arabia.


                
This is by far the best British film ever made!Danny Boyle is the Quentin Tarantino of the U.K.I remember seeing this for the first time in a theater and everyone's jaws just dropped. Amazing visuals, direction and writing, especially for it's era! I have to admit though, you need to be on some type of meds to come up with this type of writing, and whatever those were, share them! The creativity was perfection. But what made this film more impressive, was the soundtrack... probably one of the best movie soundtracks of all time!Both DVD and CD need to be in everyone's collection.A perfect 10/10 from me!


                
"Choose Life. Choose a job. Choose a career... But why would I want to do a thing like that?" Even if you haven't seen Trainspotting, you'll be aware of the opening lines of Danny Boyle's 1996 masterpiece, and those opening lines are a pure reflection of whats going to happen and why you should avoid doing whats been done in the whole movie, if you want the option to "Choose Life. Choose a job. Choose a career....". I saw this movie recently and in my opinion it's a masterpiece, a lot of people don't give the deserved credit to this movie simply because they've missed the point of the movie, this is not a drug appealing movie, this is a anti-drug movie. Trainspotting is brave enough to bring a humour and levity to the subject of drug abuse, without ever ignoring the accompanying and unavoidable squalor and devastation, and that's why this movie deserves so much credit, after 20 years this is still useful to reflect about life choices and drugs.


                
Trainspotting is one of the few movies that dares to be graphically real and not afraid of controversy to the point that they not only show the process of injecting heroin, but the state that an addict goes through when they withdrawal from heroin.Not only does Trainspotting have a penchant for controversy and brazenness, it also has a cast of characters that, despite your best intentions, do grow on you. Such is the case with the violent psychopath Begbie (played with ferocious conviction by Robert Carlyle). Leading this talented cast of characters is Renton (played convincingly by Ewan McGregor). Renton is a heroin addict who shows just how desperate an addict is to get high in any way, even if that means diving through what could be classified as "The Worst Toilet in Scotland" to receive, um... "misplaced" drugs.Trainspotting is definitely not for all tastes. It requires a strong stomach, an open-mindedness towards constant profanity, and an extensive knowledge of Scottish lingo.
The best British film of the '90s? That's right, Trainspotting is a hilarious, dark, weird and sometimes painful masterpiece. Based on Irvine Welsh's cult novel (Welsh appears as a dealer, by the way), it's one of the most compelling, entertaining and shocking looks at the effect drugs can have on people, and it's to director Danny Boyle's eternal credit that he doesn't depict just one side of the story: we get to see what these people enjoy about getting high, so that we can, if not forgive them, at least understand them.The film takes place in Edinburgh, Scotland, home to five youngsters who hang out and cause trouble together. The team's "moral" leader, not to mention the movie's narrator, is Mark Renton (Ewan Mcgregor, in a career-defining role), who knows he's slowly ruining his life and tries to kick the habit several times. That he'd rather have sex with an underage girl (Kelly MacDonald) than give his decision any serious thought doesn't speak very well on his part. His mates, in sanity order, are Tommy (Kevin McKidd), who's sane enough to stay away from heroin (he shoots DIY sex tapes instead), Sick Boy (Jonny Lee Miller), a James Bond-obsessed pervert (ironic, since the actor's grandfather, Bernard Lee, played M in the Connery and Moore era), Spud (Ewen Bremner), so lost in an everlasting high he can't speak properly, and Begbie (Robert Carlyle), whose personal drug consists of beating up people, especially when they're not Scottish.What gives the film a bit more edge compared to most dramas about drug addicts is its unrelented, anarchic energy, evident from the beginning, when Renton and Spud are running away from the police, with Iggy Pop's "Lust For Life" blaring on the soundtrack and the narration imposing itself with the famous "Choose life" monologue, arguably the best sample of junky philosophy in the entire movie. Boyle never stops for one second, but continues to jump between funny and tragic, real and imaginary, cheeky and serious, using Scorsese-worthy camera angles and movements and state-of-the-art dream sequences to grant us a rare view of the addict's mind and soul.The double aspect is present in the performances as well: Miller and Bremner play it for laughs most of the time, therefore lightening the tone whenever Carlyle's madness or other external events threaten to make the picture too bleak. And then there's McGregor, the one caught in the middle between hilarity and darkness (literally, in the case of the terrifying overdose scene), who tells the story with the right combination of earnestness and irony.Trainspotting isn't a lecture: it shows the "fun" part of doing drugs (the toilet dive) and the downside of it. It's not Ken Loach, it's Danny Boyle, which means it's one of the coolest, edgiest pictures of the '90s. A masterwork. It's also got the catchiest music of the decade, after Pulp Fiction, that is.


                
I had heard a lot about this movie and I'd even proceeded to read a couple of pages off the book before I saw the movie. But nothing I'd heard about prepared me for what I was to witness. The movie is a fantastic depiction of drug addiction and the depths to which one might sink when afflicted by an addiction such as this.Some scenes in the movie might be pretty disturbing, but it is certainly worth sitting through. The end might not be as interesting as one might expect, but the whole movie is an experience one shouldn't miss out on. Perhaps one of Ewan McGregor's best performances.The other actors put in stellar performances that make this a definite must see. Renton's monologue on Scottish patriotism is something one should certainly hear.


                
I think that anyone who uses drugs should see this. It shows how low one would go to get a hit. I unquestionably recommend this movie. The acting is amazing and the humor is always there. A great film all the way around.


                
'Trainspotting' is about a young group of people who are drug addicts. It is a very powerful and enjoyable, sometimes comical film. I would call this one of my favourite films of all times, it is a great Drama and you can be emotional sometimes. It is also a kind of horror with some parts of the film yet very disturbing, especially when the baby is found dead. It does make you feel sad for the people who are taking the drugs but some of the stuff they do is largely hilarious. The main aspect of this film is for the viewers to understand what it is like if taking drugs, I would recommend this film to anyone who is into discovering more about drugs and life's of drug addicts.
OK, I've said that about a few movies, but Trainspotting is definitely one of my fave films of all time. It's got it all, and in the right amounts.Who can say that Begbie, for example, isn't one of the most outlandish, hilarious characters ever to be put on screen? Ewan McGregor has never acted better. I am American but can appreciate anything Scottish, especially accents that sometimes go beyond my basic comprehending skills.This film is witty in dialogue, very evenly-paced and very poignant in its themes. What more could you ask for? I can't wait to see it again.


                
Whenever we meet someone new, or want to have a conversation with someone we don't know that much, we constantly rely on hobbies. People ask questions like "What do you do on your free time?" or "What is your favorite song?". But the toughest question to ask somebody is what their favorite movie is. A non-regular movie-goer might not have a bad time answering. A girl might go for The Notebook or Titanic, while a male might chose Lord of the Rings, Star Wars or any action flick. I personally have trouble deciding among Clockwork Orange or Pulp Fiction, but my favorite movie of all time must be Trainspotting. Trainspotting is a Scottish movie, based on a book by the same name and starting Ewan McGregor as Renton. Although he is the movie's main focus, we meet other characters who enrich the cinematic experience. Sickboy, Spud, Swanney, Tommy, Diane, and Begby. Most of these guys with a little problem, they're heroin addicts. Some try to quit and others join in the process. The movie clearly portrays all the risks and disadvantages of being involved in this world and the negative things it eventually leads to, but, at the same time, the characters never deny the satisfaction that this vice gives to them. "Take the best orgasm you've ever had... multiply it by a thousand, and you're still nowhere near it", Renton narrates at some point in the movie. The real reason why this is my favorite movie is simply because your average friend can watch it and know for certain that he has seen an excellent movie. He will not be confused by Pulp Fiction, or distressed by A Clockwork Orange. Certainly it is a movie you should see if you still haven't. It gets you glued to your sit until the fabulous ending. The soundtrack is also a highlight, featuring songs from artists such as Blur, Brian Eno, Pulp, Iggy Pop, Lou Reed and of course Underworld, with its memorable song, Born Slippy, all placed in perfect timing with the movie's screening. So next time you go to your video rental, "Choose Life", choose Trainspotting.


                
Don't waste your time watching "Requiem for a Dream" or other these kind movies they have no soul, they are made to frighten people. It's not an art. You forget those kind movies as soon as you finish watching them. They only show the bad side of drugs and leave you wondering: if drugs are so bad, so why do people use them? You can't prove anything by frightening. This movie on the other hand shows good and bad side of drugs and it is also very optimistic because it shows that even if you are addicted, this isn't the end of the world, you still can come back to a normal life if you really try. According to requiem for a dream, once you are addicted you are damned. When i was a kid they invariably were showing these kind of movies in school, but they didn't influenced me. Now this movie is something you'l remember. The characters were portrayed so well that they remind me some people i've met in real life, it seems that all this happened for real. So if you are looking for a good drug movie watch this one - it's revealing, informative and fun to watch.


                
i cannot say enough about the importance of this film. it has everything one could ask for in a good British druggie film. its got dark humor, and actually gives a surprising twist to the argument of using heroin. unlike films like requiem for a dream, a film that has you scared senseless into never so much as looking at a syringe, trainspotting shows some of the decent pros of being a junkie. now this is not to say it promotes it, because we do see on several occasions of heroin wrecks lives in various horrifying ways. what trainspotting does is go deeper into why a person does it, having valid reasons, and seeing what is intriguing about heroin. on another note, the actors could not have been been more better suited for the roles they played. renton (ewan mcgregor) is the wonderfully likable and respectable main character, who we see going through an emotional roller-coaster throughout the film. the supporting cast is excellent as well. there's a variety of junkies, from those trying to clean up, to those who actually seem to want to continue to live this lifestyle, to my personal favorite, sickboy, the sean connery enthusiast. brilliant! i couldn't have asked for more from a film! ten out of ten!


                
