I think this film express for me just waste of time. Examining to the damages of heroin,this film may be evaluated as a trainer film. The main character of Renton,is a good example for the people who are addicted to it or people who are thinking to start it.But this film certainly doesn't deserve high points from IMDb and I didn't understand why the commentors are so interested in this film.The thing that interests me is that home life of Englih people is so disgusting.As a result of these factors,I can't find remarkable scenes or a theme to comment...


                
This film received rave reviews when released, but I still fail to see why. True it depicts an accurate image of drug crazed idiots set in a very real Edinburgh. But on the whole it is totally depressing, shocking, and just not enjoyable.There are some elements of humor but these cannot be enjoyed as one person after another suffers at the hands of their addiction. This film could be used for a government health warning. Alcohol, drugs, AIDS, violence all are featured in abundance. However this is not entertainment, just a sad reflection of todays pathetic malcontents who have no respect for themselves or others.


                
...but if you're older, married, have kids, live the normal suburban life, you probably won't like this movie unless you are truly a film fanatic who just has to see everything that's out there.  I guess I left those days behind...Now, on the other hand, if you want a glimpse of the low-rent, depressing, hopelessness and anger-inducing life of everyday heroin addicts in Scotland who rail against the establishment, then this is the movie for you.Other reviewers have given good synopses and their own critiques of the film so I won't need to repeat them.  I just know that my free time is becoming more and more limited at this stage of my life so that I'd like to spend the little time I have for movies watching ones that are unique, spectacular, entertaining, uplifting, insightful, engaging, or just plain fun.After watching "Trainspotting," I felt that I had just wasted two hours of my life.  Sure, I got to see the movie that may have made Ewan McGregor, and yes I got to see the seamy side of heroin-addiction as a "normal" way of life in Edinburgh, but looking back now, I think I could have lived my life without having experienced that and not felt that I had missed anything.Anyway, if you're younger than say 35 and still living that single life and am proud that you haven't "sold out" to the system, you may like this movie. If you're older than that, and "are" the establishment nowadays with that steady corporate tax-paying job, the 2.1 kids, the house in suburbia, and the weekend house on the lake, you'll either: 1) Have disgust for the slacking lifestyle portrayed in this film, and wonder "What a waste!", and/or 2) Be amazed at how much YOU've changed from being similarly rebellious in your own youth (well, maybe not a heroin addict) and become what you are today.Whether this film will appeal to you depends on your age and life-situation. Although I felt I pretty much wasted my time watching it, it would have added insult to injury if I had paid to rent this.  If you really feel you must see it, then do what I did and use a free-rental coupon.  That way, at most, you'll only be out your time.(And hey, by the way, what is the title "Trainspotting" got to do with the movie anyway??  If you search on google, you'll find a number of theories...)


                
I don't really care much for what people are saying about this movie, about how there is a deeper meaning to it all, etc etc blah blah blah, quite literally you will see a lot of sh!t in this movie. There really is no story per se and I don't think that this movie could ever match up to the likes of Snatch and Requiem for a dream. Quite simply its a movie about a bunch of people who do drugs and then hallucinate through half the movie. The rest of the movie is about the main protagonist (Renton) if you could call him that going from one hallucination to another until his parents shut him up in a room to help him get over the habit. Thereafter he steals from his 'friends' and elopes with a lot of money. Between that and the beginning nothing much happens. There are a bunch of other characters I did not feel much for.. Of note is Robert Carlyle's portrayal of Begbie. In the scenes that he appears he steals the limelight and those are about the only scenes that to me were tolerable. So there's not much of a story, a sh!tload of 'bollocks' and somehow this movie is in the IMDb top 250. I suppose you will tell me that it has a cult following.. who are these 'cults', tell them to stay away from sites like IMDb. No sir, trainspotting does not deserve 8.2 stars, money wasted, time wasted. Don't believe me, watch the 2 scenes where Renton goes after pills in a sh!tpot and Spud gets sh!t all over his girlfriend and her parents. Deplorable!
Boyle directs this in his usual teenage-style of fast cuts, cool music, and with little real empathy for his characters. Trainspotting is so overrated, largely because its unique in its own way.I've watched countless gory horror films, yet the scene where the sh*t hits the... well bowl in this case, was probably the most abhorrent thing I've seen on screen. Was there any need for it? Does anyone want to look at human feces on screen?Boyle is not a good director, despite the hype. Watch the Beach again, and Trance, the boring Sunshine, and he just comes across as if he's just graduated from film school and has all these cool tricks to try out. No depth I'm afraid


                
