I've just watched this film again for the first time in a long time and though i found it 'watchable' that's about as far as I can go. I've never found that the film does the book any justice. With its flat and ridiculous characters and romanticising of narcotics, the film to me is just mildly entertaining - if unpleasant at times - crap.The book is another story altogether. I've never read anything quite like it, and was always surprised that Irvine Welsh seemed to like the film so much. The characterisation and impetus of plot and narrative are exceptional in the book, you literally can't put it down. Whilst the book cleverly deals with an underbelly of Scottish life, the film makes me cringe to be Scottish. The book lives and breathes reality, the film seems like a David Bowie video.


                
How does a movie with feces-flinging fall within the IMDb top 250? I decided to watch this movie after I'd seen it advertised in numerous places; namely in the top-films list on this 'site. It did retain a quirky, original kind of vibe all the way through; helmed by somewhat unappreciated director Danny Boyle, who has a unique approach to film-making. The 'anti-drugs' message is relatively clear: I suppose this is the embedded message within the film, asking the audience: "Would you like to end up like these people?" I felt the soundtrack and its usage added a redeeming quality to the film but I just don't agree this should be within the top 250.


                
This movie is a downer. I should have known it going into it. Unless you've been through this disgustingly pitiful situation that the movie depicts, you can't connect with any of the characters. I'm a person that likes to connect with somebody in the film, and if you're anywhere near normal, this movie will probably offend you while making you nauseous. The movie is what it is, a story of low life junkies that shows you every aspect of a low life junkie in grave detail. The acting wasn't poor, but the basic premise is something you can learn from a crap 30 minute health class movie, as in, there's not much of a story line to connect with or care about. There are also a number of incredibly disgusting scenes which include male genitalia, feces (well that was kind of funny) and a gay spitty kiss (gay).


                
Such a disgusting movie, when i watch this movie, i was having lunch. It makes me feel sick.NEVER watch this movie again.


                
OK, so with all of the kerfuffle about "T2 Trainspotting" coming out I thought it was high time (no pun intended) that I watch this film.As it happens, I heard interviews with Irvine Welsh (author of the novel Trainspotting) and Danny Boyle, who directed the film, just prior to writing this review. Both men are engaging interviewees and, had I heard the interviews before seeing the film, I might have had even higher expectations.Sadly, my expectations were not met. There's nothing even remotely attractive to this film. The characters are not in the least sympathetic. We can't really care about their miserable, thieving lives. They are just a pitiful bunch: Renton, Spud, Sick Boy, Tommy and Begbie. Begbie is particularly odious.We don't really learn much about life in post-industrial Edinburgh other than the fact that these sad characters spend their time stealing, shooting heroin and drinking in the pubs. Why are they unemployed? Why is there no work? How did they find themselves in this situation after leaving school? Where do they get the money for heroin, other than from stealing? We never find out.There's a technique that the writer or director (or both) use in an attempt to make these characters likable. They make them well- spoken, using words that we would generally not hear from such low-lifes. This, I assume, is intended to persuade the viewer that they're just like us, but just fallen on hard times. Even better: give one of the characters a quirky interest that he can ramble on about at various points in the film. In this case, James Bond films and Sean Connery. "Aww, isn't that cute", we're supposed to think. It's not cute, it's a technique to manipulate the viewer that I despise.I would hope that no one sees this film as representing a generation that came of age in the 1990's because it is not representative.Watch it if you must, but be forewarned: it isn't the cultural touchstone that critics will say it is.


                
