Trainspotting is the story of a humor, violence, goofiness, abuse, friendship and sadness in heroin-addicted Scotland.It's a really vulgar film, with lots of disgusting scatological humor, pointless violence, and the pain of a life on heroin.But it's very well done, with a snappy, realistic script, lots of genuinely funny moments, some truly moving and sad scenes about this horrible existence, and, in the end, many important things to say.I ended up liking this movie, even with the harshness of some of the scenes. I don't know if I necessarily need to see it again, but it's worth seeing once.8 out of 10.Barky


                
The last time I remember seeing someone going through withdrawal was Frank Sinatra in The Man With the Golden Arm: "You mean just stop? Cold turkey? You don't understand! The pain..." Renton (Ewan McGregor) was a little more expressive: "I don't feel the sickness yet, but it's in the post. That's for sure. I'm in the junkie limbo at the moment. Too ill to sleep. Too tired to stay awake, but the sickness is on its way. Sweat, chills, nausea. Pain and craving. A need like nothing else I've ever known will soon take hold of me. It's on its way." The truth about drugs and the awful toll it take is clearly shown here. The most awful moment come after the baby dies and the mother is quick to "relieve her pain." The most disgusting moment was the toilet: an apt illustration of just what you will do for drugs. The amorality of sex with a schoolgirl is also apropos.This film is funny at times, but certainly there was no glamor. It was just some sick people with their lives going in circles.John Hodge's screenplay was magnificent. Danny Boyle's (Shallow Grave, 28 Days Later...) direction was super. Along with McGregor, the performances of Robert Carlyle (The Full Monty, Human Trafficking) and Kelly Macdonald (What's her connection to Sinatra?) were impressive.


                
Chronicling the lives and trends of a group of addicts, Trainspotting is a raw, deep and honest look at the pros, cons and horrors of abusiveness to addiction.As Renton (Ewan McGregor) and Spud (Ewen Bremner) hurl down the street with the energy of a Duracell bunny it's apparent that there's something very powerful about Trainspotting. As the Iggy Pop's 'Lust for Life' pounds through your ears it may be difficult to realise at first. Is it this iconic choice of soundtrack? Could it be the pain that you feel along with the actors, who gurn and gasp as they push their way through the streets of Edinburgh? Or could it in fact be the startlingly stirring voice-over provided by Ewan McGregor? Yeah, that would be it, though it is important that you remember something. This is the 1996 Ewan McGregor. Before Star Wars, or Moulin Rouge! and it was well before The Island. This is Ewan McGregor when he had to dive into toilets, and dig bodies. This is Ewan McGregor who didn't have the luxury of multi-million dollar deals or stunt doubles. This is Ewan McGregor who is only a stone's throw from the drug addled character he's playing, and above everything else that shows.One of the many initial criticisms of Trainspotting has been that it seems to be promoting drug use and it doesn't take long to see why. The film starts off startlingly realistically with Renton sneering that he wouldn't do drugs if he didn't enjoy it. With this, we learn at breakneck speed that the world of drug abuse that we've been taught about and steered away from is like any other addiction and that to an extent, we, the average viewer, are no better than these people. So light-hearted is the first quarter of the film, common sense seems to leave and it's not made entirely open why drugs are considered bad in society. But the enjoyable caper that you settle comfortably into doesn't last for long and soon it's apparent that director Danny Boyle is showing the good and the bad; the Heaven and the Hell. Whilst watching Trainspotting you're in junkie limbo.Among the themes of drugs, there are others relating to everyone. A core idea is the Choose Life movement, a phrase repeated throughout the film to perfectly nauseating effect. "Choose life. Choose a job. Choose a career. Choose a family. Choose a f**king big television<U+0085>" Both stark and hideously blunt, the truth about conformity in materialism soon sets in to make it apparent that 'choosing life' may well be exactly the opposite. On top of that, in case anybody is worried that they might not be able to relate to Renton's drug issues, addiction on other levels is explored thoroughly. A commentary on how prescription pill popping is just as damning but seen as much less crude by society is but one.Considering that Trainspotting isn't quite an ensemble cast film, it's surprising to what extent most of the main characters are explored. Before the end, qualities, problems, traits and secrets of just about all the major characters are exposed and examined. There is no character that could be accused of being a strict (or even slight) cliché. Naturally, because Renton is an addict, you wouldn't really trust him if he tried to tell you his life story in the pub and so frequently, he is played off as an unreliable narrator. There are numerous times that he exclaims that he will do something, usually get off the heroin, to no avail at all mostly because he simply hasn't the power to do this. At around the 65 minute mark, you really come into a full opinion of who he is and how much control he does (or doesn't) have over himself, his life and his addiction.One of the main reasons Trainspotting excels at being such a disturbing film is that it doesn't back down at the thought of having to push the envelope and employ some abstract ideas in order to truly get a message across. The most effective uses of these are without doubt when juxtaposition is used to take an innocent idea and put it in a horrifyingly grim environment. Not only does this create a spellbinding effect, but Boyle and his crew also raise the bar by taking advantage of these moments to create real suspense.From a technical standpoint, the camera-work and cinematography are fluid, inventive and original. The music is interestingly diverse and always fitting. The story itself is nothing new but is written and executed in such a wild fashion that everything seems fresh rather than recycled. However, you can only go so far on recycled material and as the stakes are raised, the film starts to lose focus of what has throughout, felt like the most core theme of the film. Not drugs, not addiction, but friends. Despite the advertising and the views of the film-makers and the controversy the key idea of friends always being there for one another is what feels like the blood pumping throughout the body of this film to keep it moving and invigorated. After all, with who else would you be able to ramble about the trivial knowledge you've garnered of James Bond over the years, shoot dogs with air rifles, recreate the legendary Beatles album walking across a road or refer to everything via your own personal favoured pop culture?Trainspotting is a film for anyone who wants to take a trip to the dark side but also see the light that keeps people there. It's a film for anyone who's not afraid to cross the line. It's a film for anyone who chooses life.4/5 (8/10)


                
Trainspotting is one of those rare films in a category all of its own.  It tells the story of Rents (Ewan McGregor), a recovering drug addict with out covering it up with the normal "Disney" fluff.   The characters are raw, edgy, and could certainly be from everyday life.  The acting is awesome and shows why McGregor became the star he is.  To anyone who like the movie, I highly recommend the book.  The dialect is hard to read but well worth the effort.


                
Choose life. What does that exactly mean? Well, to me it means a lot of things but if you want to explore what "choose life" doesn't mean to some people, you should experience Danny Boyle's cult classic "Trainspotting". In a way, all these characters seem to have chosen a way of life, but apparently see it as something closer to death. Not with those exact words Mark Renton (Ewan McGregor) explains the commitment of being an addict, but somehow he manages to expose his philosophy to the viewer while introducing us to his friends; some who support the philosophy, some who don't and some who don't even care. But I don't think that's "Trainspotting's" main point: showing how drugs can affect people. For instance, there's one character, Begbie (Robert Carlyle), who doesn't consume at all but has (maybe) a bigger problem: an obsession with violence. He enjoys kicking people around and making them bleed. That's another point, another issue that affects Renton and the rest of his friends; the silly Spud (Ewen Bremmer), the unpredictable Sick Boy (Jonny Lee Miller) and the lost Tommy (Kevin McKidd). The real star of the film is John Hodge's screenplay, based on Irvine Welsh's novel. It contains a heavy dose of character development that can be spotted clearly among the heroin injections and delusions of his creatures. It reminded me a lot of Terry Gilliam's "Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas" (with the exception of character development) because, like that film that also focused on drugs, "Trainspotting" has no defined plot line: it's like a roller-coaster ride that finishes and starts again without you being able to get off your seat. There are two times where you clearly sense the movie's coming to an end, but suddenly Hodge and Boyle bring something new to the table. Like in "Fear<U+0085>", "Trainspotting" has a heavy load of narration (by Renton) that helps and confuses the viewer at the same time. It helps to understand the inner feelings of someone so consumed by an addiction like Renton. There are two beautiful scenes that leave no doubt of Boyle's inventive visual style: one follows Renton to a hospital after hi faints with a dose of heroin, another shows him in his own room recovering from his problem (this meaning not having a 'hit'-an injection-for weeks). Both scenes are visually stunning in a way that I would like to detail but don't want you to miss; so I'll just say they almost border surrealism.Some time before these scenes, something occurs that provokes a major change in the film. At that point, if you have gotten used to the fact that the plot is not defined and lies beyond confusion (Renton's narration is confusing because it has some contradictions and sometimes doesn't let the viewer to think by itself), you might appreciate the final moments of the movie, like when Renton goes to London and Boyle creates a ten-second take of the city's most iconic places and it looks like a tourism commercial that doesn't fit with the tone the movie is employing at the time<U+0085>But it works; because it's funny and original. Unlike Ewan McGregor's performance, for example. His Renton is the kind of role that gets a Scottish actor out of Scotland and catapults him to Hollywood. It involves being 'too Scottish', fairly good-looking and very charismatic. I'm not saying it's a bad performance, I'm just saying it's not difficult to achieve, and it helped McGregor's career greatly. The rest of the guys basically have to do the same, which is something I adore in a way. I adore how British writers/directors/actors or whatever deal with friendship. It's a more disinterested way; you feel like no matter what happens, they'll always be there at the end of the day. It's just a true feeling, and I'm not telling you to expect it in this film, but if that were the case; it shouldn't matter whether you choose life or any other thing.


                
Why was this made? Because someone felt that there was a market for an edgy film. This is edgy, but mostly in cheap ways: scat, death, desperation, loneliness. Lots of character shots of the different dumb ones. So it delivers what it intended.Is that enough? To judge from the IMDB comments, it is also a convincing antidrug film. Is that enough? McGregor is a promising actor but even that is not enough (see him in "Pillow Book" if you are looking for REAL edge).Sorry. I think this film is relatively artless, and the cinematic tricks are at the music video level.


                
An excellent creative team, fabulous cast, great story...so what went wrong? A bit of a loaded question, because the film was still fantastic, even though it missed its mark. What went wrong is that the film could never compare to the book...and although I'm probably a bit biased due to an adoration of Irvine Welsh's writing (well...most of it;), the film really screwed a bit up too much to be forgiven. Having the original screenplay, I admit that it was partially due to time constraints...they cut a lot of scenes out that would have improved the film. But there was a lot that just shouldn't have been done.Let's start with Diane. Diane is unforgivable, as she's actually two characters combined into one. In the book Dianne was the high school girl Rents ended up sleeping with, but the girl he ended up with, who wrote to him in London, was another girl completely (Kelly?) And the way he ended up with Dianne was different, she was much less sharp tongued and much more naive, and the whole breakfast and post-breakfast scene was completely different.The second major beef I had was with the ending. In the book Rents stole the money with no qualms and no regrets. He didn't leave a cent for Spud and he didn't plan on giving up the skag and turning clean. He was going to heave off to France and live in a heroin paradise; not working and reverting to drugs.Thirdly, Tommy was much more bitter and dejected; he blamed Renton for his AIDS and was never able to deal with it properly.Finally, the entire reason for the title was dropped. The whole 'Trainspotting' scene has not even a mention in the film, not even a mention of Begbie's father...And then there's Rents' brother, who barely rates a glance in the film...A gripe I have about the film itself, is that some scenes are overdone, even useless. The scene where Renton kicks is horrid; the whole baby crawling across the ceiling/Spud in chains/Tommy as a haggard AIDS victim (though we don't even know he has it at that point) is just too much. And a waste of time. Definitely one scene that could have been sacrifice; or at least they could have found a better way to do it.And a lot of scenes were sloppy...much of the information that is essential to the story is given in passing, or we find out facts after they've been displayed. I think this is because of the shape the original script took, and the cuts seem to have harmed the story in a way that should have been repaired.But all that aside, the film was cast perfectly (Dianne aside, who shouldn't have really been as important to the film as she was, even). Jonny Lee Miller is the absolute perfect Sick Boy, and MacGregor is brilliant as Rents. Ewen Bremner is hilarious as Spud, especially in the job scene (the Renton half of that scene, which is missing from the film, is even more amusing;) and he also makes an appearance in the other Irvine Welsh film, The Acid House, which anyone who liked this film should go out and watch... Top off that cast with Robert Carlyle as an amazing Begbie, and Irvine Welsh himself popping in as Mikey, and we're all set.Overall: The errors and changes in the film don't really ruin it, but fans of the book may be disappointed somewhat. This film doesn't come close to Danny Boyle and John Hodge's previous effort, Shallow Grave, but it's still a fabulous film. Anyone who hasn't read the book will appreciate the film even more, and who could ask for a better cast?? All gripes aside, I still rate this an easy 8/10.


                
With its lucidly grotesque subject matter, jarring imagery, darkly convulsive comedy, relentless pacing, and wholly pungent, disillusioned outlook on 90's Scottish society and consumer-culture, Trainspotting manages to shock and disturb as much as it entertains, providing insight on the woeful realities of the impoverished drug lifestyle and consequential addictions that ostensibly functions as an alternative to the banalities of consumerism that ultimately fails in every possible way.The startlingly well-grounded performances are brought to life with thanks to a gritty script and sharp (albeit thickly-accented) dialogue. Unfortunately, those now-conventional staple moments of the drug drama's 'reality-sets-in' horror are far to sparse, and the zippy pacing ensures that this utterly fantastic movie ends much sooner than it should.


                
What today may now be more popularly recognized as the film that launched the career of adolescent Obi-Wan Kenobi to become; was once a touchstone for the neo-punk-rave-hardcore-dance subcultural amalgam of the English-speaking world during the mid 90s. Yet the anti-slogan sloganeering of the film's opening sequence (later reprinted on bedroom and dorm-wall decorative posters, "Choose life. Choose a job. Choose a _______"... (spoken with a Scottish accent) (...inverting the Talking Heads' Once in a Lifetime)) marked yet another moment of self-conscious subversion on behalf of the underground; pre-dating and possibly foreshadowing the release of the UK anarcho-punk band Chumbawamba's single "Tubthumping," a year later. Both the film and the song ironically castigate the excesses of hedonistic drug culture and again, both have similarly been championed by the very people against whom their creators railed.Post-Pulp Fiction, the cringe/revolting factor seems to have been ratcheted up a few notches; potential viewers should certainly be ready to be disturbed. Where Trainspotting shined, however, was in its delivery of these disturbances. In contrast to other drug films and the setting for many scenes (run down hotel rooms, decrepit squats, and especially "the worst bathroom in Scotland"), Trainspotting presents a polished clean image. The stylized gleam is reminiscent of Stanley Kubrick's cult favorite, A Clockwork Orange (1971). Trainspotting's heightened nasty(vomiting)/immaculate(Donald Judd!) dichotomy would later be used (and even elaborated on) in Aronofsky's Requiem for a Dream (2000). As a result, the film looks great, but unfortunately for its inhabitants, it depicts the human condition in only the bleakest terms. Despite this, Trainspotting, is none the less a skillfully constructed feature with definite entertainment value.


                
My opinion-."Trainspotting" is a movie by Danny Boyle, adapted by Irvine Welsh's best-seller in 1993, describing the adventures of a group of young Scottish heroin addicts and it was this movie that launched the career of The actor Ewan McGregor, who takes the lead. Beyond the addiction to drugs, the film explores the sordid living conditions of the younger generation in a Scotland in full economic depression. "Trainspotting" does not constitute an apology for drugs, and thanks to a great script that dares to unveil this glaucous universe of Scottish junkies whatever junkie is a universal word and the situations in Scotland are the same everywhere. Danny Boyle approaches with humor and almost a certain lightness, a taboo subject that is drug, the movie is also very well realized and on a very good rhythm. A movie that I advise


                
Movies about drugs are always interesting to me. Being a pretty straight up person I've had little dealings with them in my life, and so find the subject matter quite fascinating. My favourite film to this day is 'Requiem for a Dream'. 'Trainspotting' is quite different to that film in a lot of ways, it's a comedy for one, but it also bears a lot of similarities. In fact almost every drug-based film seems to carry the same message (at least to me) and that is stay the hell away from them.The film works on two levels. Firstly, as a comedy. It is genuinely funny and had me in hysterics in two particular scenes. It is rare for a film to do this to me once, let alone twice. Also it works as a drama. The subject matter is heavy (at times very much so) and a brilliant acting display from the entire cast makes it work perfectly. As someone pointed out, and I tend to agree with, it never really feels like a movie. It feels like you are just a fly on the wall watching some very messed up people go about their lives.A sequel to this film has just come out and I will be very interested to see it. The film has a very open ending, that you would almost never see in cinema anymore, which will make it very interesting to see where things go to in the sequel. 'Trainspotting' is a very good film that hasn't aged badly at all, and in fact would put most modern films to shame with the class it is made with.


                
An unnerving forage into the drug-addled mind of a youth(ish) confined to "living" in mid-1990's Britain. But as disillusioned main protagonist/narrator tells us from the outset in response to the film's ironic message 'choose life'; "why would anyone want to do a thing like that?" The film is bookended with two pulse-pounding sequences guaranteed to have your heart hammering along to the beat of Iggy Pop's iconic 'Lust for Life' and Underworld's eerily melancholic 'Born Slippy', respectively. Trainspotting is laden with deep-seeded regret, apathy and bitterness, most of which is robotically (by design) spewed out in the form of diatribes by Ewan McGregor's Renton; a character who is very much presented as a bystander within his own life, despite often inadvertently being the catalyst for many of the film's most dramatic twists, turns and blackly-tragic/comedic moments. At it's heart, Danny Boyle's film angrily presents us - and his characters - with a simple choice: choose 'life'<U+0085> or don't.


                
Trainspotting is a great movie with a very well developed plot and a terrific cast. It's a very in depth look at the drastic effects that heroin abuse will do to the people using them. It is certainly not for the faint of heart, very straight up and blunt in its portrayal of drug usage, one scene in particular is difficult to watch.It did feel like it was a little unsure of itself in terms of humour. There is certainly a fair bit of comic relief here, but it felt like the director was a little unsure of its delivery as a result of the heavy subject matter. In my opinion, the humour should have been more in your face and consistent, which would make sense as the seriousness of these conditions means nothing to these characters as they are in it. The cast is all around terrific, Ewan McGregor, in particular, shines as Renton, he really embodies the soul of a character spiraling in to addiction. He is also joined by a stellar supporting cast that includes the versatile Robert Carlyle and the powerful Jonny Lee Miller. The chemistry between each cast member is stellar, with each relationship well established. It is a film with a deeply profound message that is delivered subtly, not trying too hard to move its audience. Intense and very well acted, Trainspotting is a film that I would certainly recommend to anyone looking for a good drama. A young adult is influenced by his friends to take up heroin, an addiction he quickly struggles to get out of. Best Performance: Ewan McGregor


                
The U.K. smash hit "Trainspotting" was potent and lively entertainment for this viewer, a stylish look at the underground drug scene in Edinburgh, Scotland. It shows both the horror and the humor of this day to day reality for these unfortunate souls. Screenwriter John Hodge (adapting the novel by Irvine Welsh) and director Danny Boyle give us a rich variety of moments throughout: some comical, some serious, some downright uncomfortable, and even some that are wonderfully surreal. The acting is solid all the way down the line, the soundtrack is impeccable (with Iggy Pops' "Lust for Life" getting us off to a good start), and the pacing always efficient.Ewan McGregor plays Mark Renton, one of a group of junkies who's deeply immersed in this world, but still has the ability to be perceptive, and ponder their sorry condition. He would like to leave the life behind, but the allure of drugs and loyalty to his mates is usually too strong. His best attempts to go straight are most often thwarted in one way or another.Sometimes "Trainspotting" is a little violent, even hilariously disgusting in one key comic sequence, but it successfully walks a line between its various tones. Boyle draws you in right from the start, giving you a real eyeful of characters and their environs. At no point are the filmmakers ever condoning drugs (which was the mistaken assumption in the North American market), and they never glamorize or overly sentimentalize anything that's going on.McGregor is rock solid in the lead. You like Renton and root for him, and the witty, funny dialogue flows from the lips of him and his castmates with ease. Jonny Lee Miller plays Sean Connery expert "Sick Boy", Ewen Bremner the affable "Spud", Kevin McKidd the earnest Tommy, Kelly Macdonald the underage girl Diane, and Peter Mullan the drug dealing Swanney. Robert Carlyle tends to steal the show whenever he's on screen, playing the hot tempered Begbie.This is remarkable entertainment that may get fairly grim but never loses its sense of hope for our protagonist.Eight out of 10.


                
Comedic and stylish, Trainspotting manages to tell stories of heroin addicts in a highly energetic way. Trainspotting, directed by Danny Boyle, uses different cinematic techniques, music, and comedic timing every five minutes, if it were any other film the movie would have been completely incoherent, but the varying use of techniques does not hinder the movie's pacing but instead establishes the tone of the chaotic life of a heroin addict. The comedic timing in this movie is on par with most, if not every joke seemed to hit it's mark, and sometimes the humour came from the most unexpected places. Every minute the movie could make you giggle at heroin addicts, AIDS, a dead baby and the absurdity of all. Moreover since they are using touchy subjects as a point of humour they could also make commentaries while giving the audience a honest laugh.The performances were all top notch but the obvious standout was Robert Caryle who played the psychotic Bigsby. Everything from his posture to his varying emotions shows that he and his knife were a force to be reckoned with. Jonny Lee Miller playing Sick Boy, while not as grandiose, was on the same level as Caryle. Using his wit he effectively brought charisma to Sickboy. Because of these two actors, Ewan Macgregor's Renton seems to falter at times but because he played Renton in such a reserved way there was a greater juxtaposition with his highly volatile emotional self which made for a great comparison.My only complaint about the movie were the thick Scottish accents which made it impossible for me to understand until I turned on the subtitles. However it is hard to call that a flaw as most of the actors even though they are not Scottish, managed to pull off the heavy handed dialect with a very authentic voice. So while my ears would have liked less accents I know that if the actors spoke with the audience's ears in mind they would have not been able to pull off a genuine performance such as this.With that Trainspotting was a solid movie that's able to show the comedic part of being addicted and the tragedy of being sober.


                
"Choose life. Choose a job. Choose a starter home. Choose dental insurance, leisure wear and matching luggage. Choose your future. But why would anyone want to do a thing like that?"I have no idea what Trainspotting actually means, but this 1996 Danny Boyle film is truly an entertaining cinematic experience. It's about a group of friends in a small Scottish town who spend their lives getting stoned and having fun. The film isn't afraid to show how exciting their world is when getting high, but at the same time it shows the devastating effects that drugs have on them. It is this balance that Boyle manages to achieve, between the brutal portrayal of drug addiction and the fun and relaxed life these friends seem to be experiencing, what has made audiences worldwide enjoy this film for decades. The energetic 80's soundtrack, the great performances from McGregor, Miller, Carlyle, Bremner, and McKidd, the clever screenplay adaptation by John Hodge from Welsh's novel, and the visual style that Boyle uses is what have turned Trainspotting into such a classic and memorable film. There isn't much going on plot wise in the sense that the film focuses on these five friends who spend pretty much every day getting high and partying, but at the same time there are so many engaging and funny moments that allow for the viewer to relate to these characters. Some of the best moments are the simple ones where we see these characters interact with each other speaking about what toxoplasmosis is, how important it is for them to mess up their job interviews, what their favorite James Bond films are, and what the unifying theory of life actually means. There are so many entertaining moments in the simple dialogues that an actual plot isn't really needed.The film takes place sometime during the late 80's in a small Scottish town named Edinburgh where five friends spend most of their time getting stoned and having no other cares in the world. Renton (Ewan McGregor) seems content with his life the way it's going despite his parents concern for him to get clean and give up his heroin habit. He realizes it's about time for him to try getting himself together and so he decides to quit his addiction. This decision won't have a lasting effect because he still surrounds himself with his friends: the naive and sincere Spud (Ewen Bremner), Sick Boy (Johnny Lee Miller) who's obsessed with James Bond, the jock Tommy (Kevin McKidd), and the psychotic Begbie (Robert Carlyle). Tommy and Begbie aren't junkies, but Renton's closest friends (Spud and Sick Boy) share his addiction. Despite wanting to clean up, Renton doesn't want to abandon his friends which ultimately lead him back to his addiction. Renton also happens to fall in love with a girl he meets at a club. After spending a night with Diane (Kelly Macdonald) he realizes the next morning she's only fourteen. Trainspotting is about the struggle Renton faces to quit his addiction while trying to maintain his relationship with his friends and not letting them affect him.For some people Trainspotting has a little too much fun with drug addiction, but I would have to disagree. There are some very brutal and terrifying scenes about the effects of heroin and Boyle manages to balance both these elements. It may not be as dark as Requiem for a Dream, but it does feel more authentic and real in its treatment of drug abuse. It shows the pleasure that the drug gives at first, but the devastating consequences it has after the effect is over. These guys have to get involved in criminal activities in order to fund their addictions and neglect pretty much everyone around them. Their only ambition in life is to get stoned and they could care less about anything else. The film is also pretty sincere in its portrayal of how difficult it is to give up the habit. Through some stylized visuals and a great performance from McGregor we see how devastating and depressing it can be to get cleaned up. Ultimately drugs destroy their lives and the pleasure lasted for only a moment. Trainspotting is authentic and realistic in its portrayal while at the same time never ceasing to entertain the audience. A lot of credit has to be given to a relatively unknown then, Danny Boyle, and to the breakout performance from Ewan McGregor. Trainspotting boosted their careers and deservingly so.


                
Danny Boyle's "Trainspotting" is a brave attempt on showing the destructive lifestyles that drug addicts lead and its disturbing consequences on both them and society. What makes this movie different is its fashionable way of unfolding itself which really deviates from conventional film-making. Instead of looking from a viewpoint of a non-addict, it taps into the head of a drug addict and shows the audience the bizarre world of such individual. The disturbing images blended with psychedelic music create such a world effortlessly. The movie which is based upon a popular novel by Irvin Welsh is a about a group of drug addicts played energetically by a gifted cast. "Renton" played by Ewan McGregor can be identified as the protagonist, who narrates the story and someone who will have no problem in diving down a filthy toilet in order to recover lost drugs. His fellow drug addicts include "Spud" who is seeing as the ideal naive bloke who "hurts nobody" but screws everything up; "Sick Boy" who brags about theories and philosophies of life, but never follows them; "Tommy" who was a newbie for the whole drug routine finds himself taking drugs too many and finally "Begbie" who doesn't use drugs but is a screw up who bubbles with rage and cause havoc wherever he goes. They do drugs in an old warehouse, sleep wherever they can and then come up with ways to find money (preferably robbing, which is their only option) to score the next hit of drugs in order to cease the impending effects of heroine. Funnily enough, they even consider quitting and to find them doing even more drugs all over again. This movie is well made with memorable scenes, but it is not without its flaws. It sometimes gets caught up in the situation of dragging itself too much without engaging in something new. However this is not to say that it is dull or dreary, far from it, it is filled with memorable dialogues and performances which makes this a refreshing mind bender to any movie goer.


                
A film like Trainspotting can split your opinion right down the middle; a split more akin to the sort of opinion you might take away from a horror film. This split decision revolves around two things; firstly the gross content. Any film that makes you feel uneasy or quite sick at what's going on on screen could automatically plant a negative opinion within your mind but this idea battles with the effectiveness of the film in the sense; if a film is so nasty in its content and unravelling of events that it evokes a definite reaction from the viewer, it could be deemed a success because the filmmakers have succeeded in what they set out to do.Trainspotting is one of those films. Like I mentioned, horror films usually have this effect. An example could be Wolf Creek or Hostel; two films that gave me a distinct feeling of unpleasantness but some other recent horror films, such as The Descent or Miike's One Missed Call can leave me without any feeling at all as they meander along to their inevitable conclusions; throwing in plenty of blood-soaked action or dull jumps along the way. Are Wolf Creek and Hostel 'better' than these two because I had more of a reaction to them? Or are The Descent and One Missed Call 'better' because they didn't gross me out.Trainspotting isn't a horror film, but it borders on being a horrible film and I mean that in the nicest possible way. The film is so vile and disgusting in its visuals and establishing of certain situations (one in a public toilet springs to mind) that you just can't help but admire what they've done effect-wise but feel a little uneasy all the same. It's this emotional juxtaposition that director Danny Boyle pulls off here and I think it's this that makes Trainspotting the film it is, especially given the fact it is not particularly plot driven. Obviously you hear and take in a lot of what's already been said about a film as well known as Trainspotting and a film as 'accepted' as Trainspotting but it's more than a mere flavour of the month for a certain generation.At the time when this was made, the British crime genre (and later the gangster genre) could be seen as genres in a state of transition. Two years previously, with Paul W. S. Anderson's 'Shopping', there was a film that revolved around Britain's youth as they get up to youth orientated activities to do with crime. Then came Boyle's own Shallow Grave before this, a story about lowlifes doing low brow things always connected to crime. But it isn't the demonising of ram raiding and joyriding as seen in Shopping that is being studied here, more so the frequent use of the class A drug heroin. The film revolves around Renton (McGregor) and his cronies, all of whom are introduced somewhat perfectly at the very beginning echoing a tactic the godfather of British crime films Brighton Rock used at the very beginning of that film and something Guy Ritchie's 'Snatch.' would later re-use.Trainspotting is told from a second person point of view, that is the narrator is involved in the events he is telling us of. It's easy to miss but Renton actually comes off heroin on two occasions, from memory, in this film with the final time adding to the film's overall final twist. As an anti-hero, Renton fits the bill quite well. Whilst utterly despicable in his casualness at talking about and taking heroin, scenes that will no doubt have you winching if needles are not your bag, he sort of redeems himself when he talks about wanting to come off it and is put across as a social person who does seem to have certain hobbies and interests outside of being a junkie; namely talking about actors, films and Academy Awards.As with all youth orientated films, youth orientated activity plays a big role. Since the principal study here is the damning of heroin, secondary studies like casual sex and the over consumption of alcohol can be wrapped up in double quick time and take nothing away from the film. In fact the film can deliver these moral messages in more ways than one and actually turn them into entertaining scenes without ever feeling like a lecture or lesson. The scene where Renton tries to pick up a young girl at a club only to find out she was underage is one demonisation; Begbie's (Carlyle) incident with a cross dresser in an ever changing world he is in ignorance of is another incident and on another occasion a character and his partner wish to watch a previously recorded sex session as they commit the act once again; only the guy accidentally lent the tape to someone else thinking it was another video. Panic ensures when they assume it to be back at the video rental store.So while Trainspotting is a thrill ride that conflicts pleasantries with your filmic mind and that lust for a good, effective film; it holds up. There is a switch between realism (in general) and surrealism when he ventures down a toilet to find drugs and comes home wet to the eerie 'rehab-at-home' scene in which an apparent ghost of a previously dead baby climbs the walls and terrorises our hero as his friends and family slip in and out of the bed with him. Trainspotting is fast, furious and unrelenting in its content that can be funny; suspenseful; quite scary and downright disgusting <U+0096> it's one of those film viewing experiences you don't forget in a hurry.


                
All the characters in this film are great, everyone of them in their own unique way. Not that any of them are nice guys, no forget that, even our hero Mark Renton is not exactly a saint. basically its a survival of the fittest in the bleak side of Scotland. There is that scene when they attempt to bugger off together and do something different in the fresh air country side. How quickly they lose their motivation, I would have kept walking towards those mountains man, no matter what. Im from Malta and the drug scene here is due to the lack of such opportunities to do something else if you ask me. This film is pretty heavy for straight characters because you really got to understand these individuals before calling them social parasites, you got to see the world from their eyes.....and thats what trainspotting is offering. After watching this movie i thought that trainspotting was the slang word for the heroin addict that looks like he is searching his destination on a map as he finds the spot on his wrist to take his hit. This film really does hold your attention.


                
Trainspotting is truly a wild ride down a path that thankfully many of us don't see. We all know how the overuse and dependency of drugs can destroy a life, the gripping struggle many endure to pull themselves out of that toilet, and the ruin they can bring to others around them. But Trainspotting is a movie that shows more than just the dark travails of this ugly trip as the movie 'Basketball Diaries' does to excruciating detail. It reaffirms why life, as is wonderfully described in a Dylan like way by Ewan McGregor in the beginning of the movie, is worth living. What separates this movie and elevates it from other movies that cover this same tone and subject material is that the main character is not totally destroyed and left in a dark hopeless state at the end just to emphasize the why you shouldn't do drugs lesson. The movie ends with great hope and answers McGregor's own opening question of why choose life. And I will say emphatically again it is one hell of a ride. We follow McGregor and his excellently casted mates through all the stages of drug abuse and the Alice in Wonderland like adventures that follow it. Robert Carlye played the volatile Francis Begbie to an Oscar like perfection. His outburst struck me like a dark comedy where you almost hate to laugh but your true honesty leaves you no choice. Definitely one of the most memorable characters from a movie in the 90's.  From drug dens to night clubs the cast mixes so well. The humor bounces wildly off the wall like something you get out of a gum ball machine. You never know when it will jump out in front of you so be ready. Danny Boyle deserves a great nod and a raise of the glass for a directing job well done. He chooses shots from great angles and adds all kinds of perfectly captured perks as well. One of my favorite scenes is the shot from the floor as McGregor has just taken a large hit of heroin. He proceeds to sink into a large red rug right through the floor. Every proceeding shot is from this unusual point of view until he is brought out of his dazed state at a local hospital. For someone who has never done heroin (and doesn't particularly plan to) this is one of the feelings I can imagine the drug delivering me to as I watch McGregor dip into the floor. That folks is a sign of a good director. When you have a camera in your hands and you want to have the audience truly feel what something is like why just tell them? Too easy and makes for a dull movie. Which is an incurable disease eighty percent of filmmakers have today. Show them dammit!! Use your imagination and create uniqueness. Make your movie stand out. The soundtrack compliments Trainspotting to a tee and adds to the movie's slick electric settings and rich cinematography. The only slight problem with the movie is that at times some of the Scottish accents get as thick as something out of a broken espresso machine. You will find yourself trying to understand what the hell is being said but just pay attention to what is going on within the scene and you will make it through with flying colors. This movie was not what I expected. It thrilled me in many different ways and added new life to subject material that I am sure hasn't seen the last foot tracks come its way.


                
Don't get angry! What I meant is there's nothing significantly fantastic about this movie (aka, no significant actor, music, dialogues,...), yet doesn't mean it's not a good movie. Definitely, a lot of the scenes in the movie are hard to forget. Additionally, as a whole, everything is a fit. Music, casting, acting and scenes are well fit together, creating a wonderful composition.I like the occasional surreal of the story. And, as much as I love the story as a whole, the movie itself fails to convey the high amount of emotions involved in many of some particular scenes. Omitted, or just doesn't matter at all. The story is told by a sociopath junkie, maybe that's the reason for negligence of some conveying?So far, this has been the best movie of Boyle that I have ever watched. Thankfully, I was lucky to see it, washing out my uncommon bad experience with Slumdug Millionaire.


                
As someone who has never done drugs, I have no way to know what the experience of being high on heroin or cocaine is like. Fortunately, I don't have to do these drugs to get an understanding of the sensation. In the early years of film, most movies about drugs were usually cautionary tales (as was the case for Reefer Madness (1936)). By the "free-loving" decades of the 1960's and 1970's, drugs were more acceptable but often were seen in a comedic context (a la "Cheech & Chong").The societal excess of the 1980's and 1990's beget an epedemic of harder drugs like heroin and cocaine. Consequently, we started to see more films that would glamorize drug use, but would still show the consequences of extended use of these harder drugs. Perhaps the most famous film that fits in this category is the hard-to-watch Requiem for a Dream (2000), which really played up the "consequences" part. A few years before this film, though, was Trainspotting (1996).While Trainspotting was less intense than Requiem for a Dream, they both had stunning visuals to help the audience understand the drug experience. Sure, there are similarly horrifying elements of Trainspotting, including the worst toilet in Scotland and a ceiling-crawling baby, but they are mostly cancelled out by the more "fun" sequences. At the very least, Trainspotting seems to succeed via its main protagonist Mark Renton (Ewan McGregor, in an early role) putting forth the effort to get clean instead of always succumbing to his heroin addiction. That's not to say the film doesn't glamorize these drugs by adding in the counterpoints of sex and rock and roll, but at least there's an effort to have a bit of a moral at the end.An entertaining look into the experiences of drug addicts, I give Trainspotting 4.0 stars out of 5.


                
Trainspotting is a philosophical film, as much as it avoids self-proclaiming such a fact; the fact that the sobering self-evident, albeit ironic, insights of a heroin addict can be so profound; that life itself is just a pursuit of sex, money, and gratification in its various instances. That something as simple as heroin could, allegedly, replace any conventional pursuit of dopamine and higher purpose; the job, the car, the family, the greater good.
Heroin is just simplifying human pursuits and endeavors down to the single point of a needle, the needle we have been looking for in the haystack, the basic chemical that compels human activity and purpose; drug addict Mark Renton asks why we should complicate that pursuit."I chose not to choose life. I chose somethin' else. And the reasons? There are no reasons. Who needs reasons when you've got heroin?"The very title of the film "Trainspotting" confronts the fact that human life and fulfillment could be seen as entirely subjective, i.e. the seemingly pointless and mind-numbing hobby of train spotting: Those who are "trainspotters" make an effort to "spot" all of a certain type of rolling stock. This might be a particular class of locomotive, a particular type of carriage or all the rolling stock of a particular company. To this end, they collect and exchange detailed information about the movements of locomotives and other equipment on the railway network, and become very knowledgeable about its operations. I've bored you already, but that's the point, it's subjective.Alternatively, there are those who choose to jump under trains and wait to "spot" the trains before doing so, the title is ambiguous in that sense; a matter of sheer perspective.It's rough subject matter, but to viewers that can entertain a thought without necessarily accepting it (or accepting it), you'll get the most out of this.8.3/10A satirical and nihilistic journey
When I watched this I was in my first year of college. We need to watched it for an essay review. Mostly of the students find it disturbing. Of course it will be since some definitely portrays a true life experience when you use drugs.
As you watched it until the end you'll see what a great way to educate a person.
A must see film. Many times. It is simple life with bad and good things. All the characters are in the end innocent, even Digby. They just play using modern life violent rules. Music is great, "perfect day" makes you want to get high and stay there. Some of them dies, but only those who didn't have the will or wish to live anyway. Renton disappoints in the end, but we need to become men, not remain boys.


                
