Flawlessly written, acted and directed, MILLION DOLLAR BABY is being hymned and wreathed by the critics as the best film of 2004. They're absolutely right. "An old master's new masterpiece," the NEW YORK TIMES said in a review that was more of an open love letter to Eastwood than anything remotely resembling a critical analysis of the film itself. For once such honey-tongued critical adulation is fully merited. Dark, edgy, subtle and at times emotionally devastating, MILLION DOLLAR BABY represents the apotheosis of Eastwood's art - the most lucid and intelligently limned expression of his philosophy of the outsider, the noble loners whose personal codes of honour set them both above and apart from the compromised, corrupt societies they inhabit. The Boxing Ring As Metaphor For Life is a hoary trope almost as old as Hollywood itself, employed to varying effect in films as diverse as THE CHAMP, GOLDEN BOY, REQUIEM FOR A HEAVYWEIGHT, THE GREAT WHITE HOPE, FAT CITY, ROCKY and RAGING BULL. In MILLION DOLLAR BABY, though, Eastwood the director brings a fresh eye and an entirely fresh approach to both the setting and characterisations, virtually re-inventing this venerable sub-genre rather than simply recycling its conventions. Eastwood the actor is in fine form - a commanding if increasingly weather-beaten presence - as gym owner Frankie Dunn. A case study in loneliness, Dunn's creased face is a map of places you'd rather not go to and disappointment has clearly been a life-long companion. Co-stars Hilary Swank and the magnificent Morgan Freeman, playing Frankie's unlikely protegee Maggie Fitzgerald and friend "Scrap-Iron" Dupris, give what are without question the best performances of their respective careers: deftly underplayed, their roles provide emotionally overwhelming impacts more powerful than anything glimpsed in the film's riotous fight sequences. Forming an iron triangle forged from mutual dependence, Dunn and Dupris school the impulsive but untutored Maggie in both the techniques of boxing and the tradecraft of survival in a world pre-disposed to pulverise individualism. The canvas-floored square ring becomes the arena in which all three characters confront their various demons, battling for both victory and personal redemption. Paul Haggis' screenplay is itself a masterwork, improving on its source material without betraying the concise but compelling situations and superbly drawn characters found in F.X. Toole's short stories. And, finally, Eastwood the composer's elegiac but unobtrusive score is a minor classic of its kind, a requiem to both lost souls and lost causes. MILLION DOLLAR BABY is not only the best film released in 2004 it is also the most fully realised and richly textured major studio movie of the decade.


                
"Million Dollar Baby" is the story of three different characters<U+0085> Actually, two of them, Frankie Dunn (Eastwood) and Scrap Iron (Freeman) are pretty much mirror images of each other<U+0085>Frankie owns a rundown Los Angeles gym where he trains up-and-comers<U+0085> His motto for his fighters is "protect yourself at all times." Scrap is an elderly ex-boxer who helps out around the gym and keeps Frankie company<U+0085> Frankie was the 'cut-man' in one of Scraps' fights that turned bad<U+0085> Frankie still feels he's partly to blame<U+0085> But 31 year old Maggie (Hilary Swank) is totally different<U+0085> She works as a waitress but aspires to be a boxer<U+0085> She is so poor that she has to pick leftover meat off her customers' plates just to have the energy to keep going<U+0085> Maggie needs boxing to make something of herself and gain respect<U+0085> When she first approaches Frankie, asking to be trained, he told her he never trains girls<U+0085> She continues to hang around and after much harassment he eventually changes his mind<U+0085> From there, we begin to feel some natural affinity between the two<U+0085>To say more would be to ruin a lovely, heartbreaking film carefully layered with surprises<U+0085>Beneath "Million Dollar Baby," there is a love story<U+0085> A deep love story between two people with scars in their lives... Both are haunted by family problems<U+0085> Maggie's family, led by her opportunistic mother is alternately cruel and exploitative<U+0085> Frankie has an unloving daughter he writes to constantly, but his letters always returned unopened, unread and intact<U+0085> We never know what came between them<U+0085>Eastwood handles his role with such ease that it's hard to judge whether his acting or directing is the greater accomplishment<U+0085> He stands as a challenge to his conscience when he finds the correct answer in his heart<U+0085>
I didn't view this film until today because I simply wasn't interested in women in boxing; however, I wish I'd seen it years ago! Hillary Swank can never make another film and this one would be her crowning glory. It takes you on a wild ride of emotions from the beginning and Clint Eastwood's curmudgeon self is part of it all. Naturally, the "voice of God" in Morgan Freeman is there to explain it all and give some meaning to what each of the characters fell. By now, everyone knows the ending but I still won't spoil it for late-comers to the film like myself. I do believe much has been made about it and it's unnecessary. Yes, you will be torn about what is morally right but you can certainly understand how Eastwood's and Swank's characters feel! Please see this film. You will understand pugilism more than ever before and you just might see some of your own self in the film! It is well worth the time!


                
The movie is excellent. Hillary Swank deserves to receive the Oscar for her performance. I haven't seen much of her lately and am so glad that she was picked for this movie. She seems a natural for this role. Like she didn't even have to act, she just let her own emotions take charge. She stole every scene when she was on. Clint Eastwood is one heck of an actor and his directing of movies is even better. He is 75 years old and hope he has another 10 years of good movie making in him. Morgan Freeman is a great actor who never seems to receive the recognition he deserves. Tell others to see it because it isn't in the top 10 listing of viewed movies last week. I'm concerned the subject matter is too deep for most people and it will be pulled to make room for some lame-brain movie like Fat Albert.


                
Million Dollar Baby, 25th feature directed by masterful storyteller Clint Eastwood, brings the art that is boxing and implants such raw emotion into it, not one person will leave the theatre with a dry eye.Million Dollar Baby tells the story of an old boxing trainer, Frankie, disowned by his daughter, left by his boxer, and has been attending mass almost daily for the past 23 years in the hopes of finding some sort of solitude from the sins he can't seem to forgive himself for. eastwood has never been a more finer actor, who's skills only seem to improve with age. Mr. Eastwood has for so long been honing his acting skills, he disappears into the role of Frankie, played with such remorse, such pain, the audience immediately sympathizes with him over the events that have happened in his life. once he meets Maggie, he tries so hard to not let her in, but due to her strong will to succeed, he gives in, grows and builds a relationship and a love that is so deep, he sees a light at the end of the tunnel, that maybe life is worth living after all. Mr. Eastwood took full control of his character, taking his acting to such depths that it's amazing to think of all the other aspects he put into this masterful film besides his extraordinary acting.Which brings up Hilary Swank, who in the past few years has experienced a bad run of scripts since Boys Don't Cry, again proves to Hollywood that when given the right material, she is absolutely stunning at becoming and knowing her character. Her face is so expressive the film very well could have been carried off of her facial expressions alone, she was so open to what she was feeling. Swank has cemented an Oscar nomination with this performance and quite possibly her second win as well. Just stunning...Which of course also leads to the wonderful Morgan Freeman. How this talented actor has not been recognized for his achievements by the Academy is astounding, as he again turns in a tremendous performance as Scrap, an old boxer Frankie feels responsible for for the loss of his eye. freeman plays the exposition or the narration in this film, and given to any other actor the performance would have been average. Yet Freeman has such a presence, such power on the screen, that he turns a semi-small part and makes it a standout.The score was poignant, thoughtful, and enduring. the screenplay was stunning, the words these characters said to each other, the story, the plot, the list goes on and on. Do not come into this film and expect not to be moved in any way. The film touches you, stays with you, and makes you think of the own decisions you have made in your life and how you've dealt with the consequences.Million Dollar Baby is hands down THE BEST film of 2004, bar non. See this extraordinary film while it's still in theatres, and prepare to be moved by it's emotional story about overcoming adversity, and fighting with all your heart for what you want in your life.HIGHLY Recommended.MJR
Wow- what an incredible movie! There are so many layers to this film, one could almost see it 4 times and get something new out of it every time. I loved first and foremost its message that we create ourselves through our drive, loyalty, ambition, dedication, and work. Secondly, I love its insistence in the good of the American Dream, and I loved its excitement and beautiful, touching message toward the end. A movie about violence and ambition that evolves into a movie about love, hard-earned sacrifice, and doing something meaningful with one's life. Grade A entertainment with a beautiful message to boot! Hilary Swank and Clint Eastwood should both win their second Oscars for their contribution to cinema.


                
I've been infatuated with Clint Eastwood from the time I saw his first spaghetti western when I was a teenager. I've seen all the movies he's starred in and directed. And I've seen his skills as a storyteller develop, mature and grow. Throughout this period the infatuation remained constant and re-assuring. But today, after viewing 'Million Dollar Baby', I'm totally and completely in love with this man. Clint, his movie, Freeman and Swank deserve to win Oscars in every category for this film. He is a Master of his craft. I want him stick around and do it again and again!.And I'm in love Hilary too!. She does not act - she becomes!.


                
If anyone had doubts about the genius of Clint Eastwood, they should run, not walk, to see "Million Dollar Baby", perhaps the best movie that came out of Hollywood is past year.Mr. Eastwood has that rare quality in choosing an odd story to bring to the screen. With this film he accomplishes what could be, perhaps, the best movie about boxing in history. In the first place, the story by F. X. Toole, in which the movie is based, is an odd choice. We have seen, so far, men boxers, but there is a world out there where women boxers compete in this sport that is not well known, or not commonly seen. The adaptation by Paul Haggis is excellent."Million Dollar Baby" has a rhythm of its own, seldom seen in boxing formula pictures. Thanks to Tom Stern almost black and white cinematography, this sordid world of second class gyms in the poor areas of the inner city, makes the film more interesting in its texture. Enhancing it all is the great musical score that Mr. Eastwood, a jazz enthusiast, has created. Music has always complimented Mr. Eastwood's work, but never in such a way as in this movie.If you haven't seen the film, please stop reading now.Frankie Dunn, is a man who has trained boxing champions. He is a man at odds with himself. He has demons within him that are tearing away at his soul. We watch him going to mass on a daily basis, but does that qualify him as a devout Catholic? Not according to Father Horvak, who sees a troubled soul in search of redemption.Frankie's letters comes back, returned from a daughter that wants nothing to do with him. Frankie, at the beginning of the film, loses the services of one his better boxers because a richer competitor is willing to pay the fighter much more. Frankie keeps the older Eddie "Scrap-Iron" Dupris employed in the gym because he feels guilty in having let this former boxer down at the highest point of Scrap's career.Into this world comes Maggie Fitzgerald. She is a young woman who wants to make it as a fighter; she comes from a white trash background and everything is against her. The only reason she has been allowed in the all-male gym is because she has paid six months worth of membership. We watch Maggie as she struggles on her own without any help from Frankie, the man she would like to interest in coaching her. Frankie realizes there is potential in this young woman, who he sees on a daily basis practicing, and he relents. Maggie proves she follows his instructions well. Then we watch her progress as she wins fight after fight until the million dollar fight with the vicious title holder.The ironic twist toward the end of the movie arrives out of nowhere; it shakes us up because it was totally unexpected. It makes Frankie and Maggie become father and daughter. Because of the guilt he feels in his own life, Frankie does the right thing in accepting the responsibility of the situation.The ending is the only thing that feels a bit manipulative in the film, although it's handled with a lot of taste, as it would have been worse in the hands of another, less capable director. The only other complain is that Mr. Eastwood speaks in a whisper, which distracts from what is going on, as we strain our ears to catch every nuance of the brilliant dialog. Also, the voice over by Morgan Freeman's character is at times, unintelligible.This is a film totally dominated by Clint Eastwood. As an actor, he brings to the role total credibility as the tormented soul inside Frankie. Hilary Swank makes a brilliant Maggie, the ambitious girl that gets much more than what she bargained for. Ms. Swank has the best moment of her career after her work in "Boys Don't Cry". Working with the right elements, Ms. Swank is an actress that works with little gestures to achieve her input in the character she is playing.Morgan Freeman is excellent as the beaten Scrap, a man who "could have been a contender". He underplays this character with sensational results. Brian O'Byrne, a theater actor who has been seen in two important plays this year in the New York stages, makes an impression as Father Hovark, who seems to understand Frankie. Margo Martindale is convincing as Maggie's mother.Sometimes it takes a lot for a film to be good. All the right elements were gathered by Clint Eastwood for this movie. It makes one wonder what will his next project be, or if he can surpass the milestone he created with "Million Dollar Baby".
Yesterday I finally saw the great Oscar winner of 2005, and I can say that "Million Dollar Baby" really deserves the awards of best film, director, lead actress and supporting actor, and even the prize of lead actor in the hands of Clint Eastwood would not be a mistake of the Academy: Ben Kinsley and Jamie Foxx were great, but in a whole I would have given the award to Clint Eastwood.The story is very simple and real: Maggie Fitzgerald (Hilary Swank), a poor thirty-one years old waiter from the very lower classes and with a dysfunctional loser family, decides to make a difference through the box. She convinces the experienced hardened box trainer Frankie Dunn (Clint Eastwood) to couch her and be her manager, with the support of his old partner Eddie Scrap-Iron Dupris (Morgan Freeman), who sees her potential as a boxer. Frankie has a problem of relationship with his daughter, and practically adopts Maggie along her career, until she is seriously wounded in a fight for the championship and he has to take a decision.This unpleasant and sad theme, in the hands of another director, might have become corny. But the awesome Clint Eastwood deals with such touching story without final redemption, very realistic, making a future unforgettable classic in the genre. The characters and the dramatic situation are perfectly developed, and in the end, the viewer becomes sad, but never depressed. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "Menina de Ouro" ("Golden Girl")
At the end of the movie, I cried what deep sorrow I felt, how true to life and moving with emotion this movie is. To be on top of the world to fall so hard, but to have the drive to complete the task, what ever that task may be. The boxing scenes are so real and full of excitement you can almost smell the blood and sweat. I felt like I was in the arena boxing with Hillary. MR Clint Eastwood; has a directing style that is cool and smooth easy going,brilliant. To see Morgan Freeman together with Clint Eastwood two great actors verbally sparring what a treat. Morgan can hold his own against a legend. Hilary Swank Is so believable as Maggie, I feel each blow. Hilary deserves an Oscar for her performance.
Three people carrying their own injuries and baggage meet and form an unlikely friendship that slowly becomes familial. Frankie is a man who has lived his entire life in the service of boxing but for reasons left unknown, has an estranged relationship with his daughter, so he has little else to do but be at the boxing gym and train. Eddie is one of his better boxers, a quiet man who can still throw a punch, and who lost an eye in an ill-fated match. Though these two men have a close-knit friendship Frankie still bears tremendous guilt over Eddie's loss. And now, a girl of all people -- Maggie -- wants Frankie to train her. She has nothing going for her, she knows it, and boxing is a way out. While at first Frankie sees no future for her -- she's 31 and has no experience -- he gives in and decides to train her to become the best female fighter ever... until tragedy arrives and gives their lives an unexpected left turn that will change them forever.What could have been a feminist's answer to ROCKY becomes something different, revelatory. Clint Eastwood, a film director that chooses to direct his films in a deliberate pace more akin to late-night jazz, takes F. X Toole's short story and re-shapes it into visual poetry that unfolds into a tight tapestry which by the end of the film will have stirred many emotions with nary a manipulative hand in sight. Clint Eastwood finds a quiet note with his performance as Frankie, the man who could have been a curmudgeon but becomes a surrogate father to Maggie. His final words to her, in Celtic, are whispered in such a fashion, yet convey an immense gravity. Maggie herself is a complicated character: her life is boxing, she has become to symbolize the sport, and in doing so she's achieved so much in a world where all she would have been is white trash. She has a family who thumbs their noses at her career yet want her money. However, she is not an aggressive woman. If anything, she is polite, humble, respectful even when she shouldn't be. Hilary Swank strikes every note in her own rendition of the character: a soft spoken fighter who is faced with a horrific turn of events and must relinquish her love of sports. Morgan Freeman's performance is also of note, mainly because much of it happens off-screen: his measured voice, the one who tells the story, evolves into one who brings much needed closure later on.I felt that the film spoke to me for most of its run. Maggie's story was especially compelling (even if a little predictable) but what resonated with me were the reactions of Eddie and Frankie who have less 'action' and more 'reflection'. This is a much better film than MYSTIC RIVER in the way that much of the focus is on the three leads' bonding as a quasi-family in a world that doesn't care about people like them. It takes its time, then captures your full attention, and before you know it, you are immersed in these three lives because these are people you could meet in your lifetime. And that makes a great film, especially when about the little people who are looking for that special place to live out their final years.
Once again, Clint Eastwood did it. 'Million Dollar Baby' has proved to be an overwhelmingly powerful film. Because of this movie, Hilary Swank won her second Academy Award after winning an Oscar for her role in 'Boys Don't Cry' five years ago. Also, Morgan Freeman finally won the same award for Best Actor in a Supporting role, which is well-deserved. I cannot help mentioning Eastwood's previous work 'Unforgiven' and 'Mystic River'. I think he is a brilliant film director.Maggie Fitzgerald (Swank) is a 31-year-old waitress who aspires to become a professional boxer, despite her age. She finds Frankie Dunn (Eastwood), a boxing trainer with a fine reputation and who runs a boxing gym, hoping he will help her. But 'I don't train girls', says he.Notwithstanding the fact that he has turned Maggie down, she goes to the gym everyday to practise on her own, even though she doesn't know how to do it right at all. Her strong will somehow impresses Scrap (Freeman), an assistant and caretaker at the gym, a former boxer who loses an eye during a boxing fight. He starts to encourage Maggie and teaches her some basic things. Eventually, Frankie decides to train her, out of her amazing will power. Maggie trains intensively, because THIS is her dream, her only pursuit, she wants to get there, and in the end, she does get there...Within a couple of years, Maggie is ready for fights. She is indeed a natural, and it is owing to the fact that she works so very hard. Even though at times she has to confront tougher boxers, she makes it anyway. She never backs down. She becomes rich and famous, and she firmly believes her achievement would make her family proud. Now what she wants to do is to take good care of her family.But her nearly penniless mother despises her, because she thinks being a female boxer is simply ridiculous. She is 'ashamed' of Maggie, laughs at her, and her other family members are totally indifferent.By then Maggie and Frankie have developed a father-daughter relationship. As a matter of fact, the relationships between Maggie, Frankie and Scrap are quite intriguing. This picture portrays their interaction perfectly.'Millon Dollar Baby' strikes you when it's least expected. There are many points which leave you wonder: what price dreams? What do you live for? For basic survival or for reaching your goal, so you can be your true self? Are you willing to pay for it? No matter what? And what is LIFE about? If you had seen the film, you would understand what I'm talking about.Maggie has a family who takes her for granted, and Frankie has a daughter who never sees him, who always ignores his letters. In the end, all they've got is each other, but after all they have gone through, after all the respect Maggie gains (Scrap says 'Boxing is about respect. You win respect and take respect from the other guy) and Frankie's being so proud of her, they have to lose each other.This film makes people think. Deeply. This year's Academy Award Best Picture nominees are all good, I have seen all of them, but I would vote for 'Million Dollar Baby' without any hesitation.
This film is one of Clint Eastwood's best films ever!!! The story is simple but draws you in and never let's go. The characters are simply too thrilling. Hillary Swank steals the show a bit with a sad and brutal story of a very tormented woman's life with incredible power. Enough to bring viewers to tears in fact. Morgan Freeman is great as a supporting actor and he definitely deserves some recognition for his performance. Clint Eastwood himself deserves an Oscar for his excellent directing and own spectacular performance. His role was perfect, creating a strong yet vulnerable character people will embrace. The climax will touch you as his character is given a choice that decides life and death. The score is moving in itself and I simply love this film.
Clint Eastwood has been directing films ever since the late 80's and has won twice for best picture. The first time was for Unforgiven, which I have to see someday. The second time was for Million dollar baby, which I just finished today. For a while, I thought that Mystic river was his best. But after seeing Million dollar baby, it's official. This is his crowning achievement.Eastwood in his long life has never acted or directed better. I have never been more moved,touched, or tragicly heartbroken by any movie other than Million dollar baby. Maybe My sister's keeper. No, Million dollar baby. I loved the characters so much in this film. Million dollar baby is easily the best boxing movie of all time. Better than Rocky,Raging bull, or any others.Eastwood plays Frank, a boxing trainer, who, as he says in the beginning,"Doesn't train girls". After lots of persuasion by Maggie(played by 2 time Oscar winner Hillary Swank), he does train her. Maggie wants to be a boxer because she is incredibly broke. So broke, that at the restaurant that she works at, she picks up people's leftovers and eats them for her dinner.The film shows the solace between the two, and it also shows wannabe boxers(such as Jay Baruchel) and has been boxers, like Frank's friend(played by Morgan Freeman) and how gritty the boxing life is.This is such a moving story. All of the characters are so lovable. Lots of the scenes just want to make you stand up and cheer. The film is so sweet,and so touching,and so powerful,and so sad. But yet it's more than that. It's actually well writtenly funny, and extremely entertaining. It's sad to think that this is a true story.I loved all of the characters. Especially Frankie and Maggie. They are so sweet. Eastwood deserved the Oscar that night. He deserved the win, along with Freeman and Swank. Those are three great actors, starring in one great movie. I, like the rest of the world, loved Million dollar baby.A+
This has to be a 10. This movie never loses it's impact, emotion, or "wow" factor every time I see it. I almost can't say a bad thing about it. As for story and content, I'd probably give it a 9, but the powerhouse trio of Clint Eastwood, Morgan Freeman, and Hillary Swank push it to a 10. For one thing, I seem to enjoy movies that are narrated by one of the major characters, and Morgan does a fantastic job at this. It was just the right level of emotion to carry through the film. The boxing scenes were awesome!!! Clint Eastwood pulled off the perfect combination of hardened trainer and loving father. It was almost as if he had Maggie replace his daughter who would not talk to him. However, I must say that this is especially fitting for a boxing movie, two people need to be punched in the face. The first, and the most deserving of a punch in the face is Maggie's mother. She is a disgusting, lazy, selfish loser who wants to just sit and take handouts, living off the government while illegally accepting money and gifts from other people. Then she has the balls to hire a lawyer to try to take Maggie's money under the guise of "protecting her assets." Bullcrap! Also, to top it all off, when Maggie's family comes out to see her, they spend the day at Disneyland first! Some winning family she has. I almost cheered when Maggie told them all where to shove it. I really enjoy seeing stupid people like that get what they deserve. The second person that needs a punch in the face is the Blue Bear. The cheap shot she took cost Maggie her mobility and career, and eventually her life. We do not hear later what happens to the Blue Bear, but hopefully she was severely punished and banned from boxing. Somehow, I don't think so because she already had a reputation for fighting dirty and getting away with it, but I think I saw a hint of remorse on her face she she saw Maggie's neck break. All in all, amazing film, great music, story, characters, acting, awesome! See my profile to understand my rating philosophy.
I'm not sure Clint Eastwood shouldn't have just retired after making Million Dollar Baby. Because films don't get any better than this or more poignant.Maybe Clint was influenced by the career of his young co-star Hillary Swank. When Swank got the Oscar for Boys Don't Cry it was said that it was a pity she reached such a dazzling pinnacle in acting, that it wasn't possible to top it. She might not have topped it, but she certainly equaled it in Million Dollar Baby in every sense of the word.Clint is certainly beyond the days of being an action hero, no more Dirty Harrys or the Man With No Name films for him in his seventies. But in playing Frankie Dunn as a senior citizen he's put a coda on his career with a role that leaves those iconic parts in the dust.Million Dollar Baby is a generational love story, but not romance, not hardly in that sense. Clint is a lonely old man, alienated from what family he has left which happens to be a daughter and involved in the running of his gym where prize fighters train.Boxing is integrated now, women do participate against each other to be sure, but it certainly wasn't so when Eastwood was starting. So it was a fateful day indeed when Maggie Fitzgerald played by Hillary Swank showed up to learn the fine points of pugilism.I'm sure that Swank took some of the points of character from Brandon Teena in playing Maggie Fitzgerald. It's not an issue of sexual identity for Swank, but both characters come from this white trash background and both yearn for something more in life. There are dozens of sports stories involving men and women who escaped drab lives through athletic skill. The only difference in Million Dollar Baby is that boxing was not open to women until recently.To use that phrase from another recent film classic, Swank completes Eastwood. She gives him in the family he's lost even if it's ever so briefly and he provides a strong father figure that she lacked in her life. It all ends so horrifically tragic that I can't say more, but that it's here where even the frozen Medusa would thaw out in tears at the powerful performances of Eastwood and Swank. Million Dollar Baby won four of the seven Oscars it was nominated for in 2004. It won for Best Picture and Best Director for Clint Eastwood and Hillary Swank just as she did for Boys Don't Cry just blew out the competition for Best Actress. And Morgan Freeman who was Eastwood's friend and live-in gym manager and trainer for Swank copped a Best Supporting Actor Award. It's he who narrates Million Dollar Baby, he's the chronicler of the unfolding tragedy.I suppose the moral of the story is never settle for mediocrity, always strive for your personal best. Even if it ends bad you haven't really lived unless you live that way. And family doesn't necessarily have to have related genes.This film will be a classic hundreds of years from now. We can all learn some life lessons from Million Dollar Baby.
Of course, I must see "THE BEST PICTURE OF 2004!", I think every movie fanatic has too. Man, cry me a river, this was a good movie! I have to admit, I had my doubts. I'm not really into boxing movies, exception: Raging Bull. But so many people told me that this was a great movie and it was. Hilary Swank, what a performance! This movie makes you feel as if anything can happen. "I got what I needed" she says to Clint Eastwood. Clint and Hilary together were absolutely perfect. They made a great team. Clint really did a great job expressing his doubts at first but believing in Hilary, it was truly inspirational.Morgan Freeman is a remarkable actor. I'M SO HAPPY HE WON FINALLY! Even though I feel sometimes his roles are typical, he's the disrespected man, but has knowledge and helps people, he's really good at it.I really enjoyed this movie, but just to let you know, it is a tear jerker. So you might want to have a box of Kleenex next to you. This is a wonderful film that everyone should watch. You'll feel better after you watch it, I know that sounds silly, but I'm sure that everyone else who watched it will agree with me.10/10


                
This is the best picture of the year -- and Eastwood's finest since "Unforgiven." With "Million Dollar Baby," Eastwood has crafted a powerful yet tender story of ambition and remorse, of fearless fighters and broken hearts. Like "Mystic River," it's a tragedy -- but unlike "Mystic River," it packs an emotional wallop, punching into the viewer gradually, jabbing and hooking, weaving a bit, then slamming the audience hard with tragedy, knocking us out with a painful blow that never once rings sentimental, or false. Freeman is superb, as always, while Swank proves the genius demonstrated in "Boys Don't Cry" was no fluke. Eastwood gives one of the most sensitive performances of his career. His score contains elements of "Mystic River" and "Bridges of Madison County," yet seems perfectly suited to this, a completely different story. Tom Stern's moody cinematography and Henry Bumstead's decrepit sets are superb, often evoking a sense of the past, while never revealing a specific era. The fight scenes are among the most realistic ever filmed. All in all this Eastwood at his very best -- a true American artist who not only refuses to take off the gloves and leave the ring -- he simply gets better and better with each round. 10 out of 10.
I saw Million Dollar Baby last weekend, and I was very surprised. I expected a movie about boxing to be a tad boring, but since it won Best Picture, I decided to see it. The acting was amazing, and Hilary Swank's character was so believable! I laughed and cried throughout the movie...and the story of the young woman's life was so incredible I wasn't surprised of the great reviews it received. I want to sob just thinking about it! I of course had to tell all my friends about it, and now we all want to see it together. I can't describe how touching this movie was, and I know that sounds cheesy, but it's really true. It seemed to make me forget everything going on in my hectic life for just long enough to indulge in the rare and beautiful story of a poor woman with nothing but hope and determination to be the best she can. Her innocence and sweetness adds so much to the plot. Also, Clint Eastwood and Morgan Freeman are awesome.. I recommend this movie to anyone, just have a box of tissues ready!


                
If your not a fan of "Clint Eastwood" don't worry you will still like this movie! I am one of the few people who hated "The Unforgiven". I even hated "Mystic River" (To Me that was just an all star Law & Order Episode") However this movie is what movie making used to be in the 1970's! This movie is one that will stay with you. The movie doesn't answer questions but dares to ask them instead. This movie is not preachy and shows the struggles of "Free Will" and dares to ask what is living without even asking outright! Right to lifers will hate this movie! But everyone has to ask "What is Life"?! Also why should you impose your wishes on someone who has a different view? What makes one right and not the other? Clint Eastwood has brought us some of the best action movies ever made. Now he has made a movie that will make even Mel Gibson mad. What a guy!
Thak you Clint,Hilary and Morgan. You teach to Hollywood how acting!!!!how win an Oscar! This is the best Boxin' movie i ever seen. This is the best Drama Movie i've ever seen! the story is cruel, sad but ..real This is the real life, oyu can win but loose too, and if you loose you pay ..all!! the life of boxin' is hard and full of pain, Clint describe the emotion of the ring so well that the ring , the Gym the office became a magnetic and adventurous FILM. Thank you for the wonderful emotions and ...goodbye baby. Great Clint Great Morgan Great HilaryMarco
I think everybody who criticized this film either have not seen it or take the controversy about the film out of context. Now that I have actually seen the film, I feel free to comment on the controversy.Spoiler: Unlike in the Terri Schiavo case, in which the patient's desires are debatable, here it is not. Maggie wishes to die because she is not able to walk or move her arms. As a professional fighter, it was the only thing she was good at. Do I agree with her decision? I think it was her decision to make. Whether or not I agree with it is irrelevant. I do understand why she made that decision. If you put her decision in the context of the movie, people who criticize her decision will at least understand why. It is also not easy for Clint Eastwood's character to fulfill her wishes. This does not glamorize euthanasia, but sees it as a very difficult decision to make.As for the movie itself, it is a great story of a boxer, her manager, and a guy who works at the gym. They basically become a family. Clint Eastwood is the father, Hilary Swank is the daughter, and Morgan Freeman is the uncle. Since these three are estranged from their own families, they create a family of their own with their home in a boxing gym. All three of the performances are great and the film takes you on a journey where you want to follow these characters. I contrast that with Closer, which had good performances, but I didn't care the least about the characters or their situations. In this movie, you care very much. It deserved every award it got. 10/10
In my drive to give out my Oscars I am hurtling through the contenders. I was sure Mr. Foxx was a shoe-in for Best Actor in Ray. This however is the Best Picture of the Year. Clint could come away with three including actor and director. This movie immediately moves into my top 50 and it would win against much stronger fields than this years. I don't like - small spoiler- tearjerkers. This one crushed me. I will remember this movie and Clint reaching for new levels he had only hinted at. If they give it to Clint as Best Actor the age factor will tip the scales in his direction and he is unfortunately getting on in years and may not get another shot.John Wayne got it for the "honor " of the role he played - instead of Red River or the Shootist roles where he genuinely deserved to win. This one Clint has clearly earned.
Frankie went to mass every day for twenty-three years because of guilt he felt about Scrap's lost eye and an undisclosed wrong of his that led his daughter to disown him. Finally, god heard Frankie's plaint and shed a tear for Frankie in the form of Maggie, a muscular bundle of desire and single-minded devotion. Maggie reanimated Frankie. In their short, intense relationship she gave him everything he had lost: a daughter's love, a desire to win (not just to train) and the opportunity to open his heart to her and shed his guilt. At the end, I was not sure that the movie was more of a moving love story or a dark, deep-felt tragedy, just as I am not sure if lemon meringue pie is sweet to the tooth or sour on the tongue. Or both...


                
I thought it was a great movie. If you have not seen it, You need to.I think that Hilary Swank did a great job, So did Morgan freeman. Did you know that this movie got 2 Grammy awards? That is why this movie is so good. I also liked the movie Girlfight,It was also a boxing movie.I think that Michelle Rodriguez did a great job in this movie too. Has any one seen this movie before? This movie is old. It was made in 2000. That makes it five years old.I think that Hilary,Morgan and Michelle has did more great movies.Has anyone seen the other movies that they have made? I think that most are good if not all of there movies are good.The movie million dollar baby is still in theaters,If there is somebody that has not seen it yet. Thanks,babygirl25


                
