First of all, every review on this page should check the "contains spoiler" box. It is impossible to discuss this film without giving away its essence. I thought this film was well acted and the cinematography was great. I even bought Hillary Swank as a knockout artist. I've never boxed myself but her form and her movements struck me as natural and realistic. But I didn't care for the last 1/3 of the film, really. Politically, I believe in assisted suicide but that doesn't make it interesting cinema. I never really bought that Maggie would quit on herself without a fight. Where was the determination she showed in training? This is not to say that suicide under those circumstances is weak or cowardly. Not at all. But I think you would have to go through all the steps of grieving to get there. And if you had the personality of a fighter, it would take that much longer. And I'm also annoyed that as far as we can tell, those fat lazy hillbillies were going to end up with her money anyway, which nullifies the only stand she took after that last fight. And oh yeah, she didn't lose that last fight either. That absolutely would have been a disqualification for the German girl. Maggie would have won the fight via DQ.
I saw this movie yesterday after seeing all the acclaim and boy, was I disappointed. There are many implausible plot lines, and frankly who needs another boxing movie about man/woman reaching glory by winning boxing matches. Many reviews stated that the boxing theme was minor but I didn't find that to be the case at all. After Rocky and Raging Bull, the turf has been covered. I thought that Eastwood eclipsed with Mystic River and this was a letdown, same with Hillary Swank who was more interesting in Boys Don't Cry. I never saw Los Angeles come off more like a rural hick town than in this film. There is this relationship with Eastwood and his daughter that is mystery estrangement and it is never resolved. The pacing was also very slow. This has to be the weakest of the Oscar contenders this year.


                
Much like Clint Eastwood's last supposed masterpiece, Mystic River, Million Dollar baby combines stereotypical, recycled characters with overwrought photography and an inexcusable score to create mediocre Oscar bait (check the release date - suspicious). Perhaps the film's worst offense is Eddie, the custodian/trainer at Frankie's gym. The character is a blatant example of what Spike Lee calls the "super Negro" - a wise old black man who uses his uncanny insight and common wisdom to help white people who either take him for granted or treat him like crap. Eastwood even gave Eddie a severe cataract in one eye to emphasize that his vision is not like ours (or Frankie's). I don't know why Morgan Freeman accepts these roles. In Million Dollar Baby, a minor character even uses the n-word against Eddie; it's in a context that strives to be non-offensive, but it only adds to the "super Negro" character stereotype. The other two leads, Frankie (played by Eastwood) and Maggie (Hilary Swank) are just as stereotypical but not nearly as offensive. They are the grizzled old stubborn veteran and the hard-luck, hard-working gal who does things her own way. Eastwood forces the surrogate father/daughter relationship between the characters with corny, overt dialog at tender moments and with the letters Frankie's own daughter returns to him each week. This subplot goes unresolved - it exists only to drive an already obvious point about the lead characters' relationship into our minds.Eastwood and his pet DP/former gaffer Tom Stern blanket their walking stereotypes in shadows. In some scenes more than 50 percent of the frame remains true black. Stern offsets this with contrived lighting that highlights pieces of objects or faces with no relation to the supposed sources in the story world. For example, Maggie often has a triangular swatch of highlight on her nose and forehead, and in the last hospital scene, the far corner of her bed mysteriously glows in the moonlight while her head, with nothing between it and the window except the glowing sheet corner, remains in complete shadow. I imagine Eastwood and Stern used this high-contrast look to make the film gritty and "real," but with the outrageous point sources and conveniently-placed flags it looks about as lifelike as Jurassic Park III. Perhaps Stern's background as a long-time gaffer made him into a cinematographer who pays much attention to complicated lighting schemes and little attention to composition as a whole. Sure it's nice with Eddie literally casts a long shadow in scenes where he's in a position of power, but it's a bit over the top. I feel sorry for Swank and Freeman for having to act while frozen in those tiny, micromanaged pools of light.Stern's photography, however, seems masterful compared to Eastwood's score. I thought he did a fine job developing emotion at the key story points through direction and editing, but he seems to feel it's necessary to cue his viewers with grating strings (sad!) or bright piano (happy!) that reflect exactly what's happening a few moments before it occurs on screen. Apparently Clint doesn't trust his storytelling enough to leave his amateurish songwriting skills out of the mix.Eastwood seems to pay so much attention to craft that I imagine he could make a truly great film instead of overrated Oscar bait in his old age. I wish he would ditch his old buddy Stern, hire a real composer and get a script with characters that are more than tired stereotypes.
I know I'm in the minority regarding this movie, but I have to say that I found it slow, boring, and lacking in emotion. Eastwood seemed to feel that each point needed to be dwelled upon for an extended period of time. Numerous times during this movie, I kept saying to myself, "OK, you've made your point, now move on!". I found this movie devoid of any emotion and totally numb. I also can't understand how Hillary Swank was nominated for an Academy Award for this movie. Her performance was nowhere near her exceptional performance in Boys Don't Cry. Also, the priest said that he has seen Frankie at mass every Sunday for 23 years!. Yet the priest looked under 40. He became a priest at 17?!
I'm not being very generous with the stars here, as I'd expected much of this Oscar-winner, and it left me with a feeling that someone had edited the best bits out of my copy of the DVD. Maybe it's a genuine step forward for a Clint Eastwood movie, but the man must be about a hundred, and he's in no danger of catching up with the cutting edge of world cinema. Most of the movie plods along pleasantly enough, with shades of Shawshank in atmosphere but not a great deal to back it up. Then it rushes headlong through matters of real importance and my overall impression was somehow of cosy predictability. Given the nature of the subject matter (I won't spoil it for you, but as you may have heard the later part of the movie is not so cosy in content), this is both ironic and appalling! Million Dollar Baby is not a bad movie, and I did enjoy it, and Hollywood can do much worse, but don't rent it thinking you're getting a film of the year.Million Dollar Baby is also a great title for a movie, but not this one. They appear to have lifted it from either one of two pre-war features; I don't know.


                
One of the most frustratingly disappointing movies I've seen in recent years, especially given the critical reviews, its academy award for best picture, and the quality cast.On the plus side: it is a technically well-made film with good acting, as one would expect from the people involved. It also does a nice job (mostly in the first half of the film) of presenting the boxing gym as a microcosm in which a diverse group of people at very different points in their lives struggle with the demands of boxing for individual reasons. It's too bad this wasn't the main focus of the film.On the negative side: (WARNING: spoilers ahead!) This is what is sometimes referred to as a "kill the kitten movie." It presents an innocent and almost too good to be true character that the audience will care about and root for (the kitten), and then has something terrible happen to that character (the kitten gets hit by a car). The audience is of course deeply moved by the tragedy, which creates the illusion of powerful drama when it is really just cheap, generic manipulation. In this case, the Hillary Swank character is a beautiful, plucky, brave, generous, determined young woman from an impoverished background who has not a single fault (even her teeth are movie star perfect despite her family genetics, poor upbringing and boxing career). So, the screen play has something really bad and really unfair happen to her to evoke "kill the kitten" emotions. Unfortunately, not only is the tragic turn in the movie manipulative, it's also highly illogical. While the incident occurs in a public sporting event significant enough to have a large audience and to be televised, and involves a felonious act by an at least marginally famous athlete, there is no media follow up to the event, and no holding the perpetrator legally or financially responsible for the consequences. Then, the seriously injured victim is sent to 2 different medical facilities in which she never receives any counseling for the psychological trauma she's going through, and is placed in a medically inappropriate bed (I know whereof I speak) that results in terrible and unnecessary pressure ulcers that add to her woes. Finally, to evoke even more visceral responses, the movie resorts to playing on what it apparently considers to be "acceptable" prejudices. The protagonist's family members are presented as disgusting and stereotypical examples of "white trash:" ignorant, lazy, selfish, irresponsible, dishonest, parasitical people with West Virginan accents. Personally, I found this depiction offensive and reprehensible. There's also the depiction of a completely ineffectual priest who shows us that religion is useless and irrelevant in times of tragedy and ethical dilemmas. This appears to be an implicit justification for the "shocking" ending which I found too contrived to be controversial.Apparently, mine is a minority opinion, but I've met a number of other people who share it. Here's hoping for better movies.
TYPICAL CLINT EASTWOOD 5/10. Not a Hollywood ending (you are warned); shock ending. Not very good. He just puts typical hyper-emotional damaged characters together to battle it out. He doesn't worry about some of the logic to end the movie properly. The movie goes from drive to 'reverse' without reason-ability. His characters are about street people making barely audible 'smart' comments about life. Clint acts like Clint with his typical restrained and inaudible voice. He just puts typical hyper-emotional damaged characters together to battle it out. He doesn't worry about some of the logic to end the movie properly. The movie goes from drive to 'reverse' without reason-ability.


                
This film contains all the most infuriating elements of film-making. That's not to say it is a bad movie, but more a movie that elicits little genuine emotion. The little true feeling comes from the character of Maggie, as a pitiful, damaged human for whom you want salvation. Why she sees boxing as her way out is never really explained. Her family are stereotypical white trash who barely have two dimensions, let alone three. The German boxer is actually more thinly portrayed than Ivan Drago in Rocky IV and there is something genuinely disturbing about her portrayal. When frankie calls her a 'Kraut' you feel that is what Clint actually feels, and that he sees her nationality and stereotypical representation as actual character construction. Morgan Freeman plays the same role he played in Unforgiven, although this is no bad thing. He is one of the few characters actually developed and one that the audience can relate to. But the structure of the story is really rather disjointed. It feels like one or two plot lines were just tagged on and aren't ever really developed.The lighting and composition of some of the shots are very impressive. Unfortunately the white and blacks of the images seem to have been carried over into the direction and story as well with no place for greys.Overall a film that contains many good elements but that you just can't care about.
Grand old man Clint Eastwood is highly respected. Its nice to see that he finds time to do unusual films (by Hollywood standards) as he is most definitely talented. But seriously, just because its slow paced, it doesn't mean that it is a masterpiece. The story is full of clichés and underwritten characters. It also has a voice-over by Morgan Freeman, that was really the only thing needed to be given credibility, the same case as with 'Shawshank Redemption'. In my opinion its annoying in the same measure.Sure, Clint, Morgan Freeman and Hillary Swank are great actors, and they all do good roles of what they're given. I was quite impressed by the physical development of Swank in fact. And Clint is a capable director.The storyline absolutely had the ability to move me, but for the most of the time it dragged.Look outside of Hollywood to find real great post 2k cinema.


                
Some people can think that reality & movies are two worlds apart. I advise for the contrary. Philosophy for our personal life can be found in the two.So it was easy to associate this movie with the news event of Jean Paul II, because the both heroes have the strength and courage to choose for the last decision of their life. They know that their choices are only a "one way ticket" and there is no come back. But they stick to it, and in a strange sense, they find happiness and serenity.Having the same ending than "Boys don't cry" (the same actress, the same Oscar), this movie is thus radically different. But, in the same time, the character/actress shows also the exact state of mind: determination, an insatiability for happiness, and a will that never goes down even in the worst time. I find those movies to give me the "peach".This movie isn't only its last 30 minutes. For one hour before, it talks about boxing, and it was quite interesting. The locations (either, the club or the ring), the lightning of this movie (close to black and white) give a sense of intemporality in a sense that this story could happen in the 20s, the 50s, or in the XXI. As there is no distraction from the settings, the message of this sport, and the long development of the relationship between Swank & Eastwood are more clearly evident.At last, the music is perfect: tragically beautiful "à la" Badalamenti. And my big surprise was to see that the composer is <U+0085>. Eastwood himself!!! In conclusion, a film that will knock you down !
Far too many people praised this mediocrity of a movie. What wasn't derivative was offensive. Give it a miss! The movie's made of two parts. The first is a totally predictable and unbelievable story of the meteoric rise from waitress to champion. It's a dull cliché-ridden story: the resistant master, the dark-skinned well-meaning sidekick, and then the non-stop ride to fame. In the second part, Eastwood chooses to lavish whatever psychological depth the movie has on the desire of the champ for death. Eastwood presents the decision to kill her as the noble and difficult thing to do one when in fact it was the easy way out.
Throughout his career Clint Eastwood's roles have walked a fine like between being morally right and being morally wrong. In this movie he once again falls down on the wrong side of that line with a resounding "thud". His character's decisions are ones that no human has a right to make. I can say no more about this particular movie, but if his movie career is examined from the very beginning, we see him glory in violence and killing on manufactured and contrived pretexts, and he goes on. It is no exaggeration to say that his influence on western civilization has been very great; it has also been very unfortunate. If the world was full of Clint Eastwoods, we'd be in a lot of trouble.


                
I suppose if Brittney Spears, or some other celeb were to write and direct a movie it would get the same rave reviews. Fact is, Clint Eastwood is a fair director but he isn't gifted beyond that. He's starred in some great films but his self directed films don't do very well. The story line in Million Dollar Baby had so many holes in it that it seemed like it was written scene by scene with not even bread crumbs to lead a viewer through the storyline. If not for the very controversial aspect of it (euthanasia, right to die)it would have faded just as quickly as some of his other flops (Bloodwork, True Crime, . I'm glad I waited until it was $1.99 to watch it because I lost interest about 40 minutes into it. Clint Eastwood needs to be directed because he's a good actor. He should leave the directing to those who are good at it.


                
Eastwood is revealed yet again as a mediocre director, who is not capable of making a decent film from a script that clearly needed some viagra injected into it.Looking back at my viewing experience, I mainly feel disgust. Disgust at having someone pressing my tear glands so unceremoniously.What Million Dollar Baby fails most miserably at is creating a believable interaction between it's main characters. As all the actors for the main parts have shown they're capable of better, we must blame the director. Especially sad is Eastwood's own performance. Usually very dependable, Eastwood is so weak in this film, it's almost irritating to watch him. Swank and Freeman manage to make the most of their weak roles but to call their appearances "noteworthy" would be an exaggeration.Of course the real baddie in this drama is the story itself, which is chuck-full of crudely-drawn clichés, caricatures and plain stupidity. Even a B-movie deserves better than this drivel.Eastwood is badly in need of material for a rehabilitation after this latest performance.By the way, putting this movie on a par with Raging Bull is both ridiculous and an insult to Martin Scorcese. Even Clint himself would be appalled.


                
Following the template set by Mystic River, Clint Eastwood turns in another overlong, murky, shallow film concocted more for the dulled palates of Academy voters than with any intention of entertaining or stimulating its audience. For the first two thirds, it's just Karate Kid all over again - hopeless young wannabe persuades elderly pro to train them, wax on/wax off, becomes champion fighter. Then we get the euthanasia bit tacked on to the end, without any genuine attempt to tackle the complexity of the issue. Not least of which is the legal position - at the end, would Eastwood's character really have been allowed to just slink away without any repercussions? Morgan Freeman is the same character he has been in every film since Shawshank, there is a desperately flat, 'humorous' subplot involving a Cletus-like cretin in the gym ... the movie needed putting out of its misery long before it got the greenlight.
This is one of those flicks that no one knows how to comment on until after it wins lots of awards and then, finally, everyone can say what a great movie it is.Well, let me say first that I love Clint Eastwood and Morgan Freeman and I really thought that this would be a movie about a woman overcoming odds to become a boxer.Instead, boxing seemed to take a back seat to everyone's angst- Frankie's (Eastwood) family crisis with his daughter- Maggie's (Swank) crisis with her family- it just goes on and on.I wanted to love this movie, but found myself spiraling into some deep depression by the end - does that make it a great movie because it made me depressed? I don't think so. Does it make Eastwood brilliant because I felt like I was crawling on the ground by the final scene? Not really.It made me wonder about Clint Eastwood and how happy he is as a person and what kind of relationship he has with his family members. It made me wonder why Morgan Freeman hasn't become a "bigger" star than he is and why he always has to talk over the movie. It made me wonder why Hilary Swank took such a role that was so odd and yet so predictable from the start-- my movie companion said he knew after the first ten minutes that things weren't going to go well for Maggie. We both ended up so depressed that we had to switch the channel to a news station to revive our spirits.Sorry, everyone. I really did not like this movie and scratched my head over all the rave reviews.
I've loved the majority of Eastwood's films as director in the last decade (and consider LETTERS FROM IWO JIMA to be one of the finest war films ever made), but MILLION DOLLAR BABY is a film that left me cold. On the face of it, there's nothing much to dislike: it's expertly crafted with Eastwood's eye for technical detail and cast members delivering Oscar-winning performances.But, nonetheless, something didn't gel with me. It may be that the rags-to-riches boxing story is far too familiar, having been done decades ago in the much lower-budgeted ROCKY, a film with a simpler plot and worse actors that was far more powerful, thanks to its raw heartfelt emotion. In contrast, MILLION DOLLAR BABY is ice-cold, and something feels very staged about it.Swank is believable as the female boxer, but once again I felt no empathy for her character (Swank, like Cate Blanchett, never seems to get the audience on side). Eastwood and Freeman feel tired, both just giving yet another variation on already familiar character types. The pacing is slow and the running time overlong, making the storyline feel stretched out; the last hour or so is particularly painful to watch.I enjoy movies because they're entertaining and I often prefer escapism over highbrow intellectualism. Despite the professionalism of its cast and crew, MILLION DOLLAR BABY forgets to be entertaining, and I disliked it for that reason.


                
A year later and I'm still mad at the Academy because of their decision to give Clint Eastwood another couple of Oscars. Martin Scorsese is a master and 'Sideways' was obviously last year's greatest film (of course, ignored by stupid Oscar voters who cannot recognize subtle work! isn't it time to reduce the actors' branch to the half?!). The Academy's fondness for this overly sentimental, predictably manipulative, cheap tricks film is absolutely not understandable. The film has some beautifully shot, stylish moments, it shows that Clint has become a good craftsman and develops a good use of space but let's face, the film doesn't lacks depth. It's just a sentimental story (with an extremely successful third act, a working second act and an absurd first act). The film's performances simply don't lie on a terrific ground. All the characters are one-sided. Take Maggie - she's the angel who fights to escape the world where she's the poor girl of an unloving mother. To make us feel for her, writer Paul Haggis wrote that awfully unfair scene where her family comes to visit her simply to get her money. Even if that was their goal, the scene wasn't logical at all because they showed it so brutally and after all, I think that Maggie would need them and wouldn't do what she did. And Hilary's performance, though a really very good one, couldn't even be compared to Imelda Staunton in "Vera Drake" - a film that dared to show us that its lead character isn't simply a good-hearted woman but a woman who didn't even knew in what trouble she's going. And at the end, there's an aspect of the film I understand. It's the suicide at the very end. I can't understand why all the people who loved the film (and loved it obviously because of its sentimental ending) don't get that. There's a conversation when Maggie tells why she wants to die. And I accept her decision. It's maybe the emotional high point of such an emotionally uneven film, with uneven writing and uneven directing. And at the end, I simply want to tell that I don't understand why people are comparing this to Bergman. Bergman's depth and astonishing visuals came out of the characters and in this film everything's on the surface and absolutely as an end in itself. Some good visual moments, solid editing, great acting but both directing and writing took the wrong direction. If you want to be touched, watch "Sideways" - absolutely last year's best film.


                
I am still in mourning about the fact that this movie won best picture. There was very little special about the movie as a whole, the first half was like every other boxing movie, the grizzled old trainer, the downtrodden young hopefuls, the grungy low-rent gym, YAWN. At the end, the medical errors were so ridiculous, I just couldn't believe that this movie was made. It is IMPOSSIBLE to talk while on a ventilator, first of all. I know that it would have spoiled to flow of the screenplay, but you can't just suspend rules of physics to cater to your script. Second, when someone is on life-support, there are monitors at the nursing station, and someone would have come running immediately when the machine was turned off, barring gross negligence on the part of the medical staff. It would be impossible for someone to turn off life support and let someone die and just walk out unnoticed like he did. Even with out these things, I found nothing to recommend this movie, and certainly did not agree with its best picture nomination or award.
I think Clint is a fine actor and director and certainly Hilary Swank is a good actress. Of course I love everything Morgan Freeman has ever been in, he's the always great. But I can't understand why people thought this movie was so great. Sure we feel sorry for Frankie and Maggie but the story is a story we've all seen before. Poor girl finds grumpy old man and they both learn to love each other. So what. I also thought that the ending was totally made up. I work in the medical profession and I can tell you it would never happen like it was portrayed. A competent adult, especially one who can speak as clearly as she could with a tracheostomy tube in, would be allowed to make her own medical decisions. So though the performances were good the movie itself was just like the rest okay.


                
Frankie Dunn (Clint Eastwood) is a "cut man" who manages a gym with the help of his friend, Scrap (Morgan Freeman), a former fighter who now is blind in one eye and lives in the gym in addition to working as the janitor. Scrap narrates the story of Frankie and Maggie Fitzgerald (Hilary Swank) and as the movie begins, Maggie approaches Frankie after a fight, hoping that he'll agree to become her manager. Frankie refuses because she is a girl and too old to begin fighting. None of this matters to Maggie, though, who is determined to rise above her trailer-trash background and become a champion. Without any prior training, she joins Frankie's gym and practices their every day.As the story moves on, Scrap takes sympathy on Maggie and teaches her a few tricks about how to hit a punching bag. She displays some talent and Frankie reluctantly decides to become her manager. The two form a bond as Maggie begins winning fights and it becomes clear that their relationship moves well beyond the ring and into the realm of a surrogate family. Frankie starts to occupy the place of her dead father and Maggie fills in for Frankie's estranged daughter.This is, more or less, how the first half of the film plays out. There are some major flaws with the film so far, most notably Eastwood's performance. Trying to present Frankie as a tough guy, he hoarsens his voice and furrows his brow only to deliver one of the most one-note performances in his entire career. Even more infuriating, though, is the lack of understanding Eastwood displays for Frankie. I find it interesting when a character who attends Mass daily is unable to cross himself correctly before his nightly prayers. Another irritating element of Frankie's character is the story of his daughter. We are kept in the dark about why his daughter refuses to speak with him, no doubt because the filmmakers want us to draw our own conclusion. The backstory is far too important to Frankie for us to be kept from us. Suppose he abused her as a child or was an illegitimate father who didn't know she existed until late in life. These different scenarios have massive repercussions on him and his relationship with Maggie.But it isn't just Eastwood's acting that fails to deliver. Morgan Freeman is also awful. His line readings are so difficult to understand that I spent most of my time trying to determine whether he is acting or impersonating a vacuum cleaner. On the rare occasion when Scrap's narration is actually decipherable, it comes off as pointlessly poetic--suggesting that screenwriter Paul Haggis, adapting from F.X. Toole's "Rope Burns," is unaware of the fact that Scrap is an uneducated man living in a gym. The pair of bad performances just adds to the preposterous string of victories Maggie racks up. Really, why should I believe that a woman that has received only a couple months worth of training is going to slaughter better trained, younger athletes?Yet, despite these flaws, Hilary Swank's sincere turn almost makes the first hour worth viewing. Swank does a magnificent job of conveying a determined fighter, who has no disillusionments about how miserable her life will be if she doesn't succeed as a boxer. In fact, there are two scenes that are especially effective. The first is when Scrap teaches Maggie how to work a punching bag, the second is on her birthday when Frankie starts to train her. Not only does Swank deliver a fine performance, but also numerous technical aspects of the production are impressive. Tom Stern's cinematography uses shadows to great effect and Henry Bumstead's production design delivers an elegant setting.The film quickly moves from being flawed to being reprehensible. How so many people can look at what happens during the second half and think of it as being truthful is beyond me. When the half-blind, sixty-something Scrap walks into a ring and knocks out a vibrant, twenty-something boxer, the scene belongs in a "Three Stooges" movie. Even more irritating is a sequence when Maggie and Frankie visit her family. Her mother and sister are the epitome of backwoods hillbillies. Maggie's attempts at giving her mom a nice house are met with hostility, because it will make it impossible for her mom to cheat the welfare system. Stereotyping of this type is both wrong and unnecessary. The audience is already sympathetic to Maggie, so we don't need to be manipulated any further by her uncaring family. If the Fitzgerald's were black, I can only imagine the outrage that would ensue over the depiction of this family. Fortunately for all involved, everybody likes to take a swipe at "white trash."Of course there's another plot twist that received much controversy when Michael Medved and Rush Limbaugh revealed it in order to further their own agendas. Numerous people castrated them for revealing the specifics of the plot, but since the twist happens with 40 minutes left in the film, it is only fair to tell people the general path the film takes. I won't reveal the exact nature of the twist, but "Million Dollar Baby" is not a female-"Rocky." Instead, it turns into a euthanasia drama. Fair enough, since it's an important topic and many movies incorporate it into the plot. Yet the exact nature of how it is explored is poorly plotted and unbearably divorced from reality. I feel an obligation not to reveal any spoilers from this section of the film, which limits my ability to fully explain my objections to it. Nonetheless, I can safely relay that Eastwood's direction and Haggis' script do not even attempt to present realistic medical procedures. Not only that, but upon reflection, the decisions made by the characters are not consistent with the rest of their behavior. After years of being one of America's top auteurs, perhaps it is time for Eastwood to hang up his gloves.


                
The last 40 minutes of this movie won it the Oscar and it was also the worst part. I am going to forgive the circumstances of Maggie's so called loss. I am just going to say something that many have said before...there are rules in boxing and they definitely don't allow the behavior of the ex-prostitute. But even if I forget that...The rest of the movie was just pure sentimental garbage. Maybe it was because I was so upset, by the way the movie staged Maggie's loss, but I just could not care about this movie any more after that.The rest of the movie up until that moment was OK. But I must stress, it was only OK. Nothing great.I cannot believe this movie even got nominated. I guess it says something about the pull Clint has in Hollywood. True he did the best he could with the story he had and the acting was pretty good, but there is no way this movie will be remembered as one of the all time great movies. I cannot believe Aviator did not win best picture.
"Million Dollar Baby" is "Rocky" knockoff that can't quite get it right. In this case, the problem isn't (as usual) that there is no real characterization ("Rocky"'s greatest strength), but that the film is simply too long. I don't mean no film should be two and a half hours--but "Million Dollar Baby" feels stretched to that length.Where a simple Cinderella story may be overdone, following it up with a moral-ethical tragedy and a tragic loss of the only thing that makes life worth living may be stretching the bounds of film storytelling. Just when everything seems heading to a conclusion in her title fight, Maggie Doyle loses everything she's fought for and not only do we have to see that, but we have to see her want to fight her way out of life and Frankie Dunn's struggle with whether to help her as she asks. Along the way, we also have to deal with the subplots of Danger Barch, a developmentally disabled kid who spends his time "training" at Frankie's gym, and Frankie's strained relationship with his daughter. All of these plots are simply too much for a film and when coupled with Eastwood's penchant for long silent shots in the darkness to present emotion turns this film into something that is simply too long and dull.The acting is why this film has garnered so much Oscar attention and I expect will win best picture, director, actress, and supporting actor. Clint Eastwood, a master of choosing roles to hide his complete lack of talent, tries to carry too much on his back and his performance pales by comparison to the "Rocky" performance of the wonderfully talented and charismatic Burgess Meredith to the point that perhaps his career-best performance seems an utter disappointment. Meanwhile, the always-excellent Hilary Swank performs admirably in a rather bland role--a fighter who never quits but also never seems to feel much of anything else. Probably the best of the performances really comes from Morgan Freeman, as the virtuosic actor performs perfectly again, stealing the spotlight from Eastwood and Swank while hardly doing a thing.Eastwood's direction does present a beautifully chilling, dark visual and a stark sound quality that really is quite clever and excellent. He doesn't seem to want to force anything on us with his camera, but he's definitely creating a vision and this direction truly is excellent and worthy of its Oscar contention (though I would not say worthy of its probable win).All in all, "Million Dollar Baby" is a sentimental cry-fest with wonderful acting and beautiful direction that is simply overly boring and long. If you want to cry and you don't get bored easily, it's worth a watch. But it's not what you want if you're looking for any real action and that's what holds it back from being the masterpiece so many have claimed it to be, in my opinion. It's probably a love or hate affair for the most part, but I appreciated some elements enough that I can't hate it despite its glaring flaws.
In the words of Charlie Kaufman in Adaptation, "I don't want to cram in characters learning profound life lessons or growing or coming to like each other or overcome obstacles to succeed in the end". This quote seem very appropriate for this film seeing as all three main characters went through the cliché that is overcoming obstacles to succeed in the end.It is the script the lets down Million Dollar Baby, a film that would have been very good otherwise. Some of the dialogue is painfully unfunny when it tries to be. The voice-over is overused and tells the viewer what to think. The story of overcoming personal difficulties to become a boxing champ is almost identical to that of the Rocky films, there's even a Rocky style montage sequence. Worst of all was the ending, which was completely unnecessary and badly done.The rest of Million Dollar Baby was pretty good however. Clint Eastwood does a brilliant job in acting, directing and scoring this movie and all the actors do a good job in portraying characters that were badly written.4/10


                
