I'm not much for writing reviews. But then again, there's not a lot of films where I go against popular opinion. The Usual Suspects is an exception.***SPOILER WARNING***The Usual Suspects is an exception because it lies. It lies because it presents itself as a clever mystery; as a riddle. Except riddles are solvable. Trying to solve The Usual Suspects is like trying to solve a jigsaw with lego pieces.Not counting final few moments, the film is actually good. It takes you into the final scenes with great anticipation. 'Finally', you say, 'the twist will be revealed, which will put everything into perspective.' The film doesn't do that. Instead, the twist leaves you with endless questions. It leaves you thinking, 'Why did any of that just happen?' Why does Verbal design an intricate plan to recruit four nobodies when he could just pay people? Why does he tell Kujan his story using phrases from the bulletin board, when he can easily be discovered?And to top it off, the final scene is almost as bad as the twist itself. Verbal gets away, but all too late. He's been found out. Two hours of lies for nothing.The Usual Suspects tries combine mystery and a clever twist and fails. Fails hard. The 'mystery' is nothing but lies, and the 'clever twist' is anything but clever.3/10
This must be the most over-rated film of the 90's. Yes, it's very well produced. Yes, it's very well acted. Yes, it's cleverly constructed. No, it's not a good film. I'm sorry, but it just isn't. It's a joke, and as funny and entertaining as that joke is, it's not worth sitting through the long and laborious trek, waiting for the punchline. Frankly, I am amazed that it's done so well for itself, and equally amazed that Kevin Spacey (great actor though he is)won an Academy Award for it. Sure, he deserves it as an actor - but the character and the film doesn't. After suffering through this film (three times in total, desperate to try and see a glimpse of the beautiful clothes everyone says the Emperor s wearing), I resolved never to watch another Spacey film again. Se7en made up for this pile of tripe, and American Beauty put him straight back on my A-list. I forgive you, Kevin. I forgive you.Don't bother with this one. It's insipid.


                
...if I didn't have a "twist" ending? (SPOILERS, of course.  Read no further if you've not seen the film). Perhaps I have a short attention span, but I did have some trouble following the plot at first. My biggest complaint is that a lot of the characters were underdeveloped. Most of the people generally did not have any traits to distinguish themselves from each other.  I was rather bored. When I saw this movie I had already heard there was a big "twist". So when people were discussing the identity of this Keyser Soze, I couldn't help but think to myself "hmm... wouldn't it be wild if the cop giving the interrogation was Keyser, or maybe Verbal Kint, or maybe....".  You just find yourself going through the ropes imagining wild possibilities, and so when Verbal's leg straightens out and we see his sketched face coming out of the fax machine, it failed to have any impact with me. I'm sure that if I had been unaware that there was some kind of twist in the film, this ending would have hit me a little harder- but I'm skeptical that would have made me admire the preceding 100 minutes much more.    I'm sure if I saw this again, I might find other things to appreciate. No doubt, throughout the movie there must have been clever clues to Keyser's identity that I did not pick up on the first time around.  But would that make it worth it for me to sit through this again? I'll never know, as I am not willing to spend a couple more hours of my life on this movie.  I give it a 5 out of 10.
Just about everyone agrees that the surprise ending to "The Usual Suspects" is very satisfying, as is Kevin Spacey's performance as the pathetic yet strangely-likeable Verbal Kint. Unfortunately, I found that there is little else to be enjoyed.All in all, the cast's performances were not all that superb. Spacey is an exception, but that's nothing new. The story itself is well written, but not very interesting. It's conceivable that the cast would be seen as fulfilling the characters well precisely because the characters themselves are so vague. The screenwriter makes sure to lay the idiosyncrasies on thick without allowing us to know the characters and better understand their quirks. Naturally, there's only a given amount of depth that can be accomplished in an hour and a half, but "The Usual Suspects" still barely reaches that.So while I would recommend this film for Spacey and the ending, I don't think its worth waiting around for 80+ minutes of ho-hum "gritty crime drama" to get to all the scenes where he really shines and where the script isn't so dull.


                
Lemme start out with what I liked about this movie. Spacey deserved his Best Actor Oscar, and there were many other good performances as well. The movie also had a remarkable score. As for the plot, well, I enjoyed it at first, but as I thought more about it, I liked it less and less.Having seen this movie, I am not surprised that it is #16 on the #250 list - not that I think it deserves this position, but I've begun to recognize the voters' trends. Call me a cynic, but I think that many people vote 10's for movies with plots like this, that are fairly hard to understand, because it makes them feel more intellectual. "Other people can't follow this plot? Well, I can, and I'll give it a perfect 10!"I don't think it's too much of a spoiler to say that this movie has a big surprise ending. But, without the ending, this movie is nothing. It'd have a 7.5 rating, tops. The movie is a decent crime / thriller without the ending, but there's no way it'd be #16 by votes.SPOILERS: I guess we weren't really meant to understand the plot, since the ending negates it all. So the only part of this movie worth watching is the last five minutes? I didn't mind the negation ending, but I wish the movie could've taken some time to explain just what was true and what wasn't. END SPOILERSIn any case, it's probably worth your while to experience this movie. But, don't vote it a 10. It doesn't need a higher rating.
I found this movie to be utterly average.  Not bad, but definitely not in the "Must See" category.  Actually, the only thing that makes this movie interesting is the mysterious Keyser Soze.  This enigma make the movie much more suspenseful.


                
Should be on the 100 WORST list.  The only thing good in this movie is Kevin Spacey, but even he cannot make this movie worth watching.  As far as the other actors, acting like this reminds me of Coyote Ugly (2000).  This movie is so dry it is hard to sit through more than 30 minutes of it.  There is nothing in this movie that makes me want to finish watching it.  The part of Kobayashi could be bettered by one of "Saturday Night Live's"  worst performers.  This accent sounds so stupid and painfully fake it makes me wish I wasn't watching this garbage (again, like Coyote Ugly (2000)). This film is a waste.  I don't know how so many people can think differently. Watch it for yourself, but be forewarned, it stinks.


                
This film is all about the screenwriter proving how clever he is. He creates a pointless story and tries to fool the audience into going along for the ride. There are no real characters, only pawns in an intricate chess game which we are supposed to care about. At the end of the film, I felt manipulated and angry for wasting my time on such an empty movie.


                
This is perhaps the only film I would ever be so presumptuous as to call "overrated". I understand its appeal, but I still don't like it. The acting is decent enough, but not terrific. If anything, several of the actors seem to be miscast. The dialogue is for the most part exceptionally weak, with Kevin Spacey getting all the good lines. Gabriel Byrne is supposed to be the center of the story, the character we're supposed to care the most about, but he's such a bland guy that I personally didn't really care about him at all. And then there's the "shocking" ending where it all comes together. First of all, simple logic would determine that it was the only possible ending - and knowing that this mysterious villain had to be one of the five protagonists made it even easier. Simple math, ladies and gentlemen. Plus, if that ending were true, much of what came before it doesn't fit. I know, I know - you're saying  "That's the whole point!" Even considering that, it falls apart under closer scrutiny. And this is the type of film that should not fall apart. It should be as tight as an oil drum. This film's pleasures are purely surface-level. There's nothing beyond the script's trickery and machinations to be found. This might be entertaining in some respects, but it's not a deep or profound piece of work.


                
After having this movie recommended by everyone I know I decided to buy and looked very forward watching it.But I was hugely dissappointed. To me all this movie was is a criminal telling his stories to a cop a couple of hours before his release.There was no real excitement, just a flick between the police station where the criminal told his stories and we got the chance to live some of them.If it wasn't for the good playing of the cast I'd have give this movie a 1.


                
This is one of the most overrated films. In fact, it is just a mediocre thriller like hundreds of others. Even the title is not original but borrowed from a well-known phrase in "Casablanca"... Much more original turns and twists can be found in almost any film noir.


                
I know that many of you probably saw this film based on a recommendation from a friend. That friend probably told you that this movie is really cool and the ending will be totally unexpected. Well, the latter is right but the former couldn't be more wrong.This movie moves at a snail's pace. It is slow, plodding, and incredibly boring. All of the flashing back scenes are confusing and nerve wracking. The main character's recollection of the events seem hazy. I could recall a series of events better when I'm drunk than he could sober.The ending of this movie is surprising and well done. However, I don't think it is worth watching two hours of complete boredom for five minutes of surprise.The Stone Rose


                
I saw the movie after all my friends insisted i'd see it 'cause they said it was sooooooooooo unpredictable!!! This movie was a waste of time for me since i saw the plot coming after like 20 minutes. The acting on the other hand was very decent so... to bad they took something that was so not obvious that it became obvious ya dig??? Some people see this movie in the same way they see a Tarantino movie or one like memento. In my opinion these movies are way better and more unpredictable than this... But on the other hand i'm forced to say that maybe if i didn't see it coming it would have been a good movie to me but hey these things happen.


                
The first time I saw it I came in half way through during Kevin Spacey's speech ...i mean interrogation. And i thought that man never talks about another man like that unless he's either in love with him or is describing himself. Case closed. It didn't live up to its hype and as much as I love watching Kevin Spacey at his snarky best I wanted to be left stunned when I was barely stirred.
