I don't know what the problem is. I had heard that this is an incomprehensible film. That when it ends we don't know what exactly happened. I thought that throughout the film we were in the loop, and even if we have an unreliable narrator, I suspected that from the start. Anyway, it's been a long time since I've been taken for such a joyride with such interesting characters, even if they are murderers and felons. The plot is woven so delicately and the threat is so interesting, that I was involved from the first minute. I always wondered how Kevin Spacey, a rather ordinary looking guy with a receding hairline, got to be so well known. Obviously, this is the reason. His performance is right on and he dominates the screen, even though he is a "gimp." There are so many layers in this film, but I don't think the screenwriter ever plays unfairly with it and it is quite satisfying.


                
Out of the mind of Christorpher McQurrie comes this incredible story of a man in search of the devil. The film is called " The Usual Suspects" and what could be more appropriate than an unusual movie about five suspects who are anything but usual. The story originates with the only survivor of what the police conclude was a murderous and explosive drug deal gone bad. His name is Roger Kint (Kevin Spacey is perfect) also known as 'Verbal.' From the mouth of this innocent storytelling, con-artist comes the fantastic tale of how he and his fellow criminals, Stephen Baldwin, is Michael McManus, Benicio Del Toro is Fred Fenster and Kevin Pollak as Todd Hockney were originally assembled and then set-up. Beginning with a mix-up by law enforcement to put several guilty men together in the same line up, the tale proceeds cross country and culminates with a powerful, but mysterious kingpin by the name of Keyser Soze. It's through his attorney, Kobayashi (Pete Postlethwaite), the men learn they are marked for death unless they undertake a dangerous assignment. The center piece of the Unusual group is their leader, a remarkable individual named Dean Keaton (Gabriel Byrne, incredible performance). What transpires in this movie from moment to moment is a lesson in sleigh of hand. What we and the police Dave Kujan, (Chazz Palminteri) are told is not what we see. Conversely, what we see is not what we have been told. In the end, this film with it's haunting theme by John Ottman, is nothing short of incredible. A superb classic in both mystery and action entertainment, by Bryan Singer. A great film indeed. ****


                
From a directing perspective, The Usual Suspects is a flawless masterpiece with immaculate script writing and a rare show of top notch ensemble cast acting. Benecio Del Toro makes genius choices, Kevin Spacey was brilliant and I believe was handed the greatest of opportunities with such a will scripted role. This movie really put Kevin Spacey on the map, but everyone in the ensemble cast is outstanding. Stephen Baldwin, Gabriel Byrne, Benicio, Spacey....the list of appearances goes on and on and only sets the bar higher far any movie with a comparable storyline and cast.Christopher McQuarrie's inspirationally written script, is one of the finest of the the cinema era. The Oscar was well deserved for this piece of work, unlike many politically nominated and won Oscars. This was acknowledged because the work lived up to the praise.


                
After a bloodbath and fire on a moored ship only the badly burned Hngarian mobster Arkosh Kovash (Morgan Hunter) and the crippled small- time crook Roger "Verbal" Kint (Kevin Spacey) survive. Agent Dave Kujan (Chazz Palminteri) interrogates Verbal that explains what happened to Dean Keaton (Gabriel Byrne), Michael McManus (Stephen Baldwin), Fred Fenster (Benicio Del Toro), Todd Hockney (Kevin Pollak) and him in the vessel. Six weeks ago, they met each other at the line-up in the police station and decide to team-up for a heist under the command of the former corrupt cop Keaton. After delivering the jewels to the fence Redfoot (Peter Greene), they are hired for another heist and then the lawyer Kobayashi (Pete Postlethwaite) approaches to them and tell that the notorious Hungarian gangster Keyser Söze had offered them to go to the ship to destroy the cocaine they are transporting. They go to the ship and do not find any drug, and Keyser Söze killed each one of them. Who is Keyser Söze?Twenty-two years after the releasing date, "The Usual Suspects" is still a great film that has not aged. The impact reduces a little if the viewer still recalls who Keyser Söze is, but the film is still one of the best of the genre. Kevin Spacey was not well-known and Bryan Singer was in the beginning of his career, but the direction and performances are top-notch. The screenplay is one of the best written in the cinema history for a mystery film and the result is a fantastic movie. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil): "Os Suspeitos"


                
Kevin Spacey is Roger Mint, a con artist who is interrogated by the police following a crime resulting in a fire and several deaths. Told by Spacey with a series of flashbacks, the audience must pay close attention to the complicated storyline.Spacey is at the top of his game as Roger and he is joined by Stephen Baldwin, Gabriel Byrne, Benicio del Toronto, and Chazz Palminteri as assorted criminals, all with colorful histories of their own.The Usual Suspects is impossible to describe in a review without giving too much away. The only advice I can give to fully enjoy this wonderful and sophisticated crime drama is to turn off the phone, put the lights out and sit back and concentrate and the payoff is well worth it.


                
Five hoodlums are hauled into a police station in a dragnet roundup of The Usual Suspects that are brought in for questioning when something big breaks. Good chance any one or all could have been involved. If you remember in the film The Brink's Job, there is a scene where within a day a lot of Boston's known hoodlums are brought in for questioning. The dragnet brought in Stephen Baldwin, Bernicio DelToro, Kevin Spacey, Gabriel Byrne, and Kevin Pollak. From this motley crew a gang is born.Flash forward to several years later when there is a horrific fire on board a freighter where there has been a gun battle with many deaths. Kevin Spacey managed to survive along with two others of the freighter crew and is being questioned in the police station by US Customs Agent Chazz Palmenteri and LA cop Dan Hedaya.After a couple of other jobs, this crew winds up working for a criminal mastermind from the Balkans who is known as Keyser Sose who is known to be so ruthless that the criminal population itself is scared to death. This guy is spoken of like he was Satan himself and of course the police want him big time also.I can't say much more because the plotting of The Usual Suspects is so intricate and filled with unexpected twists that to spoil this film would be a crime itself. Some here like Stephen Baldwin give their best performances on screen. Kevin Spacey won his first Oscar, this one in the Best Supporting Actor category. The category has me stumped because it's his character that's the key to the whole film. The other Oscar The Usual Suspects won was for Christopher McQuarrie for one highly original Screenplay.The Usual Suspects has enough action for those who crave that, especially when we do see the final battle on that freighter and it's also some highly literate dialog for those who appreciate that. It's best compared to that granddaddy of all caper films The Asphalt Jungle, it's that good.


                
this movie is umm, queer.  completely overated and boring.  wanna watch a real crime movie, watch pulp fiction.  10000x better. And what else, its boring. -1/10 ... yes, its really that bad


                
First when i heard about the movie i didn't expect much about it, a thriller that luckily was at the top 250 #20. But of course a movie doesn't just pop up to #20 for luck right? Although there are some movies that doesn't deserve to be on the top 250, like American gangster...Anyway more to the movie, the first 10 seconds of watching i was already excited, the music was perfect which kept me busy. And then when the movie was over i was like "Wow...this is perfect" And it is really. This is the ultimate thriller, i know understand why it's on #20. The characters were very well prepared so the actors had really easy to go into them. I thought the most well played actor was Benicio Del Toro, he played "Fenster" and he did it really good, so my hat goes off for him.Anyway the movie was as i said perfect, which it why i gave it a 10/10 which doesn't happen to often. The movie was so clever that in the end of the movie you'll go "Oh..how come i didn't notice that?!" I'm not going to reveal anything of the plot, that's up to you to see but i will give you this hint: "Keep your eyes open" The usual suspects 10/10 "Brilliant,perfect,clever, this movie will never die"


                
I went to watch the usual suspects and was thrilled! The movie was amazing. I loved the way Kevin spacey acted throughout this movie. I didn't give it 10 out of 10 because of one huge reason. I went to watch this movie with someone under 18 years old. The amount of bad language in this movie should have been less. I don't know why people put so much bad words. If you use foul languages a few times its okay but you cant say it in every minute. Anyways leaving that aside the movie was brilliant. All the actors came together well and the director did a great job along with the producer.I will ask everyone to go watch this movie if they can censored or if they want the original versions fine.


                
Directed by Bryan SingerStarring: Kevin Spacey, Gabrielle Bryne and Benicio Del ToroOverall: This is truly an astonishing movie and I definitely recommend to watch it, but don't read or watch anything relating to the movie prior to watching. Good:1. Kevin Spacey is absolutely amazing as Verbal and I don't think he can disappoint me as an actor.2. Gabriel Bryne is awesome as Keaton.3. All the other actors did good, it was mainly those two that stood out for me.4. An excellent and well written story.5. I have very mixed feeling for the ending. It is great and amazing and possibly one of the greatest ever... but I guessed it 20 minutes in. Don't get me wrong, it's excellently done and crafted and, if you think about it, is utterly, utterly genius but I guessed it and I feel like that hurt my viewing experience.6. Good cinematography.Bad:1. Other than Spacey and Bryne's characters, no one really stood out for me to the point were I can just barely recall some of their names. 2. It's sad I have to list the ending as a negative but If I can guess it, on my first viewing... 20 minutes in. It's good but I finished the film slightly disappointed.9/10
Before I offer any analysis of "The Usual Suspects", I would first like to say that (as is well know by now) the film has perhaps the most mind-blowing ending in the history of American Cinema. I have long been a fan of movies with endings that are shockers (The Sixth Sense and The Others stand out as favorites), but this movie took it to an entirely new level.I won't give away the ending here, but I will say that this film follows a narrative pattern such that guessing the "big reveal" is difficult, as information is revealed in flashbacks, thus getting more complex as the story continues. However, many other Amazon reviewers have said that, after repeated viewings (I have only seen the film once), it IS possible to somewhat predict what is going to happen.I didn't know what to expect when I sat down to watch this movie, but I knew I was not a fan of gangster/crime films, so I was a bit leery. However, the story is so expertly crafted that one (myself included!) completely forgets that the main characters are criminals and instead focuses on the plot twists and turns.So, I would highly recommend this film to two categories of viewers: First, those of you like me who have never seen this classic film until "now" and are wondering what all the buzz is about, you won't be disappointed. Second, those of you who love surprise endings (even if you aren't too keep on cop/police dramas) will obsess over this film for weeks or months after viewing!
This is one of the most original cinematic stories ever told. "The Usual Suspects" won two Academy Awards, for Best Original Screenplay and Best Supporting Actor, due to a fantastic cast and an awesome story with an even bigger plot twist.The Plot: Dave Kujan (Chazz Palminteri), a Customs agent, brings Verbal Kint (Kevin Spacey), a small-time con artist with a limp, into a local Californian police station for questioning in hopes of discovering the identity of the mysterious criminal Kaiser Söze. Kint tells the story of how he, three other criminals, and formerly corrupt police officer Dean Keaton (Gabriel Byrne) agreed to do a job for Söze who had vendettas against all of them. Kint explains that the job went wrong, and a man killed the others, including Keaton, before setting the ship they were all on board aflame. Kujan doesn't believe his story and instead forces him to admit that Keaton was really Kaiser Söze.The Twist: "Who is Keyser Soze?" This is what everybody wants to know, as the viewer sees a crippled man named "Verbal" Kint (who was part of a major crime alongside his partners) to the detectives assigned to the case.Crime lord Keyzer Soze is "Verbal" Kint, who has just told detective Kujan (Chazz Palminteri) a pack of lies he's made up. As he's being released from custody, he steps out to the street and reveals himself as non-crippled. One of the greatest cinematic stories ever told and the greatest ending twist in film history. In what is arguably the greatest cinematic twist of all time, Kujan realises that everything Verbal told him during the interview can be found in pictures, clippings, and items around the office, revealing that Kint lied about everything. As Kint walks to his car, long gone from the police station, he drops his limp.The film ends with Kint reciting a quote by French poet Baudelaire: "The greatest trick the devil ever pulled was convincing the world he didn't exist." —Before the screen goes black, he adds, "And like that<U+0085> he's gone."This is the kind of twist that makes repeat viewings so rewarding. Once you know what's up, you can start to differentiate between the lies and the truths.Admit it: You never saw that coming!!


                
The title comes from a line in the classic film "Casablanca" (1942), where the corrupt police chief, anxious to cover up the murder of a Nazi officer, tells a subordinate to "round up the usual suspects," meaning that the police should find a bunch of random criminals to be questioned. In the film, the usual suspects are five small-time crooks who are brought together in a police line-up on trumped-up charges. Funny thing - the idea for this movie started only with the concept of a movie poster of five of guys in a lineup."The Usual suspects " is a modestly-budgeted piece . All the actors worked for less than their usual fees. It shows you their dedication to the project and seems impossible to make this film today , when almost every movie has a 200 mln budget. This movie doesn't have budget , but it has the thing that is really the most important in a movie – screenplay.The ending is one of the most memorable scenes in movie history . It's very simple and very effective . Simply unforgettable , when the truth hits you like a ton of bricks. The quote from the French poet Charles Baudelaire "The greatest trick the devil ever pulled was convincing the world he did not exist" appears in this movie and it's definitely one of the most famous lines in movie history.The story seems convoluted , but in the end makes perfect sense. It grabs you from the start with the mystery of what happened in the docks. There are more mysteries and twists along the way until the very end. Like every good criminal this movie does lose it's magic on repeated viewings , yet not quite. On repeated viewings you can see many clues you might have missed . You will also notice how well written the dialogues are.Kevin Spacey gives quite possibly the best performance of his career as fast-talking yet shy con artist crippled by cerebral palsy. He deserved Oscar . The rest of the cast shines too - Gabriel Byrne , Benicio Del Toro , Kevin Pollak , Chazz Palmintieri and even Stephen Baldwin. The music by John Ottman is underrated . It's very elegant and moody score. Bryan Singer directs with confidence and energy , never allowing the plot to be confusing.The only bad thing I can say about this movie that it's only a game . There's nothing , no message , no substance underneath this brilliant construction. It's just a pure entertainment and intelligent fun with the viewer , but who said that's a bad thing ? I give it 9/10.


                
My first comment is that if you have not seen this movie, stop reading now and go and watch it. It is phenomenal the first time you see it. Do not read any more as what I write will give away too much of the plot.My friend's comment about this movie was that when he saw it in the cinema, at the end everybody left in dead silence. The ending of it so shocked them that there was literally nothing to say. The Usual Suspects is a movie with a brilliant twist and flows constantly through to the end. On TV it sucks because you simply lose the flow of the movie as the adds interrupt it.It is impossible to describe the plot without giving too much away, so I will simply say what happens at the beginning and a few other things about the themes in the movie. It is not a thematically deep movie, but it is one that the characters work well and the plot is very well constructed.It begins with an explosion on the LA waterfront and lots of corpses are dragged out of the water. One man, a cripple, is found alive and is taken in for questioning, but he has to be released due to some immunity he has. Anyway, the story is told through the mouth of this cripple, and seems legit.It begins with the hijacking of a truck in Queens and five people - the usual suspects, are brought in for questioning. Of course they have nothing on them and their lawyer forces the police to release them. Angered at the police's treatment of them, they decide to bust open a conspiracy where the police offer taxi services to criminals.One of the lines in this movie shows the idea that once somebody is a criminal, they are always a criminal. It is the line that says, "you get to a point where you no longer have any rights - no matter how you try to live a straight life, they will always come after you to pin something on you." This is the story of Dean Keaton. He was a cop who went corrupt but now is trying to make good with his life. Unfortunately the cops won't let him do that. Not only will the police not leave him alone, but when he tries to make good, his past always comes back.The police believe that Keaton is not just a bad guy, but the bad guy. They are so obsessed with making sure that Keaton is dead that they completely miss the real person whom they are looking for and this person simply walks right out from under their noses while they try to force them to admit that it was all Keaton's fault.Another theme is that we are never truly free - there is always somebody that is in control, and not only that but what ever we do always affects somebody, and in some cases somebody whom we don't even realise. All of the suspects in the movie did something that upset the wrong person, and they did not even intend on upsetting him, they simply did not think about their actions.Finally there is a somewhat relative message in this movie. On one hand, things are not always what they seem, but on the other side, the truth is really only somebody's subjective interpretation of events. Even then, we can generally not accept what people say because there is always a subjective intention behind it.The Usual Suspects is a brilliant movie. It is not as good the second time round as you already know what will happen, but for the first time, it is simply leave you speechless.
Like most people who have recently watched the movie, I expected a big twist at the ending. I was feeling somewhat disappointed at how obvious the initial twist was however when the final twist occurred, revealing Costner as the villain, it made me totally reassess the movie into being one of my all time favourites.There were so many classic scenes in the movie that it would be impossible for it not to be in anybody top 25. The way the officer realised what Soze had done to him was classic. As an audience, we relived the movie in a few shots as we pieced together Soze's fake story and it all came together so brilliantly. Fantastic
Number 28 on the list of the top 250 to watch, from the 90's, a superb cast - of course I had to watch it.I was so enthusiastic about the movie and then for about an hour it follows such a slow pattern, nothing is being added on to but a top noch performance of the cast so I click on its reviews and see some really bad ones which is weird as this is not one of love or hate me type of movie work!A classic can't ever get overrated. It has a blowing mind final not to be expected and pushes up it's score up to the limit.I am a girl born in 86 and loved the movie- love the city in the 90's, love Spacey's performance, love del toro performance which seems quite irrelevant as an over all role but it's perfectly executed.I believe the movie was played to be though of "ok another ordinary inside job movie" although is clearly an very intelligent classic.


                
The Usual Suspects is a mix of mystery, action and film-making at it's finest. It truly is genius.The plot of 'The Usual Suspects' essentially consists of two stories. It starts in the middle, because the basis of the film (the major event) happens within the first 10 minutes. The first story is the build up to this action. The second story is what happens afterwards. The two stories start at different ends and work towards the middle. The result is a fantastically interesting and articulate plot which results in the all characters (including the audience) trying to piece together the pieces of the puzzle.The Non-liner structure I thought worked, but only to a certain degree. I have to say that it was not the best non-linear film I have seen. I still prefer Memento in terms of arrangement. However, as I have said, the process of working towards the middle really worked in a murder mystery film. I can't think of too many other films like it. With the exception of Reservoir Dogs and although I am sure that the film is not a copy, it is very similar to Reservoir Dogs in it's layout and style. The major difference being that you see the action that took place in the usual suspects and you don't in Reservoir Dogs.Another thing to mention is that mystery films do not always work best with non-linear structures. I believe the reason that memento worked was because it turned out that thee was no mystery in a twist ending, it was merely personal vendetta. However in this film, it does become confusing at times and can lose some audience members. I much prefer mystery presented in a linear pattern. For example, I shall use Sherlock Holmes (my dear Watson). In the Holmes novels, the mystery is presented in pattern where the reader begins to solve the case at the same time as Sherlock Holmes. Making it more interesting and engaging. I just felt that the non-linear structure didn't have this attraction.Another things to mention is that all the acting is universally brilliant. I don't say that lightly either, but I totally bought the reality of the characters, without meaning to add favouritism, Kevin Spacey was just fantastic in his role. For not being a method actor I was amazed on the realism he managed to bring to the character in terms of his body movement and vocal style.Finally, what can be said about the end? Well, as far as I am concerned, it was one of the best twists I have seen in modern cinema. I can guarantee that 90% of the people who watch this film will not guess the true ending. It is such a great twist that is so cleverly paced out that it puts Reservoir Dogs to shame.The film is guaranteed to please, if you're a fan of Tarantino movies, or for that matter, mystery films, then watching this film should be mandatory. Not questions asked.Brilliant.9/10.
Although Bryan Singer has directed some pretty good movies (X-Men, X2, Valkyrie, Apt Pupil), nothing comes close to this masterpiece. The intricate storyline follows a cop (Chazz Palminteri) trying to solve the mystery of the identity of a mysterious and very feared Keyser Söze. The suspects include a strong cast consisting of Stephen Baldwin, Gabriel Byrne, Benicio Del Toro, Kevin Pollack, and Kevin Spacey. The film is strong in every area: soundtrack, sound effects, visual effects, etc., but its legend comes from its superb writing, both in dialogue and plot. This is a very fun flick to watch time and time again and is probably necessary to watch more than once in order to piece together the complicated mystery.


                
"The Usual Suspects" starts out just like a crime film, but evolves into an almost classic mystery. It's the kind of film you need to watch twice in a relatively short period of time to truly understand the script's mastery. I've seen the film twice, but years apart, so my insight into the tremendous cinematic achievement of director Bryan Singer and writer Christopher McQuarrie is there but limited."Suspects" is derived from a concept of a line-up of hardened criminals who have been brought in not with any evidence, but just because they are "the usual suspects." Their union, however, soon finds them all on a job that ends up with a giant boat explosion and only two survivors, one of them being only one of the criminals, "Verbal" Kint (Spacey) a constantly rambling cripple who must explain the entire situation to the police. The story is told almost entirely from Kint's perspective, which already adds a shade of suspicion to the plot.The film lines up in strong cast with Spacey including Gabriel Byrne, Stephen Baldwin, Benecio Del Toro and Chazz Palminteri. Their characters, especially the criminals, all add an interesting dynamic to the film, keeping all the scenes interesting when the greater mystery is really the film's greatest asset.McQuarrie has lined the script full of gems so carefully that when he unloads one of the best twist endings in cinematic history, you are slapped across the face and filled with absolute glee. There's no other way to put it. Credit for this also should go to Singer and Spacey. There's no question that Singer's direction keeps up the intensity. It romanticizes the criminal lifestyle a bit, but it's necessary. Spacey's incredible portrayal of Kint, not only in his mannerisms but in his dramatic highs and lows keeps the storytelling engaging too.You simply have to watch this film and then watch it again. Then you will unquestionably like it to some degree. If you need a heavy dose of action in all your crime films, that degree will be lesser. This movie does rely heavily on script and character to keep your attention. However, as far as pure mystery goes, you can't beat "The Usual Suspects."


                
All credit to Bryan Singer!! Without doubt his best film so far.. Waiting on Valkyrie by Bryan due for release may be in 2009.. Hope that will be a blast too.On watching "The Usual Suspects", you should take note of each scene that goes by.. Else you ll have to go through the second time to make some sense of the end. Singer stands out with the best on this...Kevin spacey is the standout performer in this movie... Even though everyone else chips in and plays their roles flawlessly.... This should have been Spacey's best performance except for " The life of David Bale" which i was privileged to watch most recently...This movie is certainly one of the best in the 90's.


                
I saw this film when I was in my last year at sixth form college. My brother had recommended it to me the night before and as I was supposed to be revising for my exams, I decided to watch the film. Before watching this film, I had never really sat at the edge of my seat all the way through a movie: I did with this one. I was hooked from start to finish. The film doesn't just have one of the best endings of all time, but the actual body of the film is virtually flawless. I have watched this film over 20 times and I'm still finding new things in the movie that I didn't pick up before!! Everything about this film was of a very high standard, especially the cast- Gabriel Byrne, Kevin Spacey and Pete Postlethwaite to name but a few. To highlight what a great film this is, it's been mentioned in many screen writing books as a study case. It has so many twists turns, not only in the storyline but in the relationships between the characters.This is a must see film for anyone who loves films, as it really shows how a film should be made.


                
Most movies are like taking the highway from point A to Point B. OK...sometimes you do get off the beaten path and take an exit you didn't expect, But it's still point A to point B.This movie, however, takes all the back roads, some of them unpaved and very bumpy, some of them narrow and curvy, and some of them downright scary! I am not going to give away ANYTHING in this movie, because I believe it would be a disservice to anyone who hasn't seen the movie before. I will only say that it's one of the best whodunits I have ever seen! Kevin Spacey is spectacular with his understated performance. He and the rest of the cast work magic with this wonderful script.The cinematography, while not being sweeping vistas, move the story along nicely, and the score is foreboding, without obviously leading you.The only reason I didn't give it a 10 is because I figured a key point out before it was revealed.What that key point is, I'm not going to say!


                
I saw this movie only recently and began thinking absolutely nothing of it, it was boring and I had absolutely no idea of what was going on. It was when you found out about Kaiser Sozar that I began to become exited with this movie. From then on to the very end of the movie I realized why this movie is supposed to be a cult classic. The acting was great from Kevin Spacey and the movie was interesting and suspenseful. I also enjoyed Stephen Baldwins cool character. I also enjoyed they end of the story when they were on the boat with the Hungarian Mafia and all of the mysterious deaths. After that the very ending was just the cherry on the cake it was overall a great movie and a noticeable cult classic.


                
The story is fantastic. The last 10 minutes of the movie is the best part. Kobiatchi


                
Really difficult to give this movie the review it deserves without adding any spoilers in.
I will say this: quick paced drama, complete with excellent casting, acting, directing, scoring and script. A big pet peeve of mine with typical dramas or "who-dunnit" movies is that they tend to be very slow through the first act. This movie avoids that pitfall and holds your interest from the opening scene.
Cast is special. Garbriel Byrne excels, Spacey delivers, Baldwin's best role, Pollack is solid, Palminteri performs as usual and Benicio Del Toro is awesome. "Fenster" is a guy I want to hang out with, against my better judgement.
Super quotable movie as well, which is a guilty pleasure of mine. Up there with Big Lebowski and O Brother Where Art Though as for quotability.


                
