Few would dispute that 'Pan's Labyrinth' is one of the best foreign language films of the 2000s, but I would go one step further and argue that it's also one of the best modern day fantasy/adventure films in general. There aren't many films that manage to blur the lines between fantasy and reality as effectively as 'Pan's Labyrinth'. The effortless transition between the real world and the underworld and the way the two worlds are interlinked really is something special and I've never seen it done as well before.The combination of a convincing and easy to buy into storyline and the magical fantasy underworld works perfectly. The fact that both parts of the story could easily stand alone without the other, and yet go together seamlessly, is an indicator of just how good it is. The horror elements also bring something completely different and unexpected to the film, though they are tastefully added and never overdone. Overall, a wonderful film and one of the best fantasy/adventures of the 00s.


                
Guillermo Del Toro shows an incredible amount of passion for his job. In interviews, in festivals, it is undeniable that this man adores making films, from one end of the creative process to another, and has tremendous energy and honesty for the activity. Nevertheless, there is something that doesn't function in his films, and as heartbreaking as it is to see someone with ideas and talent fail, this film isn't an exception and has a few weak points as well as his other ones. For some reasons explained further, it isn't even a "true" fantasy film. I have to stress upon how wonderful and magnificent the imagery - not just of this film but of all his films - is. Man-like creatures, caves, labyrinths, statues, puzzles, everything that contributed over the years to make Del Toro's imagery makes him a very powerful visual director, which times like these are in desperate lack of. The visions he projects onto the screen make him no less than a visionary. The thing that fails to give his film(s) the grandeur they need, though, seems to be always the same element: character depth / psychological analysis of his characters / the way the characters and their personalities blend into the rest of the film. Maybe we can attribute it to Del Toro having more patience to polish the sequences with special effects than the ones with actors, but in particular in this film, the characters seem to have no depth at all, they are grounded to feel one emotion at a time. Ofelia in the film is shown owning and reading books, but her relation to these books, what they mean to her, what they bring her, this relation is never shown or explained, we have to go by a stereotype and "assume" for ourselves that she has a wild imagination. The mother of Ofelia is also a faulty character of the story, we the audience have to fill a gap, and imagine for ourselves why shy would be attracted by Vidal, what brings her to be forced to stay with a monster like Vidal as opposed to remaining a single mother, etc... Vidal himself is very quickly presented: we know his lineage was military and that his father let him have his watch... not much of an emotional background for a man who tortures and kills with no hesitation! We know nothing of Vidal as a child, we only have this one-dimension, Manichean character. The list goes on, and none of the characters - Mercedes and Pablo, the doctor, etc, are presented or explained to the viewer. The same could be said about the elements of the illusory world. Usually, though, fantasy/horror films don't need any explanations (see Edward Scissorhands, Alien, Legend...), but this one would need to have some, and this is probably due to the state of psychological confusion of the characters (or, should I say, their irrationality). Ofelia, throughout the film, seems to live in constant fear of the tyrant Vidal, yet finds enough time and solace to go on imaginary journeys at night, and light-heartedly do anything the faun asks her, without even questioning or wondering where it will lead her. Mercedes, when given the opportunity to gut Vidal and be finished with him, leaves him alive half-way. And the doctor itself, whose side on the events is never clear, never poisons Vidal or puts himself in the way when given opportunities. Is Guillermo Del Toro cold? We might wonder. He has absolutely no scruples when he tries to shock the audience with violence towards nice characters, with monsters, with blood. Yet when his overall goal is to make a fantasy film, he remains a little bit too polite and shy to really break into the genre. To me, a "real" fantasy film would have had the imaginary break in the "reality". Yet Vidal doesn't see the faun, the faun doesn't save anyone or scares Vidal. Reality remains reality and fantasy remains inside the heads. The imaginary world in itself seemed a bit poor because of that, because of the film not really being a fantasy film, keeping the fantasy inside the head of its protagonist and reducing the spectrum of illusions (which are never directly opposed to the "realist" world). Overall, the film shows great academicism, not just by politely keeping the imaginary and the reality separated, but also by the decisions of the film-makers (the editing is gentle when it should be a bit punchier, the camera moves are scarce, the music is incredibly lame and boring, the camera angles are overall inexistent, etc).I have no idea whether Del Toro will or will not provide better character depth and psychological progression in his next films, but it flaws the films he has made so far. Yes, there is a beautiful message, we've heard it before, of how monsters can be monsters on the inside and humans on the outside, while some monsters look like monsters and aren't all that bad after all. But until the characters and the story have a real depth and meaning to the audience, none of all the fantasy, violence or special effects will mean anything. The blunt reality as it is shown here, carries so much depression in it that the message of poetic escapism doesn't function in the end. The task is difficult to propel kids in wartime eras, it is even more difficult when fantasy takes part in it. Del Toro's next films will, hopefully, dig deeper into its characters.
Set in the not so tranquil Spanish woodlands of aftermath Spanish Civil War , where a small band of anti-fascism rebels are hiding out. Ofelia's love of fairy tales is obvious from the beginning of The Pan's labyrinth . When a widow marries an authoritarian Francoist captain Vidal (Sergi Lopez), her daughter goes to a countryside mansion . This is where Ofelia (Ivana Baquero) and her pregnant mother (Ariadna Gil) have come to live, in the company of the violent , brutal Capitán , Ofelia's new stepfather and soon to be father of her half-brother. The captain and his troops must fight Republican guerrillas of the hills and woods, that Ofelia finds her release and distraction of the new world order and its warring factions and delves into the older, mysterious and enchanting world of fairies , faun's and giant frogs . Ofelia becomes friend of the servant Mercedes (magnificent Maribel Verdu), who is the sister of one of the rebels and actually is giving support to the bunch . Ofelia takes refuge in a labyrinth , she finds in the grounds of his home, and in reveries involving Pan (Doug Jones, it took five hours to get into The Pale Man costume , once he was in it, he had to look out the nose holes to see where he was going) , who set three tasks she must overcome to take place as princess of a magical kingdom and in order to obtain immortality according to the legend . Meantime , resistance fighters plot their strategies in the nearest forest battling fascist troops .This is a gorgeous , charming , graphic and deadly fairy tale . An exceptional picture for its inventive visuals , imagination and fantasy ; inspired partly by Goya's ¨Black Paintings¨ , including fantastic sequences parallel the reality . Sensational acting by Sergi Lopez as a cruel , unforgiving and totalitarian idealist Capitán Vidal . Versatile Sergi steals the spectacle as the monstrously sadistic officer bringing real menace to what might have been an absurd caricature . Wonderful and imaginative visual effects by DDT and magnificent special effects by Reyes Abades . The faun's legs were not computer-generated , Guillermo del Toro created a special system in which the actor's legs puppeteer the faun's fake ones , the actor's legs were later digitally removed . Impressive production design by Eugenio Caballero and rousing set design by Pilar Revuelta . The ruined town seen during the opening sequence of the film is the old town of Belchite Zaragoza, in Aragón, which was also used by Terry Gilliam for ¨Adventures barón Munchausen¨, the town was destroyed during the Spanish Civil War and never rebuilt. Sensitive as well as imaginative musical score by Javier Navarrete . Colorful and evocative cinematography by Guillermo Navarro , Del Toro's usual .The motion picture was splendidly directed by Guillermo del Toro who even gave up his entire salary , including back-end points, to see this film become realized . In 2007, this film became one of the few fantasy films ever nominated in the Best Foreign Language Film category at the Oscars . The film was hailed by critics and audiences alike, and del Toro decided to give Hollywood another try . Its fantastic assurance confirms Del Toro as one of contemporary cinema's most rewarding purveyors of fantasy such as demonstrated in his first big break ¨Cronos¨, and followed by ¨Hellboy¨, ¨Blade II¨ , ¨Mimic¨ ,¨The devil's backbone¨ and many others .


                
I have always loved this movie. I was a young girl when I first watched it and I fell in love with the fairy tale aspect and as I have gotten older I have fallen in love with the effects and conflict of it. The story line is interesting and keeps you guessing to see if the girl is in fact the princess. This story of love really feels authentic and wonderful, mostly because it is a story about love of family. You can honestly appreciate the way the story is framed in warn torn Spain and how that creates a different level of drama and sometimes confusion. It is an interesting blend of fantasy, war, and horror. I have seen this movie probably 30 times and it never fails to make me cry at the end from sadness and joy.
PAN'S LABYRINTH is a strange hybrid film. For long stretches we are in Spain during World War II. And when that violent world becomes too stressful, we accompany Ofelia, a 12-year-old girl, into a fairy tale land. The fantasy lasts for one scene, and we find ourselves back to Spain again.The real monster in this film, is human: Ofelia's stepfather, General Vidal. He demands complete obedience from everyone under his command. It is this unwavering, unilateral stance which filmmaker Del Toro attacks at every chance. Del Toro believes imagination nurtures one's spiritual being. If we do not develop imagination, and think for ourselves, we become mindless. And only the mindless follow all orders, no matter how inhumane, without thought.The World War II Spain segments are a bit too polished to feel legitimately 'in period.' The uniforms look brand new; there's no wear to them. The lack of depth to these violence-prone characters reminded me of Sergio Leone's "The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly." Each person is either good, or bad, or good pretending to be bad. And to make things interesting: everyone has an individual quirk.The fantasy sections, while very enchanting, and inventive, are nearly free of any real tension. The Pale Man segment is creepy, but - for me - General Vidal politely making a request is ten times scarier.The make-up, animatronics, and CGI work in this film are amazing. There's a palpable reality to these creatures. Details like Pan's twitching ears made it easier for me to believe in the fantasy than in the 'historical period' scenes. The life-like flight movements of the fairies are captivating enough to make FX modeler Ray Harryhausen jealous.Nice movie. But, realize that PAN'S LABYRINTH is about finding the strength and courage to rally against inflexible authority. It's about this little girl, Ofelia, coping with a rough life in 1944 Spain. The fantasy elements serve as sorbet between courses of a larger meal. It cleanses your pallet and keeps you optimistic even during the darkest of times. Imagination becomes salvation.
This is a really good movie. The acting is good and the story is really good...the special effects are amazing and it's just really well done...There is some violence, but nothing extreme. I don't want to give away the story because it's good and original and I don't want to ruin the movie for anyone, but I will say that it is in Spanish and when I saw it there were English subtitles, in case anyone was wondering. Also, this film is good because it has not only lots of special effects and a fantasy feel, but because it shows the reality of what happened in Spain before...Very well combined... I would really recommend going to see this movie when it comes out in theaters!!


                
If there is one thing I can guarantee with this review it's that you will not see another movie like Pan's Labyrinth the rest of the year. In English or in Spanish.With its dark imagines, brutal violence and terrifying fantasy creatures, I challenge you to find a film on par with Guillermo del Toro's vision of a young girl in Spain circa 1944 who endures the growing pains of a new family while imagining a world where creatures that would give Stephen King nightmares surround her and coax her into various tasks of passage.Pan's Labyrinth is a movie almost too complex to explain. There are two tributaries of plot. One involves the real world where Ofelia (Ivana Baquero) and her pregnant mother travel to their new home amidst the violence of the Post-war Fascist repression. While adapting to new father whose penchant for sadism is wiggle-in-your-theatre-seat cruel, young Ofelia takes comfort in her mother's arms. But when her mother has complications with her pregnancy, Ofelia quickly finds retreat with the unusual characters including nymphs and fairies that lead her on three tasks that suggest the offer of reclaiming a throne.The second story surrounds this journey into fantasy and I have yet to find the words two hours after the screening to describe the various characters that include a huge toad with a secret key hidden inside its belly and a creature that eats young children and has eyes on the palm of its hands.Creepy stuff. Think Big Fish is written by Clive Barker.Writer and director Guillermo del Toro (The Devil's Backbone, Hellboy) spins a whimsical story that is as engrossing as it is repulsive. The war scenes are brutally realistic with bullets not being spared for the long suffering, and a torture scene that includes utensils marked for your father's toolbox gave me the heebie jeebies a la Hostel. Guillermo is able to walk a thin line with confidence and with this entry, he secures his spot as one of the most interesting directors working in the mainstream today.Pan's Labyrinth received a 22 minute ovation when appearing at the Cannes Film Festival in 2006. I can't in good conscious share the same enthusiasm. But on the other hand I can't deny that this was an incredible spectacle that definitely deserves multiple viewings to fully appreciate the beauty amongst the violence and the creativity of the storytelling among the dark corners where creatures lurk and adventures await.www.robertsreviews.com
Guillermo Del Toro is Mexican. I clarify this because I know it, and I assured the fact to a friend who watched "El laberinto del fauno" with me; but when the movie began with a Spanish accent, I doubted. And it's because Del Toro is obsessed with the Spanish Civil War, and we the adventures of little children in the midst of this important historical event (watch "El espinazo del Diablo"); but all of this comes from his obsession with fairy tales, those that are only for children.But look at what he does: he invents the most infantile story of all, in a film that's everything except infantile. This is a double-edged sword; in fact, Del Toro is a double-edged sword himself. His obsessions come from when he was little, when he imagined creatures and monsters as part of his daily reality. He also has a photographic memory; these are all things that can as positive as they can be negative, and it is evidenced in his way of making cinema.The man knows a lot about cinema: he has experimented with cameras since his teenage years; he studied make-up<U+0085>This plays against him too, mostly in "El laberinto del fauno", which is one of the most technically perfect movies I've seen in my whole life. The impressive sound edition becomes present from the first minute; the images are exaggeratedly beautiful; the music is perfect, but only because it is directly connected to the plot.All the particularities that can be found in this film's characters come straight from Del Toro; who wrote the screenplay of his fable himself. It is an enchanting script that commences with the telling of a simple fairy tale, revealing a main fact of the story immediately. We should remember something so fundamental, but this immersing quality of the script makes us forget. And it's not a complex screenplay, because it has its predictable points; but as we get lost in a world where reality and fantasy become one, we stop caring.Reality can be so strong that sometimes we choose to escape. The images of this film are very strong, therefore the main character, Ivana, finds a magical world that keeps her constantly away from what's happening around her. And the point is not to ask ourselves if this 'magical world' is real, trying to analyze every moment to put them together and see if they fit. That's unimportant, because in this story there's nothing to resolve<U+0085>But there's a lot to understand.And I think that to really understand "El laberinto del fauno", you hace to understand its director. Del Toro's ability to bring incredible creations (from the same 'faun' to a monster with eyes in its hands) to us reflects the power of his imagination; maybe his only neutral quality. I think I'll never completely understand Del Toro, but I assume that his imagination is what makes him attractive to the people who work with him; and consequently makes them follow him anywhere.In this aspect, "El laberinto del fauno" stands close to "Letters From Iwo Jima"; because just like Clint Eastwood in that film, Del Toro is an example of how crucial and predominant is the influence of the director in a cinematographic piece. "El laberinto<U+0085>" is excessively long, but nobody cared; the actors become insignificant, as if the characters had taken over them (and not the other way round as it should be)<U+0085>Everything seems to be part of a bigger unit: Guillermo Del Toro's vision.


                
It's been over 24 hours since I saw Pan's Labyrinth at the local Googleplex. I'm still not sure if I liked it or not. I'm giving it a good grade (8 out of 10) because it is wonderfully shot, and has great art direction, cinematography, and set design. It's also very well acted and directed, and it's not pretentious or overbearing or simplistic or goofy.I guess it just didn't connect with me, like it's apparently connected with thousands and thousands of true fans. I'll try to describe the reasons why in a couple of paragraphs, but I doubt they'll be able to capture my antipathy properly.First, this isn't really an "adult fantasy film" as some have ascribed. It really is about kids, namely a girl who's stuck in a horrible position (forced to live with the cruel captain who married her mother). The film shows how kids in terrible situations can often mentally retreat into various fantasies, in this case a realm of fauns and fairies. So why did they give it an "R" rating and market it to adults? They should have cut down the violence a bit (it's not gratuitous, the extra notch of "R" rated violence doesn't markedly propel the plot) and gone for a PG-13 rating. This way, it would have been actually directed at kids (albeit older ones).As a reference point, consider what Stephen Spielberg did with his classic "Empire of the Sun." That, too, is a story about a kid caught in terrible circumstances (namely imprisonment in Japanese-held China during WWII). That was a PG-13 film, and shot through the eyes of the child, instead of through the eyes of the adults around the child. Something about "Pan's Labyrinth" doesn't ring true because of this. We're seeing a young girl's fantasies, but we are constantly torn back to an adult viewpoint. As a result, we never see this young girl grow and understand (and the evolution of a character is a prime force in cinema). If the director had kept us looking through her eyes, our sympathy for the character would be larger.I think that last paragraph was quite convoluted, so I'll try to re-phrase the main problem of this film. "Pan's Labyrinth" does not maintain the cohesive point of view throughout the film. Is this film about a bad world shown through the eyes of a child, or is it a film about the fantasies of a child shown through the lens of the real world? It's this lack of viewpoint cohesion that leaves me cold.8 out of 10.


                
Don't get muddled up. This is not a movie in which a cute American girl dances with she-man David Bowie and makes pals with huge cuddly toys. No, this is one of those eviler fairy tales with baby-eating monsters and bloody carnage. The kind of stuff that Hellboy director Guillermo Del Toro is best at.Ofelia and her mother move from the city to a large mansion in a rural area of 1944 Spain. Mother has remarried, since the death of her dad, to the cruel and wicked Captain Vidal. A man who only wants her for her womb and unborn child, with no interest in Ofelia at all. Vidal and his men use the mansion as a base to fight against the Republican rebels.Not the best of environments for an 11-year-old to be in, Ofelia stumbles upon the Labyrinth of Fauno (Pan, the Goat God, has nothing to do with this film, so I don't understand the English title) in the expansive mansion garden. Deep inside she finds Fauno, a sort of...well he's a mix of a lot of things. Imagine Darkness from Legend crossed with Mr. Tumnus, The Predator and Davy Jones. Fauno tells her that she is really the Princess of some Magical Kingdom. Her father, the King has been searching for her and has opened many portals to Earth. Fauno believes she is the one and tests her by ordering the completion of 3 bizarre tasks.The real world around Ofelia crumbles as Captain Vidal goes psycho, brutally murdering and torturing almost anyone he can. The rebels close in and her mother becomes very sick. Preferring Fauno's ghoulish tasks to witness murder on a daily basis, Ofelia becomes increasingly involved in her enigmatic Labyrinth world.In this respect it is very much like Catherine Storr's novel Marianne Dreams (and then the movie Paperhouse by Bernard Rose). Even Javier Navarrete's wonderful score sometimes reminded me of Hans Zimmer's score for Paperhouse. Definitely a CD I will have to get when it comes out! Despite the adult rating I would still take kids to see this. And by that I mean intelligent kids who are not addicted to Playstation and who don't mind subtitles. With so many crappy kids movies featuring talking animals a horror/drama shot from the point of view of an 11-year-old girl may just be the perfect cure.


                
PAN'S LABYRINTH was just about the most critically acclaimed release of 2006 . While it was better than most of the films nominated for the Best Picture Oscar - can anyone remember THE QUEEN or BABEL ? - it suffered badly from the hype and acclaim that surrounded it . Watching it not long after its release I did get a feeling of slight disappointment of " Is that it ? " . Sometimes it's best to let the passage of time elapse before you give your honest opinion on a movie Eight years after its release now seems like a long enough time to see if it's as good as it was made out There's no doubt PL is a strangely beautiful and haunting film . There is a major problem and that is that it never really escapes from the feel that it's two separate stories connected in a rather tenuous way . Ofelia lives in Franco's falangist , fascist Spain of 1944 and is made to live with her stepfather , the brutal sadistic Captain Vidal who holds the surrounding area in an iron fist . Ofelia , a child about to enter adolescence soon stumbles upon a strange underground kingdom populated by faries and demons and soon finds this magical kingdom can be every bit as cruel and oppressive as the war ridden and chaotic world of 1944 Time to be a little bit controversial and state despite the idiosyncratic visual magic that Del Toro brings to his films by the far the best aspect is the real life horrors inflicted upon the human population of a fascist country and the fantasy elements seem to be included as a sort of gimmick , almost as if Del Toro thought a period drama would have no market outside of Spain . Every time the action cut to the underground fantasy a voice inside my head - no doubt the director - kept saying " Please give me an Oscar for costume design , make up and visual effects por favor " . When you've got an evil piece of work like Captain Vidal murdering people who needs made up monsters ? If we're talking about Oscar nominations let's talk about Sergi Lopez as Vidal , or rather let's talk about one of the biggest Oscar snubs in history that's up there with Bruno Ganz in DER UNTERGANG . Seems if someone plays a murderous right winger this seems to alienate the award voters almost as if they're seen condoning mass murder . I'm of the view that a film is only as good as its villain and they don't much better than Vidal , a man who is more than happy to return to the family table after executing a couple of suspected rebels as if nothing out of the ordinary has happened . This reflects the Latin attitude of fascism . South American countries were notorious for this in the 1970s and 80s but even as recently as the 1970s Spain had a rather poor human rights record under Franco . Indeed I once worked with a Spanish waitress called Maria who told me her grandparents were murdered by Franco's regime . I never found out if it was because they were leftists or because they were descended from people who killed Jesus but it was a very poignant reminder that fascism in Europe didn't end with the defeats of Germany and Italy in 1945 As it stands PAN'S LABYRINTH is a strange but captivating movie . It's not quite a fairy tale and it's not quite a historical drama . It's contains wonderful performances and yet it's probably not the masterwork some people claim it to be . It never manages to overcome the inherent problem of being two stories trying and failing to gel together which means it's a good film but not a brilliant one


                
Many films portray characters' fight against war and violence. Characters use different ways to stand up against the terror and hopelessness that violence brings. For example, Guido battles the Nazi terror with his humour in "Life is Beautiful." Wladyslaw Szpilman fights the same regime with his determination to survive in "The Pianist." In "El Laberinto del Fauno," Ofelia's weapon is innocence. She is so determined not to shed innocent blood for her own gain. She maintains her purity when she is put to the final test late in the film.The film is appropriately dark and violent (hence not for everyone). It depicts the violence, cruelty, and hopelessness of the human world. The underworld is always dark but it is where Ofelia finds her true identity and personality. Her journey, however, is not smooth. If Ofelia passes all three tasks without obstacle, this film becomes mundane. Her failure in the second task highlight that our lives are prone to temptation and doubts. Steps of faith are not always easy to take.Del Toro's ability to closely and smoothly weave the fantasy and reality world impress me. We tend to think that the two worlds are far apart and drastically different. "El Laberinto del Fauno", however, depicts violence both in the human and fantasy realms. In the human world, Captain Vidal and his Fascist troops try to weed out the rebels. In the fantasy world, monsters like toads and ogres wreak havoc to trees and children.Ofelia maintains her integrity and innocence till the end. However, I wonder what source of hope can other people find. Ofelia has a predestined identity that other people do not. Pedro, Mercedes, and others must find ways to secure peace and hope. Unfortunately, Del Toro does not discuss how their conquests unfold. Ofelia's journey is so private and unique that others cannot share. Such is the reason for the 8/10.The score draws me in. It gives me a sense of mystery that I am ready to journey with Ofelia, looking for the peace and hope that we long for. I listen to the entire soundtrack in the official site and it is amazing.


                
Pan's Labyrinth is a Mexican film in Spanish with English subtitles. The film is set in the 1940's in Spain and is about a young girl named Ofelia who comes with her mother to live with her evil stepfather who is an army general during the end of World War 2. To escape the sadness and evil around her, Ofelia discovers a labyrinth in the back of the house and meets a creature who resembles a faun who tells her that she is a princess and must complete several tasks to come back to her kingdom. Ofelia does these tasks and is taken away into strange new worlds and are introduced to several unique creatures. In the real world Ofelia's mother is pregnant and with her evil and overbearing stepfather things are getting a lot worse and seeing as the film is set in the mid 40's during a fascist Spain there is a lot of violence and evil going on around her and sometimes in order to escape that Ofelia will have to go back inside the imaginary world to complete her tasks in order to be somewhere safer even though danger lurks in the fantasy worlds as well. Winner of over 22 awards so far, Pan's Labyrinth has good direction, a good script, good performances by the entire cast, good original music, good cinematography, good film editing, good production design and good makeup. Before I state what I liked about the film I would like to get the fact that although this is a fantasy film and looks like it would be great for children that it is probably not suitable for them receiving an R rating in the states for graphic violence and language, so parents please be advised. Getting that out of the way I must say that I really enjoyed this film. When Ofelia is in the fantasy worlds they are full of beauty and are gorgeous looking and at the same time they are often wonderfully grotesque and weird, so the look and effects of this film are fantastic. The imagination behind writer/director Guillermo del Toro is amazing and he has created a wonderful blend of fantasy and real life horror that balances out well and plays perfectly. When in the real world everything is dark, dreary and depressing looking, but while in the fantasy land everything is usually bright and more cheerful. This film plays out like a perfect fairy tale with dark elements, a hero, a villain and lots of weird stuff in between to keep us amazed and to capture our interest. The film is very dark, but anyone who has read fairy tales will be able to tell you that most of them are and it suit's the film and it's style very well. This is a gorgeous looking, creative, interesting and very well done film that is one of the best films of the year and I'm glad there is finally a fantasy film out there for adults to enjoy. I really enjoy fantasy films, but the majority of the recent stuff out there like Lord Of The Rings or Harry Potter isn't really my style, so I'm happy to say that this film certainly filled the bill and I was very impressed by the end of it. For those who are into fantasy and don't mind that the film is dark then you are in for a great story and a wonderful world of surprise that the filmmaker captures for you. I hope this film continues to do well and I hope the fact that it is subtitled does not hold people back from seeing it because it really is an amazing film and meant to be seen.


                
There is no one more creative than a child in the dark. As children, almost all of us were overcome by the most macabre leaps of the imagination once our parents had left us alone in our beds, vulnerable and scared. Suddenly every sound was a death threat, every shifting beam from the street transformed into the glare of a burglar's flashlight. Logic was swiftly made malleable; the most bizarre events could be thrown together by youthful paranoia to explain the circumstances by which a mummy could be lurking in the closet, a decaying skeleton under the bed. It was all terrifying, and for a child whose mind was still unadulterated by reason, it was all very real. Guillermo del Toro's new film "Pan's Labyrinth" is one of the best movies to come along in a while for many reasons, but it is most unique in the way it has perfectly captured the terrors of childhood, both real and imaginary. "Pan", like del Toro's previous gem "The Devil's Backbone", takes place against the backdrop of 1930's Spain during the country's civil war between Fascists and Soviets that had torn it apart, The main storyline revolves around Ofelia, played by a luminescent Ivana Baquero, a young girl who has retreated into novels and fairy tales to escape the harsh realities of her life. Her mother, a widow, is heavily pregnant with the child of Capitán Vidal, the deliciously malignant Sergi López, a fascist officer stationed at a dilapidated mill deep in the Soviet occupied Spanish forests. At Vidal's insistence Ofelia and her mother move there, a difficult journey and a heavy blow to the health of the weakened pregnant woman. Ofelia soon finds that she is anything but alone at the mill. Woken in the night by a noisy but amiable praying mantis, she follows the bug to a nearby labyrinth. At the maze's center she meets a faun, who soon sets her off on a series of tasks in order to escape the nightmares of her life. The quest she begins soon after is populated by creatures so freakish, so bizarre and yet simultaneously so familiar that only the mind of a child could have created them. The faun is a duplicitous, creaking old goat whose every movement is echoed by the sound of a branch breaking in the dark or the creak of a door in the night. A monstrous toad living in the bottom of an old oak encapsulates everything that is so paradoxically intriguing and repulsive about amphibians to little boys. The Pale Man, a cannibalistic monstrosity of skin and sinew, is lifted straight from Goya's painting of Saturn devouring his children, another work of art created in a mind tortured by the cruelty of the Spanish Civil War. Del Toro's monsters embody everything that is terrifying to children, brought to life so well that they are almost intolerable even in maturity. This is not a film for the squeamish, filled as it is with images of both horrific fantasy and blood which is all too real. Most of this blood is spilt by Capitán Vidal, whose tyranny is the focus of the film's other plot line. His dogged pursuit of the Communist forces is hampered by a rebellious but motherly housekeeper, played in a remarkable transformation by Maribel Verdú, the sexy older woman from "Y tu mamá también". Grimly set on the eradication and cleansing of Spain, his character gives the film important historical context, foreshadowing the beginning of Europe's own waking nightmare. Del Toro is thankfully not blunt enough to make the two plot lines parallel, instead allowing the audience to draw connections without hitting them over the head with them. About to lose her mother in childbirth, surrounded by death and the burgeoning forces of fascism, Ofelia's innocence brings into stark relief the fallen world of adults which lies around her. Del Toro has created a film which rings true because of the purity of it's' core, just a sad little girl whose dreams are being corrupted by the cruelty of her world. To bring the brutality of that world to us del Toro has resurrected our childhood nightmares, and they are more harrowing than we can ever remember.


                
Guillermo Del Toro's Pan's Labyrinth has been called a fairy tale, but it is one without the color, warmth, or wonder we normally associate with films of this type. Rather, it owes more to the Latin genre of magic realism, as it reflects the grim fantasies of a young child caught in the middle of a brutal conflict and her desperate longing for a world without pain. Set in Spain after Franco had emerged victorious in the Spanish Civil War, Nationalist troops and die hard resistance fighters continue the struggle in the Spanish countryside. As the film opens, Carmen (Ariadna Gil) and her daughter Ofelia, brilliantly performed by Ivana Baquero, are traveling to join Carmen's new husband, Falangist Captain Vidal (Sergei Lopez) in his military headquarters.Ofelia, a bright, imaginative girl of ten, carries with her books of fairy tales. Her father, a tailor, died a few years ago in the war, and her mother is pregnant with the baby the Captain believes will be his son. When they stop to rest, the little girl meets a buzzing dragonfly and believes it to be a fairy welcoming her to a magic realm. In a voice-over, we hear the story of an underground country where "there are no lies and no pain", a metaphor perhaps for the thousands of Franco resisters who were forced to go underground. In this country, a young princess named Moanna is mourned after she leaves the realm to explore life on Earth and is blinded by the sun and dies. Her father, the King of the Underworld, however, has never given up hope that the princess will one day return in another incarnation.When Ofelia reaches the mill which has been converted into a military headquarters, she discovers an ancient stone labyrinth near her new home and meets seven-foot tall Pan, a half-man half-goat "faun", (Doug Jones) who tells her that she is the princess who everyone in his kingdom has longed for. To return to her true home and be reunited with her father, however, she must complete three arduous tasks, revealed to her by touching the blank pages of large notebook. These include encountering a huge toad in the roots of an old fig tree and retrieving a key from his stomach, and searching for a dagger in a room guarded by another gruesome creature, the Pale Man, whose eyeballs are in the palm of his hands. The room is filled with delectable treats but Ofelia is sworn not to eat them.The film shifts seamlessly between fantasy sequences and the armed conflict. Vidal is depicted as a soldier who takes pleasure in killing. In one scene, he sadistically beats a peasant to death with a bottle, suspecting him of being a rebel. His cruelty is not limited to rebels, however. When Carmen becomes sick during her difficult pregnancy, the girl hears her stepfather tell the doctor that if it comes to a choice between saving the mother or saving the baby, he wants him to save the baby. Amidst all the darkness, Ofelia develops a warm relationship with the housekeeper, Mercedes (Maribel Verdu), whom she later discovers sneaks out at night to bring messages, food, and medical supplies to the rebels. The Captain is merciless when he discovers Mercedes' "treason" as well as that of Dr. Ferreiro (Alex Angulo) who refuses to obey Vidal's orders.As the world around her grows darker and her mother becomes sicker, Ofelia further retreats into her dream world. Soon she must make the most difficult choice any person can be asked to make. Pan's Labyrinth is a strong and heartfelt film but it is a mostly gloomy affair and I yearned for some light and warmth to pervade the darkness, but the film does not go there except for a few brief moments. Del Toro's work, however, is not about metaphysics or spirituality. It is a personal film about memory and, as both Ofelia and Vidal remember their fathers, del Toro wants the world to remember the sadistic nature of the Franco regime, the courage of those who stood up to its brutality, and the innocence his country lost forever.


                
I'm not quite sure what to make of this.Is it a happy ending, or a sad ending? Is one more real than the other, and if we accept that it is simply because it seems obvious, is it necessarily more important than the other? In a sense, it's the happy ending that Ofelia strives for that brings about the unhappy version of events, and in the end the two coincide.I guess I'm still somewhat confused and trying to make sense of the senseless, and in some ways maybe that just means that I got the whole point of the movie. It's politically charged yet poetic, senselessly violent as it is fantastic and as inspiring at is depressing.I'd expect that many people would walk out of a cinema with similarly mixed feelings - I didn't know whether to smile or to cry. Much of the audience I sat with dealt with some of the more gruesome moments with a form of collective comic relief - where humour inappropriately surfaces to confront harsh realities that we prefer to deny: "they're not really going to make us watch that, are they?"; followed by, "can i look now? is it over yet?".This is definitely not for children, although I doubt it would exceed an M (15+) rating in this country. Only things like sex and drugs seem to qualify for that. If the language and violence were toned down then you might be able to pretend that there were something in it for both adults and children, but that's clearly not the intention here and I think best avoided.Instead, the fantasy world of Ofelia becomes almost as relevant, almost as real as the world of the adult characters, and it's the parallel course of the two and their eventual interjoining that leads to the inevitable conclusion of this story.So I guess I could sit here and think about this in terms of a portrayal of the evils of fascism - in context. I could think about this in terms of an artwork - a traditionally surreal and complex way of telling a story that's set in a particular place in history. But I think I'll choose to look at this as a way of experiencing a story from two different points of view: the harsh actuality of the adult world with all its nasty and cruel realities (just as Ofelia's mother points out to her), contrasted with the coping mechanisms and "innocence" - verging on denial - of Ofelia's own journey through the events that take place...Having said that, it's hard to give one more weight than the other. Who's really in denial? So I leave the theatre not quite knowing what to think, how to feel or what to do next.Cool.P.S. There are plenty of bombs and action scenes for the rest of you.
Del Toro always proves himself! When comes to the effects, it is almost scary real, the creatures he comes up with are flawless. If you watch this movie prepare to have you breath taken away, and your heart pumping. The tension gets to levels where you almost can't take it anymore. I would buy this movie the moment I get a chance. If you don't understand Spanish,you will need to turn on the subtitles, so you will read a little bit more.


                
Pan's labyrinth is a truly wonderful experience and right from the start the viewer is treated to some beautiful visuals. But this film is a lot more than just being pretty to look at and beyond the excellent visuals, the viewer is treated to a captivating story.The main star of the film is Ofelia (played by Ivana Baquero) and considering she was only 12 years old when the film was made I thought her acting was really good - arguably the only acting that was as good as/better than Baquero's was Sergi Lopez whose performance as the evil captain Vidal (Ofelia's step-dad) was also excellent. We also have Mercedes (played by Maribel Verdu) Carmen (Ofelia's mum - played by Ariadna Gil) and the doctor (played by Alex Angulo) in supporting roles.Another of the film's strengths is the pacing - although the film is nearly 2 hours long, you won't even notice the time passing - the film's main plot covers Ofelia and her fairytale world within the Labyrinth and we also have a sub plot involving Captain Vidal and his war against 'The Guerillas'.Pan's labyrinth is beautiful to look at, has a wonderful story, is well acted with a strong script. I would strongly recommend checking it out


                
This is a very strange but clever and fun film, aswell as being brilliant and twisted it's also depressing on so many levels but still thrilling and weird.


                
The movie can be seen for good editing,cinematography and particularly Captain Vidal acting and Ofelia acting. The direction is superb with some good visuals. The script is so tight and in the end it gives a situation to understand the better innocence of a child.


                
This dark gritty fairytale needs your dedicated attention! A story of power, uprising and determination told through a harsh, violent and cold reality with plenty of symbolic gestures.


                
It tries to blend the cruelty of war with the mystical of magic and it mostly succeeds in doing so. The story is sad and dark and makes for a fairytale not for kids. Leaves you with a bittersweet aftertaste but that is the point. Great movie.


                
One will be struck with the way director Guillermo del Toro blends fantasy with the backdrop of a war drama. The principal character, the young Ofelia (Ivana Baquero), manages to interact in both worlds, and each of them are of dark and Gothic design. Considering it's subject matter, one might initially think this would be a good movie for kids to see but there's really too much gruesome violence and mutilation that takes place to make it wholesome for youngsters. The fantasy elements may conjure up images from other films like "Alice in Wonderland" or "The Wizard of Oz", but again, those pictures were generally a lot more colorful and optimistic in tone. The one thing that disappointed me with the character of Ofelia was when she ate the grapes in the lair of The Pale Man. I really wanted her to display more self control as the heroine of the tale. Unusual too is the idea that the heroine, so called, would actually die at the end of the story, at least in the real world realm. There was some consolation in the fact that she rejoined her father in the spirit world, but the first impression adds to my caution about the film's impact on a young audience.
The films darker topics (such as political violence, sadism and horror to some extent) were well balanced with fairy tale aspects, which gave it a more digestible and understandable way of exploring such heavy political topics. The cinematography, performances, makeup and visual effects were all so brilliant and helped ground the film as well as linking the fantasy to the harsh and brutal reality. The story itself was well written and very enticing as it did well to bring together both a very dark story with a very fantastical one, without it feeling too odd or one or the other feeling too out of place adjacent to one ever so different. Overall it was an extremely good film and definitely worth watching.


                
This film has a bit of everything : fantastical creatures, horror and tension, historical slice- of-life (dealing with the aftermath of the Spanish Civil war in 1944), a fairy-tale like story competing for screen time with a grim military attack against rebellious guerillas, loathsome and sadistic characters, but also cute and inherently good characters, warm and fuzzy sequences full of love and emotion, but also extremely brutal and disturbing violence. But most importantly, this film has a lot of heart, and by the end you will feel intimately connected with its principal characters, and it will make you cry with its stirring and somewhat ambiguous climax. This has been called an adult fairytale and there is a lot of ambiguity as to whether the magical and fantastical sequences are real or the imaginations of a scared and lonely child. There are clues towards both these possibilities, but I personally believe that thematically, it makes more sense that the fantasy sequences are just created by the mind of our child protagonist to cope with all the strangeness and brutality around her, and the ending really hits you even more powerfully with this assumption, as we grasp the true purpose of these imaginings and see how it helps her to achieve peace and happiness in a really grim situation.


                
