Set during Franco's mopping up exercise after the Spanish Civil War, Guillermo Del Toro's Pan's Labyrinth is a wonderful, dark fairy tale that, in a metaphor for Spain itself, teeters on the edge of nightmare dreamscapes of corruption, violence and the death of innocents.This film is definitely not for young children. Although the fantasy sequences are gorgeously realised, and are fairy tales in the truest sense (in that they are dark, fey, dangerous and violent), most of the story (about three quarters of it, in fact) exists outside of the dreamland, in the even more frightening (and sometimes shockingly violent) world of a real life struggle of ideas and ideology.Sergi Lopez is excellent as the brutal (and possibly sadistic) Falangist Captain tasked with routing out the remaining leftists from the woods and hills of Northern Spain. Into this precarious situation come his new wife (a widow of a former marriage, who is carrying his son) and his stepdaughter Ofelia (played to absolute perfection, by the then 11 year old, Ivana Baquero).Uncomfortable with her new surroundings, suspicious of her stepfather and desperately concerned about the worsening condition of her mother, Ofelia uncovers a strange alternative world, and the chance to escape forever the pain and uncertainty of her everyday life.Thus the film alternates between the world of Civil War Spain and the increasingly bizarre, dark and frightening world of the Pan's Labyrinth. As the twin plots progress, they intertwine, with the tasks of Ofelia becoming the choices faced by a Spain at the crossroads. The poignancy of the film lies partly in the fact that the victories of the child are reflected so starkly by the failures of the adult world.Apparently Pan's Labyrinth won a 20-minute standing ovation at Cannes, when it was shown. This may be a little bit over the top. I suspect when the furore has died down some will choose to swing the pendulum back and criticise it for its more obvious faults. Much of the film is derivative. There are few ideas in the film's magical dreamworld that haven't been seen before. There are also few ideas in the film's depiction of the Civil War that can't be read in Satre or Orwell; can't be viewed in Picasso's Guernica; or can't be watched in Land and Freedom.For all the evident truth of these observations, to accept them would be to entirely miss the majesty of Pan's Labyrinth, which doesn't lie in its originality but its absolute mastery of execution. People will watch Pan's Labyrinth in a way that most won't watch Land and Freedom. In doing so, they will also discover a world of fairy tales which existed before Disney sunk its claws into them: a dangerous world, where nothing is as it seems and every step is a possible death <U+0096> a place which may leave even adults shivering under the duvet, part in terror, part in wonder. And all this backed up by the finest cinematography I've seen.The only real faults I am prepared to allow for this film is a slight tendency (particularly at the end) for a Narnia-like moralism, and the fact that the faun is, perhaps, is not quite wild enough! These are eminently forgivable, though. This is easily the best film I've seen this year, and a must see on the big screen.


                
I was fortunate enough to catch Pan's Labyrinth last night as part of the 'Fright Fest' programme in London and was completely blown away. Guillermo Del Toro himself was present to both introduce the movie and to answer questions afterwards. He spoke very passionately about the film, and it was easy to see why. Guillermo Del Toro has created something very special - part war movie, part fantasy, that everyone should see. The film features a fantastic performance by Sergi Lopez as Captain Vidal and as central character Ofelia, newcomer Ivana Baquero delivers the performance of a seasoned veteran. If you are the type of person who is put off by subtitled movies, don't be. This is a very 'visual' film that does not rely overly on dialogue. This does not open until 24 November in the UK and 29 December in the USA but already I am looking forward to seeing it again (and buying the Special Edition DVD).This is the first time I've felt the need to write a review on here. Do yourselves a favour and go and watch it on the big screen.


                
I saw this at this years FrightFest Film Festival in London and absolutely loved it.Guillermo was there to introduce it and you can tell it really is a film he loves and is passionate about.He referred to it as a sister movie to The Devils Backbone.Anyway . . . so the film starts and I must admit I was expecting a lot more of a fantasy film however it is more of a 70/30 split between historical era movie/fantasy fairytale.Don't let this put you off though, the film really is stunning and brilliantly acted. The little girl carries pretty much the whole film on her shoulders and does so with the skill of Atlas himself! The violence is graphic and the monsters are scary but it is probably one of the most gorgeous and personal films from a director for a long time!Give it a go if you can get to a screening, DON'T WAIT FOR DVD, it really does need to be seen on a big screen!


                
I saw this film toward the end of the Cannes Film Festival; it edged out all the others I'd seen, 30 of them, because of its wonderful story; history, politics and fantasy woven into a fabric spun by a superlative creative team headed by Guillermo del Toro. In comparison to this, his latest effort, del Toro's other films only hinted at the depth and breadth of his talent. In this film, much as I pride myself on foreseeing the outcome of most stories, I could not guess what would happen next. The film is quite long, yet suspense is sustained throughout. The music is some of the best I've heard in years, so well suited to the action that you almost don't notice its specific effect because of how well it is intertwined with the visual, emotional and intellectual experience.In my opinion, del Toro's "...Labyrinth" deserved to win at Cannes over the Ken Loach film, "The Wind That Shakes the Barley". Actually, everyone I knew at the Festival who had seen both agreed with me. And the 22 minute ovation speaks clearly for the effect on the audience. It's hard to imagine that any film could beat it in a context other than Cannes where they have marked preferences, bordering on obsession, for certain directors.Let's hope that the late December opening favors an Oscar nomination which it should win hands down, unless some other work of genius appears on the horizon. That doesn't seem likely because at Cannes the somewhat disappointing array of films was attributed to the fact that not much great product is being released this year. I might add that I had already seen Volver prior to Pan's Labyrinth, and I maintain that Pan is the better film. For me, it displaced all three of my top films of the year. I do love The Departed but, luckily, that's in another category which does not threaten Pan's access to Oscar. If I had to choose the very best picture of the year, without limitation by category, it would most assuredly go to Pan's Labyrinth for it demonstrates del Toro's originality and brilliance as both writer and director.


                
Playing moments of true wonderment off scenes of sadistic brutality, Guillermo del Toro has created an epithet for classical fairy tales reminiscent of the traditional stories which amazed - yet simultaneously frightened - children.Del Toro offers us two worlds through the perspective of young Ofelia. The first - reality - is the cruelty of Franco's Spain; where Ofelia is whisked away to her sadistic step-father (played brilliantly by Sergi Lopez) who is attempting to root out the last remnants of the Republic. The second - fantasy - is the underground kingdom - or more precisely the promise of such a world - as Ofelia must complete three tasks for the beautifully constructed faun in order to prove her worth of being a part of such a utopia. What elevates Pan's Labyrinth above other fantasises, however, is the fact that its reality sequences are just as intriguing as its fantasy elements - a rare feat - and the two meld together perfectly.For instance, the faun may offer interestingly ambiguous revelations about Ofelia's destiny, but only if she follows his orders. Yet he doesn't necessarily mean what he says, and the presence of the Fascists in Ofelia's reality suggests that blindly following orders is the complete opposite of what she should do. So, while there are trips into the magical world (including a disturbing yet inherently memorable scene with the hieronymus bosch-like spectre known as the 'Pale Man') they do not overwhelm the film.The true horror and the meat of the story lies in Falangist Spain with the menacing Captain Vidal, who takes delight in torture - ritually preparing his tool kit and reciting his own speech to demoralise his victims - and who is equally obsessed with the continuation of his bloodline. The fantasy world is indeed where Ofelia's lessons are learned so that she may confront the terrors of reality; the most important of which being the need for courageous disobedience in the face of extreme oppression. Pan's Labyrinth therefore successfully and perfectly captures the essence of classical children's literature; combining fantasy with moments of horror, all with an underlying and ultimately crucial message which we must take head of in reality. The final scene is also a true whopper; with a killer of a send-off line and an ambiguous ending which still fuels debates to this day.Thankfully, del Toro uses CGI sparingly, although it is very obvious when it is used (particularly in the case of the giant toad) but this doesn't detract from the film's overall brilliance. It's dark, at times disturbing, but nevertheless beautiful, a true Gothic tale if there ever was one.


                
Pan's Labyrinth is a truly gripping film. It shows the difference in class between the peasant resistance and the fascist military. It's a great blend of action and drama whilst managing to stay interesting to the audience. It combines history, fantasy, politics and a story into 2 hours of enthralling film. The setting is magical and transports you into a world of mystical delight.The costume and make up team really out do themselves, making the mythical creature of a Faun look real. It's not CGI or some animations; they took the time and effort to make a Greek god, only seen in paintings into a real life being. The Performance by Ivana Baquero is brilliant, especially as she was only 11 or 12 at the time. She has to act with CGI; she has to act scared, sad, happy, relieved and surprised. With such little experience puts on an incredible show. Also, the performance of Sergi Lopez is amazing. From the first time we meet him to the last he keeps his character, a character which is always by the book, cold hearted and emotionless, even towards a child. Before watching the film I expected a corny story with poor performance by the lead child actor. But I couldn't have been more wrong. Even though it's sounds all cheesy story, it's actually quite dark, brutal and thrilling. There's unexpected violence completely out of nowhere that surprises the audience and gives a true insight into what the character are like early on. Overall, Pan's Labyrinth is a must see block buster. Please do not discriminate it as it's foreign with subtitles, after a few minutes your used to it and hooked on its riveting tale.


                
(SPOILERS) Pan's Labyrinth blew me away. Set during a Spanish Civil War, the setting often alternated between the horrors of reality and the fanciful wonderland that the young girl Ofelia, played by Ivana Baquero found herself in. After an encounter with a bipedal talking Faun played by Doug Jones who tells her she must complete 3 tasks before the next full moon in order to escape the mortal land and live with her father and mother who are royalty of the underworld. Each of these three tasks require Ofelia to venture away from her pregnant and sickly mother, played by Ariadna Gil and brutal step-father played by Sergi López to complete these tasks she receives from a magic book that the faun had given her.This movie was beautiful. Beautiful in the darkest of ways that I think I have seen put to film. A housemaid named Mercedes who essentially takes Ofelia under her wing has a lullaby that she hums to Ofelia at one point of the film. It is so simple and beautiful but very important to the film as you can hear it and its influence throughout the score of the film. The color pallet of the film is incredibly dark yet beautiful. The reality of the civil war ravaged area of Spain is constantly overcast and dark or rainy and each of the fantastical elements of the film are presented in the same type of light except I noticed that with each task Ofelia had to complete the composition of the shots became darker and darker as her situations became more and more dire. This darkness continues until the incredibly bright, bittersweet climax of the film. Innocence of person seems to be the central theme of this movie. Ofelia is thrust into a world she wanted nothing to do with. Her mother becomes pregnant and moves to the compound where the Captain Vidal and the men he commands over reside. He is a terrible, brutal man. Vidal is perhaps one of the most brutal and frightening antagonists I have ever seen in a film. He treats Ofelia and her mother like objects while only caring about his son (the baby that the mother Carmen is pregnant with). He takes no prisoners except to torture and maim them before killing them when he receives what he wants. Ofelia stands to be the central figure of innocence throughout a war where both sides are killing each other or backstabbing each other. Ofelia's innocence is brought to light in many instances throughout the film until the climax when the Faun requires the blood of an Innocent to open a portal back to Ofelia's true royal family. This movie was very different than your standard "Innocence triumphs" type film. No one is sacred or untouchable in this movie and it shows throughout. While a movie such as E.T. has a bitter sweet ending and the innocent child risks his life to save another certainly could be paid tribute here in Pan's Labyrinth, I feel it is taken to an extreme showing the horrors of experiencing a war as a child from the frontlines. Motifs in which Ofelia's innocence are tested throughout the film. There are moments when her character traits put those around her in danger because she didn't consider her acts to be "That bad" and in the ultimate test of innocence she sacrificed herself for her brother ultimately earning her way from her mortal body to reclaim her spot as princess in the underworld with her mother and father. This film truly shows a strong innocent character in Ofelia. She was brave until the end and while the film seemed to leave the ending up to the viewer I like to believe that it was truly a bittersweet ending when the credits rolled. A dark and twisted fairy tale, Pan's Labyrinth was great and highly recommended.


                
Director Guillermo Del Toro stated that he considers the story to be a parable to his earlier film, 2001's 'The Devil's Backbone', as both addresses similar themes. Set in Spain during the aftermath of the Spanish Civil War (1936-1939) & influenced by children fairy tales from authors, L Frank Baum, Lewis Carroll, Hans Christian Andersen and the Brothers Grimm, along with adult-driven fantasies novels from authors, Jorge Luis Borges, Arthur Machen, Lord Dunsany, & Algernon Blackwood. "Pan's Labyrinth' tells the story of Ofelia (Ivana Baquero), a young girl who comes to believe she is the reincarnation of a princess from the kingdom of the underworld. However, her new stepfather, Captain Vidal (Sergi López) thinks otherwise; who believes, that Ofelia is becoming too unstable for his plan for a stable Falangism regime for both his country and in his household. Without spoiling the movie, too much, there are two ways to look at this movie. One is looking at it through a child's mind where everything and anything is possible, regardless of circumstances. The other is through, an adult's mind, where rational thought dictates our actions. It's these two ways of thinking, that make the film, so thought provoking. Is Ofelia telling the truth and Vidal is the one, losing touch with reality or is Vidal right about the world, and everybody else is living in the fantasy world? Its complex questions like this that makes this fairy tale movie, so interesting to watch, but far too sophistical for small children. Definitely, it's not for toddlers or anybody under 8 year old, unless, you want them, to see something profoundly graphic/violent and disturbing. Not only that, it's somewhat depressing with a tear-jerker type ending. It's not family friendly, despite whatever, marketing wants you to think. Despite that, the film has really fine-adult-driven acting, mostly from both Ivana Baquero and Sergi López. I have to say, Sergi for sure, as he's one of the best villains in modern day film history. The Spanish dialogue also well-written, even if it's a bit confusing at times. The English subtitles, was very helpful in trying to understand the story. The music by composter Javier Navarrete was very haunting & beautiful. The piano & violins really brings the sounds of our own mortality and purpose into question. Well-done. The film also has a supernatural horror tone to its fantasy sequences. While, the film employs some computer-generated imagery in its effect, it mostly use complex make-up and animatronic to bring its creatures to life. There is no greater example of that, then the characters of the Pale Man & the Faun, both played by the same actor, Doug Jones. One of the biggest misconception about this film is that the Faun is Greek-deity-Pan, when Del Toro, himself, stated out that he is not. Instead, he along with the Pale Man is both original characters, taken straight out of the legendary nightmares fuel of Greek, Japanese, Nordic, Christian and Roman mythology and mixed together into something new. Both creatures represented the goods & evils of authoritarian. First off, you got the Pale Man who represented man-made-control like fascism & communism. In a way, the juxtaposition of the Pale Man's table with the scene of frightened townspeople lining up to take the only food they could probably get, rations doled out by the Fascists or the Communism rebels, has some significance to the plot. If we are to believe, that the Ofelia makes this fantasy story, up, taken from multiple sources. Then, it's become very clear, that the Pale Man is supposed to represent the adults around her. After all, they are the one that trying to shatter Ofelia's trauma-triggered fantasy perception of her harsh reality. Like the Pale-Man eating children, they are the ones killing the youth within all of us, only allowing those mature enough to breed and survive. It's control 'survival of the fittest' at its scariest. A very strong Holocaust overtone. Then you got the Faun that represented phenomena or the laws of nature. Just as much, as we have to follow man-made authoritarians; we're also dictated by the harsh changing environment in which, we lived in; which we mostly have no control of. Yet, we try to be disobedience against it. We always trying to control death and childbirth. It's no surprised that Del Toro chose the character's look to invoke a certain 'light-bringer'. Like mandrake roots, free choice in small amounts us to have some control of our lives, but in larger doses might kill us. Being submissive to something out of your control is not a bad thing. The existence of the unexplained, ever make this, belief, somewhat stronger. Overall: Regards to whether or not the fantasy underworld was real or a product of Ofelia's imagination, it doesn't really matter, as long, as you get that message. However, I didn't like, how Del Toro kinda ruin it, by spoiling his answer. In my opinion, having a film so deliberately ambiguous, is a stroke of genius. It's better off that way. In the end, it's a must watch from me. Highly recommended.
I've not seen any of Guillermo del Toro's earlier films, but this one places him, along with Alejandro González Iñárritu and Alfonso Cuaron, as a Spanish-American film-maker with broad appeal. This film (unlike "Babel") sticks within one very specific cultural milieu, Franco's Spain in 1944 seen through the eyes of Ofelia, an 11 year old girl whose widowed mother has been desperate enough to marry a particularly zealous and nasty fascist army officer. Not surprisingly she escapes into her own world of fantasy, in which she is a princess of the underworld trying to find her way home.The film is stacked full of good performances. Ivana Banquero, is stunning as Ofelia, and Sergi Lopez is completely convincing as her ruthless and single-minded stepfather, Captain Vidal. Maribel Verdu as Mercedes the housekeeper also puts in a strong performance, as does Alex Angulo as the doctor and Doug Jones as Pan and the Pale Man (aided by some terrific costume design).It is interesting that while the fascists are portrayed as the bad guys del Toro makes an attempt to explain what drives them. In one dinner scene the local notables are entertained by Vidal to a sumptuous feast (while everyone around is on strict rations). After the third or so round of drinks he announces that all men are not equal, "we won the war and therefore deserve the best." His listeners (except for the doctor) enthusiastically agree. Vidal, desperate for a son, is also motivated by tradition; his father was an army general who died in battle, for Vidal "the only way to die". But he is also a sadist <U+0096> his interrogations go long past mere military brutality. Perhaps the message is you don't have to be a sadist to be a good fascist, but it helps.The resistance are of course portrayed as the good guys, but their tactics are as brutal as those of the military, shooting the wounded where they fall, for example. They also find it hard to accept that the war is over, and they are merely the subject of a mopping-up operation headed up by a real bastard very happy in his work.Most of the action takes place in a gloomy and surprisingly wet forest so well evoked we can almost smell the mud. The fantasy sequences owe something to Lewis Carroll as well as Mervyn Peake - "Alice in Wonderland" meets "Gormenghast" (Pan has a little in common with the White Rabbit). Visually, this is a terrific film.The good guys did win out in the end, but it took another 30 years, and happened peacefully. The speed at which Spain has left its fascist past behind tells us something, I think.


                
I was eagerly waiting for the release date of Pan's Labyrinth to come, as it was one of my most anticipated movies this year. The day came today, when I saw it at the cinema. I came out, amazed and stunned on how well this movie was made and it truly lived up to my expectations.Pan's Labyrinth follows the story between a girl and his mother, meeting her newly adopted father during a Spanish war. Her new father isn't very nice, and all he wants is something (no spoilers). The girl, named Ofelia then meets up with Pan in a labyrinth, and he tells her that she can be a princess and be an immortal if she does three tasks for him. However, it doesn't turn out as easy as she thought.A wonderful movie is all I can say! It's not an all fantasy movie, it's about 50/50. Half it it focuses on Ofelia and the labyrinth, and the other focuses on the Spanish war. However, it all links up to the ending, so both parts of the movie are important. All of the acting is excellent and the creatures in this movie are some of the best I've seen in a movie. Pan and the Pale Man looked absolutely amazing.All of this topped up with a highly polished and well written story can guarantee this will be mentioned somewhere in the Oscars. Del Toro has truly made a masterpiece, and this is what you really call a fantasy movie. Yes, all of the language is in Spanish but that doesn't mean a movie can't be considered a masterpiece. I quickly got used to the subtitles and I kind of liked the Spanish language used in the movie, since it was set in Spain and would be kind of silly with English.So, overall, Pan's Labyrinth lived up to my expectations. If you've been looking for an excellent, well made fantasy movie for 2006, then this is your answer. Even if you hate foreign movies, you've still got to see it! Well written, brilliant acting, and a creative movie makes this one a movie you can't miss. I'm glad I saw it, and you'll love it too.
All your emotions will be thoroughly tested in Guillermo Del Toro's grim fairy tale. A masterful fable that alternates between uber-gritty realism and dark, twisted fantasy with such a sublime slickness, it is near startling. A young woman by the name of Ofelia has just moved to rural Spain, with her sick, pregnant mother where her new husband, the slimy fascist Captain Vidal is currently holding his troops. Constantly under fire from partisan soldiers in the wooden hills, Vidal must attend to his wife whilst fighting for Franco's regime. Ofelia, meanwhile, is caught in a struggle to escape the grim realities of war-torn Spain. She is in love with stories, notably her fairy tales. One night, she is visited by a fairy, which brings her to the "labyrinth". A secret maze, run by a tall, tree-like faun. He calls her "your highness" and a princess, and gives her tasks to complete for him, each one adding a new page to her empty fairytale book.Whilst from a distance Pan's Labyrinth may seem like a children's grim fairytale, it is anything but for children. The majority of the movie is far more concerned with Captain Vidal and his horrendous callousness to both his wife, his people and to the Spanish resistance. In a film that features a skinless monster with eyes in his hands, slowly creeping towards Ofelia as she avoids becoming the rancidly gravel-voiced demon's next dinner meal, Vidal is by far the most putrid thing on screen. A man who fears dreamers and thinkers, one of who just happens to be the innocent Ofelia. Her mother doesn't understand, nor does the Captain. It seems the only people she can turn to are the shrewd resistance-sympathising maid Mercedes (Maribel Verdu, of Y Tu Mama Tambien fame) and the faun himself.Do not be fooled. This is a movie about children, but not for children. There are at least two torture sequences, which despite being purely simplistic are every bit as masochistic as Saw or Casino Royale. The themes dealt with in Pan's Labyrinth are simple, yet adult ones, managing to mesh the contrast between fantasy and reality to startling effect. Every bit as wonderful and awe-inspiring as it is grim and melancholic <U+0096> you will be hard-pressed to find a better film this year.


                
"You're getting older, and you'll see that life isn't like your fairy tales. The world is a cruel place. And you'll learn that, even if it hurts."The lines above, encapsulate not only the essence of Guillermo del Toro's Pan's Labyrinth, but also the essence of life. It is a brutal portrayal of the world we are now used to and the decadence of morality which is within us. It is about escape. An escape into wonderland. To leave behind the truth which is cold, harsh and abject. To live out a fantasy which offers warmth, affection and hope.The movie uses Fascist Spain of 1944 as the backdrop.Carmen,a woman widowed by the war, marries Captain Vidal, a savage Fascist Officer, responsible for clearing the surrounding region of rebel activists. She hopes that it will bring stability to her, and more importantly to her daughter,Ofelia.Carmen is pregnant with a second child, which is the sole reason Captain Vidal shelters her as he hopes to have her son. From here, the viewer is alternatively thrown into Ofelia's fairytale world and the war-torn real world; a metaphorical journey into the depths of a child's subconscious and how it twists her sense of reality, leaving you with a melancholic gratification and a stark realization of how tragic the loss of innocence can be.Words cannot fully describe Ofelia's story, who's real world is so full of grief that her only solace is the world of her dreams. Tormented by her reality she runs to her fantasy which so consumes her that she puts everything at stake in return for the promised utopia. Her story is an allusion to how our aspirations shape us and push us to tread the most treacherous of paths. It tells us that in the darkest of times, it is not around us but within us that we will find the last ray of hope.Pan's Labyrinth is a true classic as it fulfills every requirement of being one, and more. It is not the plot, but the execution which sets it apart. There is a certain simplicity in the tone of storytelling almost as if it were your bedtime story being read out to you by your mother. It follows parallel narratives and yet never loses touch with its heart. The performances are brilliant all around, but special praise must go out to Sergi López , who effortlessly displays the most sadistic and brutal qualities of man, in his portrayal of Vidal. Maribel Verdú who plays the housekeeper at Vidal's home, secretly supporting and aiding the guerrillas hiding in the forest, delivers a strong performance which is backed by some great dialogues. Equally fabulous is Doug Jones who plays the "Faun" and "The Pale Man" with great aplomb. But the trump card among the cast is young Ivana Baquero, who plays Ofelia, and delivers a heart-wrenching act. Her performance, endearing and charismatic, is the fabric which holds the emotional core of the film together.The technical crew behind this movie has excelled to a superlative degree.A special mention for the art direction, set design, costumes and make-up as they beautifully reconstruct an enchanting world of fairies and fauns, rabbit-holes and mazes and help in dishing out dark and chilling visuals. The cinematography is obviously exquisite as it conveys a dark, brooding undertone throughout. The musical score and screenplay combine wonderfully well as the rhythms slowly build their way into our memories with the help of the magic that unfolds on screen.Ultimately it is the sheer genius of the director which makes this simple story a unique work of cinema. He focuses on a theme, which, with all its complexities at the outset, simplifies to something very basic.Choice.He conveys that it is our choices that determine not only our fate, but also the fate of the ones we love. And that sacrifice is the purest form of love. To choose sacrifice is to choose love. And that to choose love, ahead of everything, in the face of every adversity, is the most important choice of them all.Hats Off!
Jaw-dropping effects and masterful storytelling barely scratch the surface to describe Guillermo Del Toro's latest masterpiece, "Pan's Labyrinth." With his unique and creative eye, the director's passion in this fairy tale story comes through on the screen and right into the audience's minds. These attributes are accompanied by the fantastic performances of the cast that include Ivana Baquero, Sergi Lopez, and Doug Jones to name a few. While fairy tales are traditionally meant for young children, "Pan's Labyrinth" unleashes the imaginations of adult audiences and if only for a brief moment, lets them believe in the fantasy.During the Spanish Civil War, young Ofelia (Ivana Baquero) and her pregnant mother (Ariadna Gil) move into a military base with her army captain step-father (Sergi Lopez). As the war progresses, Ofelia encounters fairies who lead her to the faun Pan (Doug Jones). Pan believes Ofelia to be the soul carrier of a fairy princess who had died long ago. But in order to prove herself, she must complete three challenges. Before the next full moon, Ofelia must complete the challenges or her destiny is to stay in the earthly realm.Presenting the two different worlds of the fantasy and the reality is a task that writer and director Del Toro accomplishes perfectly. He not only shows the harsh and brutal effect that war can have on people but he equally parallels it with Ofelia's trials. Whatever situation Ofelia and her family endure, she faces a similar issue in her task. Del Toro's decision to have the film in Spanish and subtitled also adds to the authenticity of the era. Del Toro's use of darker backgrounds compliments mood of the film. This is not a happy time for Spain nor Ofelia as each is going through huge changes. Del Toro uses these dark settings to show the unhappiness and fear both are enduring. The darkness also adds to the mysterious nature of the fantasy realm. Del Toro's script shows he is as great a writer as he is a director is come up with such a fantastic story. Creating the film's story counterparts is not an easy task as Del Toro shows his research to the time period to coincide with his own ideas and legend. His personal Grimm Fairy Tale has characters that are very well developed and intriguing. His version of Pan is a great resemblance to the mythological character and the monsters Ofelia encounters show the ever-working imagination of the director. As Ofelia, Ivana Baquero does a terrific job of bringing the character to life. We feel her pain and uncertainty of having to move to a strange new place and the excitement that she may be able to change it. Baquero's best performance comes from when she tries to comfort her mother. The innocence she brings into Ofelia and the love she has for those she cares for will touch the hearts of the audience. Rivaling Baquero's innocence is the cruel and brutal performance of Sergi Lopez as her step-father Captain Vidal. Lopez doesn't make the character merciless without cause. Instead, he delves into the prideful nature of the soldier. He is malicious because he feels he has an obligation to his country and to his family's honor to hold down his territory. One of Lopez's best characteristics in playing the Captain is his eyes. With a simple movement, audiences can actually see the wheels turning in his head as he plans the next move. Doug Jones' Pan is one of the more diverse characters. Throughout the film, one can not really be certain what his intentions are for Ofelia. The ambiguity is one of Jones' best traits. One minute he would be telling Ofelia her destiny, the next he would chastise her to forget the whole quest. Jones also realizes to play Pan more aged. He is not the happily, skipping through the forest Pan but rather a more learned faun with centuries of knowledge. As the saying goes, "this is not your mother's fairy tale." Del Toro has tailored this tale for adult audiences and to let their imaginations run with it. His double storytelling ability and creative characters make this a thoughtful and thoroughly enjoyable film. The talented cast breathes life into Del Toro's characters and will make them iconic for years to come. Again, these talents just scratch the surface of the brilliance of the film. "Pan's Labyrinth" will leave audiences in awe and wonder and may just reignite the child essence in others.
Pan's Labyrinth tempts you in from the first beautiful second. Rather like entering a labyrinth you quickly leave the light and enter dark, mysterious tunnels which promise a new shock around each corner, both fantastical and brutally human. This is not a labyrinth you would take a child.Sergi Lopez broods a performance so devilishly vile the audience literally recoiled when he was on screen. His blood chilling psycopath in fascist breeches should walk him into the Oscar running, if not he should consider taking his toolbox around to the Academy members and asking them why not.The rest of the cast perform with subtle class, especially the young girl who proves that young actors do not need to be force fed sugar cubes for 6 months before shooting. Credit for this must go to the Director who is, for me anyway, deserving of all the acclaim he is receiving.The film is unrelenting in its turns into fantasy and back again, flashing us back into into cruelty of real life. My only fear is that its stark violence and Spanish language might restrict the size of its audience. This is, of course, what makes the film all the more special. It is wonderfully believable and in fantasy, that is truly everything.


                
Guillermo Del Toro's previous work was always a cut above and incredibly distinctive, so much that he could potentially become an adjective, although Tim Burtonesque is slightly easier to say than Guillermo Del Toroesque. From Cronos to The Devils Backbone to Blade 2 and more recently Hellboy, Del Toro has invited the viewer into his world of machinery and monsters. No more so than Pan's Labyrinth (more literally The Labyrinth of the Faun) in which he creates some of the most tantalisingly sumptuous images he's put to celluloid so far. In post Civil War Spain, 1944, Ofelia (Ivana Baquero) and her mother Carmen go to live with her sadistic stepfather Captain Vidal (Sergi Lopez). While there she meets The Faun (Doug Jones) who tells her that she may be a lost Princess and she must complete several tasks in order to prove her identity. She agrees readily partly out of childish curiosity and partly to escape the horrors of her real world life.From the very first frame, this film grabs you. It's absorbing to the point of being glued to the screen despite several moments which may make you want to look away. The Pale man is one of the creepiest creature inventions of recent years and Del Toro's other monsters are so fully realised and imaginative that it's hard not to be awed. In a film like Blade 2, these creations are cool. In Pan's Labyrinth, they are strangely beautiful and arresting. The acting is superb all around, Sergi Lopez more evil and twisted than anything in Ofelia's world, bearing many similarities to Ralph Feinnes' Amon Goeth and Maribel Verdu, here playing a very different role to Luisa in Y tu mamá también is wonderfully understated until her final breaking point. Newcomer Ivana Baquero acts all the recent child actors off the screen in her quietly confident performance, slowly coming of age before our eyes. The greatest thing about the fantasy of this film is that nothing is explained, just as a fairy tale would be. The habit of needing to explain everything in Hollywood films kills the wonder of the fantasy and here, Del Toro simply presents everything as 'that's the way it is.' Why do I need to go and feed these stones to a toad in a tree? That's the way it is. In the same way, some of the extreme violence in the film is presented in a brutal, shocking way to convey more or less the same message. That's the way it is.There are parallels made between the real world and the fantasy world that are constantly revealing themselves throughout the film and almost act like easter eggs on subsequent viewings. This film was well thought through and carefully constructed and it shows through with all the details from the set designs, to the colour schemes to Guillermo Navarro's beautiful cinematography. The icing on the cake is the haunting score by Javier Navarette, guaranteed to have you humming it well after the credits roll. As far as the ending, Del Toro explains it as he sees it in interviews, but the great thing about a fairy tale is that it's whatever you want it to be and that's a rich film experience. Pan's Labyrinth is a dazzling, mesmerising piece of work that will become something of a classic in the future.
Pan's Labyrinth is a very impressive film, both artistically and historically. It is fascinating to see how the worlds of fantasy and reality collide, and with what unforeseen consequences. Ofelia is an endearing character, very innocent and yet wise. She is perceptive; though she lives half the time in a world of fairies and fauns, she notices the destruction of the world around her. Though her story is compelling, and her imagination darkly fascinating, Ofelia alone did not make this movie great. Instead, what shocked and impressed me the most was the uninhibited way in which it portrayed Franco's Spain. This film is not shy when it comes to violence. If you are in the least bit squeamish when it comes to blood, this would not be a good choice! I found the violence overpowering at times, though it was not gratuitous. On the contrary, having it so present in the film forces the viewer to put themselves truly in the time period, and makes them consider the situation more in depth. It was not a happy time for Spain; death and killing were simply everywhere. The character of the sadistic Captain takes this to extremes, but it comes from all sides, and we can see the pervasive effects of this violence in young Ofelia's thoughts. The film also forced me to assess my personal character. Whenever a film is so deeply real, as this one is, that it brings the viewer into the world in which it is set, it makes me wonder: what side would I be on? In that same situation, what would I do? Am I brave enough to do what we know is right? Difficult questions to answer. For me, Pan's Labyrinth inspired such self reflection. It will blow you away, sicken you, inspire you, and leave you haunted. In all, an excellent dark fairytale that deserved every Academy Award it won.


                
At the end of the 18th century, Spanish artist Goya produced an artistic masterpiece "el sueño de la razon produce monstrous - the dream of reason creates monsters". Del Toros' recent film is a modern version of the same theme. As in Goya's time when Spain was rocked by the Napoleonic invasion, the setting of Pan's Labyrinth during the time of Spain's civil war serves to remind the viewer that society is very fragile and subject to radical change through brute force. In the new Spain, where might makes right, innocence is lost, and people's lives are sacrificed in order to make way for a painful vision of Spain's fascist future, a girl creates an alternative fantasy world in order to cope with the trauma that is her life. Nevertheless the monsters of her dreams provide little escape from the brutes that she must deal with every day. Trust, power, loyalty, secrets, all are vividly represented by the actors in this, one of the best films of 2006.


                
If there's anything about Pan's Labyrinth that disappoints me, it is only that when the DVD comes out it'll be advertised as being made by the same guy who made Blade II and Hellboy, two examples of half-cooked SFX wankery coated with comic-book fanboy drool. Pan's Labyrinth is everything those films aren't: It has a story that actually interests, it has visual FX that are built entirely to tell its wondrous tale and don't look like generic "sci-fi meets kung-fu" tech demos and it's not afraid to make you feel depressed about cruel things that happen to characters you grow to like.Set in WW2 era Spain where the Fascist military is doing its best to suppress the rebellion, the film centers around Ofelia (a bravura performance by Ivana Baquero), an imaginative child who with her re-married and pregnant mother comes to stay with her step-father, the iron-handed Captain Vidal. Shying from the general air of militarism and brutality around her, Ofelia slips into a fantasy plane where she meets a faun who tells her that she must complete 3 tasks for her to reclaim her legacy as the princess of a magical realm. The plot travels between the real and fantasy worlds of Ofelia, and scenes of civic unrest and fascist oppression alternate with magical quests that involve giant frogs and creatures with (removable) eyes on their palms. Even the climax has 2 parts, one in the real world and one in the magic world.Under Del Toro's guidance the story moves seamlessly between the 2 worlds and he does not discount the existence of either of them. Some may pick nits about the somewhat one-sided characterization of the military as dedicated sadists but the thing to remember is that this is a film told essentially from a child's POV and reflects the simplicity of that perspective. Of course it is not to be taken as a film for children, because it does not flinch from graphic violence when needed and even the ending has a moving tragic air to it.In the end, this is a modern day classic that needs to be seen and savored by teenage/adult audiences that look for something beyond merchandise-oriented studio crap. And move over Tim Burton, there's a new prince to claim the mature fairy tale fantasy crown that you've been wearing so far. His name is Guillermo Del Toro and from the looks of it, he has kicked your ass by a long mile.


                
Spain, 1944. It is the aftermath of the Spanish Civil War. In the Pyrenees, an arrogant Nationalist officer (Capt. Vidal, a frightening Sergi Lòpez), who has established his headquarters in a remote hamlet in the forest, is ruthlessly tracking down the last remnants of the Republican forces, who are hiding in the mountains. His pregnant wife and her daughter from her previous marriage arrive at the hamlet to live with him but are kept there in near-seclusion by the insensitive officer. The girl, Ofelia, escapes the cruelty of the Civil War and of her dour stepfather through an imaginary world filled with fairies. The entrance to her fantastical world is a stone labyrinth guarded by an ambiguous faun pretending to be her servant /hence the title of the film/. Throughout the film, Capt. Vidal reveals his penchant for criminal behaviour whilst we are left wondering whether Ofelia's fantastical world is imaginary or real. El Laberinto del Fauno's major success lies in intertwining the harsh, unglamorous reality of the Spanish Civil War with Ofelia's fantasies, even more so than in Peter Jackson's Heavenly Creatures. For me, this is really El Laberinto del Fauno's major breakthrough. Where, for instance, the Harry Potter or the Narnia stories could be set in any time, any location, El Laberinto del Fauno is inextricably linked with the terror wrought by Franco's fascist regime. Also, Ofelia's fate is much more traumatic than Harry Potter's or than Tolkien's Hobbits' because the most horrid monster of the film, in the end, is not the faun or the Pale Man, but Capt. Vidal. And, alas, it has been proved many times in history that the vilest monsters have always been human beings. Highly recommended (but not for children!).


                
I seen this movie not having seen any of Del Toro's movies before and I have to say that from the outset I am now a huge Del Toro fan. This movie wonderfully blends real life issues of Fascist Spain to a world of wonder were Ofelia finds yourself torn between the two. Not to spoil the story too much but it tells the story of this little girl who moves out to an army compound in the country side of Spain with her mother. They are joining the mother's new husband, a cruel and ruthless Spanish captain. At the back of the compound Ofelia finds a Labyrinth and a Faun named Pan He sets her 3 tasks to complete. Every time we meet Pan he seems to get more beautiful and you often sense there's more to what he is telling Ofelia. The visual effects are amazing along with real strong performances from all. The fact that it was in Spanish as well really made the movie seem all the more genuine. This one should be mentioned if not nominated for an Oscar as everyone should know that a movie like this exists outside the world of Hollywood, a must see for everyone!!


                
Pan's Labyrinth is one of those movies that carries a message through its visuals and even tells a story with few words. Many of the images resemble fear, greed, happiness, and despair. No one is safe when you go astray from the path you were meant to be on. I absolutely loved the direction in this flick. Every shot seemed to be tight, focused, and captured the mood the scene is creating. Obviously the visuals is what makes this movie so amazing and it deserves that merit. the use of makeup and real set pieces rather than the CGI saturated world we live in now is why I will always love this movie. If people can get past reading subtitles throughout and enjoy what this movie brings to the table, then I absolutely recommend this movie to be watched by everyone before they die.


                
the bio "In 1944 Spain young Ofelia (Ivana Baquero) and her ailing mother (Ariadna Gil) arrive at the post of her mother's new husband (Sergi López), a sadistic army officer who is trying to quell a guerrilla uprising. While exploring an ancient maze, Ofelia encounters the faun Pan, who tells her that she is a legendary lost princess and must complete three dangerous tasks in order to claim immortality."- Googlebased around the Spanish civil war in 1944 , this film is intriguingly brutal. While it made me cringe at times there were instances i was left in awe by the creativity behind the creatures, the fairytale that balances realistic brutalities of war. There is darkness that engulfs the film that is unlike anything i have seen. this is the only film i have watched by Guillermo del Toro, and i would like to see more.


                
This film is truly brilliant. I could spend this entire review gushing about how wonderful I think it is, but will try to be more precise. The plot is beautifully constructed, juxtaposing seamlessly between a reality without hope and the fantasy that offers a light at the end of the tunnel. The acting was superb throughout – the young Ivana Baquero shows remarkable skill in bringing the character of Ofelia to life, and we really can believe and enter into her distress and fear. The haunting music was a perfect backdrop to the action, enhancing the despair of the situation. The effects are excellent and believable.Whether or not the audience is supposed to believe that Ofelia is imagining things or whether it is really happening, seems to me to be ultimately irrelevant. What the audience is looking at is the idea of hope rising out of despair, in the person of a little girl who believes in magic. The effect she has on the adults around her, whether it be contempt from the Captain, or the love she inspires in Mercedes, is the most poignant and beautiful part of this story. This is a great movie. I can't recommend it too highly.


                
The way Del Toro balances this story between the cruel reality of the Spanish civil war and the wonder of this realm he's created is perfect. This is one of the purest fantasy movies I've seen, and it's beautiful throughout, even in scenes without Ofelia and her imagination present. Behind the gloom is a strong family tale; Ofelia's love for her mother, the struggles Mercedes goes through with her brother, and Captain Vidal's strained history with his father. This instills heart to what could easily be nothing more than a florid piece, regarded purely for it's dress-up (which is incredible). The performances were also great. Ivana Bacquero and Maribel Verdu were standouts, but it's Sergi Lopez's embodiment of evil as Captain Vidal that leaves the biggest impression. As far as movie villains go, he'd have to be up there with the best. Credit is due also to Doug Jones, the man who is usually behind the amazing costumes in GDT films. His movements as The Faun and The Pale Man ranged from powerful and intimidating to absolutely terrifying. Extra credit too for learning Spanish.This film is a remarkable achievement, not just for Spanish cinema but cinema as a whole. It should be remembered as one of the most riveting pieces of dark fantasy. Guillermo Del Toro is a genius and master of this genre, and the people behind the scenes who work with costumes, set designs, FX etc. are incredible.A movie I would recommend that's similar in terms of dream-like fantasy and a completely visceral feel is a 2006 film called The Fall. I wouldn't rate it as highly as Pan's Labyrinth but it's definitely a good film in it's own right, and worth checking out.Sweet, thanks for reading yo!


                
I thought this was one of the best sub-titled movies I have ever watched. I forgot I was even reading the words after five minutes. I would usually not watch a movie this type, that I couldn't understand and so must read sub titles, (it can distract me from the movie) but this movie kept my interest enough to not notice, it's a very interesting movie. The story really grabbed my imagination, I loved the characters and thought they were really well done. When I saw the preview to this, that is what caught my attention the most, now seeing the movie it did not disappoint. The story was very heart felt, and the Labyrinth and characters made a hard impression on my feelings toward this story. The movie ended on a great note, and didn't leave me feeling like something was missing.I would watch this movie again, I think it's worth it.


                
