Anyone who watches "My father and my son" will eventually relate the movie to a family relationship they have lived. It is a perfect visualization of what people do because of their ego and what can actually destroy that ego. The movie makes the viewer ask "what if" questions about almost everything and the answers will be different for everyone. The acting is definitely remarkable with less experienced characters (including the little kids) putting on a display to remember when aiding patriots of Turkish movie industry. Overall I can say that "Babam ve Oglum" is a blending of great acting, wonderful script, and a real life story.


                
I've never really been a fan of Turkish movies.I always thought they weren't good enough, but I knew that some good movies were done in recent years.And I heard everyone talking about this movie, low budget but a great movie they said.I wanted to see it myself, and so i did.The movie is really great.It tells us feelings, family, joy, laughter, sorrow, grief...It tells us life, but in a very sad way.I'm a cold blooded person, i cry rarely and never in public.I didn't cry watching this movie, but I really tried hard not to.The movie, scenes are incredible and also the music is wonderful.Acting is very very good.Cetin Tekindor (grandfather) is the best in my opinion.He's one of the best actors in Turkey, but I think he did his best job in this movie.He talks Aegean Turkish accent perfectly.Cagan Irmak, director of the movie did an outstanding job.I want to congratulate him for this masterpiece.


                
The beginning of this movie wasnt so great for me, it seemed like a cheap drama series. The music was overbearing trying to make you emotional, and it felt kinda cheesy. But as that was over and the movie started you got an actual feeling of the movie that was more authentic than the first part. Even then the music could sometimes be overbearing but it fitted more since we got to know the characters and things had more weight for us. Overall it was well shot, the acting was good. I expected this movie to be more political but it was mostly family drama about relationship between father and son. Although some things were exaggerated for the sake of emotional impact, the movie still held together without being a typical spanish or turkish soap opera, but it still has elements of them none the less. Although it pulled my emotions, I cant rate it very high overall. It gets 10/10 for emotional manipulation but it falls on other parts. Its a 7/10 for me.


                
Emotional but i find nothing special about it. Good story but I think it is very average movie so its a 7/10 from me.


                
Crafted with tenderness, told with composure & sincerely brought to life by its cast, My Father and My Son (also known as Babum ve Oglum) is a story of loss, grief & broken relationships that paints an evocative portrait of father-son bonding, and is as heartwarming as it is heartbreaking.My Father and My Son tells the story of Sadik, a Turkish man who returns to his hometown with his son to reunite with his estranged family. Although everyone at home is elated to have him back, his relationship with his father still needs mending, which he hopes to accomplish before it's too late.Written & directed by Çagan Irmak, the film features a simple premise but packs a lot of emotions that's honestly captured. All the characters are embedded with meaty arcs but it's the sum of their relationship with each other & a sense of history between them that provides the necessary weight to it.The father-son dimension between Sadik & his son as well as Sadik & his father is portrayed in an earnest manner, and all the actors play their part responsibly to make their interactions genuine & share a wonderful chemistry together. Camera-work is no slouch, pacing is steady, and music really complements the whole narrative.On an overall scale, My Father and My Son is a skilfully directed & deftly scripted family drama that pays proper attention to its characters & their relationships, develops those bonds at a steady rate, and at times even indulges in a child's imagination to add more depth to its tale before finishing on an emotionally hefty note. Definitely one of Turkish cinema's finest works, My Father and My Son is absolutely worthy of a broader audience.


                
