The movie starts on the days of military government, which started Sep.12th, 1980, and lasted 3 years (Effects of this action against democracy lasted more than 15 years). A young socialist newspaper writer (Fikret Kuskan) loses his wife on birth of his only son on the very first day of the military action, because he can not find any help for delivery of the child. After 6 years past, the father was desperate to find any jobs on the papers, which are now supporters of the new order, and decides to return his father (Çetin Tekindor)'s home in a small village near Izmir: A house that he has left years ago fighting his father's wills to make him a person that his father would like him to be.I can not even summarize the rest of the movie, since one should see the movie himself/herself to understand the encounters of two strangers, father and son. One should notice the mother (Humeyra)'s role on the relationship (or non-relationship) of these two different men, and the grandson (Ege Tanman).If you have a Mediterrenean blood, Greek, Italian, whatever, you will find many things in this movie. You don't have to be Turk to understand the emotional rivers in this movie. It really touches hearts of the Turkish people.


                
I'm gradually becoming less and less surprised when I see a foreign film that's every bit as good as those produced by Americans or the Brits. This was my first Turkish film, and for those of you struggling to find it, I would direct you to Youtube where you can find it in it's entirety with English subtitles. As the translated title suggests, the story is about a man struggling to come to terms with a father who disowned him, and his feelings of growing away from his own seven year old son. The back story of Sadik's (Fikret Kuskan) personal history does not fully come into light until well into the picture, when we learn that he became and anarchist journalist, much to the dismay of his father, who had designs for his son to take over the family farm upon attaining an agricultural degree. For viewers with a Turkish background, the conflict that resulted in Sadik's jail time and torture will probably be understood better within the context of that country's history, so for someone like myself, a lot of that perspective is lost. However that doesn't affect the impact of the story when it's finally revealed that Sadik's reconciliation with his father occurred because of his impending death due to a pulmonary edema condition. The man did a noble thing for his own son Deniz (Ege Tanman) by returning him to the village of Sadik's childhood to remain with family and friends. I would challenge the viewer to maintain a dry eye as the mystery of father/grandfather Huseyin's (Çetin Tekindor) 'secret room' reveals Sadim's happy and hopeful youth before he left his family. One comes away from the film with a serene sense of family bond that transcends nationality, as in the end, we are all humans subject to same emotions of love and loyalty.
i don't know if you watched the movie but i can easily say that this movie is one of the best of Turkish movies ever seen..good acting, good directing..etc. However it is not a perfect movie. I watched this movie 4 times.I enjoyed all of them but if i give a 10/10 it can be unfair. Nice traditional things, Good actors and actresses, very good directing and one of the movies which really enforces you to cry! I did not cry when i watched it but i m not gonna say that it will not make you cry..&#304;t will probably..So watch it..Enjoy it..And for sure wait the director Cagan Irmak's real masterpiece!..He is really talented and gonna show you the real Turkish cinema..


                
A huge hit on its first release in 2005, BABAM VE OGLUM (MY FATHER AND MY SON) is an unabashed melodrama with the emphasis on excess.The story is a straightforward one: Sadik (Fikret Kuskan) has to deliver his first child alone, when there is no one to take his wife Aysun (Tuba Büyüküstün) to the hospital. The wife dies, leaving Sadik a single parent on the first day of the military coup taking place in the Republic of Turkey on 12 September 1980.Time passes: Sadik is imprisoned and tortured for his political views; but on his release, he leaves Istanbul with his son Deniz (Ege Tanman) to return to the family home near Izmir. He receives a frosty welcome from his father Hüseyin (Çetin Tekindor) who has never forgiven Sadik for quitting his studies in agriculture in Istanbul and turning to politics instead. The rest of the movie focuses on the way familial relationships change, as well as how people cope with an unexpected tragedy.Director Çagan Irmak looks at the oppressive influence of the past on the present; not only does it affect relationships between Sadik and Hüseyin, but it significantly dictated Sadik's love-life too. Returning to his home-town, Sadik is at once attracted and repelled by its familiarity; those who have never left - even for a short time - remain blinkered in their world-views. On the other hand BABAM VE OGLUM shows how families stick together in times of crisis, and can resolve their own problems so long as they are prepared to acknowledge them in the first place.The narrative contrasts Sadik's story with Deniz's imaginative fantasies, in which the little boy positions himself as the hero. In the first part of the film they can be read as a retreat from reality, as Deniz tries to cope with the trauma of moving to a new town and coping with a new life. By the end, however, he has discovered that such fantasies might change, once he grows up. They will remain fantasies, but they will fulfill a different function in his life.The film is full of major scenes of confrontation and reconciliation, with Irmak's camera-work designed to achieve maximum dramatic effect through the use of close-ups, panning shots, dissolves, and two- shots, complemented by a florid musical score (by Evanthia Reboutsika). Although the narrative celebrates excess - of emotion, of feeling and of reconciliation - it does not seem in any way forced. In fact, it is as convincing and emotion-provoking as the best Yesilçam melodramas of the past. Clearly Irmak planned BABAM VE OGLUM as an homage to the genre, and he accomplishes his task with élan. Definitely worth more than one viewing.


                
Sadik struggles to find help as his pregnant wife gives birth. There has been a military coup and no one comes. His wife dies in the streets. He is a leftist writer and the military tortures him. Years later in poor health due to the torture, he takes his son Deniz back to his rural family home. He has been estranged from his conservative father since leaving for school in Istanbul. Intending to leave Deniz with his parents, his mother forces him to stay. The father and son struggle to come to terms in their relationship.This is digging into a deep family rift and finds a compelling movie. I would prefer Sadik to look more sickly when he arrives back at the village. It meanders as the plot lacks an obvious ticking clock. That's why Sadik's sickness should be played up to make his end more inevitable. It culminates with one oddly riveting emotional eruption by the father. It is breath-taking in its rawness. It helps that these actors are unknown to me which creates a realism despite the surreal emotional eruption.


                
Greetings from Lithuania.Even if sometimes "My Father and My Son" (2005) goes a bit to sentimental, and some actions at the end of some characters feels more like a funny then real, i never lost interest in it when watching this movie. Script here is great - it is involving movie and directing was also top notch. Acting was pretty good mostly by actor who played grandfather and the one who played brother was a bit over the top i think. Overall, "My Father and My Son" is a good movie at the end despite some of its flaws. Its a touching story well made.


                
the movie tells the story and the suffering of a Turkish rebellious left-wing journalist who left his village where he used to live long time ago and went to Istanbuli never thought the Turkish drama will be as good as thatthe movie staff perfectly demonstrate the real live in village, family, relationships, laugh, grieve and lovedespite the great performance in this movie, this film has a great aims and facts everyone should understand about lifethe movie is suitable to be watch by all family members and i recommend you to watch it with your parentswhile watching, some scenes may recall sad memory of yours so be alarmed, but i guess it's OK after all


                
Classic Turkish Cinema Style, different from Hollywood, far away from commercial tags, and more talented about showing the feelings in reality. there is no such pre-rendered emotional attacks , and yes sometimes -specially in comedy parts- so many absurd acting and personalities are popping up, but it is so natural end embedded into story and characters very realistic and pretty.First of all, yes, ' like the movie in generally but there is no such a thing that must be rated 9 or 10. if there is anything perfect in the movie that was acting power of Cetin Tekindor. Final improving scenes and the dialogs were perfect. Cagan Irmak is also good director and writer but there is no new story about early 80s in turkey.It deserves 8... You should watch it if you really like the humanism,emotional stories and movies which tells a story from a specific era in the history. Don't MISS IT!!


                
