This film was a real surprise for me. I only saw one other Turkish film before this one (Vizontele Tuuba). The story may not be all that original but the way it is told is just wonderful. Lot's of humor (we laughed a lot) and real tragedy (we really needed that handkerchief at the end). I love the parts where you get carried away in the little boy's dreams. That surreal view shows us the differences in thinking between an adult and a child. The music is what you can expect from a Turkish film. You either like it or you don't. But it's never overwhelming. I really recommend this movie to everyone. And no, I am not Turkish!


                
The acting was perfect in this movie from the kid (Deniz) to Çetin Tekindor (Hüseyin Aga). All player did their job in a great performance. Also the places the film shot was great. My grandfather lives in a similar village, and I used to go to there in summers in my early ages. I went to back again to my childhood when I was watching the movie. It reflects the life style of those places in a very good manner and reality. No detail was skipped. Also the director mixed the drama and joy in the movie very well so that you can laugh suddenly when you pity for something you see in the movie. This was, I think, a great directing success for the new generation director, Çagan Irmak. So, this a "must to see" film I think, especially for the Turkish viewers (It includes so much domestic features). But international viewers can also get a real good taste of it, because main themes (such as family bonds, love of son) in the movie are humane things.


                
This is a very good movie without any doubt! During the recent years there have been made some movies that clarifying Turkey's 70s - 80s. As a person who has been experienced those years, the film became a very big sentimental burden for me. Those were the tough days for many. It is a very touchy story..However, it is not that what makes this film good one.. You don't need to know all Turkish history to feel the movie.. You don't need to be Turkish either.. This is emotion.. This is life.. The Mediterrenean way of life.. I guess in a Mediterrenean perspective the movie would appeal to many. I myself watched a lot of Italian movies with similar scenario. The life from a 7-8 yo kid's eyes gather things in a three-generational dimension.... There are many scenes that are going to be remembered long.. The first encountering of the kid and grandfather is really touchy.. The blood is thicker than water.. This is what so called about a FAMILY..By the way<U+0085> for the international audience.. Deniz is name of Turkey's one of the most famous leftish youth leaders in 70:s with a great charismatic personality. So, that's why the name of the kid is not at all a coincidence..


                
i am from India and i saw this movie at Bangalore film society, its the most emotional drama i have seen till date and there wasn't one moment where i didn't have tears, i do feel though that the end was dragged. i feel the movie should have ended when the kid videotapes's his dad's exit in the end nevertheless its a beautiful movie with wonderful actors and a great director and every human should watch itit speaks about father and son, family, love, youth, i has everything that a life has and i must say that one great part of the film is that there is no violenceits a FIVE STAR movie along the likes of "eskiya" "the edge of heaven" "head-on"WATCH IT
If you liked "Life is beautiful" you will love this movie too. My suggestion is to forget everything you heard about it before watching. Just let yourself to the warm effect of the movie without any prior expectations. Nothing is as exaggerated as told in some comments. All the events in the movie could have been or is being experienced by ordinary people. The difference is that we ordinary people are trying to overlook our feelings but the writers and the directors slam us in the heart by showing how close we are, how our fears are alike. Maybe some day we can learn not to put any distance between the people we love whatever the conflict is between. Cause nothing is permanent in this world, but irreversible regret is. So question your ideals and principles and try compromising before letting them tear you apart from your loved ones.


                
The film was excellent. The atmosphere of Agean District, the accent people speak, the cars they drive ( Renault 12) was so original Particularly the performance of Cetin Tekindor (father) in having regret about the relations with his son after his funeral was outstanding. It was so effective that most of the spectators including me watching the film in the cinema could not help weeping. I think Sadik's son will be a great actor in the future. Because his performance at he age of 7 was remarkable. Fikret Kuskan's performance also meets our expectations. The beginning of the film I think conflicts with the quality of the whole film, the only performance that did not fit the situation was the performance of Sadik's wife. She was so artificial, her appearance of pregnant woman was not convincing at all. Fortunately, her role was short. Overall, it was the best Turkish film I have ever seen.


                
Cagan Irmak seems to stir drama and comedy in correct dose. When you live intense emotion, there is comedy right behind. In this way, you are giggling, right behind when you fell with great sobs.Coup d'étates are always full of tragic and full of resentment. People separate each other with external factors and it takes time to bandage wounds and to forget about what were lived. 12th of September was such kind of phenomenon. Cagan Irmak did fine work on making movie about this fact.Using local accents, authentic music in background, accomplishment of actors and actress are the main factors for being liked. The characters are very familiar to us and they are certainly assimilated from the life itself.Dramatic wave walk with a swaying movement along the movie.One of the last scene in which Sadik come out of camera and make a speech to this son should have been eliminated. This scene does not contribute to the story. If the marginal contribution of scenes is zero, cut them and make the movie simpler. This is the golden rule of film-making.I am pleased that Babam ve Oglum is a worldwide movie and we are in the right way to find a good position in this art world.


                
Kenan Evren,the the leader of the coup d'etat on 12 September 1980 and the 7th president of Turkey let the cat out of the bag before a press member a couple of months ago:"Under the same circumstances I would lead the same coup d'etat without hesitation." Naturally the DA opened an investigation but the gory leader of the 80s saved himself based on recently made constitutional changes related to "freedom of speech". What's ironical is that he was saved by some concept he repressed for years.I am not necessarily a member of Generation Y which could understand the sufferings of the period better but I know what a coup d'etat is and what it did to the people of this country.Kenan Evren and his troupe(!) of force commanders which were named "our boys" in the CIA headquarters after the coup led just another 'stumbling block" which caused Turkey's democracy to lag behind for another fifteen years.Evren seemed to have great admiration for the founder of Turkey, Kemal Atatürk, but he shut down some institutions founded by Atatürk and is often accused of deforming the country's legal system against Atatürk's principles. Thousands of people who were remanded in custody were killed or heavily injured in the prisons. I wonder why the Turkish movie makers have waited for more than twenty years to make a movie out of this calamity. You see it's not more than five years since the USA invaded Iraq but there have been lots of TV series,movies,plays which have a little of that theme in it. They just know how to stand up for the actual course of things.An example: There is still a Guantanamo prison and there are still many prisoners there who have no right to appear before a court-martial but Michael Winterbottom-the British film-maker made a 2006 docu-drama named "The Road to Guantanamo". He did not really wait for US officials to shut down this prison to make his movie. I know a lot of people have already seen "Babam ve Oglum" and most people know what it's all about but I just wanted tell something on the plot too.Sadik is sort of a free-spirited person. In a period where people find every opportunity to fight with each other on capitalism-communism conflict he gets into continuous clashes with his father. This is what we learn during the course of voice-over in the movie.His family as a village family sends him to Istanbul to study agriculture. He loses his wife on the night of coup d'etat just because he cannot find any taxi to take her to the nearest hospital.Probably nobody was outside because of the general curfew,he was a bit tipsy at the time and he did not hear of anything.He helps his wife to give birth.His wife dies but his son survives the birth. In a coup d'etat period where people have been charged based on their political beliefs he is tortured in custodial prisons.After his release he develops a chronic lung disorder.After losing his job and when his health deteriorates heavily he decides to go back to his village, to his father's home. Actually this is a plot developed by flashbacks and some kinda voice-over because the whole 2 hours nearly is set in the village specifically on the father-son relationship. Sadik feels like he could never leave the village neither could he stay there. He feels to be trapped in a limbo.He does not seem to understand his father neither does his father attempt get his son under the skin.By way a voice-over for example we hear their discussion on "serfs." The son accuses his father of being kinda capitalistic power the father defends himself by telling "Have we ever treated them different? Have we ever prevented them from sitting at our dinner table and eat?" He has a point.In Anatolian culture field workers have not been seen as indentured servants mostly.So the son does not get his father's point but the father has not offered him some "latitude" either so that his son could have made his life on his free-will. Two hours cinematic feast flows on this father-son relationship,their final efforts to understand each other in the final days of Sadik before his death.


                
One of the important pieces of Turkish cinema. You can feel different emotions during the picture. One time you feel sad and then it makes you smile. You can see all the aspects of Turkish people and culture in the movie. Main characters are well played by great Turkish actors. To sum up, a fine piece to watch.


                
Its story is very deep,after as real life. Çetin Tekindor's acted was represent. More again, when Fikret Kuskan aka Sadik was dead. Visible he was hurt with Sadik's death. Its film is as puzzle. First, when Deniz was born. Not hot, not rain, suddenly Sadik was prison. After more far, I know the reason Sadik was prison, because his activity as journalist. Can accepted mind. Two, after death Sadik, when Deniz tried video camera from his grandpa. This really dream or not. For this,I can't more speak.Each film be a goof. The direction of camera when Sadik apologized with his dad, made a dizzy. Better that, after Sadik fainted, the camera was fading out. When Huseyin knew his son was fainting, directed the scene was fading in. But all the story is very good.


                
I believe every Turkish Citizen living inside Turkey shall watch this film.It's a tragic thing,to watch is to be stumbled and lacerated continually yet it possesses some powerful scenes with serious implications.I must admit this film monopolizes on human feelings that are raw and the director expects a normal,social being watch it.That also means,tragedy orchestrated here doesn't uplift the soul(thus is hollow) and is nothing sublime if we run parallel to the definition of Tragedy put by Aristotle.Yet political overtones are real especially for the present day Turkey that faces brutal rule.Initial antagonism between the father and the son didn't seem very much convincing but this could yield something greater and penetrating in the later parts.In the end,I must admit one more thing.I CRIED.


                
This is absolutely one of the best family movies I have ever watched. Actors did a good job in portraying as a family (the love and hate, the comedy) especially the kid (Deniz) that's why they are part of the Top 250 movies of all time.


                
On an individual basis, I like this movie because it includes everything about the family relationship as dram, sadness, humorous, compassion, hatred which are actually explain family relationship. Besides, movie starts from 1980 Turkish coup so we can learn Turkish history as well as we can understand difficult situation on that time in Turkey. Also, we can enter the child's world who is a motherless. I do not know someone who did not cry in this movie. I remember my grandpa and my father when I watch this movie, I remember my childhood with amazing soundtracks. Both "my father" and "we will meet again" songs are so emotional and mopey and these songs help me to trip down memory lane because all childhood memories are actually mopey for me.


                
Çagan Irmak is the face of the drama genre of Turkish Cinema. Always a simple narrative films. But deeply affect us. Because the handling is as simple as the fact of our lives. We see ourselves in the mirror while watching his movies in theaters. As all Çagan Irmak movies Babam & Oglum has managed impressive as all this its is deeply.When the period is based on the script of the film we see the stressful times in Turkey. Family ties. Family relations in the Aegean region.At the end of the movie we see death of the father and we sad. But also we saw grandchild finally getting his grandfather. Also we are happy! That is what melodrama.


                
