An excellent sequel to Star Wars, this is easily the darkest and most serious out of all the Star Wars films, at least until Revenge of the Sith comes out. This movie benefits from the introduction of Yoda, a diminutive yet wise Jedi master who helps Luke prepare for his showdown with Darth Vader. It also introduces Lando Calrissian, Han's old gambling and smuggling buddy played very well by Billy Dee Williams. Empire is more character driven than the original and relies more on comic relief to help lighten the mood, but it doesn't go overboard with the humor. The story is more refined and the acting is better as well. Despite all of this I can't really say that I enjoyed Empire more than the original. The original Star Wars has a certain charm to it that none of the sequels (or prequels) have captured. I'd say that it is at least on par with the original though and is a fitting follow up in what is probably the greatest series of movies in the history of cinema.


                
I am A Star Wars fan, always have been. The difference was the direction in this film there were standards set. The Imperial Theme is one of the most well known themes and has been repeatedly parodied although it has kept respectable as time wears on. Darth Vader is given more than barking orders in "A new Hope" Boba Fett the most feared and universally loved Bounty Hunter even though he had only one line in the first three series makes his debut but actions speak louder than words. David Prowses body Language as the dark lord mixed with James Earl Jones voice is iconic. The budding romance between Han and Leia was a surprise when I first saw this. I thought for sure Luke would get it on with her, but Lucas had other plans which I was really happy about.The suspense is really built and when I was seven years old watching this film I hung on every word. I still do. The real difference is the direction and the attention to detail. The asteroid scene was new. John Williams thematics set the cornerstone of the film and a relentless chase through the stars for Luke Skywalker by a driven Dark lord is answered at the climax. The screenplay is more mature than the original and any of the others following. It is what is left unsaid that carries this film and makes it highly re-watchable.I'm going to give this film a nine it still excites me and is the real beginning of the story and for all it's worth I appreciate the prelude to it as well. This film delivers the emotional punch that has captured fans for decades and cemented a niche in the industry. Enjoy
Although called "Episode V," this was second movie in the Star Wars 6-part installment and I've always thought one of the better entries in the series.If you watch the first Star Wars and then this one, you'll immediately see a vast improvement in the special-effects department. There is a much more polished look to this one, and improved sound In fact, the DVD transfer is outstanding considering the age of this film.While the first Star Wars was a bit subdued, this one picks up the action right from the start, although lulls are really appreciated because the first 40 minutes are pretty hectic. The most notable of those scenes are the gigantic robots which were awesome when this film first came out, and are still pretty good. The movie calms down after that opening land war but retains the viewer's interest with other things.The second half of the movie features two stories going on at once: the battle in space with most of the cast involved, and "Luke Skywalker (Mark Hamill) in a swampland involved in his training sessions with the Master Yoda.Some of the movie's dialog is still corny, especially between Han Solo (Harrison Ford) and Princess Leia (Carrie Fisher) with their love-hate relationship, but it's not overdone. What is overdone is constant bleating noises emanating from "Chewbacca," the wookie. That sheep-in-heat noise can get annoying after awhile. The "Rambo" action continues as it did in the first film, with the villains firing everything at our heroes and never hitting them. Ludicrous, but part of the deal. Those things you just put up with as the film, overall, delivers another interesting adventure, far more than the first Star Wars and leading up to the next one, which was even better.


                
What can I say about the fifth episode "The Empire Strikes Back," I really like the movie, the fifth episode has kept the atmosphere and an easy-naive narrative.Special effects have become larger, the plot has become more interesting and only fuels interest in the next film.In general, this part has everything for the adventure saga count: curious right hero (Luke Skywalker), wise mentor (Obivan), a more wise teacher (Yoda), a humorous steep friend (Captain Solo), which no, but still love Princess Leia and Solo), personal comedians who get in the way (Citripio and R2-T2) and the worst enemy (Darth Vader).The film was successful, yet Lucas would still be interested in the audience, we all were wondering what to wake up with the future Jedi Luke, the smugglers of Solo and Chuya, Princess Leia and with two droids.Back in the movie, a character appeared, the most powerful, wise Jedi Yoda, he is beyond praise. If in the first film the end was happy, then in the second film the end of the open viewer thinks that wakes on. I used to think that George Lucas took all the parts, but in the fifth and sixth films he was a screenwriter.But the film has become more alive, large-scale and interesting, the soundtrack is still magnificent, the actors' play has improved, many say that the fifth film is the best in the saga, I do not argue. The film is a masterpiece.


                
The SonI am convinced that movies are about other movies more than life. The original "Star Wars" was a success in my opinion because it had three things: <U+0097> a collection of images from other films, distinctly referencing them. Some were film- schoolish like the Kurosawa quotes. But most were like what Kurosawa himself referenced: already deeply embedded visual touchstones, not having lost their power in becoming clichés. These were collected in one large form, the Flash Gordan form let's call it, which all of us slightly knew. It could be recalled with enough familiarity to register but not enough to set expectations, so Lucas could fill the bucket with whatever he found and liked.<U+0097> a notion of a complete, understandable cosmology. Its the noir notion that laws of the universe exist and cannot be seen, and if they could they wouldn't be comprehensible. This notion is deep in film, so deep that when a movie comes along that posits a cosmology that is whole, and revealable, it shocks. What that movie did was give us enough of a glimpse into this to believe that we could understand the world, at least THIS world of the "galaxy far away." Remember when that original came out? The images were impressible, but what people talked about wasn't what they saw, but about how the world worked. It settled first in an ersatz religion among geeky kids and now has been swallowed by the "simple" US religions, and its presidential representative.<U+0097> the notion of a quest. Its an old form, but cast in the above noted situation, it takes new power. The traditional form, the Goethe-Lytton form was there to remind and reveal mysteries. Here it is clearer, to explain. There was a lowbrow professor at the time of a women's college that a TeeVee interviewer made popular. It was sort of a metaquest. This simple man said that we could actually understand the nature of trying to understand nature. It was a lucky break for Lucas, because it meshed with this shocking notion of a grand cosmology that we know our hero (check out the name: "sky walker") will grasp, master and show us.That was the first film. A huge success, just huge. It did change many things, but from my perspective the key thing was how it reset that great American invention of noir, as important as jazz, and liberty which form a sort of trilogy of contradictory, three-way tension.Okay. Now the second big Ted idea, the necessity for the equal size of steps in abstraction when you have two steps. It seems this is hardwired in the brain, a sort of human quantum mechanics. If you look back along the abstraction, say a cartoon in a cartoon, the distance between the two will be precisely the same as the surrounding cartoon.So, when they made the second Star Wars movie, they could reference the previous one in the way that it referenced its cinematic background. It had a writer in Kasden who knew how to do this. And it had a director in Lucas' film school teacher who did also. Neither had a huge hit other than this because it was such a cool setup, having such a thing to build on.You'll read lots about trying to humanize, and how faces were used. But all that is simply in the service of abstracting closer to us from the original, in equal portion. This is the son. Why did the franchise fail after this? Because there was no step left to abstract to and maintain the brand.(This comment is a replacement of one deleted for unknown reasons. This was requested by a reader.)Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.


                
You know a movie has had a real effect on you if you start using it's lines to answer people during your day-to-day routines:"I'll try and be home on time." Me: "Do or do not. There is no try.""I love you" Me: "I know.""Did you hear they are making a live-action Dragonball film?" Me: "Nooooooooooooo..."Me: *walks over and pets the cat* *cat takes a swipe at me* Me: "Laugh it up fuzzball."If my brain has chosen to repeat these words then I obviously have a connection with it. Why fight it? ^_^


                
In many ways, The Empire Strikes Back is the perfect sequel. But before I begin, let me get one thing out of the way. This is NOT the best Star Wars film of all time. That honour lies with the original, which it always will. There's a multitude of great scenes here, but I can and will argue that every one of them is derived from the original.In case the original Star Wars lulled you into a false sense of security - the Death Star is destroyed, Tarkin is dead and Vader is lost in space - Empire Strikes Back (the name says it all) opens with the iconic Battle of Hoth, where the rebels are once again on the run from an Empire with superior numbers and firepower. Everything about this battle sets the mood of Empire - most of which is spent on the run. If your heart isn't beating faster than usual when Vader is walking up to the Millennium Falcon, then you're straight up lying.There's no point wasting space talking about the performances in Empire Strikes Back, because Hamill, Fisher, Ford, Daniel and the actors behind Vader are just as good in this film as they were in the original. Ford and Fisher's on screen chemistry is what every movie couple aspires to be - it is not only believable but obvious that the Princess falls for the scoundrel Solo. Frank Oz joins the cast as the delightful Yoda, and his performance is perfect both in Yoda's wisest and most comedic moments. See also Billy Dee Williams, who became one of the franchise's most beloved characters in such a small amount of time. Williams' easy smile and commanding delivery shows us very clearly why he was in the conversation for the role of Han Solo.The reason that Empire Strikes Back is the perfect sequel is that it delves deeper into the parts we wanted to know more about. Yoda warns us that Luke is not right to be a Jedi, and then we watch Luke make the very mistakes Yoda was warning him about. Vader is built into an incredible villain in this movie - he knows Luke is his son and he still maims him. One of the things I loved in this movie was the similarity of Vader's approach to Admiral Ozell and Captain Needa's failures. Ozell is a buffoon and Needa an honest and upfront man willing to accept responsibility, and they both meet the same fate. Its a small thing, but it says so much about Vader's lack of empathy.Kershner is a very skilled director, probably the best in the franchise. Some of my favourite directed scenes include the devastating duel between Luke and Vader, where it is immediately obvious that Luke is out of his depth, and the incredible scene in which Vader's human head is revealed to the audience. A facial expression or change in body language is enough to speak volumes to the audience.I'm not in love with Empire Strikes Back. I find Hoth's Yeti, the giant asteroid worm, and the community's bizarre obsession with Boba Fett to be rather annoying. I also found Hoth, Dagobah and Bespin to be relatively flat and uninspired worlds by Star Wars standards. But they are all such tiny things in what is obviously an incredible film - the film that gave me my name.''Luke, I am your father.''
I always loved watching Star-wars and all kinds of Fantasy, Fiction and Sci-Fi genres TV-shows and Movies.Well, coming to Empire Strikes Back, it sure did gave me goosebumps while watching. cant ignore rest of the parts! they are much Awesome and most entertaining as always.Loved how the Plot twists and turns, always leaving Fans in suspense. Also, conflict between the brave but out-gunned Rebel Alliance and the mighty Galactic Empire Spices things up. it all comes back to the myth of the hero's destiny."Star Wars will do very nicely for those lucky enough to be children or unlucky enough never to have grown up" You all know what i mean. :)


                
Outstanding follow up to the original "Star Wars,"with Luke Skywalker learning the ways of a Jedi Knight, while Darth Vader awaits a battle with Luke as he sets up Han Solo and Princess Leia. Amazing in the technical department once again. Unmatched. Unforgettable.


                
For the 1977 film, see Star Wars (film). For other uses, see Star Wars (disambiguation). Star Wars is an American epic space opera franchise centered on a film series created by George Lucas. The film series, consisting of two trilogies (and an upcoming third), has spawned an extensive media franchise called the Expanded Universe including books, television series, computer and video games, and comic books. These supplements to the franchise resulted in significant development of the series' fictional universe, keeping the franchise active in the 16- year interim between the two film trilogies. The franchise depicts a galaxy described as "far, far away" in the distant past, and commonly portrays Jedi as a representation of good, in conflict with the Sith, their evil counterpart. Their weapon of choice, the lightsaber, is commonly recognized in popular culture. The franchise's story lines contain many themes, with strong influences from philosophy and religion. author: http://www.internetvietnam.net/Have a nice day.


                
In my opinion this is not only better than the first film or the fourth whatever but it is the best in the entire franchise. I loved it from the first minute until the last, I love star wars even since I was about 4 years old and I used to hate this movie but when I watch it now it's just amazing. Also in this film great Star Wars characters make their debut with the likes of Yoda and Orlnado Calrizion (if that is how you spell it and I can't remember if it is Orlando and Lando so excuse me if I got it wrong.)This film starred Mark Hamill, Harrison Ford & Carrie FisherI highly recommend this film to all you sci-fi fans****/***** not outstanding but very good


                
Better than Black Panther, But Knack is back so i cant give it a perfect score. My favorite part is the pod racing scene and i cried when Lego Yoda™ killed off jar jar, overall i give Peppa Pig, Infinity War a 9/10


                
After almost 40 years movie still looks really good.


                
My favourite one of all Star Wars movies. I like the plot and its facettes really much, the construct of the character involves with the movie and I definitely sympathize with Luke.


                
The Empire Strikes Back: Special Edition" is the second motion picture in the "Star Wars" set of three to be re-aced and re-discharged in 1997. The Special Edition incorporates an enhanced soundtrack, better advanced impacts, and a couple of additional goodies of included film."The Empire Strikes Back" gets where "Star Wars" left off. The Imperial powers (the trouble makers) have been set back by the demolition of their Death Star, yet are even more incensed and focused on the destruction of the Rebels (the heroes), who are battling for harmony and opportunity in the system.Numerous pundits see this as the best of the "Star Wars" set of three of motion pictures, and I won't oppose this idea. The maker/chief, George Lucas, had considerably more cash when he shot this motion picture than he improved the situation the past one, and it appears. "The Empire Strikes Back" has a superior plot, better acting, and is-by and large-the best!
This film is very inspiational.
The best Star Wars film ever!


                
"Star Wars: Episode V - The Empire Strikes Back" is one of the series from "Star Wars" original trilogy which according to many people that one of the most favorable series and one of the greatest plot twist in the cinema history all times. Its released at 1980 makes "Star Wars" spread widely at the time to reach a great achievement back for this fifth series. In this series also, George Lucas entrust Irvin Kershner as the director to be able to lift up into a higher level. Therefore, "The Empire Strikes Back" is one of the emotional series and a psychological from the whole series which in this case, "The Empire Strikes Back" shown a lot brilliant yet epic plot from any aspect, the characters, the visual effect, and the score.When talking about some yet memorable scenes in this movie, "The Empire Strikes Back" is the most that really hit deeply inside. This takes the cake when compared it with other series and "The Empires Strikes Back" is a movie that changes Hollywood and the movie industry forever. At the time, viewers didn't know anything a lot about this second series from the original "Star Wars." We just like, "who is this?", "who is that?", "who is Anakin Skywalker?", "why must end like this?", and any doubtful question which makes the whole audience especially "Star Wars" fanboys confused because of there is no any clear reason with any of those points. This is more like Christopher Nolan's "The Dark Knight" where the villain is the winner. The movie leaves an ambiguity with an unsettling impression what just happens in this movie. I could imagine how all viewers would respond to this movie and they would be like, "what is this?". If you watch it from the prequel trilogy, I think an ambiguity impression never rise up. But back then, this is the original, the original of "Star Wars" trilogy which fans care.The first opening scene opens up with a surprise attack from the rebel army when a brilliant yet great execution visual effects synchronically with John Williams' epic score, it just feels one of the greatest scene in the "Star Wars" trilogy. There is so much kind of memorable scene in which one of them is the plot-twist between Luke Skywalker and Darth Vader, a dogfight with Han Solo and friends where they must evade so many asteroids, a mental training for Luke Skywalker where Yoda, for the first time, introduced in this movie, and a well-development relationship between Han Solo and Princess Leia. This movie also divided into two segment where Luke and Han Solo has each story. In this movie, Han Solo's character further develops with any of his characteristics who always makes some jokes together with his sidekick, Chewbacca, and one of the most emotional scenes in the climax film. A great fulfillment from each of the memorable quotes is one that could be passed like that such as: "No. Try not. Do... or do not. There is no try." and "That is why you fail." A simple sentence with a lot of meaning. We care about his character when he almost fell into the dark side and seeing his foreshadowing being in the Darth Vader's dark side. Yoda is not an annoying character in several aspects but he is an unpredictable little guy. His first introduction was annoying but he is known the most related to the Jedi and the Force which makes his character the most interesting as the plot device and more focused.Darth Vader, from this series, is more developed when it came to his vivid background to his brutal yet badass when he always chokes his men. His character also is more shown which he is an overpowered character when he deals with Luke Skywalker who is unmatched. Luke Skywalker who is more drown in his emotion makes him being eaten by his emotion where became one central fail in his weakness. The final confront and final fight one on one duel lightsaber between Luke and Vader is the most brilliant execution from any corner which put a high-stakes on it. This movie seems a symbolism when it comes to this scene when blue and red lightsaber fights each other to find out who is the top of the one. This is like a mental and idealism concept for Luke where he needs some exercise to his enemies, how he could able to protect his friends from any threats. In fact, he fails from this point which makes him almost fell into the dark side.George Lucas back with this fifth series of "The Empire Strikes Back" which was so stunning with a big support from John William's score who made a composition on the Darth Vader, Luke Skywalker, and various theme songs including the emotional scene. A great achievement for Irvin Kershner, a tribute to him that holds a lot of hope for George Lucas. With a great acting that supports this movie too and makes the characters more interesting, "The Empire Strikes Back" feels like a perfect film from any aspects, especially the special effects. Some scenes sometimes make me flinch and awkward such as the kiss scene between Luke and Leia are just came from nowhere. Maybe, what Luke would think after knowing Leia's real identity would make him remember that moment. "Star Wars: Episode V - The Empire Strikes Back" is one of the best series ever in the "Star Wars" trilogy and one of the most favorable.


                
I am no Star Wars fan and over all think the franchise is quite overrated, but that doesn't stop The Empire Strikes Back from being one of the best movies of its decade. This is just story telling perfection, creating with one bit worlds, stories and themes, putting them together so perfectly and than.. We are nearly 2 hours in, everything seems impossible and than BOOOOM One of the biggest twists of all time. This is it. A perfectly laid out storyline, with twists and creative psychology. Outclasses every other Star Wars movie and makes the whole Franchise watchable: 9/10!


                
I loved the movie it was great! It truly makes you feel as if you are in the film along with the cast.
There is nothing more to say! A true classic and the best star wars movie so far in the series. Everyone should see this movie at least one time since it has had such a huge influence on our culture!


                
Empire Strikes Back starts with a bumpy plot, dialogue, cinematography, and acting. But as the movie progresses, you start to feel that it's a masterpiece. From the beginning of the Battle of Hoth, the movie elevates as it goes on. Every scene feels more mature than what comes before it. The music is perfect in every sense; in fact, it makes the stakes feel more elevated. Darth Vader proves to be the best villain in cinema history, while our protagonists feel much more mature and developed than in 'A New Hope'. For an 80's film, Empire Strikes Back is shot magnificently, and some shots look and feel as modern as most blockbusters today. The performances are a big improvement; every actor or actress plays his or her part extraordinarily, mainly because the characters are put through challenging obstacles. The film drags at some moments, such as the asteroid worm scene, which takes you out of the movie for moments. Everything else earns the movie a deserved "Movie of the decade" award (at least from fans).


                
The Empire Strikes Back is a 1980 epic space opera/space fantasy film directed by George Lucas and direct sequel to Star Wars. As a brief summary, The Empire Strikes Back is a classic example of a movie that the critics of the time got very wrong. Initially receiving mixed reviews and being slammed by some is nowadays considered to be one of the greatest movies of all time and the best Star Wars film overall...and its not hard to see why! The Empire Strikes Back continues on from the events of Star Wars revisiting the characters of Luke Skywalker, Princess Leia and Han Solo. The Empire Strikes Back is known to be the much darker sequel, with much more character depth, vulnerability and emotion. Lucas continues to develop his beloved characters in all the right ways with the Han-Leia relationship, the more powerful feeling of friendship and of course the biggest, most shocking twist in cinematic history with Vader and Luke in the final act of the film. The Empire Strikes Back also continues to evolve the world introducing us to new places, new characters such as the legendary Jedi master, Yoda, improving the special effects and an even more beautiful soundtrack, provided by John Williams. The Empire Strikes Back is a perfect example of a sequel done right, equal and at times even better than the original. Epic battles, intense space chases, powerful emotional character development, shocking twists, thought-provoking ideas, themes and messages and finally groundbreaking sequences and special effects. In terms of flaws The Empire Strikes Back virtually has none whatsoever, other than an unfortunate twist which has had a negative response later on in the franchise, a few unnecessarily long scenes of Luke's training, and in my opinion a slightly weaker general plot than the original story. These however barely affect this near perfect masterpiece of a movie. 9/10


                
This movie was a true film making classic. Any story that can take place in 3 unique environments and space while telling thee classic good versus evil (with a twist Vader as the dad)is worthy of a movie this good. It is a reminder on an era of movie making when film makers took a risk with using more elaborate special effects in their shots. This movie started a flood of great 80's films that allowed you to get lost in a new world of far away people. Empire Strikes Back stands out as the best of the stories in the original trilogy as there is simply more story and more characters involved. This movie is a great family as well and is a great way to spend a family night in.


                
After the indescribable success of the first amazing Star Wars film, people were hungry for more, so George Lucas decided to go ahead and make a sequel.You think it would be hard to live up to the film of the century, yet George Lucas does it again effortlessly, and an even better job.Almost everything about this film is perfect; the format of the story, the classic sword fight, the story itself, the special effects, everything was just unbelievable, I could go on for days.It is very hard to describe how epic this movie is. I love the Dagobah scenes, they were spectacular, and I liked Yoda even better than good old Obi-Wan Kenobi. The city in the clouds is fantastic, and when you first see Darth Vader there you could kiss George Lucas for doing such a good job. The sword fight in this film is faster and cooler, and the dramatic lines at the end is great. Han Solo and Princess Leia were made for each other, and Han Solo's last scene in the film shows how much he has matured as an actor.There were two things that bothered me about this film, though. The first is the first 15 minutes of the film. It's just a very weak opening, and it seems longer than it actually it is. However, that is made up for by the amazing battle scene on Hoth. Another is when Luke and Leia kiss; it just doesn't seem right.Other than that, the movie hit perfection on technically every level. Darth Vader is as creepy as ever (especially when you see the back of his actual head and you wonder what's on the other side), and his theme music is great, along with the rest of John William's grand score.The Empire Strikes Back, overall, is a masterpiece, and should be #5 on the Top 250 list. It's one of my favorite movies, and it is definitely one of the greatest movies of ALL time (as in all the movies in history). 9.9/10 (almost a 10, that's how good it is).


                
Face it. Once you see "Star Wars" (or Episode IV, for all you "Special" Edition lovers) at least 54 times, everything sort of drags on. Once you see "Return of the Jedi", it kind of drags along, but, even though it is the longest, it seems to be the shortest. While "Empire" is VERY slow, it is easily the darkest and most enjoyable movie from the Original Trilogy, but for me, the least. As with "Star Wars" I'm gonna start the review with the Special Edition stuff. We don't need to see the "VERY" interesting approach to the Star Destroyer. The extra Wampa scene builds MUCH more tension than the original. And making Luke scream like a baby was Definitely cool. So, like the original "Star Wars" DON'T BUY OR WATCH THE SPECIAL EDITION! Again, I am proud to be the lucky owner of the original 3 movies unwrapped, and in mint condition after my success on ebay. I think it is obvious that The Empire Strikes Back is the darkest, including the fact that it has the stunning (MAJOR spoilers ahead!) "I am your father!" by James Earl Jones. As for the acting in this movie, second strongest, (Return of the Jedi has the strongest,in my opinion). Best actor/actress here- Frank Oz as Yoda. Well, he didn't really act, but oh, well. Againg, the effects in the Original Edition don't stick out like a sore thumb like in the Special Edition. The sets have gone a small, almost unnoticeable change: They don't look used! While many may argue that snow and woods can't look used (and I agree with them), Cloud City certainly can, and I think that there wasn't a scuff mark until the Stormtroopers attacked! Again, the music is GREAT! This time, my second favorite track, "The Imperial March" is introduced, and my fifth favorite, "Yoda's Theme" is introduced. Again, the DVD is fine (Luke doesn't scream), and I recommend it over the "Special" Edition. But, I recommend the Original Edition above all. May the Force be with you as you watch this movie!
