Look, I rented this film because I knew it was rated 94 on the IMDb Top 250. I guess the fact I had such high expectations removed any chance of me liking this film. I felt it was utter trash. There was very little I could say was even mildly amusing here...Much of Andre's (The Giant) lines were about as effective as he would have been if he'd tried to play a slim, short, well-spoken Englishman. Cary Elwes was a pathetic hero - I felt no affinity towards him whatsoever. The short, bald guy managed to do only one thing - annoy the crap out of me. Overall, the story was boring, the writing was lame, the main characters of Cary Elwes and Robin Wright were one-dimensional and I fail to understand how anyone could warm to them. The only scenes I found interesting and even enjoyable were those involving Fred Savage. In short, a major disappointment and yet another example of a film that in my view has no business being on the IMDb Top 250 list.This film ranked No. 94 of all time? INCONCEIVABLE !!!!


                
What do you love about this film. No, not what did you love about it as a kid, what do you love about it now? I first saw this film at age 14, at school, having never even hear of it. So, I think I am rather qualified to give an unbiased opinion, since so many are clouded by childhood nostalgia about this film. I remember the teacher putting it on, and everybody going wild. A friend, after giving me an odd look for saying I'd never seen it, said it was like the NeverEnding Story, and I'd love it.Pity that wasn't even a remotely accurate statement.I love fantasy, before I'm accused of not, my favorite book is The Lord of the Rings.I specifically love comedic fantasy, the likes of Terry Pratchett, and gently mocking, yet also in the genre fantasy,like The Last Unicorn.This film does not succeed as a fantasy, being utterly predictable, and head scratching. I know it's not a serious fantasy, since they mention real countries, as a joke, I assume. Nothing happened in this film that I didn't see coming a mile away. The only thing that mildly surprised me was the ending, that just sort of ... happens. It's like, the story is going along, then cuts off and says 'OK, we're done now.' Most predictable of all was the story within a story element.I would forgive the horrid effects, except that many eighties movies made before this one looked much more realistic. Let us not forget that Aliens came form the eighties, and those effects hold up today for the most part.Star wars was made in the seventies. Even the NeverEnding Story, for all Falcor is a puppet, had it's moments. And let us not forget, Falcor is a pretty puppet.Then, if the film isn't a serious fantasy, it must be a comedic fantasy, right? If so, I don't know what's so funny here. Apparently, the writers are convinced the height of comedy is to repeat a phrase over and over, with how often that occurs. Like when they have the worlds smartest man use the word inconceivable incorrectly. Once worth a slight smile perhaps, at the rather simple joke of 'Ha Ha! He thinks he's a genius, but he's not really.' Then, they say it again. And once more. And once more. It's like the writers thought we were too stupid to get the joke the first time, and they really felt it was a terribly clever joke, and we had to get it! Not the only time that happens in the film, either.This film fails as a fantasy by being predictable, fails as a comedy by not being funny, has awful effects, and boring, uninteresting characters. They're all flat, I knew nothing about them at the end of the film beyond 'He's really tall, they're in love, he's a idiot and he's Spanish and wants to avenge his father.' All things you could learn in that one sentence blurb. On top of all that, the acting is bad.This movie is simply a train wreck, I can't even believe it was made. And that so many of my friends love it.
I lump this film right up there with Titanic as the most overrated film of all times. You put a cheesy romantic love story in the middle of a medieval forest and stick a few funny one-liners in there, and suddenly you've got a classic? I don't buy it. I don't think this movie is terrible like I thought Titanic was, but I don't think it was all that great either. I actually found it rather boring, the special effects lame, and the love story unbelievable. But as usual, people buy into this kind of thing, especially teenage girls. I'm just thankful that there are people around with sense who don't buy into every bit of syrupy sappy love stories Hollywood serves up. I give the movie about a 6 out of 10. I might have given it a seven, but the fact that it is in the top 100 of all times made me feel otherwise. Watch Monty Python and the Holy Grail for some great comedy, but only watch this if you are drawn in by sappy syrupy love stories.


                
This is just an absolutely terrible movie. It dragged for the most part. Dialogue was juvenile. Jokes weren't funny at all. Acting was very bad. Rating is probably as high as it is as kids remember it fondly. Can't understand how anyone who is 25 years or older could possible have liked this movie. For me I always liked Andre the Giant and was happy to see him in this film but the rest of the characters were not believable and it actually looked like they were acting. It was as if they were auditioning for a part but weren't. The only part I liked was the line "You killed my father, prepare to die. Overall it wasn't very entertaining at all.


                
I don't normally write reviews, but felt compelled to after watching this. I watched this with my g/f last night. I'm working my way through most of top films at the moment and was looking forward to it after its 8.1 rating from over 100,000 people. I'm also a big fan of the fantasy genre.Well, all I can say is this was just abysmal. Not a patch on films such as Neverending story or Willow. As others have suggested I can only imagine the high rating due to kids have fond memories of this from their child hood.Not remotely funny, at least not intentionally. The only part that had me and my g/f laughing was the part where they encounter the rats. They looked so bad it was amusing. The best part was when one leaped at the main character. It looked like someone in the studio had simply picked up the rat and thrown it at him(can't even remember his name).Luckily I fell asleep about 50 mins and my g/f had the decency not to wake me up. She assured me I didn't miss anything.If you're over 15 and watching this for the 1st time expect to be disappointed. The film hasn't aged at all well, the effects are really terrible, the small villain has to be one of the most annoying characters I've ever witnessed. Looks like they had a budget of £20.Even Army of Darkness was marginally better than this and I thought that was terrible and not at all funny either. Receives a 2, rather than a 1 thanks to the rat scene making us both laugh hard for 30 seconds or so.


                
For an adult, this movie is way too bland and tasteless. There are only two relatively snappy and enjoyable scenes (the poison duel and the fight of Inigo and Westley). Most of the rest of the movie is simply uninteresting. The good characters are too characterless, and the villains are too unconvincing (perhaps with the single exception of Vizzini). The plot is soapy and overstretched. The props are cheap looking.Now, you might say, this can be said of a lot of other movies too. Why 1/10? Because for its target audience - kids - the movie is not simply average. It's outright disgusting. The torture scene alone is enough to get this movie banned from my family video library. It's so senselessly, meaninglessly cruel that I couldn't watch it myself, let alone show to my kids. The sick obsession with bloody vengeance ("Prepare to die! Prepare to die! Prepare to die! Prepare to die!" ad infinitum) is immoral almost to the point of absurdity. The entire movie is just a painful, endless gallery of people (both "good" and "bad") beating and killing other people by various means. There's no beauty or catharsis in any of this. Just blood.And you say this is a "family classic"? Are you serious? Now, British cinema seems to always have had a certain feel for cruelty, but when Monthy Python does it, it's at least funny. Here, it's not funny at all. It's just plain ugly.I'm having serious difficulty trying to imagine a normal sane person who can watch this movie without skipping... let alone _enjoy_ it.


                
I had never seen this movie and a co-worker brought it over to watch one night and said " I think you will like this, it's very funny!" Honestly, I never came close to smiling watching this pungent pile of bile let alone laugh at it. My god people how does this rank in the IMDb Top 250 of all time? Can anyone explain to me anything about this movie that is mildly amusing, Wallace Shawn is so annoying, the dialog is replete with stinkyocity and the story is so simplistic a baby would be bored! Now there is nothing offensive about the movie but I will bet you my kids would hate this but I may never know because I can't bare sitting through it again. As I read through some other user comments I felt compelled to write this because it is a minority opinion but dang! PLEASE SOMEONE EXPLAIN YOUR LOVE OF THIS PIECE OF ROB REINER GARBAGE! By the way I love most all of Mr. Reiners other movies!


                
Before I begin there are a few times I will make comments as to certain parts of the story and specific details but I do not reveal any critical points in the story. To start the story itself is horrible. I admit it has a few good characters, I enjoyed the spainard. The first time I saw it it was easy to tell what would be happening 10 minutes ahead. The simplicity of it all was dumbfounding. The story is nothing more than cliche. Several people I know seem to like it some how in one way or another, something I dont seem to understand. The acting I found to be subpar but acceptable given the roles. Andre the Giant, as he has become known as, fit the role of his character very well from a physicly ominious standpoint, but his poor diction detracted from the moment most any time that he spoke. The Vizzini character was utterly annoying through and through. As for Cary Elwes, his performance I felt was decent given the seemingly two dimensional persona that the script gave him to work with. Something that really got on my nerves was how that it was chosen to retain the annoyence from the book of using that horrible acronym: ROUS. Rodents Of Unusual Size. Its one thing to include a rodent as an enemy but its quite another thing in the way they handles the scene with the rodents. When Elwes's character was attacked by one of these "rous"s  he was even pinned down by this animal half his size. To me this was a horrible way to handle it. It reminded me much of chucky *shudders* (now THAT was a horrible movie) where a childs doll somehow had the weight and strength to pin down grown people. The physics of it just dont make any sense. My ultimate opinion is this. As a satire, mocking the fantasy genre, it was a masterpiece of its time. As a fantasy (which is what its listed as for some reason), it was an abomination and a slap in the face to the rest of the genre in my opinion. I cant quite put my finger on a specific of why i loathe it so much, but to sit and watch it makes me sick.Would i Reccomend this movie? If you havent seen it: yes. I have heard enough good things from other people that odds are you may enjoy it too, so you might as well struggle through it once.


                
Hated the Princess Bride. It is a sexist pile of garbage.. Of course the woman in the movie should wait for years in vacuous idiocy for her "True Love" to rescue her instead of actually doing anything. And when it's revealed that her "True Love" is still alive the only action she takes is attempted suicide. Very good roll model for young women. I guess it takes a woman who can actually take care of herself instead of waiting for Prince Charming to get this. I can't tell you how anti female this movie is. If you think women are just window dressing for male revenge and hero fantasies this is the flick for you. If you think women can actually think and act for themselves and not sit around forever to wait to be rescued, give this a pass.
What a load of claptrap. Not only did the movie not make a lot of sense but the acting left a lot to be desired. Scores highly on the sphincter clencher scale. I was also surprised that Peter Falk would lend his talent to a production of this caliber. Maybe he was in need of money, who knows. Anyway, a waste of my money (I was foolish enough to buy the DVD) and of my time.


                
C'mon people, what's the big deal? I have tried and tried to watch and like this movie on recommendations of my so-called friends. But PLEASE... This movie is nothing but a load of boring, contrived, clichéd, CRAP!! No originality whatsoever. AND don't get me started on the acting!!!! This has to be the worst acting I've seen in my life....totally laughable and amateurish to say the least. Let me say it one more time so no one else wastes their valuable time on this pile of putrid crap. The acting was laughable and amateurish, the storyline was old and unoriginal. People, if you want to see a good movie RENT SOMETHING ELSE!!!!


                
This movie didn't do a thing for me.  It wasn't as good as I thought it was and it was nothing that I expected it to be.  I thought it would have more to it rather than just a simple and innocent fairy tale that you'd see in a child's book of fairy tales.  Plus, I was hoping something would come and turn this movie around and add some spice to it, but it didn't happen, so that was disappointing.  Little kids would probably enjoy this movie, but I didn't enjoy this movie at all.  Big disappointment!!!


                
This movie was like five twelve year olds trying to improvise a Shrek movie in their basement. There's nothing new or unique about this movie. If you like to watch movies, don't watch this. My face turned red when watching this movie. I was so embarrassed. I'm starting to think that the ratings and reviews are just a joke. I fell for a bad joke. If you haven't seen the movie, but you're thinking about doing it, remember that the reviews and ratings aren't legit. Spoiler warning. The poison drinking scene made me laugh uncontrollably. It was the worst scene I have ever seen. I couldn't breathe. Even though I laughed, I was mostly sad and embarrassed. I regret seeing this movie.
this is my first review on IMDb and i never thought i would write it for this movie and most importantly that i would start by writing a negative review,but i couldn't control my over whelming emotions,anger and disgust when the movie finished."IMDb rating 8.2" -i held my self throughout the movie by reverberating this statement in my mind.but holy crap...the whole movie ended and at the end i was like what did i just see!!! i don't know what people liked in this filthy movie with predictable story,over acting and boring presentation.to be honest i am a fairy tale person.i love such stories but this movie is a blot on fairy tales.they think saying these lines "my love will come" "true love succeeds" blah blah along with prince and princess can make a love ballet.AGGHHHH!!! can just say wasted 720 MB of my download. those who haven't seen PLEASE RESTRAINT!!


                
I had not seen this film, until it was set as 'text' by my son's deluded English teacher. This film is OK for the small hours of the morning, if you have very low expectations - but a classic? Give me a break! Shakespeare's a classic, Dickens, Orwell, Steinbeck - all who would have turned in their graves at this abysmal, one-dimensional script writing. A Spanish character, finally enacting long sought-after revenge and what does the writer come up with? "Son of a bitch!" Really! That's the best, wittiest and most memorable line you can come up with? Come back Welles, Kurosawa, Copolla, Ford, Scott, Kubrick, Lang, Bunuel, Capra, Wyler, Curtiz, Weir, etc. SERIOUSLY SUBSTANDARD - STANDARDS ARE SLIPPING, FOLKS.


                
After watching it I simply don't like this movie at all, I just don't get what people see in this movie. It purposely looks like a cheap 1980's TV movie, the parts that are meant to be comedic are just poorly executed and for the most part the film is actually really boring. The Princess character is by far the worst character in the movie, while she and Westley were in the swamp, Westley gets attacked by a giant rodent and while this is happening, she just stands there doing nothing, doesn't even have the thought of helping him pass the sword he dropped, I understand that this movie is about the concept of true love but I don't think this women is worth it, all she is is this stereotypical damsel in distressed emotionless women who just can't think for herself such as her life choices and common sense.Sometime after this Westly gets captured, and tortured until killed to death, only to be bought back to life in the most stupidest fashion I've ever seen after being actually dead for some time, it just doesn't make sense. And about that evil Prince, no-one kills him yet this Inigo Montoya character who is arguably the best character in the movie gets a free pass to get revenge on the guy who murdered his father, I think the movie should have been about him, but instead we get this bloated mess. Before watching this I thought it would be a more "epic and gritty" film, but that does not appear to be the case.
Or maybe I had too high expectations, maybe I have no taste, but The Princess Bride is the worst piece of garbage I've seen in months, if not years.Yesterday, after listening for years on end what a great movie it is, I went, got the DVD and popped it in my computer, curious what all the fuss was all about. I wish I didn't. I managed to put up with it for a little over an hour, and now I want that hour of my life that I wasted on it BACK! Even if one is willing to excuse the awful, cheap props, costumes and special effects due to the movie being shot in the 80s and on a small budget, nothing, absolutely NOTHING excuses to awful writing and even worse delivery. It's been toted to me as some paragon of witty, hilarious dialogue, but frankly, with one single exception (the "In which cup is the poison" scene) the rest was just painful to sit through. I saw nothing particularly funny or witty about the dialogue, and even if there was some flash of brilliance here and there it was torn apart, set on fire and then stomped on by the wooden delivery of the actors. I have never seen people who lack comic timing so badly. They sounded like they were reading a phonebook, rather than delivering funny dialogue.Though it's obvious from the rest of the review, I am severely disappointed.


                
