This is one of those rare films that gets better each time you watch it. With something for everyone, The Princess Bride combines romance, action, adventure and parody to create the perfect movie.Cary Elwes and Robin Wright are beautiful to watch and the story of their love is a wonderful backdrop to the adventure and intrigue played out in this story. Mandy Patinkin is wonderful as Inigo and gets to deliver some of the best lines in the film. Chris Sarandon is perfect in his role as the bad guy prince.The plot is rich, with adult innuendos the kids will miss all together and levels of wit to entertain the whole family. The dialogue is full of very funny catch phrases-  many of which are still part of my repertoire more than a decade after I first saw the movie.   If you like dry humor and fast wit, The Princess Bride will make your day.I have owned this video since 1988 and still watch it regularly - it has become my 'sick day' movie because it is such a joy.


                
There's enough reviews here to show how enjoyable and entertaining this movie is, but I had to put my own word in...I simply love this movie. I watched it with my parents when I was very young, and have been watching it constantly ever since. It's a movie that I just can't seem to grow tired of. For one, I absolutely love the medieval fantasy genre, both in books and movies. From a small child I've loved knights, castles, dragons. the whole sort. This movie, quite simply, puts the viewer into an imaginative world where everything seems real. Second, the characters are so enjoyable to watch, you really begin to feel for them - all of them. Even humperdink, whose name does him justice, gets pity at the end. Lastly, the grandfather's list of the qualities of the book at the very beginning are all true... this story has everything. That is why it is such a classic, when everything comes down to it. From the moving love story between Wesly and Buttercup, to the dynamic and brilliantly scripted duel between the Man in Black and Indigo, to even the hilarious bickering from Vezinni to his lovable giant, Fezzik... This movie finds a place to include EVERYTHING one can imagine.  The story moves along at a great pace, and you feel as though the whole land has been covered when the book is closed. Furthermore, the whole conception of using the "telling a story" approach doesn't taken away from the realism of the story, but raises it even more by showing how mesmerized the boy is, listening to the tale - just as we are, in front of the screen.Maybe it was how I was captivated to the screen, watching it as a child... Maybe it was how I'd pop the movie in and turn a boring Sunday afternoon an exciting adventure as I grew up... Or maybe it's how I can sit down with friends and all enjoy the movie together, laughing at its funny parts, and cheering at it's exciting moments. The movie has a place in my heart, and that will never go away. A "10" on the scale, and even these words, can't begin to tell how much I love this movie.


                
I'm not exactly sure what exactly it is that makes The Princess Bride such a spectacular film. Or, at the very least, I just can't pinpoint a single characteristic about it that really rises above all others as the main reason that no one should miss it. Indeed, it has a title that should prove to be remarkably uninteresting to the typical action adventure fan (okay, MALE action adventure fan), but even the most die-hard Die Hard fan would love this film. It is extremely important not to judge this film just because it has such a flowery and dangerously (at the risk of sounding shallow) girly name, because it is full of wonderful adventure and even some good killing and violence. Does this belong in this kind of romantic comedy? Absolutely! The cover box of the film looks like that of a cheesy romance novel, but the film is truly great from start to finish. And, indeed, the film is very aware of the superficial impression that it leaves, and it even presents it directly through Fred Savage's initial response to his grandfather reading him the story. But as the film goes on, we begin to have the same reaction that Fred has. We can't get enough. 
Cary Elwes delivers by far the most outstanding performance of his career as Westley, the love-struck servant to Buttercup, a beautiful blonde woman living in a misty romantic fantasy world. Sadly, Elwes' later career has been punctuated by roles that do not serve him well, especially after such a stunning performance in this role. Liar Liar and Twister come immediately to mind. Robin Wright also gives one of the best performances of her career in her film debut here as Princess Buttercup, but the real quality of the performances that makes the movie so great is the fact that they were able to pack the film full of comic relief (it was nearly nonstop from start to finish) without taking anything away from the tension or the overall respectability of the film. It is interesting to consider the polar opposite effect of the comic relief on the vast majority of the James Bond films. Wallace Shawn is absolutely hilarious as Vizzini, the bonehead villain who is completely convinced that he has the whole world figured out, Andre the Giant delivers a lumbering but highly impressive performance as Vizzini's enormous, idiot sidekick, and by far my favorite of all, Mandy Patinkin creates one of the most entertaining and likeable characters created in a film in the entire decade of the 1980s (`My name is Inigo Montoya. You killed my father. Prepare to die!').  This is great stuff. Told as a story read from a book, just like The Neverending Story, The Princess Bride provides a magical mix of romance and fantasy and action and comedy to provide an enormously entertaining film for moviegoers of all ages. The Princess Bride is an absolutely wonderful film that is truly not to be missed.


                
"As you wish..." "Inconceivable!" "My name is Inigo Montoya..."
I love this film so much.From its opening scenes of the young boy being read a story by his kindly Grandfather to the romance, action, adventure and fun of the fairy tale. The Princess bride tells the tale of the beautiful Buttercup (Robin Wright) and her true love Westley (Elwes)who become separated through the course of an unfortunate event involving some pirates. Westley's destiny is to rescue Buttercup from the clutches of an evil Prince so that they might be together again. Yet he's not bargained on some of the wonderful characters that he will meet (and befriend) along the way...This film is so deliciously acted, made and written that it is a treat to watch.I've lost count of how many times I've seen it now. But every time I still gain the same enormous amount of pleasure from watching it. A movie that is a delight for the young and just as much fun for everyone else.
The actors are all superb in their roles ('perfect casting' does not come close to describing it!) A young Cary Elwes is suitably dashing as our cocky hero (check out the sword fighting!)and Robin Wright is good as the beautiful Buttercup. Mandy Patinkin is great as the vengeful Inigo Montoya who utters that famous "you killed my father. prepare to die" line. Everyone else gives there all, including Christoper Guest, Chris Sarandon (as the main villian), Wallace Shawn, the late Andre The Giant,Mel Smith, and Billy Crystal.Even though it is about 18 years old, the humour and sly jokes are still as sharp today as they were back in 1987.You know you are watching a great movie when you here Elwes' "To the pain..." speech near the end. You've probably seen The Princess Bride. If so...go and watch it again. Right now, and remind yourself how good it is! And if you haven't- what are you waiting for? Go and check it out now! It's worth it! Hands up who can quote this entire film off by heart! ;)Watch out for:The R.O.U.S's Elwes' and Patinkin's Sword/word fight The Miracle Max scene When our heroes storm the castle (Go Inigo! Go Inigo!) Elwes' "To the pain..." speech. (Superb. Shows what a great (and unfortunately underused) actor he is)


                
The Princess Bride is a wonderful family film about a maiden named Buttercup and her "farmboy" Wesley. When Wesley goes away to seek his fortune, he is reported to be killed by the Dread Pirate Roberts. Hearing this really gets Buttercup down, and it only gets worse when Prince Humperdink chooses her to be his bride.( Hence the title) To make a long story short and not give away the ending, Buttercup's kidnapped for suspicious reasons and rescued by someone familiar. She's in love and nothing can stop true love! A couple of deaths, a would be wedding, revenge fulfilled, and a couple reunited end this gala of a film. But this doesn't even sum it up, I promise! I love this film because it does not take itself too seriously and flows well across the screen. The main characters and their supporting cast are quirky and memorable. You will be repeating classic lines like, "My name is Inigo Montoya, you killed my father, prepare to die!" over and over again. Through the adventures of Wesley and Buttercup you feel drawn to the characters and fall in love with their ability to amuse you. Do you want to be entertained with a light hearted fantasy/comedy? Then head on over to your local video store and pick up a copy. Ready to enjoy? "As you wish."


                
The Princess Bride is one of those rare, but very perfect films that everyone once in their life time has seen. Just because it is such a loved film, how could you not love it? It has action, romance, revenge, sword fights, true love, humor, friendship, etc. I was only 2 when this film was released, but I still remember how much I was in love with this film at 4. I would rewind the tape and watch it over and over again, the funny thing was my parents wouldn't mind watching it with me, it appeals to children as well as adults. I think the reason why this was such a fantastic film was due to the fact that it was the perfect mixture of a fairy tale with humor, action, and romance. Rob Reiner really knew what he was doing when he made this movie; and it all starts with a grandfather simply reading his favorite childhood story to his sick grandson.Buttercup and Wesley are two farm people who eventually fall deeply in love, but in order to get money to get married, Wesley goes off to find a job and start a life for them. But when Buttercup hears of Wesley's death by pirates, she is taken away by Prince Humperdinck who is about to make her his bride. She is then kidnapped by three rebels who wish to start a war with the prince, Vizzini, Fezzik, and Indigo Montoya(who is on a revenge streak to kill the six fingered man who killed his father). But she is saved by an unknown pirate who later reveals himself as Wesley who escaped death, but Buttercup is taken once again right as she and Wesley are reunited by Prince Humperdinck. The prince orders to torture Wesley and kill him to keep him away from Buttercup, but Wesley ends up being saved by Fezzik and Indigo who will help him save Buttercup.The Princess Bride is a classic film that will never be forgotten. It has classic lines like: Hello, my name is Inigo Montoya, you killed my father prepare to die. And of course INCONCEIVABLE repeated constantly by Vizzini. The acting is perfect and the sets are just amazing. Of course who could forget Billy Cristal and Carol Cane's great performance of the miracle worker and his wife? They were just priceless. Please watch this movie, it's one of those movies that's just impossible not to like, why not to like it would be inconceivable.10/10
I didn't have this theory about "The Princess Bride" for years, until I came close to the age of the grandfather that Peter Falk portrays.Here's my theory. The grandfather goes to the bedside of his grandson, portrayed by Fred Savage, prepared to do what grandfathers do - read him a story. But no, the grandson protests. Does it have sports in it? This is a silly "yucky" story full of kissing. Skip the kissing parts! So the grandfather decides to teach the grandson a lesson (the beginning of my theory). He takes what was probably a straightforward tale of love lost and found again, of giants and evil princes and rescues and magic spells, and embellishes it with the wisdom that can only come from living sixty years on this planet. Because, let's face it, The Princess Bride as we are told has much wisdom in it.What are the chances that a story that has been around for a hundred years has lines such as "You fell victim to one of the classic blunders - the most famous of which is "never get involved in a land war in Asia". Only somebody who lived through the Vietnam War era (the grandfather) would come up with this. Too bad Dubya wasn't read this book as a child. Then there is the bit about the Dread Pirate Roberts - an unseen villain who turns out to be a series of villains. He would tuck Wesley into bed each night after he captured him and say "Good night, Westley. Good work. Sleep well. I'll most likely kill you in the morning." What other sentence so captures the sentiment of working for large corporations these days who will throw you out into the street without a backwards glance? The book hits how people believe something is real or not real based merely on their feelings about it with this zinger as Wesley carries the princess through a dangerous swamp. She cautions him about the ROUS's (Rodents of Unusual Size). Wesley's defense - "I don't think they exist". One immediately attacks.And finally a great quote about love. An angry Prince Humperdinck after being rejected by Buttercup goes to where Wesley is about to be tortured and states "You truly love each other, and so you might have been truly happy. Not one couple in a century has that chance, no matter what the storybooks say." Only after kissing frogs for decades can I say this is so true. And on it goes.Thus most of the wisdom of living modern life can be found in this tale within a tale, and I highly recommend it for its humor, its wisdom, and uniqueness. I don't think I've seen anything quite like it.


                
I very rarely like to put 10/10 for a rating of something as I feel nothing is perfect. However, this movie i feel is so close to that 10/10 it would be wrong not to award it this. Although it may not be the greatest movie ever made, it is brilliant in its own right. The characters are humorous, the dialogue is witty and the cast is brilliant. It contains so many different elements which also make it a really good family film. Action, adventure, sword-fighting, pirates, romance, comedy and fantasy. It captures all the elements I could Whilst I still stand by the fact that the book is better, this is still my favourite film.


                
Maybe a spoiler at the end....maybe. It is 2018 and this movie is now 31 years old. I am pushing 70 and have watched several thousand movies. For clean family-viewable entertainment, this has to be in almost everyone's all time top ten. Or five. Mandy Patinkin, a very fine actor, was never better than as Inigo Montoya, the Spanish swordsman. Robin Wright, barely 21, was exquisite as Buttercup. Cary Elwes has never, IMO, been quite as good as he was as Westley...but then, he was superlative as Westley, setting the bar very, very high. All of the acting ranges from good to great. The inclusion of Andre as Fezzik was random "geniusness"....it just worked, and worked oh so incredibly well. I have watched this movie many times and I still love it. The outer wrap of grandfather Peter Falk reading the story to his grandson Fred Savage takes the "Family Friendliness" rating to a fifty on a 1-10 scale. There are many, many characters to enjoy in this fanciful tale; my personal favorite has always been Inigo Montoya. The sword fight scene remains, for me, one of the finest pieces of dramatic comedy I've ever seen, no matter who was the victor.


                
So as of January 2018, I had not seen this movie. One night, my daughter and I decided to watch it on cable and we were immediately hooked. I really enjoyed the pace of the story and it had all the makings of a classic fairytale story. I was really pleased with the actors, the characters, and the family friendliness of the movie. It makes me really sad that I resisted seeing this movie for so long because I could've enjoyed it a lot over the last 30 years!


                
One of those great treasures that you cannot dislike. No matter how many times you see, it takes you breath away, makes you laugh and gives you a taste of the old swashbuckler films of the 1930's. Rob Reiner directs this wonderful romance-comedy-adventure with passion and wit. A classic in a class of its own.


                
Cary Elwes and Robyn Wright in a fantasy story of epic proportions, how can you improve on that? Even with Peter Falk as the Narrator being interrupted by his grandson Fred Savage just seem to fit and rather than distract from an epic movie it just enhances the viewers experience.The Princess Bride is a fantasy romantic adventure movie with just the right blend of comedy, action, adventure and romance to suit everyone's taste.I love Andre the Giant as the Brute, Fezzik. Mandy Patinkin as Inigo Montoya will forever be to me the perfect model of a Spanish duelist.His line from the move is almost as famous as the movie itself. "My name is Inigo Montoya! You killed my father! Prepare to die!"And the fight scene between Inigo Montoya and the Man in Black is truly epic while still being tongue in the cheek.This is a movie nobody should ever try to remake, just watch the original and fall in love with it as you do the characters.


                
A fast paced love story that has everything in it... "Fencing, fighting, torture, revenge, giants, monsters, chases, escapes, true love, miracles..." everything you could ever hope for. It has those corny 80's special effects you just have to love. Brilliantly choreographed fight scenes, Andre the Giant playing a not so bright giant, who is very good at rhyming. There's a lost pirate, an evil prince, a not so willingly princess, and an adorably senile king. Not to mention, the Spaniard with a vendetta, the miracle max with a grudge, and the priest with a speech impediment. As well as a well meaning grandpa, and a young boy who learns an important life lesson. And for the girls it has this... "Since the invention of the kiss there have been five kisses that were rated the most passionate, the most pure. This one left them all behind. The End." ... o and of course it teaches us what to the pain means. Now ill leave you with these simple words AS YOU WISH


                
One of my favorite movies. Probably in my top five all-time favorites. Funny, quotable, with many memorable characters and one perfect scene after another. Just absolutely charming. Solid direction from Rob Reiner. Perhaps not as flashy as some would prefer but straightforward and not distracting like it probably would be if made today. William Goldman wrote the screenplay, as well as the original book. I've read the book and I recommend you go check it out after seeing the film. There are a lot of little funny bits that didn't make it to the screen. The cast is excellent, from perhaps the prettiest couple in movie history (Cary Elwes and Robin Wright) to one of the funniest supporting casts ever (including Chris Sarandon, Mandy Patinkin, Billy Crystal, Wallace Shawn, Christopher Guest, Peter Falk, Peter Cook, Carol Kane, and a wonderful turn from pro wrestling legend Andre the Giant). It's a classic for young and old alike and I can't say enough good things about it. Fencing, fighting, torture, revenge, giants, monsters, chases, escapes, true love, miracles... it's got everything.


                
The Princess Bride is a romantic comedy adventure film based on the novel of the same name by William Goldman.The movie features Cary Elwes, Robin Wright,Mandy Patinkin,Chris Sarandon,André the Giant,Christopher Guest,Fred Savage,Wallace Shawn,Billy Crystal and Carol Kane.It combines comedy, adventure, romance, and fantasy. It was directed by Rob Reiner from a screenplay by Goldman. The story is presented in the film as a book being read by a grandfather to his sick grandson, thus effectively preserving the novel's narrative style.The screenplay offers a tongue-in-cheek fairy tale depicting stable boy- turned-pirate Westley's journey to rescue Buttercup, his true love, away from the evil prince, whom she had agreed to marry five years after learning of what she had believed to be news of Westley's death. With help from Prince Humperdinck's disgruntled former employee Miracle Max, swordsman Inigo Montoya, and a very large man named Fezzik, the star- crossed lovers are reunited. This is a delightfully postmodern fairy tale.It is a deft, intelligent mix of swashbuckling, romance, and comedy that takes an age-old damsel- in-distress story and makes it fresh.The Princess Bride has often been copied, but never equaled.Thus,it has proved to be the benchmark for fairy tale movies.
This is going to date me, but when I was a kid, my sister loved the soap opera 'Santa Barbara,' and because of Robin Wright, she wanted to see 'The Princess Bride.' It became one of her favorites, getting me to watch it. After watching and only being a kid, I just "liked" it. Since then, I must have seen this 20+ times. It is truly a timeless classic, made with pure heart, adventure, comedy, excitement, romance, etc – in other words, all of the needed elements of a masterpiece. (I do use the word "timeless" if you forgive the He-Man guys behind the all-but two-year-old Fred Savage and the high-tech "video game" he is playing. Other than that, it can be viewed in any decade.) We have Grandfather that reads the said-title to his ill grandson and so the story unfolds, beautifully. Westley and Buttercup are the central characters in this fairy-tale land, but all of the actors/characters have such depth and realism, it's almost never-ending in excitement when one appears, leaves and/or returns. You will see hilarious comedy, exciting sword-fighting or mind-games and true love. This movie is also perfect for the whole family. You might see people die, but it's as graphic as people simply falling off screen. Little blood, no nudity, no language, no sex<U+0085>I love the fact when they set out to make this, they didn't need to add any of that in and now have an all-time-classic. I'd hate to ruin any of the surprises, or the people the characters meet along the way or the near-death experiences they take with strides, so I would just highly recommend this all ages, to all audiences. If you've already experienced one of the best movies of all time, enjoy it again; see how movies should be made.


                
I believe that The Princess Bride is one of the best films ever conceived. I've read the book, which was equally incredible, and I just love the entire concept of this story. All of the characters are just so lovable and the story simply captured my heart in the beginning and didn't let go until the end. Some may find it a bit corny, but I truly appreciated every aspect of the film. It was exciting. It was romantic. It was funny. William Goldman is an exceptional writer, Rob Reiner is an incredible director, and the entire cast of this film were amazing. Cary Elwes captured the character of Westley. Mandy Patinkin was an incredible Inigo Montoya. Andre the Giant was the most lovable Fezzik imaginable. Everything about this film was spectacular. I love this movie.


                
Rob Reiner's The Princess Bride is one of the best fairy tales ever in my opinion. The movie takes place in a sick child's (played by Fred Savage) home when his grandfather (played by Peter Falk) walks into his bedroom to read a story called The Princess Bride to him. When the grandfather is reading the story the movie is set in a farming area with the two main characters Buttercup (played by Robin Wright) and Westley (played by Cary Elwes) until Westley leaves and Buttercup finds out that he is supposedly dead and says that she will never fall in love again, until she gets engaged to a nasty prince named Humperdinck (played by Chris Sarandon) , then she gets kidnapped and held against her will by 3 men named Vizzini (played by Wallace Shawn), Inigo Montoya (played by Mandy Patinkin), and Fezzik (played by Andre the Giant) until Westley comes along and saves the princess under another identity. And then Prince Humperdinck and his men try to save the princess when she has already been saved but without even realizing and Westley is about to get killed by a little dwarf who calls himself the albino (played by Mel Smith), along with Count Tyrone Rugen (played by Christopher Guest) who killed Inigo's father 20 years earlier also known as the man with six fingers. then Westley is brought back to life by Miracle Max (played by an almost unrecognizable Billy Crystal) and his wife (played by Carol Kane). Then after Westley is brought back to life they have another mission on their hands crash the princess's wedding to the prince, and Inigo's mission is to kill the man who killed his father by repeatedly saying "My name is Inigo Montoya, you killed my father prepare to die." While watching this movie it reminded me of other movies like Forrest Gump a little bit because of how both stories were told, Touch of Evil because of Prince Humperdink's mission to kill his so called future wife after the wedding, and of course The Adventures of Robin Hood because of whole entire story-line to both films. The way Rob Reiner directs this movie is not only similar to the way that Michael Curtiz directed the 1938 movie version of Robin Hood, but also it brings William Goldman's book of the same name to life on the big screen. A great movie for a whole family to watch.
It doesn't suffice to call "The Princess Bride" a fairy tale; this movie is a surprise every step of the way. Here's how we might describe it: "All in the Family"'s Meathead directs an epic tale of Columbo reading his grandson a story of Forrest Gump's girlfriend in love with the slimy guy from "Twister"; the "Fright Night" vampire and one of the "Spinal Tap" guys hire a wrestler, the "Ragtime" salesman, and the guy who had dinner with Andre to kidnap the woman; one of the "City Slickers" also plays a role.Okay, that's a silly description. But my point is, this movie is like nothing that you've ever seen. With ROUS and various political references, the whole thing is a mile a minute. The cast couldn't have been more impressive: Cary Elwes, Robin Wright, Chris Sarandon, Christopher Guest, Andre the Giant, Mandy Patinkin, Wallace Shawn, Billy Crystal, Carol Kane, Peter Falk and Fred Savage.And some of the lines? Let me just put it like this: if you don't come away from this movie occasionally uttering "Inconceivable!" and "My name is Inigo Montoya. You killed my father. Prepare to die!", then you must be numb.I quite literally can't find anything bad to say about "The Princess Bride". Always emphasizing teamwork and intellect over brute force, and never degenerating into sappy love, it may be THE perfect fairy tale. As everyone wishes.
The Princess Bride is one of the most brilliant romantic comedies of all time. It is carefully constructed to fill so many film genres, including: romance, fairy tale, satire, comedy, and adventure. This film features an all star cast, who collaborated on every aspect of the film. The actors brought so much to their characters, creating well rounded personalities from even the most grotesque caricatures.The tale is based on a satirical novel by William Goldman. The film begins with a grandfather reading the story to his sick grandson, and as Goldman said: the grandfather is only retelling the "good parts" of the supposed historical tale. If you haven't read the book, but love the movie, I seriously recommend you sit down to read as soon as possible.This film is perfect for all people who enjoy a good laugh, and an even better romance. I have been watching The Princess Bride since I was 6 years old, and every time I watch it I learn something new about the story, the characters, or even the technical aspects involved. It is truly a story that will stand the test of time.


                
i remember seeing little bits and pieces of this movie throughout the years.but i had never seen the full movie.until now.i wish i had seen it sooner,but it was more than worth the wait.this thing is a masterpiece.it's a fantasy/romance/comedy/adventure.my sides were splitting from the endless sight gags,some subtle,some not.plus,the movie is very touching.there is a veritable who's' who of famous people of the time,some when they were just starting out.it was directed by Rob Reiner,and it also reminded me of Mel Brook's type of humour.this is #186 of the top 250 and deservedly so.if you're feeling down,throw this in.if you're not uplifted and aching from laughter,i'd be very surprised.for me,The Princess Bride is a 10/10


                
Wonderful, heart-warming story. Basically a fairy tale, but with some 20th century sensibilities and witticisms. Very funny at times. Some great, and quotable, lines.Rob Reiner's direction is spot-on. Never a dull moment - the movie just motors along and you hardly feel the time pass. Good performances all round. Cary Elwes, Robin Wright and Mandy Patinkin don't put a foot wrong. Hard to single out any, but Mandy Patinkin's, as Inigo Montoya, is probably the pick of the lot.It's not just the main characters who deserve our attention. Some big names in minor roles, and they all deliver in spades - Peter Falk, Fred Savage, Billy Crystal, Carol Kane, Peter Cook, Mel Smith.A modern classic and ideal for all ages.


                
Despite being a fan of director/producer Rob Reiner's classic Comedy This Is Spinal Tap,and also being mesmerise by his elegant adaptation of Stephen King's short story The Body with Stand By Me,I have oddly found myself intensionally staying away from seeing his Comedy Adventure Fantasy film The Princess Bride for a number of years,due to having seen a clip of the movie years ago on TV,that didn't connect with me at all.Checking four days ago to see what was coming out at my local cinema this week,I was shocked to discover that they were holding a one-off screening to celebrate the 25th anniversary of The Princess Bride.Shortly after reading about the screening,I began to get a sudden feeling that something about this film might be pretty special,which led to me running down to the cinema,to pre-book a ticket so that I could at last pay my long,overdue visit to what sounded to be a very special princess.The plot:Paying a visit to his ill grandson,the grandfather is sad to discover that his ill in bed grandson is not resting,but instead playing Video Games.Grabbing his grandson's attention for one moment as he enters the bedroom,the grandfather decides to make the most of his opportunity by turning off the TV,and taking a book off the bedroom shelf called The Princess Bride that he used to have read to him when he was his grandson's age.Hearing objections from his grandson,the grandfather tells him to give the novel a chance,as he begins to read The Princess Bride to him.The Princess Bride:Spending all of her life on a farm,Buttercup enjoys passing the time by riding the horses that she owns,and also lightly teasing a farm boy called Westley,who replies to Buttercup's teasing with a smile and the words "As you wish".Warming to Westley, thanks to him always taking her teasing with good grace,Buttercup begins to feel that Westley's words of "As you wish",actually mean "I love you",which leads to Buttercup and Westley finally opening up,and falling in love with each other.With neither of them having enough money to afford a wedding,Westley makes the painful decision to leave Buttercup temporally behind,and go to work on a ship,so that he can gather enough money which will allow him and Buttercup to have the marriage of their dreams.Promising that he will return to his beloved soon,Westley's promise soon becomes a fading memory,when Buttercup receives news that Westly's ship has been attacked,and that there are no sign of any survivors.5 years later:Gathering the pilgrims of Florin,Prince Humperdinck announces that on the upcoming 500th anniversary of the city's creation,he has decided to mark the day by choosing a pilgrim who he can get married to:Buttercup.Despite Humperdinck's happiness over the choice of his future wife,Buttercup finds the memories of her first love Westley to have a strong grip on her,which leads to Buttercup feeling completely empty over her future marriage.Riding around the woodland area of Florin,Buttercup is stopped in her tracks by three men called Vizzini,Fezzik and Inigo Montoya,who quickly grab,and kidnap Buttercup.Dragging the still-alive Buttercup's body up the Cliffs of Insanity,due to them wanting to start a war between Florin and a near by city,by placing Buttercup's dead body in the other city.The kidnappers suddenly see a strange image which leaves them completely in shock,due to the image being of a masked wearing man climbing the Cliffs of Insanity and quickly catching up to them,with the strange man looking as if he is willing to do everything possible to get Buttercup out of the kidnappers hands and off the Cliffs of Insanity.View on the film:Adapting from his own 1974 novel,William Goldman's amazingly lean screenplay allows the grandfather and grandson (played by a very good Peter Falk and Ben Savage) to "interrupt" the unfolding Princess Bride story taking place,which allows for any moments when the film could possibly fall into the clichés of the Fantasy genre,to instead be paunched by Goldman's subtle comedic hand,which led to everyone in the cinema awing and laughing none stop for this brilliant movie.Bending the worn out and tied roads that have been taken with a "damsel in distress" Fairy tale,Goldman superbly shows the enthralling missions that the characters face with a perfect seriousness that makes sure the viewer laughs with the characters,and not at them.Along with the Fantasy parts to the tale,Goldman also jam-packs the movie with sharp,hilarious Comedy that offers something for all ages.This is thanks to the Comedy going from delightfully silly slap-stick (which wine is poisoned?) and perfectly delivered one-liner's , ("Hello,my name is Inigo Montoya.You killed my father.Prepare to die!.") to even some surprisingly satirical moments (the late Peter Cook playing The Impressive Clergyman,and the great line "I've hired you to start a war,It's a prestigious line of work,with a long and glorious tradition!.)Revealing an epic eye for scope that he had never shown before,with the Ireland and England locations being shown at their full beauty,co- producer/director Rob Reiner strikes the perfect balance of allowing the locations to create an enchanting,unforgettable atmosphere,whilst also keeping the movie from flying away by placing all of the characters feet firmly on the ground,which allows for the hilarious Comedy moments to hit their target every time.Brilliantly complementing the astonishing locations,Reiner never allows any of the characters to fade into the corner of the screen,but to instead shine the movie on each of the characters,which helps to make each of the characters feel that they are at the very centre of this truly magical tale.
Grandpa (Peter Falk) comes to his grandson's (Fred Savage's sickbed) to entertain him - he's going to read the tale of the Princess Bride - a story with fencing, and giants, and all the excitement and adventure the grandson craves, with some love scenes as well. What Savage and the audience do not realize is that they are getting a bunch of the oddest figures in a fairy tale that one can imagine.On the surface THE PRINCESS BRIDE tells us the story of Westley (Cary Elwes) and Buttercup (Robin Wright Penn). Westley a groom on Buttercup's estate who falls in love with (and is in love with) Buttercup. But he is lost at sea, and she reluctantly agrees to marrying Prince Humperdink (Chris Sarandon). She is kidnapped by the a trio of brigands (Wallace Shawn, Mandy Patinkin, and Andre the Giant) who seem to intend to kill her. This can have serious repercussions on the relations of the two neighboring counties (one of which is ruled by Prince Humperdink). But the kidnappers are pursued at sea by a mysterious pirate ship. They are pursued on land too - and confronted by a legendary pirate (Elwes). He has a confrontation with each, concluding with Wallace Shawn, who outsmarts himself in a dizzy philosophical duel. So it goes in this crazy story, with it's wizards, giant rats, cruel rulers and their assistants (Christopher Guest) and duels and vengeance and true love conquering in the end. The chief villain is not physically destroyed (not even the original SHREK avoided that cliché), but left universally ruined by humiliation. The second hero neatly avenges his father. The fact is the characters behave rather realistically in this story. Guest when confronted by a physical threat behaves realistically - he flees. The marriage ceremony is presided over by "an impressive clergyman" (Peter Cook) who gets so carried away by his own eloquence he fails to do an important act in the ceremony. A wizard and his quarreling wife (Billy Crystal and Carol Kane) give a charm to help the heroes, wave pleasantly as they leave, and then admit they couldn't care less about these people.I do not think any other attempt at a filmed fairy story was ever so satiric, except the above mentioned SHREK and it's sequels (which came after THE PRINCESS BRIDE). THE WIZARD OF OZ was funny at points, but it was not a satire of the genre (and the two wicked witches in the film were destroyed). Nothing by Disney was satiric. You can consider the cartoons on ROCKY AND BULLWINKLE (FRACTURED FAIRY TALES) as a precedent, but that was a television show - not a movie. Also they were told quickly (within three or four minutes tops). But THE PRINCESS BRIDE made the fairy tale grow up. It did not forget the charm of the genre - the wonder of the dangers confronting Buttercup and Westley are there (and quite real) throughout the film. So is the warmth of the occasional scenes and comments between Falk telling the story and Savage hearing it. But they certainly knew how to make the story more accessible to adults by the spoofing. It is a very well done film and deserves a "10".
Not much to add to other reviews - a delightful, warm story with some hilarious sections. Rob Reiner had to leave the set while Billy Crystal did his scenes because he became nauseated from laughing so hard. Mandy Patinkin bruised a rib trying to keep from laughing during his scene with Crystal.Robin Wright was a perfect, sweet ingenue just as now she's an amazing President on "House of Cards" and was everyone's image of the ideal First Lady.The entire cast was great. I loved Peter Falk reading the story to Fred Savage.


                
