I just don't see the allure of this film.  I've seen it several times on recommendation of my friends and I have tried very hard to find the humor in the story, but I just don't understand it.  I think this movie is very boring, unoriginal, and completely unfunny.  I wish I could only understand why everyone thinks this movie is so comical.


                
I was disappointed by the quality of this movie, having been encouraged to rent it out by its high IMDb rating. It felt like a B movie: pretty much everything was weak. The plot was unexciting, the timing of the "gags" was awful, the set was ludicrous, the editing was substandard, the lighting was quaint, the lead actress lacked appeal, the lead actor - what's with that little moustache?, and the comedians weren't (with one honourable exception) funny. The honourable exception was the clergyman as played by Peter Cook. We miss you, Peter. But what on earth were you doing in this morass of mediocrity?! For the first twenty minutes I kept thinking that it would get better to justify its rating. Not a chance. So how did it get into the IMDb top 250? Come on guys, let me into the secret here. It can't be a "cult" thing, you could go to any bad movie and laugh at how bad it is. So is everyone marking it based on some hazy recollection from childhood? Have you actually WATCHED it recently? If this movie came out today, it would tank at the box office and struggle to get above 5.0 on IMDb.


                
I finally watched the movie because someone mentioned to me that it was her favorite movie of all time....Umm...You got to be kidding (especially for the reviewer, "Mike," who watches this movie every 3 weeks!??....)....Okay, Robin Wright is beautiful (and respectable as an actress as seen from her performance in "Forrest Gump") and the movie has some funny one-liners here and there (nothing profoundly funny here though), but what's the fascination?The movie is basically a farce with a ridiculously simple plot, poor acting (I think the acting was supposed to add to the humor....okay wow), cheap senseless humor, and unbelievable special effects (uh, remember when the "Zorro" fights the "giant rats" that look exactly like short guys in a cheap rat suit?)....I guess that's supposed to be funny too....It is truly incredible to have people comment that this movie is one of the best movies ever made or that it's a great film...because it simply isn't. I can enjoy light comedies or fantasy movies from time to time, but it's not a good one even in that genre/category.  It is not an awful movie to watch and it might be enjoyable, I guess, for (up to) lower elementary kids, but it no where near lives up to its hype or the majority of the reviews seen here.  It is indeed a great insult to have a movie of this quality (I gave it a generous 4 out of 10) to have it ranked anywhere near movies such as "The Matrix," "The Gladiator," "Se7en," "Amadeus," "American History X," "Glory," and etc., etc., and etc.  Not worth a rental if you ask me (unless you're renting it for the kids), and definitely does not deserve to be in the Top 250!.


                
The Princess Bride (as of 31 October 2002) commands 86th place on the Internet Movie Database's 'Top 250 Films' list, which rather begs the question: WHY???  It is a somewhat alarming thought that there are only 85 films in the world considered to be superior to this mish-mash of action and syrupy sentiment held together by cheesy acting and wobbly scenery. Admittedly, there are some elements of the story which are really rather good, including the large variety of perils our hero (Westley) and heroine (Buttercup) must face; the shrieking eels, cliffs of insanity and fire-swamp are original and nasty pitfalls awaiting the unwary.Unfortunately viewers must wade through a lot of dross for these occasional rewards and the plot is a perfect example of this.  A grandfather is reading his rather peevish grandson a story about two young lovers with somewhat unlikely names.  Buttercup's sweetheart (supposedly killed by pirates five years ago) is in fact still alive, cleverly "disguised" with a black blindfold and an incredibly silly little moustache and pigtail.  But Buttercup has become engaged (against her will) to the nasty Prince Humperdinck.  This of course is a cue for multiple sword fights and near death experiences as the soulmates prove that true love will conquer all. Apart from the notable exception of Christopher Guest who plays Humperdinck's sidekick Count Rugen with a deliciously understated sadistic malice, the acting is largely overcooked.  Perhaps this is just as well; if the viewer's attention is monopolised by the actors, they will be less likely to notice the bendable swords and polystyrene rocks.  This is not to say that the film isn't entertaining - it would certainly while away a rainy Saturday afternoon - but to accord it the status of a classic is inconceivable.


                
The princess bride ushers you into a mystical world of giants, pirates, and castles. This 1987 fairytale spoof has all the right intentions, like the story being read from grandfather to grandson it seems like it would be a nice way to just relax on a lazy day, or a day when you are sick. it's a harmless film but lacked something for me.Rob Reiner (This Is Spinal Tap) directed this film which is based on the novel of the same name by William Goldman who as well wrote the screenplay. The story begins with a sick child (Fred Savage) being read a fairytale by his grandfather (Peter Falk). Quickly we are whisked away as well with the grandson who at first is dreading the fairytale story. The story introduces us too Buttercup (Robin Wright Penn) and Westley (Carey Elwes) a couple who are madly in love. Immediately we are told that Westley must leave Buttercup for no apparent reason. Quickly Buttercup is kidnapped by three pirate like men, Inigo Montoya (Mandy Patinkin), Vizzini (Wallace Shawn), and Fezzik (André The Giant). It seems like they are being followed by a Zorro-esquire character which quickly eliminates one of the kidnappers one at a time. It quickly becomes repetitive but that's not the least of the problems here. 'Zorro' quickly makes it through the kidnappers using swords, poison, and his own hands. Later on the princess is endangered by the prince of her land who plans a marriage.One of the major problems to me with the film is the continuation of certain aspects. An example of which was when the kidnappers and the princess make it up the mountain cliff by climbing, after they move on the prince somehow managed to reach the top of the mountain with the rest of his crew which includes a large number of horses. The props at times seem fake but mostly are average, the acting is OK, but the laughs just don't come. The movie sets out to spoof fairy tale movies and do, in some ways, succeed, but rarely did I laugh out loud when a joke was delivered, and in some ways these moments don't even spoof or satirize this classification of films. The film has its moments, I thought the poison scene was clever at best, but overall I was displeased with this film. If I was recommending a spoof of these types of films I would much rather recommend the 'Shrek' movies. I truly dreaded this film experience around 5 minutes in when we were jumped around making me feel overwhelmed and rushed, overall it was a unique experience which I do not think I will revisit.


                
I just finished watching this movie on DVD after a friend strongly recommended it. Not having ever heard of it before I didn't have much in the way of expectations so it's hard to believe I was let down. Actually I was shocked at how mediocre this movie is! I went up and down the user comments and can only conclude that I must have seen the wrong movie. Sure, there were cute and funny bits along the way but for the most part this was purely for little kids. I was honestly embarrassed during almost the whole thing. This movie couldn't really decide whether it was a farcical comedy, an adventure story or a medieval saga. The only thing I felt when Peter Falk put away the book was relief that it was over and so was the awkwardness.


                
Way too much hype for a half-decent movie.  I had heard rave reviews of this movie from friends and critics, and I was less than impressed when I finally saw it.  I was biased by my high expectations, but this movie is certainly no better than a b-minus.


                
I went into this movie thinking this would be a freakin masterpiece because that's what everyone said it was. I mean, everybody who talks about this movie always says how funny and wonderful the movie is. Alas, I did not find it so. Not even close!Firstly, the humor in the movie, which I understood to be its best part before viewing, is just not that great! It's a shame because Don Rickles is an incredibly funny actor, but he is firstly underused and secondly given horrible jokes! Billy Crystal is another one where a fantastic comedian has a garbage take in the movie. And really nobody else had any good moments.As for the other characters, Indigo Montoya (I honestly have no clue how it's spelt) is fine, but he like everyone else is a one dimensional character. Nobody has any depth to them, anything beyond a basic motivation. Montoya wants to avenge his fathers death, The Princess and Wesley want to be together, the prince wants to marry her to start a war, Andre the Giant, well, is just sort of there.And the plot is nothing special, it's just a damsel in distress story with a couple other storylines to stretch it out. I've never read the book, so maybe it does better, but the movie? Nope.From a cinematography standpoint, it just feels very fake. The music is not good, the camerawork is bland, the sets look like they're fake. I can't tell if it's supposed to be ironic in this sense, but if it is, it's not done well enough to be ironically funny. It just feels cheap.This sort of feels like one of those movies that people saw as a kid and fell in love with and weren't old enough to see its flaws, and now that they're adults they have too much nostalgia surrounding the movie and remember it as they did as a child; perfect. To summarize, the movie is VERY overrated. Not worth the hype or the viewing.


                
I've heard a lot about this movie, especially praise for it's mix of comedy, romance, and action. Well, they certainly did have all 3, but none of them came off very effectively to me. Most of the jokes didn't work with me, evident by my family laughing as I sat in silence trying to deduce what was so comical about a given line. The action was not too exciting to me, although the coordination on the sword fighting was pretty good. The romance was...arguably absent, to put it gently. I didn't feel any real connection between Westley and Buttercup since they fell in love as soon as we are introduced to them. No build up, no suspense, no nothing. I also found the idea of them being in love totally unbelievable. He did odd jobs around the home and she fell in love with him? Pretty low standards there, Buttercup.Aside from these ineffective aspects, the story also had me emotionally slamming my head against a proverbial wall. I always thought Twilight was the worst offender in the category of having a female lead who is totally bland and male dependent, which hence causes a completely agitating love story to ensue, but Buttercup and her relationship with Westly might just take the cake....OK that's going too far. However, it's still pretty bad, and the story suffers horribly because of it. Most of the movie came off as a way to please adolescent girls who dream of their own prince charming saving them from everything and tending to their every whim and issue. Aside from Buttercup, the characters range from forgettable, to decent, to pretty good. The only character I came to actually like was Inigo, but that isn't saying much given his competition. Overall, I really don't get why this movie is rated so highly, but if people enjoy it, good for them. I'll be avoiding it from now on, however.


                
I know that the reputation of "The Princess Bride" is that it is considered to be one of the greatest fairytale stories ever put to film. Besides some understandably iconic characters, however, I just don't quite understand why it is such a classic, as I found it to be rather underwhelming in large portions.For a basic plot summary, "Princess Bride" is a fairytale read to a young boy (Fred Savage) by his grandfather (Peter Falk). The tale focuses on Westley (Cary Elwes) and his quest to find his beloved Buttercup (Robin Wright), now engaged to be wed to Prince Humperdinck (Chris Sarandon). Along the way, Westley meets up with a motley crew of characters that include the giant Fezzik (Andre the Giant), swashbuckling swordsman Inigo Montoya (Mandy Patinkin), and the annoying little imp Vizzini (Wallace Shawn).For the first 20-30 minutes of "Princess Bride", I was engaged and interested. I liked the setup (story being read to a child), the Andre/Patinkin/Shawn interactions are hilarious, and Elwes has just the right sense of humor to pull off his role. There is also just a sense of irreverence that pervades the whole beginning of the film, setting the humorous tone perfectly.After that opening salvo, however, the film seems to trend towards a more conventional "quest" tale, at which point my interest severely waned. Simply put, when the movie turns toward serious plot and away from goofy humor, it completely lost me. There were times where I was even outright bored, as the "meat" of this fairytale isn't anything to write home about. To me, the goofy comedic tone of "Princess Bride" is its calling card, and when most of that was used up in the early goings it fell flat afterwards.Perhaps my view of this film is colored by the fact that I never saw it as a child, but seeing it for the first time as an adult left me wondering why it is considered one of the greats. I'll always remember some of the iconic characters/moments, but taken as a whole "Princess Bride" was mostly underwhelming for me.


                
Ancient formulas creatively mix with new elements.  In particular, the humor is wonderfully tasteful.  Overall, this is a darn good movie; I could go on for hours about it.Unfortunately, it's tainted with a some rather disturbing elements.  The movie closes out with a tasteless 80's-style love song.  (Viewers of "The Hobbit" know that adopting music popular to an era is the surest way to kill a classic soundtrack.)  Also, the sexism is disturbing.  Buttercup, complete with the cheesy name, can be forgiven as the typical "bait chick".  After all, as bait chicks go, she does have a few redeeming qualities and some individuality.  However, even with her excluded and the time period considered, the cast is disturbingly male-dominated.These offenses are not coincidental and hence inexcusable, but they shouldn't deter anyone from enjoying the film.  It's just worth lamenting that this movie, as good as it is, could have been so much more.


                
