This film is an intelligent, sardonic send up of several genres that pokes fun (affectionately) at fairy tales, swashbucklers, love stories and basic conventions of film.  One of my favorite scenes is where Inigo Montoya first confronts his quarry after years of searching.  His adversary does the unexpected-and what most villains in real life WOULD do under the same circumstances, with hilarious results in the scene.  Basil Rathbone probably whirled in his grave!Not by any means Citizen Kane (we already have one of those, anyway) but a champ in its weight class, with a perfect score, a fine script and good performances.  Far more true to the flavor of the original fairy tales that it spoofs than even the best of Disney's takes.  I loved it the first time I saw it and love it more now.  Well worth watching.  Recommended.


                
The simplest pleasures in life are the best, and this film is one of them. Combining a rather basic storyline of love and adventure this movie transcends the usual weekend fair with wit and unmitigated charm.  Every character is a delight and you just want to see more of them.  "The Princess Bride" is based on the unsurpassed novel by William Goldman, who also penned the screenplay. While this is a movie review, I cannot recommend the book on which it is based more highly.  It is quite simply the most humorous, enthralling fable ever written and will fill in many details that were impossible to include on the screen.  The only other movie of this type that I can think of that is this much fun was Danny Kaye's "The Court Jester," another costumed comedy/adventure/romance that I also highly recommend.


                
I put off seeing this movie simply because of the title. I figured that this was just another chick flick. It's not...I have been told by many that I have to watch this film. I hear people throw out words like, "great", "classic", and "must see". Even my wife said to me, "You're a collector, and never seen the 'Princess Bride'?" So, I gave it a shot, and I loved it. I can't put my finger on the reason why though. I must say though, that there's something about this movie, it grows on you, and I do love it now. Let me tell you a bit about it:Hard to talk about without giving away spoilers, so forgive me if there isn't much info here, but I hope this helps you. Let me start by saying that this is a great movie to watch whether you're alone, with your friends, or even with your girlfriend. There's action, though not intense like say, Bloodsport. There's A TON of comedy. There's a love story. A fantastic cast. Sword fights, monsters, poison, dungeons, castle sieges. What more could you ask for? Despite all of these things, this is not a very serious film. Which some people like. For me, it depends on my mood. Sometimes I'm in the mood for a serious medieval period piece like "Kingdom of Heaven", sometimes I'm in the mood for the opposite, like "Robin Hood: Men in Tights" I would say that, in terms of seriousness vs spoof, this film is sandwiched exactly between "Kingdom of Heaven" and "Men in Tights". Not too spoofy, but not one that stays with you and keeps you thinking all night either.


                
The story is catchy and I like the dialog - they are witty. I laugh so hard especially the scene when the Man in Black is trying to climb up The Cliffs of Insanity without the rope and Montoya tried to rush him because he cannot wait to kill him and the torture scene when the Count trying to get a survey from Westley (I mean who does that? But it works). From that point on things got crazy. The Princess is beautiful and Westley is amazing with his "as you wish" romanticism and charming gaze. The bond between the boy, played by Savage, and his grandfather is sweet and almost comedic especially about the kissing scenes. Overall, the story is very funny and I think it catches the attention of many people despite its ridiculous story line like reviving Westley that "mostly dead". The characters are all funny and I can't stop laughing and I'm going to watch it again in a few seconds.Watch this with your kids and friends.
This movie is so fun. The fights are fun. Everything about this movie is fun to watch and great for the whole family. I have watch this movie so many times; it just makes me laugh each time. If you have not seen it. I highly recommend it. You will enjoy it. It keeps you interested and entertained. It is very entertaining. This movie is truly a classic.


                
A boy (Fred Savage) is home sick, and to his dismay, his grandfather (Peter Falk) has come to read him a fairy tale. It's the story of the beautiful Buttercup (Robin Wright) who falls for farmboy "As you wish" Westley (Cary Elwes). He goes off to make his fortune, but after news of his death, Buttercup is being married off to Prince Humperdinck (Chris Sarandon). Then the princess bride gets kidnapped by three rogues (Wallace Shawn, Mandy Patinkin, André the Giant).This is possibly the best fairy tale reimagining ever. Peter Falk's feign indifference narration sets off the great adventure, and Fred Savage has just the best balance. Director Rob Reiner has put together all the fairy tale snippets and create something even better. The characters are memorable. And who could forget the fun that Wallace Shawn has choosing the poison drink. Mandy Patinkin is absolutely amazing as the swordsman seeking revenge from the six finger man. And there will never be another André the Giant.


                
Since visiting IMDB, I've been prompted to think about my favorite movies. I have a short list of films that are particularly clever in one of the cinematic arts. But I have two that strike me as perfectly entertaining stories. This is one.Oh, the other values of filmmaking are fine here, but what makes this stand out is excellence in the simple art of storytelling. Also as I enjoy self-reference, I like the frame of the grandfather telling the story to a sick child.


                
THE PRINCESS BRIDE (1987) (4/5 STARS)(slight plot spoilers) DIRECTED by ROB REINER STARRING: CARY ELWES ROBIN WRIGHT CHRIS SARANDON CHRISTOPHER GUEST MANDY PATINKIN WALLACE SHAWN PETER FALK CAROL KANE FRED SAVAGE ANDRE THE GIANT and BILLY CRYSTAL
Notice any names above? If not, I don't know where you're coming from. Some of the most famous acting talents came together to form THE PRINCESS BRIDE, and 1 great director.Rob Reiner directs this all-star cast, in you not-so-average fairytale adventure. Filled with swashbuckling sword fights, tremendous thrills, incredible romance, excellent actors and cameos, a very original comedic look at fairytales, and so much more, THE PRINCESS BRIDE is the SHREK of the eighties.The acting itself is flawless. Robin Wright plays Buttercup who falls in love with her servant boy Westley (Cary Elwes). After he sets off to sea to find fortunes, she is told the dread pirate Robinson killed him. She immediately becomes a recluse, and mutters the words, `I will never love again<U+0085>' Some years later, she is engaged to Prince Humperdink, who is marrying her just to kill her and blame it on a distant land---the result of which starting a war. Unaware of his plans, a trio comprised of a short man (Wallace Shawn), a revenge sought swordsman (Mandy Patinkin) and an 8-foot giant (Andre the Giant) set out to do THE SAME thing, by kidnapping her, killing her, and placing her on the distant land. In this process, the dread pirate Robinson, who turns out to be none other than her long lost servant boy, rescues her. Now they have the Prince chasing them, and the plot only continues to grow as they go through the dreaded fire swamp, and are caught up with by the Prince, who takes the servant to be tortured, eventually being rescued by the giant and the swordsman of the trio, of whom want to help him save the Princess Buttercup before it's too late.The Princess Bride is wonderfully acted, filmed, and has just a good fantasy feel to it. Like I said before, it's the SHREK of the eighties. After seeing this film, you just know it's destined to become a classic, of which it has become. Just the sheer original genius of this film earns it 4 stars, much less the rest of the film. 4/5 starsJOHN ULMER
The fantasy genre is poorly represented, but Princess Bride makes up for a lot of it.  It manages to be touching (primarily through Mandy Patinkin) without being smarmy, and yet hits on every fantasy cliche with tongue-in-cheek panache.  Funny, memorable, quotable, and a wonderful twist on fairy tales that adults and kids alike can enjoy.


                
Having just recently sat through Dungeons and Dragons (*shudder*) with my daughter, I decided that I should show her that there is indeed good in the world, blew the dust off my VHS copy of The Princess Bride, and settled down to watch it with her.I'm not going to draw a comparison, though. It'd be so unfair, for this film remains one of the very best I've ever seen. It's beautifully photographed and directed, it's extremely funny, and succeeds captivatingly at poking fun at itself too, and it's totally engaging throughout. There's not a weak piece of acting in there - okay, admittedly we're talking about fairy tale stereotypes almost throughout, but even so every performance meshes just perfectly. Cary Elwes (and what *has* happened to his career?) is just ideal in his slightly self-mocking role as boyscout meets Errol Flynn, and Robin Wright just shines as the Princess - she's possibly the most beautiful woman I've ever sen on film, giving Grace Kelly a real run for her money. Chris Sarandon makes an excellent scheming evil prince, and the comic vignettes from the likes of Billy Crystal, Wallace Shawn and Mel Smith are a sheer delight.Fred Savage, who I am no particular fan of, gives a very creditable performance as the grandson, capturing the truculence of a 9 year old without once becoming annoying, and his relationship with the accomplished Peter Falk as his grandfather is touchingly and accurately observed.But the whole show is entirely stolen by Mandy Potemkin as Inigo, the bandit with a mission. His role is both a comic tour de force, and poignant too. I'm sure that even in 30 years' time, if I hear the words "Hello, my name is Inigo Montoya. You killed my father. Prepare to die", I'll start smiling and chuckling at the evoked memory of a movie that is in its genre simply beyond compare.Oh and my daughter sat simply spellbound through every frame. What more could you want?


                
Just got the new DVD version this week, and watched it... memories of college years, watching it over and over on VHS, came flooding back... What to say about this film... no, the acting isn't the best; no, the special effects aren't from George Lucas; no, it's not a perfect film... but, there is *something* about this film... it takes your run-of-the-mill archetypal fairy tale structure, turns it sideways in a really fun way, and manages to capture the heart and haunt you.Sure, the story is simplistic, but this film truly does get more powerful with repeated viewings. Recommendation: watch it a few times, then go away from it for a while. When you come back to it, it'll get you in the heart even more strongly. Or at least, it did to me... friends of mine from college even used the closing theme, "Storybook Love", as their first dance on their wedding day.One final word about Cary Elwes... the boy is quite the looker... And his lines are quite memorable... "Drop Your Sword" scene in particular. And, who will ever forget "As You Wish..." Shivers!SEE THE MOVIE! SEE IT AGAIN!


                
This is one of the Fiend's favorite movies. It has all the elements of a great fantasy, love story, action/comedy and rolls them all together with care, love, and talent.This was my introduction to Cary Elwess, and the shining star in Andre the Giant's life. I had occasion to meet Andre after his making of this film and before his death, and he literally carried a copy of this movie with him every where he went. This movie, to him, was more worthy of pride than his entire life's career as a pro-wrestler. Billy Crystal, who also starred in this production, became his closest friend, and later dedicated "My Giant," to his pal Andre.Just a little history from a buff.This movie contains swash-buckling action and sword play, strong-man elements, pirates, princesses, castles, revenge, and true love. For what more, could you ask.An all-star cast gives us all star performances. If you are a fan of fantasy, this is a definite must-see.It rates a 9.1/10 from...the Fiend :.
A dazzling tale of a princess, a peasant, swordplay, revenge, good and evil - so why does William Goldman feel it needs a frame story?  The frame story he uses in the novel is intrusive and, to be frank, pungently offensive; here he uses the more conventional device of having an old man tell the story to his grandson, which may be hackneyed but is nonetheless a distinct improvement.  At any rate it helps me understand why the frame story is there.  It's Goldman's way of announcing that he has a real corker of a story to tell - a story so superb that it's simply impossible not to be enthralled by it.  Goldman is daring us to find fault.  `My main story is SO GOOD,' he says, `that I can afford to encumber it with this irritating framing device, and it will STILL make your heart pound.  I can dare you to be indifferent and you'll STILL care.'And he's right.So are you ready for it?  Can you handle what Goldman is presenting as the Ultimate Story?  Then proceed - and I'd advise you to proceed with the film, rather than the book.


                
The Princess Bride is a wonderful tale of True Love and True Adventure, as told by a grandfather (Peter Falk) to a sick grandson (Fred Savage).  It does not take long for the viewer to become invested in the characters, and our frustration when things don't seem to work out the way we expect them to is ably voiced by the sick grandson, who exclaims "Grandpa, you're messing up the story".The beautiful Buttercup has lost her true love Westley and seems fated to marry the evil Prince.  Will her True Love come and save her?  Will Grandpa get the story right?? And will there be any kissy scenes?An epic tale of Pirates, Giants, Princesses and Miracles, The Princess Bride will be equally enjoyed by viewers of all ages.


                
In the mid to late 80s, screenwriter and author William Goldman managed to get a book of his published called The Princess Bride, with Rob Reiner on board as director. Alongside obtaining critical acclaim and becoming a cult classic, it introduced the likes of Cary Elwes, Robin Wright, Mandy Patinkin, Chris Sarandon, Andre the Giant and more into the mainstream crowd. In addition, it is one of the few chick flicks that is not only beloved by guys, but pretty much everyone as it has enough romance, action, adventure, and witty banter to keep all invested. No wonder this became one of the most quotable movies of all time.The film is essentially a story within a story, as a sick boy is being told the story in book form by his grandfather. The actual story itself centers around a farmhand named Westley, who along with several befriended companions as the story progresses, must rescue his true love Buttercup from the odious Prince Humperdinck after being lost for five years. While the story itself is simple in concept, the execution is what makes the movie stand out. There is more emphasis on dialogue than action, but the banter and conversations with the characters are not only humorous, but make them all delightful and memorable in their own right. There's a reason many of the movie's lines are still quoted to this day, not only because they're well delivered, but also because of the multitude of lovable personalities and character arches.In terms of the individuals, Westley is the courageous and charismatic poor farm boy turned pirate who shows more amounts of stealth than one might assume, Inigo Montoya is as sympathetic as his backstory which drove him to vengeance despite caring immensely for those around him, and Fezzik the giant is the oafish albeit kind spirited brute with a heart of gold. Each character has their moment to shine and their interactions with pretty much everyone make them a riot to watch, so it's pretty easy to get caught up in their arches. Even though Buttercup doesn't have much personality herself, the torment she goes through between Westley and the repugnant albeit cowardly Humperdinck does make one passionate feel for her and to see her obtain true love once again. The rest are either antagonistic albeit cynically amusing such as Count Rugen and Vizzini, or just straight up hysterical like Miracle Max and the grandfather.Needless to say, I still think The Princess Bride stands as one of the most delightfully amusing and enchanting rom com fantasies ever created with enough tongue-in-cheek humor, lovable characters and sweet passion to draw anybody in. Similar to the boy whom the grandfather tells the story to, it may seem cheesy and schmaltzy at first, but sticking with it long enough will make you forget you're even listening to a story, it's just that entertaining. So, if you're still yet to see this flick, either read the book or pick a dvd/bluray copy up at your local store or website and give it a watch. There may be a chance that you'll reconsider calling fantasy books simply "childish".


                
The Princess Bride has long been seen as a cinema classic and it has often been voted as one of the top films of the 80's, a sentiment that I would have a hard time disagreeing with. As a fan of the fantasy genre, this film falls in my wheelhouse. Despite me probably liking this film no matter what, there is no denying the talent behind the film. The story is simple, but sweet and written very well. The film is expertly directed and well-acted. The visuals even do a good job standing the test of time. In all, this was a very entertaining fantasy romp about the quest for true love. Rob Reiner's film is about a poor farm girl named Buttercup who is forced to marry the evil Prince Humperdinck, but her childhood love named Westley comes back as the Dreaded Pirate Roberts to rescue her from the clutches of the prince. The film may not have the most exotic cast in the world, but there is no denying how good they were and how much fun they seemed to have. I liked Cary Elwes as Westley as well as Robin Wright as Buttercup. Andre the Giant was actually very good as Fezzik, and likewise Christopher Guest as Count Rugen and Chris Sarandon as the Prince. Overall, The Princess Bride is the film for all ages. It is the kind of film that shall be passed down from generation to generation. As a fantasy lover, it has all the elements you can ask for as you expect from such a film. I loved the theme about true love as it's a theme that will always be relevant. It's such a gorgeous film and one that is also funny. My Grade: A


                
This Is A Very Beautiful Film with many comedy & sense of humor.this is the best fairy tale movie there is which hasAction,adventure,comedy,romance. Absolute fun pack with everything one can ask..i think everyone will love it watching & they will enjoy their time every moment & tell you Not a boring moment in the movie...i like the style of the movie starts,Grandpa telling story to his sick little grandson.And doesn't have interest at first but love it through the story goes..I think we all does at a time. those characters in these movies are really cool & fits through.this is what makes a movie perfect..without those characters this movie couldn't be done fantastically.9 out 0f Beautifully done 10 .. :) :)


                
This movie is a spoof. A spoof of adventure movies. A spoof of medieval pirate romances. A spoof of just about everything. It is fun. It is funny. It is tongue-in-cheek. AND it is eminently quotable."Inconceivable!""Hello. My name is Inigo Montoya. You killed my father. Prepare to die.""Good night. Sleep well. I'll probably kill you in the morning.""If only we had a wheelbarrow!"This film is a favorite of the most disparate people. It doesn't matter what kind of movies you like or don't like, if you enjoy laughing (and I haven't yet met anyone who doesn't), you will love this movie.If you've read my other reviews (e.g., Gattaca, Wild At Heart, Blue Velvet, Mo' Money, etc), you know I am a harsh critic. I can think of exactly 2 positive reviews I have posted (counting this one... Finding Nemo is the other). For me to post a positive review means the movie MUST be worthwhile.Doesn't matter who you are... see this movie. 'nuff said.9 out of 10


                
Princess Bride is something that is really special. It is well designed, well directed and well acted. Rob Reiner is a very good director indeed, directing films like Stand By Me and all that. The film itself is beautiful, with lovely sets and costumes, matched with a funny and touching script, not to mention quotable. The story was simple, but very well-developed, with a few surprises here and there. As for the acting, it is superb. Cary Elwes is a very charismatic lead as Westley, and Robin Wright gives a very spirited performance as Princess Buttercup. Chris Sarandon is a little annoying, but he has some delicious throw-away lines, so you warm to him, especially when Westley insults him at the end. Wallace Shawn, Andre the Giant and Christopher Guest(who bares a mere resemblance to Tim Curry's Cardinal Richelieu) were very good too, as is an unrecognisable Billy Crystal. And Mandy Patinkin is deliciously hammy as the man who wishes to avenge his father's death by killing his six-fingered murderer. But what impressed me most were the funny interruptions with the grandfather(played wonderfully by Colombo's Peter Falk)and his sick grandson(Fred Savage). All in all, an original and funny movie that is a must see. 9.5/10 Bethany Cox.


                
An action-romance plot line full of wit and sarcasm. Blending modern-day and a step-back-in-time world of castles and swordplay, this a family-friendly romp. The anticipation builds and, like a game of snakes and ladders, to writers give you permission to "And now exhale" that breath you're holding. Camaraderie, true love, the individual power one holds--female or male and humor with wordplay are explored within the movie. The struggle for one's freedom, and for the freedom of another, is a narrative which resonates and is, even more so, engaging to watch. This is an adaptation of a book well done. It helps one see facets of one's own life as adventures and rapturous--and even, dare i say, amusing?


                
In the course of a story which a grandfather is reading to his sick grandson, we see the adventures of farm boy Westley in pursuit of Princess Buttercup.On one level, The Princess Bride plays absolutely fair with fairy story conventions - heroes are heroes, villains are villains, and weird in-between characters are weird in-between characters. The story plays out in a satisfactorily linear fashion, adhering to standard fantasy story tropes.And then, on another level, The Princess Bride is a subversive deconstruction of the traditional stories it mimics. It is frequently very funny indeed, it boasts some wonderful performances (both Cary Elwes and Mandy Patinkin play their roles with a precise combination of straight face and tongue in cheek, and Wallace Shawn is simply hysterical), and it has the best sword fight for a long time. And it is endlessly quotable. Funny, exciting and charming, it is a film to treasure.
The Princess Bride (1987) directed by Rob Reiner, is the perfect movie for all ages. College students love it. I watched it with my wife, grown daughter and her husband, and their two young children. It worked for all of us. The screenplay, by William Goldman, is based on his book. Not surprisingly, the film captures the spirit--as well as the details--of the original. The acting is excellent, in an appropriate over-the-top sort of way. Cary Elwes is fine as Westley and so is Robin Wright as Buttercup, The Princess Bride. However, the really great roles belong to Mandy Patinkin as the swordsman Inigo Montoya, Wallace Shawn as the Sicilian genius, Vizzini, and André the Giant as Fezzik, who is, indeed, a giant.Billy Crystal as Miracle Max and Carol Kane as his wife Valerie have just one scene, but it's a highlight of the film Hilarious doesn't begin to describe it.No lover of movies can afford to miss The Princess Bride. It worked well when we saw it on DVD, so there's no excuse not to rent it or buy it. It would be sad to go through life without seeing The Princess Bride at least once. (Several times would be better, but once is a must.)


                
I realise that I must have been in my early twenties when I first saw this film, and I will still stop and eat up every line, as I hit 40. A gem. For every film I see that wishes to be a romantic comedy, or swords and swashbuckling, or just plain funny, I wish they could take a look at this one, which manages to combine the three, without effort, it seems.Cary Elwes and Robin Wright are both gorgeous and dead-pan, Mandy Patinkin is a hero of the best kind; "You killed my father, prepare to die" is a theme and a catch-phrase solely down to his presence. Every actor was the best I've ever seen them, which says much about the director. Drop.Your.Sword. And enjoy.


                
Superb, sublime, imaginative family entertainment from Rob Reiner. Tongue in cheek fairy tale/adventure that hits the ground running with a breathless first 25mins of fantastic set pieces that includes one of the best sword fights in cinema as well as some great characters. Vezzini, Fezzick and Inigo are characters that stayed with me all through my childhood but until a recent watching of this film I hadn't realised just how good this was for adults & children. It hasn't dated at all in the intervening years and compares well with modern fantasy films mainly due to a tone that wouldn't benefit from expensive CG.All the cast are memorable, Chris Sarandon as the pompous prince and Christopher Guest's Basil Rathbone style duke are great villains but Wallace Shawn as Vezzini steals best baddie honours. For the good guys Cary Elewes is superb as the Errol Flynn style hero swashbuckling and joking his way through duels, torture, chases and more with support from Innigo (the always superb Mandy Patinken) with Andre the Giant the ideal person to play Fezzick the good natured giant. Memorable cameos include Peter Cooke, Billy Crystal, Carol Kane and Mel Smith. As the Princess of the title Robin Wright really fits the bill looking like she just stepped out of the pages of a fairy tale but never letting her performance slip into the sappy, mushiness it could have become.It's magic spell never loses grip through chases, romance, duels and brawls its a treat my one complaint I wish it was longer so there was even more to enjoy. 9/10


                
OK. Understand. I don't think this is the greatest movie of all time. However, I think it's a great movie that has achieved the perfect balance for everyone to watch (9 of 10). It's clean enough for kids, exciting, romantic, and action-packed. This, wrapped around a cloak of humor, and you have a movie for almost any occasion.This is a movie the whole family can sit down and watch, and everyone can enjoy itI like to call this the perfect date movie. It's romantic enough for the women, and action-filled enough for the guys. And Besides, it's got Andre the Giant (who doesn't love him - he doesn't need to act... he just has fun and it shows)And best of all, when the person you care for who's watched it with you asks you to do something, there is nothing better than responding to them "As you wish".
Few movies achieve such a nice balance. GO and enjoy this movie with the people you care about the most.


                
