It's one and a half hour TV movie stretched into several script-less hours of bored rich people whose main purpose is to bore the hell out of you with meaningless "first world" problems... You have also an ensemble cast of clueless child actors trying to "act" like grown people, which just doesn't work (but at least it's hilarious). The last episode is good and so is the conclusion, but the rest, I don't know what's the point of it. I'm sure many will love especially the part I'm missing, though; each with their own. Anyway, 2 stars for the last episode, zero stars for everything else. Peace!


                
I am giving this show a 2 rather than a 1 due to the nice scenery. I only got through 2 episodes, if that.Otherwise, it is awful on most every level. I am just amazed that this melodrama garnered so many enthusiastic fans. No offense, but that sets the bar REALLY low! The whole thing is an unrealistic soap opera, created by David E. Kelly who is still clueless about women, their character development and psyches after all these years. I remember watching many of his TV shows back in the day, and while I was initially interested, they quickly devolved into ridiculous dramatic soap operas as well. He simply cannot and does not understand the complexities and nuances of women. Portrayed are awful shrill, petty, victimized, brutalized, generally unrealistic women, and one who prefers her ex of 15 years, who is a complete butt hole to the day. Why are the women such weaklings in this show, Hmmmm, David?
After the first episode I said to my wife, "Why did people get into this?" After the second episode I said to my wife, "Why did people get into this?" At the end of the third episode, I said to my wife, "Why did people get into this?" Ditto the fourth and fifth. Unsavory scenes of abuse. Irritating daughters. Irritating mothers. Moronic husbands. The amount of time where spousal abuse is portrayed or talked about increases in each episode which makes it abhorrent to watch. Don't know why I'm giving it two stars other than the fact that there are a few recognizable stars in it.I'm adding one more comment. Very soon I knew the secret of Woodley's character, and I knew who was the bully in the first grade. Probably by the end of the 2nd episode or the middle of the 3rd. Someone else said you only need to watch the first and last episodes. I'd add the 2nd one in there. You'll save yourself a lot of time of slogging through all the filth.People who highly rated the mini-series were probably looking at the acting. But for me the story overpowered the acting to the point where I barely noticed the caliber of the acting.


                
Seriously, this series was awful. A who done it where we don't know who or how many have been done (in), nor do we know who or how many did the doing. And no surprise, that's the hook o get you from Episode One to Seven. There are more blind alleys and red herrings in the series than I can mention; some so evident I laughed right out loud. Reese Witherspoon is shrill, her character somehow melodramatic. On the plus side, Ms. Witherspoon is more attractive in this than in most of her other projects. As is Nicole Kidman, whose domestic scenes are both frightening and at the same time, ring sadly true. And you cannot dislike Laura Dern. Even so, these are not reason enough to sit through this series.


                
Based on the book by Australian author Liane Moriarty; HBO's interpretation (7 episodes) is a story about how pathetic the rich really are. Executive Produced by Witherspoon and Kidman who portray women who appear to be smart but do ridiculous things in their relationships and daily life. This is a community of rich people who are petty and ungrateful. They raise their children in the same manner. The two women befriend a single mom who moves into the community much to her regret. The scenes between Kidman and her on-screen husband Skarsgard are especially brutal, frightening and flat-out creepy. There is nothing here redeeming or likable.


                
Maybe my expectations had been set too high before watching this highly rated new show. But I found sitting through the first episode an endurance I don't want to repeat.Yet another show about people who appear to have it all from the outside, until you get to see their lives from the inside. I just found the whole plot line pointless.Which is s shame because it has a great cast and everyone else seems to like it but me, hey ho!


                
I really wanted to like this show. I had bought the book to read before the watching the show and I was looking forward to what should have been a relative strong cast.The story was changed from the book, which I can understand to add a bit more drama. However, I didn't like the addition of the cheating story line, or that the relationship between Jane and Tom was left out, as were details that would have made the Jane and "Saxon" live in the same town plot more plausible. I found they took characters that were well written and turned them into one dimensional, vapid, unlikable people. The actress who played Jane was especially horrendous to me. Laura Dern did a good job of playing the "evil" mother and the scenery shots were nice - the only redeeming qualities I can say about the show.
No one lives like this. Ridiculous plot that is way over the top. Shame that this talent is wasted on this.


                
