Finished the last episode today and yes, the end is great but thats no excuse for the boring plot in the first six episodes. Its not the actors, the actors are great, but they can't carry the boring plot alone. In some episodes, there is no suspense, no excitement or at least funny moments...just dumb bla bla with boring so called "problems" of rich housewives, but there is no forthcoming in the plot and some of the characters talking is just too cheesy to believe, and some dialogs are too dumb to watch.
The story could've been told in three or four episodes...seven episodes with this thin plot seem just a bit over stretched.
I really wonder why this show is rated 8,6...
Story revolves around the lives of normal, rich and wealthy class, whose kids are in a public school. Well, believable. Nevertheless the cast is brilliant, cinematography is brilliant, but the story-line is a bit too typical. Yes, nothing in this is surprising. Ans no, its not something you'll figure out, its something so very silly.They have showed it as a kindergartner bullying case. But what it actually is infidelity, domestic violence and a one night stand gone bad. With the focus mainly on domestic violence. I wish this had a bigger and better twist. Something that's monumental and mind-boggling. Sadly, no. The end is something you would want, but would presume too silly and generic. Whose consequences abruptly end the story and the matter. It would've been more mysterious if the writers wouldn't have disclosed the ending events. But, I am seriously disappointed by the ending. It's just, too lame.


                
This very good book was totally ruined by making it into a mini series. The production was very badly put together, if you hadn't read the book, you would not have a clue as to what it was all about. It was dark, the dialogue was not clear, scenes were very disjointed. It is a book written in and for Australia, and I don't think it translated to the American scene very well.


                
OK, small teaser/spoiler at the end of this monologue to save wasted hours. This is the west coast counterpoint to the north easterner's (typically NY) obsession with dysfunctional family rom-com centered around food & drink & restaurant/bars. We get long drawn out restaurant/bar/home kitchen scenes with garish displays of wealth with eye candy supporting actors with appropriately timed clothed sexcapades (some with illicit trysts). The difference is someone dies (murdered?) which teases us throughout with flashbacks as to who did it and to whom until the end. Meanwhile boring cat fights between parents over their kids, school, ego, etc. Acting was OK, not challenging, given the nature of the script. Best of the vast ensemble was Darby Camp as child Chloe Mackenzie.Small teaser/spoiler, but I won't say who, and leave that up to you to find out. OK, after you've seen enough to know each characters story; their alliances, you can skip/ff through most of the kids, sex, lavishness, police crime interrogations (nothing is said - just speculation) it's just repetitive, to the end. All those hours come down to three subplots: Amabella's teaser (child subplot) is someone else; an abusive parent gets pushed (literally) too far by unexpected person; girl's (women) form a bigger clique - end of story. Next year, I'm sure, will bring in additional characters with some small crime drama because nothing else makes it stand out.


                
I'm sorry to the great cast whom I admire, but I hate everything about the characters, storyline, and writing. The only thing I kind of liked was seeing the ocean scenery. I'm not understanding the high ratings and raving. The series is melodrama at best, and the characters are unrelatable, and a little bit dumb. I cannot really respect the main three. I expected more of the series, and cannot imagine why a second season would be needed.


                
I love Liane Moriarty's books and was really looking forward to this adaption however this show left me extremely disappointed. I can accept that certain details may be different from the book but way too many things were changed/added for this show. All of Liane Moriarty's books are set in Australia however this show is set in California? All though this doesn't have a major effect on the storyline it also does in many ways and it felt like a major sell out on the authors part. 
They completely deleted Madeline's son Fred and in the book she never had an affair. Madeline having an affair in the show completely changed her entire perception to the audience, whereas she was a much more likeable character in the book. Many other things were changed for this rubbish adaption but all in all the entire feel of the show was wrong. The opening credits to the show were ridiculous and cringe worthy. The show was bombarded with dramatic montages in every episode that aren't even relevant to the story. Saxons abuse of Celeste is much more accentuated which turned this show into a modern day social issue. The list goes on... If you've read the book I wouldn't waste your time on this show. And to think that Liane Moriarty will be writing a follow up book so the show can continue? The great thing about her books is each book is a different story. Pretty disappointed.. feels like she's completely sold herself out.
