I so looked forward to this series. I waited for it anxiously. I wish I could say I was thrilled with the first episode however, I was not entirely thrilled. The premise of a story that will allude to a murder that we may not know about until the end of the series is not my first choice as a drama. I either want to watch a drama about family life or a murder but not a mixture of the two.The small vignettes of the mothers talking to their children was the best part of this first episode. Reese ( Madeline) driving her daughter to school and telling her "I'm not sure I like that attitude" when the daughter has clearly dissed her was classic. I also like the glimpses in to Nicole Kidman's world. Her seemingly charming husband who is inciting violence in his children, however playfully while Nicole looks on is riveting. The character, Jane Chapman played by Shailene Woodley is very interesting but there is not enough backstory yet to get fully involved in her character. The thing I did not love about this first episode was the editing. Some of the scenes overly-long. The pace was slow. I also did not like all the rehash at the police station. One or two scenes of that would have been adequate.I am going to watch the rest of the series and I'm sure it will improve as we get into it but I wish the first episode packed more of a punch.


                
This show had been on for ten minutes and already had dozens and dozens of votes averaging 8.1? Of course, no one likes that I've pointed this out. Once again, we don't have ratings based on the quality of the series - how could we - the show has barely started - but ratings based on how much they like the actors in the series. Even for those that actually waited until one whole episode was complete, I bet if they had been on a cruise a century ago, during the first day they would have commented - Titanic is the best ship ever! This is a reposting. Some poor soul complained and said the truth "abused" her.


                
I wouldn't say Big Little Lies is superb like most of the reviewers tell us but it's a good series. There are better ones but also much worse. It took me awhile before I got into the story. I thought the beginning was a bit too much fuzz about nothing, and I still think the women are overreacting about some futile things that are happening, but it serves the story so at the end it all balances out. The characters are certainly not all likeable characters. Good actresses though, but in real life I couldn't be friends with about 90% of the characters. The only normal women seems to be played by Shailene Woodley, the rest played by Reese Witherspoon, Laura Dern and Alexander Skarsgard are not very likeable characters. But it's for the good of the story, gossiping and jealous women and a wifebeater. Nicole Kidman looks still amazingly good for her age, her acting also. So in the end, I did enjoy the show, but I wouldn't say it's the best I ever saw.


                
Ok. So I don't usually leave reviews on IMDB, because my English is not so good. Also, I'm a female. I think in this case it might make a role, although I'm not too different from humans with penises instead of vaginas.
The difference is that humans with penises also have more testosterone and God knows what, which makes for them anger be more socially appropriate emotional expeession than sadness, fear, care, well, any other.
This is a very important show. Not only aesthetically, brilliant acting, sometimes questionable but sometimes very well placed music, story, but also the fact that it exists.
Me myself used to live with abusive husband, who didn't look like evil or movie image of abusive husbands, who looks like typical hipster with dreadlocks and tattoos. Yet I cried all scenes with Nicole Kidman, how beliavable she was, how much I could relate to her character.
Ofcourse this review is emotional, it's supposed to be that. But the fact that this show exist and yes, I didn't buy the last plot twist, irl he would go to court to get custody and probably he would get it, because such a nice fellow he is.
And for most of people who never meet anything like that (lucky ones) it seems that it isn't real. But it is.
And thanks to HBO and random article about latest roles of Nicole Kidman I knew about this show. It's empowering. Thank you.
Okay, first off let me just say that the cast is brilliant the Acting is top notch, the camera angles and cinematography was Beautifully stunning, the script was witty and funny, however the way the writers decided to tell this story was absolutely horrible, the pacing was remarkably slow the plot felt empty at times and for a only 7 episodes I feel like there was lots of filler, the entire season could have been told in maybe 2 epsisodes max, the whole first seasons feels a pilot episode to be completely honest, I think a writer like Vince Gilligan (for example) would have really made this show shine.
That being said, I have no idea why this show is so praised with awards and great ratings. Definitley didn't live up to the hype for me I give a light 7 and even that's being generous


                
Started off a tad slow and then within the first few minutes you see the beginning of what I would call an extremely poor job of editing. I know I have a great eye for detail and just get so upset when people who do the editing don't do their job. This removes the just enjoy feature,for me. For I now will keep an extra look out for errors. Which now takes away from the storyline


                
Disappointed mainly for not achieving the level it promised.This mini-series was promoted as "little town secrets" kinda show but i found no traces of it in the show. Many things works so fine in this series BUT the story goes nowhere,the mystery is too weak and the reveal too casual.As a audience there is no enough shock or twist in the story.Especially towards the end it feels incomplete and empty. Other major problem is it's sub-plots ,writers do a poor job of tying it all at the end.we are shown unnecessary story-lines(which were probably in the book),but has little life in the show as later we find out they are just distractions. And the major complaint is Seriously underdeveloped MALE characters,I know the writer of the book is female and the show centers around the female characters but while it has time to show unnecessary sub-plots ,it never makes time for Male characters to develop.And so when they portrayed it feels so hollow and depth-less.All male character act the same way throughout the series .One major example is Nicole kidman's husband who is a Wife-beater and violent type but we never get to see why he is and acts in such way.We even don't know what he does and how he interacts with people outside his family.He goes away,he comes home when it's appropriate for the story .He beats his wife buts loves children .we never find much about the guy who is so vital to the main plot.The show just tells us "well that's the way he is",which is a weak excuse for a HBO level show and given the stature of people involved.Though if you can get past some flaws,you may enjoy it's Sea-shore setting, dark humor and good performances.


                
I read the book and I loved it so much that I decided to watch this show even though I knew everything from the start. Even though some things were not the same as the book, i enjoyed it up until the end of the show. I was expecting a lot from the last scene when we would find out that Perry is the man who raped Jane, because it was so beautifully written in the book, but it was so poorly shown in the show.I kind of watched the whole show just for that scene, and it didn't happen the way it should have.
This is a series that is hard to review, the plot is fairly straightforward and has been done many times before, so why is this show so good? What makes this series so watchable is the performances by all the cast, especially Nicole Kidman and Laura Dern. A few people complain that the characters are not entirely likable, these are spoilt mega rich women with their first world problems, but that is kind of the point. If you enjoy shows with strong character development then you will enjoy this, and even if you hate the characters at least the scenery is beautiful.


                
I rarely watch tv series because of their mediocre levels (at best) of acting and directing. But this series is definitely different.Nicole Kidman, Reese Witherspoon and Laura Dern. These great actresses were directed by Marc Vallee (oscar winning "Dallas Buyers Club"). Those great talents drew me to this mini tv series.The subject of the story is as superficial as it can get, although many tv series are filled with this very same trivial female dribble about love and marriage. What makes "Big Little Lies" stand out far above the rest however is the excellent directing AND acting performances.There are also many, and I mean many many great CLIFFHANGERS that just keep this (seemingly) superficial story packed with surprising twist and turns, because there is much more to this story then meets the eye at first. That's what's so great about "Big Little Lies". Perfect title in hindsight, because lots of marriages of the upper rich are full of shameful, destructive secrets. What these are you will find out, bit by bit, while watchinng episode by episode. (total of 7, with 7 more to follow in 2019)As I said before this is one heck of great cliffhanger series. When you start watching, you will want to know how it ends. I binge watched it on DVD and I am glad I did, because the suspense is terrific. Highly recommended.


                
A murder mystery unfolds around three suburban mothers living in some pretty spectacular houses. Each episode (very slowly) gives you a little information about the murder and about the characters revolving around it.Personally, the show isn't stitched tightly enough to be a truly great mystery.But I do remember thinking, "wow, that little girl (Chloe Mackenzie) has incredible taste in music".Worth a watch.


                
