A delightful mix of suspense and humor, the serious and the absurd, Alfred Hitchcock Presents may be the best filmed anthology of all. The half-hour show ran seven seasons, the hour-longs lasted for three. I prefer the shorter shows, which have more punch and variety, and also seem more energetic and original. Aided by producers Joan Harrison and Norman Lloyd, Hitchcock owned the show through his production company, yet actually had little to do with the series, of which he directed only a small number of episodes. But Harrison and Lloyd knew Hitch and his tastes quite well, and the Hitchcock shows reflected his interests and preoccupations. He also delivered the droll introductions, which are still a joy to watch, becoming somewhat of a celebrity as a result. Drawing on such disparate sources as Ray Bradbury and John Collier, Ambrose Bierce and Guy de Maupassant, the show drew on some of the most gifted actors (if not biggest stars) in the business. They are best viewed without commercial interruption, one after the other. Their dry mood and subtle humor is still charming after all these years.


                
You can catch this on 'Chiller' channel in many areas....via satellite. This classic series from 1955-1965 features the most varied suspense, horror and curious human behavior, as Hitchcock was so adept at portraying.Better than some of the Twilight Zone stories as there is less science fiction, more study of human behavior, psychology and murder. A few of the more intriguing vignettes come to mind. One episode involves a murderer and his wife Jocelyn, who believed to be dead, mysteriously returns to the scene of the crime, a seaside village. Another episode is with Margaret Natwick and Hurd Hatfield ("The Picture of Dorian Gray" lead). He plays a scheming nephew attempting to gain his inheritance through murder of his elderly aunt. There is a twist.As only Hitchcock can, there is suspense to the end of the story, keeping the audience guessing. Hitchcock once said the element of horror is not the actual blood and gore, but the suspense and mystery leading up to it. The finest director we have seen, and this series is a do not miss. Highly recommended. 10/10.


                
I've only seen a few episodes of "Alfred Hitchcock Presents", but just those few identify it as a great show. The opening with his shadow approaching his outline gives a hint of suspense, but when we see the Master of Suspense offering a slight explanation of what's about to happen, there's no turning back.One can see that Hitch - who would have turned 108 yesterday - occasionally used the show to introduce his movies, and did a really clever job with it: one episode featured a woman stealing money (remember in which movie that happened?). Another episode was set on a train (now where did we see a train?) All in all, I would call this the perfect way that any director could get involved in TV, and who else could do it except Sir Alfred Joseph Hitchcock? You just gotta see it to really get a feel for it. But when you do watch it, just be prepared for what sorts of things you're about to see.


                
The sophistication of these elaborately drawn out suspenseful tales intrigue me to the fullest extent. It is sad to see that television has down fallen to shows with bad writing, poor character development and unnecessary situations that take the story absolutely nowhere. It is more than satisfying to know that those interested can easily dig into the past to find something better than what the present has to offer. Alfred Hitchcock truly is the "Master of Suspense." Although I've only seen a couple of his episodes from this exceptionally well written series, I find myself lucky to have seen a couple at all. You can honestly see the difference in quality of television and movies when you watch this, and then go off to watch something from this year or last year, most of all these television series and movies are explicit and cruel(SAW), violent and twisted(Game of Thrones), comedic and pointless (Let's Be Cops); the writing is rudimentary at best and the acting mediocre(excluding Game of Thrones). This idea that anyone can write, and everyone has the ability to make it big has obscured those with any potential to come forth and blow our minds away as Hitchcock once did for the silver screen, but that is just my opinion. This series and his Alfred Hitchcock Hour are two amazing series that are incomparable to anything I've ever seen.


                
It's funny how attitudes change. If I had written this review when I was a kid I would've told you I didn't like the series and thought it was stupid. I think I had caught some of the series when it was on TV Land when I was younger and I just wasn't impressed with it.I gave the show another chance when I was older and my attitude reversed itself. Alfred's intros and outros are hilarious and the episodes themselves are well written and acted. It disappoints me that the series really doesn't get the appreciation it deserves, whether we're talking about episodes being labeled as classic or even high quality dvd releases. I would LOVE to own the series on dvd but I don't want to shell out money for discs that are 'flipper discs' and it sounds like it's a hit or a miss if certain discs or episodes are viewable.I had just done a review for Little House on the Prairie and I said it was rare for me to find a series that was good from start to finish. Alfred Hitchcock Presents is another one on that very short list. And just like with Little House, there's a few episodes I'm not fond of. But it's still not a case of getting to a certain season and thinking "Well, let me wait for the series to start back over because the series really started tanking at this point." It was excellent from the first season to the last. Quite impressive and major credit goes towards the cast and crew for doing such a great job.


                
"Alfred Hitchcock Presents" is one of the true highlights of American television. Its overall presentation, the stories, the twists to the tales, the calibre of acting and writing talent, not to mention the man himself making an appearance, all resulted in an exceptional show. It always fascinates me in how much story can be added into 25 minute episodes, just like with "Rod Serling's Twilight Zone." There are so many talented people amongst the cast, some who were already established and others who were yet to be known. Here are some of the actors and stars involved: Claude Rains, Steve McQueen, James Coburn, Bette Davis, Walter Matthau, Roger Moore, Denholm Elliott, Hazel Court, Mark Richman, Harry Guardino, John Larch, Dick York, Charles Bronson, Burt Reynolds, Murray Hamilton, Harry Dean Stanton, Vera Miles, John Forsythe and others. You could not ask for a more varied and diverse range of cast members such as the above. Alfred Hitchcock really adds to the proceedings here. It isn't every filmmaker who can advertise and market his own films or television shows but Hitchcock was a born showman. His methods of advertising are effortless and natural. His introductions and conclusions to his television show are delivered with a dry, deadpan sense of humour. I have had a bit of a chuckle at some of this. This show lasted for seven seasons and ran from 1955 to 1962. Then under the title of "The Alfred Hitchcock Hour," the episodes were extended to 50 minutes each but there is a fair bit of padding to these.


                
IT WAS IN the Autumn of 1955. Being present here on Planet Earth only since the first full Post World War II period, our 10th birthday was one celebration that made us feel really grown up and "old" even. By this time, perusing the annual Fall Lineup on the TV Networks had become a tradition, much like Halloween Trick & Treating and Opening Day at the Ballpark.THE ONLY QUESTION that we had this year was; "Who is Alfred Hitchcock, anyway?" The announcement had been made that he was joining the CBS Network family of weekly shows. Well, our folks told us that this was a big name and well known maker of the movies that we saw at the Ogden, the Highway or the Peoples theatres in Chicago.THE SERIES DID of course premiere and quickly established itself as a staple of our video diet. What we found it to be was a weekly anthology of half hour mystery plays. Their content varied from the very alarming (THE GLASS EYE with Jessica Tandy & Tom Conway) to the serio-comic (CHEAP IS CHEAP with Dennis Day). Every mood in between was featured. There was and is (in reruns)a favourite flavour for everyone.EITHER BY DESIGN or with the good fortune of dumb luck, the half hour time slot proved to be the perfect length for these mystery plays. It is a case of size mattering; although in the diminutive sense rather than the greater.WE LATER SAW this proved to be true. The cases in point are both the ALFRED HITCHCOCK Show and THE TWILIGHT ZONE expanded to a full hour each; which proved to be detrimental to the shows. Instead of more being better, we found the expanded episodes of these shows to be heavily padded and filled with scenes that never would have been included otherwise.NO MATTER WHAT one's preference in these half hours, the greatest and most unique feature of the series was the relationship that developed between the audience and the series M.C., being Sir Alfred Hitchcock, himself. He displayed a previously unknown ability with a unique brand of very dry, deadpan humour.


                
This is another one of my favorite TV shows of all time and it's also another one of my favorite anthologies. Believe or not this show in a way is a bit of another childhood relic of mine, I've seen reruns of this show when I was about 9; this show for me not just introduced me to the master of suspense himself Alfred Hitchcock but also this show was the first suspense thriller I've ever seen.Not a lot to say, I really love the theme song which is one of my favorite theme songs of all time, it fits the nature of the show it's a bit of a strange almost quirky tone because it both humorous and mysterious at the same time.It's always fun whenever Alfred Hitchcock always introduces each story with his drollness and dry humor, which I'll admit is something I sorely miss in most anthologies.And I really like most of the suspense stories, each of them were always a surprise and each felt like they were in the same spirt as Alfred Hichcock, from the dry black humor, twist endings, deception, flawed or untrustworthy protagonists, you name it it's all there if your a fan of his films.The stories always kept me in suspense because of how layered it truly is giving it a sort of three dimensional. I knew what I was getting but never entirely sure of what I was about to get next. It was even more suspenseful because each of the situations felt like something that could happen to anyone, made me grateful I never was or even intent to ever get myself in that kind of fix. But also wonder how the heck the protagonist is going to get him or herself out of the fix, let alone if I was even in that fix if it's possible I could get out of it.Let alone those endings at time real brought me over the edge as most of them were always twists, it really gave the show a sense of unpredictability because due to how the story was going you honest felt like the end result could go north or south on itself in a heartbeat.There are dozens of memorable episodes that really had me on my toes and really gave me a lasting impression. "Beta, Gamma, Delta" where a fraternity plays a cruel prank on one of the members, but as an old saying goes the joke is on them. Another which is my favorite story is "Man with a Problem" on a guy that is about to jump off a building unless one single cop can successfully talk him out of it. It was a 50 50 situation, I honestly felt like things could go either way. One moment that was blackly funny was when some blowhole teenagers were yelling to the guy to jump, it's pretty much the classic tempting of fate.Well I've said enough, Alfred Hichcock Presents is a masterpiece theatre of suspense.Rating: 4 stars


                
I remember watching this show very late at night as a young kid on WTTG in Washington,DC during the '70s. I never saw it again until the late '80s when Nick At Nite was airing it. This was an excellent series with great acting and exceptional stories. The episode that sticks out most in my mind is "Lamb To A Slaughter" starring Barbara Bel Geddes (Miss Ellie from the Dallas TV series). I won't give away the ironic ending, but watch what Barbara does when the police come to the house to investigate just how her hateful husband met his untimely end. You too will find the humor as you watch Barbara's look of satisfaction in pulling the wool (pardon the pun) over the cops' eyes.
This episode was first broadcast in 1965 on the Alfred Hitchcock Hour. I watched it with my grandmother, and it scared the bejesus out of us! It's called "the Unlocked Window". Apparently the house from "Psycho" is used as the nursing home. There was a remake of this episode in the eighties with Annette O'Toole playing the part of nurse Stella. A nurse is murdered in the first scene. As I remember, she was dragged from the sidewalk into some hedges. The suspense is consistent throughout the story, with ominous radio reports of a killer on the loose, and a violent thunderstorm that has the resident nurses, Stella and Betty (nurse Ames) quite on edge. Killer ending!


                
This is from the Alfred Hitchcock Hour (now showing on MeTV)Season 3, Episode 17: An Unlocked Window Original Air Date: 15 February 1965 A third murder in the last two weeks is reported over the television, and police confess they have a psychotic madman on the loose, preying only on live-in nurses. One dark stormy night, Nurse Stella Crosson (Dana Wynter) and Nurse Betty Ames (T.C. Jones) are tending to their employer, a man with a heart condition who resides in a creepy old mansion just outside of town and needs constant attention. A phone call from the murderer informs the women that he knows they're alone, and intends to pay them a visit before the night is over. Checking to make sure all the doors and windows are locked, Stella finds that she overlooked a basement window, a mistake that might prove all too costly.


                
3 nurses episode on ALFRED HITCHCOCK HOUR: The name of that episode is "OPEN WINDOW". I don't blame you for asking. This episode was one of the very best from what was an all-round excellent show. The creepy line "Stella, you are such a pretty nurse" scares me to this day! I believe this episode book-ended Hitchcock's "Psycho". A couple of others I loved were "Hangover", "Arthur","The Gloating Place" and "Special Delivery", one of the few sci-fi orientated episodes The Master did. "The Magic Shop" and "Where the Woodbine Twineth" were a couple more episodes with a supernatural/sci-fi slant. "Specialty of the House" (just saw it today on METV)is another good one. I'M TRYING TO FIND THE TITLE OF THE ONE ABOUT THE SPINSTER MURDERS.Hope I helped.


                
This is an excellent TV show much better than Twilight Zone.Alfred Hitchcock are proved that is best director all the time.He is master of thriller. His ideas are unexpected and his humour are intelligent. From season to season he is better and better. No one director like Hitchcock so god. His stories are so brilliant and prove his talent . This series is original and better to say Twilight Zone is copy of this TV show. Hitchcock is selected great actors like John Williams who is excellent actor. I must to say that this TV show is the best I ever seen. Thanks to Hitchcock for all his movies and TV shows.After all his work is most important in film industry.


                
