A delightful mix of suspense and humor, the serious and the absurd, Alfred Hitchcock Presents may be the best filmed anthology of all. The half-hour show ran seven seasons, the hour-longs lasted for three. I prefer the shorter shows, which have more punch and variety, and also seem more energetic and original. Aided by producers Joan Harrison and Norman Lloyd, Hitchcock owned the show through his production company, yet actually had little to do with the series, of which he directed only a small number of episodes. But Harrison and Lloyd knew Hitch and his tastes quite well, and the Hitchcock shows reflected his interests and preoccupations. He also delivered the droll introductions, which are still a joy to watch, becoming somewhat of a celebrity as a result. Drawing on such disparate sources as Ray Bradbury and John Collier, Ambrose Bierce and Guy de Maupassant, the show drew on some of the most gifted actors (if not biggest stars) in the business. They are best viewed without commercial interruption, one after the other. Their dry mood and subtle humor is still charming after all these years.


                
1950's television was pretty bland by almost any yardstick. That's not to say that certain series, such as the early Gunsmoke, were not daring and edgy in their own way. Or that the early I Love Lucy did not have its hilarious moments. However the governing concepts were unadventurous at best, or just plain dull, at worst. After all, no matter how good some of the episodes, bringing law and order to the Old West or following the humorous escapades of a zany housewife were not exactly novel concepts in TV programming.Two series, however, did come along to challenge convention. The Twilight Zone, at decade's end, attacked frontally with huge doses of imagination and exotic story-lines that often overwhelmed viewers, thereby opening American living-rooms to the expanding world of unthought-of possibilities. It was, and remains, a classic appreciated by young and old alike. However, the other ground-breaking series did not attack frontally. Instead, in true stealthy fashion, it snuck past the guardians of Good Taste and Morality, otherwise known as the department of Standards and Practices. That's probably because each episode was introduced by a funny-looking fat guy with a British accent, who came out to crack a few bad jokes and abuse the sponsors. Who could suspect that what followed such a slow-talking Humpty-Dumpty would subtly undermine some of TV's most entrenched conventions.Yet that's exactly what the Hitchcock half-hours did. Perhaps the most subversive change lay in the series's really sneaky treatment of wrong-doers. To that point, convention insisted that culprits be apprehended on screen, the better to teach the audience that Crime Doesn't Pay. And while that may have conveyed a comforting societal message, it also made for a very predictable and boring climax to even the best stories. What the Hitchcock show did that was slyly revolutionary was to transpose the comeuppance from the story to Hitchcock's often humorous epilogue. There the audience would learn that the culprit was duly punished and that justice had once again prevailed, apparently enough to keep the censors of the day at bay. So the story-line might end on screen with a grotesque murder, while only later would the audience be told by Hitchcock that justice had indeed caught up. Maybe that seems like just a minor change. But in fact, it was highly significant. For now the audience could follow plot developments, without knowing how the story itself would end, while the deadening element of predictability was transferred to the easily ignored epilogue. It was a truly ground-breaking event in the evolution of TV.All in all, that element of uncertainty made for the kind of programming that continues to entertain, even into today's super-charged era of technicolor and relaxed censorship. It also accounts largely for why Hitchcock Presents remains one of the few series from that long-ago time to still be re-run. There were other sly subversive wrinkles such as the black humor that sometimes accompanied the most heinous crimes. Or the subtle insistence that murder often begins at home. In fact, the series as a whole managed to mirror much of Hitchcock's movie-making personality, which suggests the producers (Norman Lloyd and Joan Harrison) were very protective of what the Hitchcock brand name implied. Anyway, like any other series, some episodes were better than others, but only rarely did one really disappoint. In fact, the high quality remained surprisingly steady throughout the half-hour run, before dropping off noticeably during the over-stretched hour-long version.Some of my favorites: "Mr. Pelham" (good semi sc-fi); "The Creeper" (suspense & fine acting); "The Glass Eye" ( well-done horror); "Back for Christmas" (typical Hitchcock irony); "Poison" (you'll sweat a bucket load); "Design for Loving" (off-beat premise well executed); "Human Interest Story" (Hitchcock meets the Twilight Zone); "Special Delivery" (truly spooky); "Specialty of the House" (It ain't Mc Donalds); "Breakdown" (Why don't they hear me?), and anything with the deliciously repulsive Robert Emhardt.I'm sure there are many others not so fresh in my memory. Anyway, in my book, a big thanks is due Alfred Hitchcock for doing something no other movie heavy-weight of the time was willing to do. He risked his big league reputation by squeezing into millions of little black boxes once a week for seven years to bring the audience outstanding entertainment. His snooty peers may have sneered, but generations of grateful viewers have since proved him right.


                
For those who like classic television, it doesn't come any better than "Alfred Hitchcock Presents".  Although he did not direct every episode by himself, his stamp is on every program.  Almost every episode is of high quality, with clever and creative stories combined with writing and acting that ranges from good to outstanding.  There is also terrific variety - you never know whether a given episode will be serious or light-hearted, whether there will be a happy ending or a tragic one.  Each show keeps you guessing, and most have a twist at the end, many of them quite memorable.  There are also a lot of big stars who appear in one or more episodes, as well as some young actors who would become stars, and the ones that don't have anyone famous generally have a pretty good set of character actors.  If all that weren't enough, you have Hitchcock himself introducing each episode with some hilarious remarks - often making fun of TV commercials - and often in humorous settings that have a connection to the upcoming episode.Episodes of "Alfred Hitchcock Presents" are well worth the trouble to find, whether you are fortunate enough to find broadcasts of them or whether you need to track down some videos of selected episodes.


                
You can catch this on 'Chiller' channel in many areas....via satellite. This classic series from 1955-1965 features the most varied suspense, horror and curious human behavior, as Hitchcock was so adept at portraying.Better than some of the Twilight Zone stories as there is less science fiction, more study of human behavior, psychology and murder. A few of the more intriguing vignettes come to mind. One episode involves a murderer and his wife Jocelyn, who believed to be dead, mysteriously returns to the scene of the crime, a seaside village. Another episode is with Margaret Natwick and Hurd Hatfield ("The Picture of Dorian Gray" lead). He plays a scheming nephew attempting to gain his inheritance through murder of his elderly aunt. There is a twist.As only Hitchcock can, there is suspense to the end of the story, keeping the audience guessing. Hitchcock once said the element of horror is not the actual blood and gore, but the suspense and mystery leading up to it. The finest director we have seen, and this series is a do not miss. Highly recommended. 10/10.


                
I was introduced to Hitchcock as a kid at 11 in 1985 for the short-live colorized version back on NBC, five years after his passing. But I am kind of an old-fashioned person myself. And love it being in black & white. Even though the show was way ahead of its time and the scripts were good and the acting was superb. It made Alfred Hitchcock a star as he climbed from behind the scenes to center stage. He was the main reason for the show's success! Thanks to his jokes and puns. Hitchcock's wit and charm carried the show. And proved he wasn't just being "serious!" Hope that Nick At Night or TV Land will unleash this baby one day. In Black & White because I love the original. The original is the original.


                
When it premiered on CBS on October 2, 1955, Alfred Hitchcock Presents was an instant hit destined for long-term popularity. The series' original half-hour anthology format provided a perfect showcase for stories of mystery, suspense, and the macabre that reflected Hitchcock's established persona. Every Sunday at 9:30 p.m., the series began with the familiar theme of Gounod's "Funeral March of a Marionette" (which would thereafter be inextricably linked with Hitchcock), and as Hitchcock's trademark profile sketch was overshadowed by the familiar silhouette of Hitchcock himself, the weekly "play" opened and closed with the series' most popular feature: As a good-natured host whose inimitable presence made him a global celebrity, Hitchcock delivered droll, dryly sardonic introductions and epilogues to each week's episode, flawlessly written by James Allardyce and frequently taking polite pot-shots at CBS sponsors, or skirting around broadcast standards (which demanded that no crime could go unpunished) by humorously explaining how the show's killers and criminals were always brought to justice... though always with a nod and a wink to the viewer. This knowing complicity was Hitchcock's pact with his audience, and the secret to his (and the series') long-term success. It's also what attracted a stable of talented writers whose tele plays, both original and adapted, maintained a high standard of excellence. Hitchcock directed four of the first season's 39 episodes, including the premiere episode "Revenge" (a fan favorite, with future Psycho costar Vera Miles) and the season highlight "Breakdown," with Joseph Cotten as a car-accident victim, paralyzed and motionless, who's nearly left for dead; it's a perfect example of visual and narrative economy, executed with a master's touch. (The fourth episode, "Don't Come Back Alive," is also a popular favorite, with the kind of sinister twist that became a series trademark.) Robert Stevenson directed the majority of the remaining episodes with similar skill, serving tightly plotted tales (selected by associate producers Joan Harrison and Norman Lloyd) by such literary greats as Ray Bradbury, Robert Bloch, Cornell Woolrich, Dorothy L. Sayers, and John Collier. Adding to the series' prestige was a weekly roster of new and seasoned stars, with first-season appearances by Cloris Leachman, Darren McGavin, Everett Sloane, Peter Lawford, Charles Bronson, Barry Fitzgerald, John Cassavetes, Joanne Woodward, Thelma Ritter, and a host of Hollywood's best-known character players. With such stellar talent on weekly display, Alfred Hitchcock Presents paved the way for Thriller, The Twilight Zone, and other series that maximized the anthology format's storytelling potential.Packed onto three double-sided DVDs, these 39 episodes hold up remarkably well, and while some prints show the wear and tear of syndication, they look and sound surprisingly good (although audio compression will cause many viewers to turn up the volume). The 15-minute bonus featurette, "Alfred Hitchcock Presents: A Look Back" is perfunctory at best, but it's nice to see new anecdotal interviews with Norman Lloyd, assistant director Hilton Green, and Hitchcock's daughter Pat (a frequent performer on these episodes), who survived to see their popular series benefit from the archival convenience of DVD.Starring: Alred Hitchcock (Host) Director: Robert Stevens.


                
I am a massive Hitchcock fan and would argue that his creative peak in features was in the mid-late 50's, ironically just at the time he commenced production of this short-form series bearing his imprimatur, even if he only had time to personally direct a handful of episodes. Of the first four episodes I've watched from series 1, I've been impressed by their coherence, consistency and diversity, for instance one was set in the wild west, a genre you can hardly imagine the Master covering in his own work. Snappily scripted, plotted and edited, these short programmes prefigure the likes of "Twilight Zone" in the 60's and "Tales Of The Unexpected" in the 70's. The production values are high as is the acting talent involved; famously this is how Hitch discovered Vera Miles, who was to feature in two of his features in the years ahead as well as a penchant for a low budget, black and white shoot which would result in a certain movie centring on a psychologically disturbed motel owner, the title of which escapes me. All the episodes benefit from acerbic intros and outros by the man himself, playing up to his curmudgeonly persona while the sinisterly jocular theme music still conjures up that famous pencil-profile image which he would fill over the titles. I think it's great that a top Hollywood director in his prime could make time to adapt so well to the TV market as Hitchcock did here. These programmes are fun, pithy and entertaining and still worth watching today.


                
Truly a classic, this long-running TV series(1955-65) was way ahead of its time. Its host, Alfred Hitchcock presented stories in this weekly, half-hour dramatic/suspense anthology that virtually no other program would even dream of presenting. Like many of Hitch's films, the stories presented frequently dealt with murder and deception, sometimes on a humerous level. Anyone expecting the show to end with the conventional happy ending would fare better to tune into another television program. In addition to hosting the show, Hitchcock directed several episodes of the series as well.


                
I've only seen a few episodes of "Alfred Hitchcock Presents", but just those few identify it as a great show. The opening with his shadow approaching his outline gives a hint of suspense, but when we see the Master of Suspense offering a slight explanation of what's about to happen, there's no turning back.One can see that Hitch - who would have turned 108 yesterday - occasionally used the show to introduce his movies, and did a really clever job with it: one episode featured a woman stealing money (remember in which movie that happened?). Another episode was set on a train (now where did we see a train?) All in all, I would call this the perfect way that any director could get involved in TV, and who else could do it except Sir Alfred Joseph Hitchcock? You just gotta see it to really get a feel for it. But when you do watch it, just be prepared for what sorts of things you're about to see.


                
Television in the 1950's,was pretty bland by almost any yardstick. During that period,you had the opportunity to see either detective dramas,and family comedies not to mention all of the above. That's not to say that certain series,such as the early Gunsmoke were not daring and edgy in their own way. Or that the early Ozzie and Harriet or the early I Love Lucy did not have its hilarious moments. After all, not matter how good some of the episodes were,either the adventures of a typical suburban family,bringing law and order to the Old West or following the humorous escapades of a zany housewife were not exactly novel concepts in television programming. Even the typical variety show had some flaws in them too,but sometimes was rarely notice.Two series,however did come along to challenge convertion. The Twilight Zone,by the end of the decade,attacked frontally with huge doses of imagination and exotic story lines that often overwhelmed viewers,thereby opening America's living rooms to the expanding world of unthought not to mention unheard of possibilities. It was an original,and it remains to this day a standard classic appreciated by one and all. However,the ground breaking series did not attack frontally. Instead in true fashion,it snuck past the guardians of Good Taste and Morality,otherwise known as the Department of Standards and Practices. This was during the opening of each episode was introduced by a chubby guy with a British accent who could give a brilliant introduction while cracking a few bad jokes and abuse the sponsors. This is what Alfred Hitchcock's half-hour anthology series did."Alfred Hitchcock Presents" made its premiere on CBS-TV on October 2, 1955,and from the opening sequence became an instant hit that stayed on the network for seven seasons(CBS-TV from 1955 to 1960,and later went to NBC-TV for its final two seasons from 1960 until 1962,all in classic black and white). A total of 270 episodes were produced for this half-hour series that was produced by Norman Lloyd and Joan Harrison,under Hitchcock's production company,Shamley Productions for Revue Studios/MCA-TV-Universal. Hitchcock himself was not only a master showman,but he was an original in which each week was for its time slyly revolutionary-to transpose within the comeuppance from the story to Hitchcock's often humorous epilogue. There the audience would learn that the culprit was punished and that justice have once again prevailed,apparently to keep the censors at bay. The storyline might end up on screen with a gruesome murder while only later would the audience be told by Hitchcock that justice had indeed caught up with the suspect of the crime. Maybe that seems like a minor change,but in fact was highly innovative not to mention significant. For now the audience could follow the plot developments,without knowing how the story itself would end,while the deadening element of predictability was transferred to the easily ignored epilogue. For its time,it was truly ground-breaking event in the history of television. And still holds that title today,and it continues to entertain,and remains one of the few television series of long ago to still be.Two episodes,both directed by Hitchcock himself are consider the best out of the entire series: "The Case of Mr. Pelham" with Tom Ewell,and "Lamb to the Slaughter" with Barbara Bel Geddes,were simply brilliant along with "The Glass Eye","Breakdown","Special Delivery",are just to name a few.


                
The sophistication of these elaborately drawn out suspenseful tales intrigue me to the fullest extent. It is sad to see that television has down fallen to shows with bad writing, poor character development and unnecessary situations that take the story absolutely nowhere. It is more than satisfying to know that those interested can easily dig into the past to find something better than what the present has to offer. Alfred Hitchcock truly is the "Master of Suspense." Although I've only seen a couple of his episodes from this exceptionally well written series, I find myself lucky to have seen a couple at all. You can honestly see the difference in quality of television and movies when you watch this, and then go off to watch something from this year or last year, most of all these television series and movies are explicit and cruel(SAW), violent and twisted(Game of Thrones), comedic and pointless (Let's Be Cops); the writing is rudimentary at best and the acting mediocre(excluding Game of Thrones). This idea that anyone can write, and everyone has the ability to make it big has obscured those with any potential to come forth and blow our minds away as Hitchcock once did for the silver screen, but that is just my opinion. This series and his Alfred Hitchcock Hour are two amazing series that are incomparable to anything I've ever seen.


                
Thanks to the member who answered my inquiry of long ago. This particular episode has always been my favorite; "Arthur" and "Party Line" rank as highly. I've always loved Laurence Harvey's work; he was the perfect choice as the chicken farmer. "Unlocked Window" is the one that always stuck in my mind; how much it frightened me back then, and still does. When "Betty" removes her wig, and speaks in his real voice, oh!!! That visual!!Hitchcock was and still is the master of suspense and mayhem; no one can keep me in awe in such an elegant and classy manner, while frightening me at the same time! The black and white episodes especially convey his sense of the macabre; I always remove the color from ALL of the more recent ones, adds to the ambiance.No one compares--DA Dun, DA-DA-DA-DA DA-DA!


                
The series consists of 268 twenty-five-minute episodes, divided into seven seasons, that were aired from 1955 to 1962. Each episode is a separate short film and not in any way related, except for the genre. Some of the episodes were directed by Hitchcock himself, others signed by many other writers and directors, but they are all mysterious crime dramas in the style of Hitchcock. Their level varies greatly, from boring and naively predictable, to really quality thrillers, whereby the good ones must really be acknowledged, because it is very difficult to develop a quality story in this genre in just 25 minutes. In my opinion, this is not a series for binge-watching, but I advise you to download around ten episodes at the time and use them on occasions when you really want to watch something but you are short with time. I dragged on the first two seasons for about two years.7/10


                
It's funny how attitudes change. If I had written this review when I was a kid I would've told you I didn't like the series and thought it was stupid. I think I had caught some of the series when it was on TV Land when I was younger and I just wasn't impressed with it.I gave the show another chance when I was older and my attitude reversed itself. Alfred's intros and outros are hilarious and the episodes themselves are well written and acted. It disappoints me that the series really doesn't get the appreciation it deserves, whether we're talking about episodes being labeled as classic or even high quality dvd releases. I would LOVE to own the series on dvd but I don't want to shell out money for discs that are 'flipper discs' and it sounds like it's a hit or a miss if certain discs or episodes are viewable.I had just done a review for Little House on the Prairie and I said it was rare for me to find a series that was good from start to finish. Alfred Hitchcock Presents is another one on that very short list. And just like with Little House, there's a few episodes I'm not fond of. But it's still not a case of getting to a certain season and thinking "Well, let me wait for the series to start back over because the series really started tanking at this point." It was excellent from the first season to the last. Quite impressive and major credit goes towards the cast and crew for doing such a great job.


                
"Alfred Hitchcock Presents" is one of the true highlights of American television. Its overall presentation, the stories, the twists to the tales, the calibre of acting and writing talent, not to mention the man himself making an appearance, all resulted in an exceptional show. It always fascinates me in how much story can be added into 25 minute episodes, just like with "Rod Serling's Twilight Zone." There are so many talented people amongst the cast, some who were already established and others who were yet to be known. Here are some of the actors and stars involved: Claude Rains, Steve McQueen, James Coburn, Bette Davis, Walter Matthau, Roger Moore, Denholm Elliott, Hazel Court, Mark Richman, Harry Guardino, John Larch, Dick York, Charles Bronson, Burt Reynolds, Murray Hamilton, Harry Dean Stanton, Vera Miles, John Forsythe and others. You could not ask for a more varied and diverse range of cast members such as the above. Alfred Hitchcock really adds to the proceedings here. It isn't every filmmaker who can advertise and market his own films or television shows but Hitchcock was a born showman. His methods of advertising are effortless and natural. His introductions and conclusions to his television show are delivered with a dry, deadpan sense of humour. I have had a bit of a chuckle at some of this. This show lasted for seven seasons and ran from 1955 to 1962. Then under the title of "The Alfred Hitchcock Hour," the episodes were extended to 50 minutes each but there is a fair bit of padding to these.


                
IT WAS IN the Autumn of 1955. Being present here on Planet Earth only since the first full Post World War II period, our 10th birthday was one celebration that made us feel really grown up and "old" even. By this time, perusing the annual Fall Lineup on the TV Networks had become a tradition, much like Halloween Trick & Treating and Opening Day at the Ballpark.THE ONLY QUESTION that we had this year was; "Who is Alfred Hitchcock, anyway?" The announcement had been made that he was joining the CBS Network family of weekly shows. Well, our folks told us that this was a big name and well known maker of the movies that we saw at the Ogden, the Highway or the Peoples theatres in Chicago.THE SERIES DID of course premiere and quickly established itself as a staple of our video diet. What we found it to be was a weekly anthology of half hour mystery plays. Their content varied from the very alarming (THE GLASS EYE with Jessica Tandy & Tom Conway) to the serio-comic (CHEAP IS CHEAP with Dennis Day). Every mood in between was featured. There was and is (in reruns)a favourite flavour for everyone.EITHER BY DESIGN or with the good fortune of dumb luck, the half hour time slot proved to be the perfect length for these mystery plays. It is a case of size mattering; although in the diminutive sense rather than the greater.WE LATER SAW this proved to be true. The cases in point are both the ALFRED HITCHCOCK Show and THE TWILIGHT ZONE expanded to a full hour each; which proved to be detrimental to the shows. Instead of more being better, we found the expanded episodes of these shows to be heavily padded and filled with scenes that never would have been included otherwise.NO MATTER WHAT one's preference in these half hours, the greatest and most unique feature of the series was the relationship that developed between the audience and the series M.C., being Sir Alfred Hitchcock, himself. He displayed a previously unknown ability with a unique brand of very dry, deadpan humour.


                
I remember back in the 80's when all my family and me join all together around TV to see this gripping and fascinating TV show.Of course there are a lot of episodes, and not all has the same level or interest. But anyway, the series worth to see it because of the good plot, production, direction, acting, etc.Anything could happen in every episode. Drama, comedy, murder, thriller...always surprising. The black and white photography gives a "noir" touch in some episodes. All dressed with the always fun/enigmatic introduction by Alfred Hitchcock with that mystery piece of music.....the music of "the unexpected"


                
This is another one of my favorite TV shows of all time and it's also another one of my favorite anthologies. Believe or not this show in a way is a bit of another childhood relic of mine, I've seen reruns of this show when I was about 9; this show for me not just introduced me to the master of suspense himself Alfred Hitchcock but also this show was the first suspense thriller I've ever seen.Not a lot to say, I really love the theme song which is one of my favorite theme songs of all time, it fits the nature of the show it's a bit of a strange almost quirky tone because it both humorous and mysterious at the same time.It's always fun whenever Alfred Hitchcock always introduces each story with his drollness and dry humor, which I'll admit is something I sorely miss in most anthologies.And I really like most of the suspense stories, each of them were always a surprise and each felt like they were in the same spirt as Alfred Hichcock, from the dry black humor, twist endings, deception, flawed or untrustworthy protagonists, you name it it's all there if your a fan of his films.The stories always kept me in suspense because of how layered it truly is giving it a sort of three dimensional. I knew what I was getting but never entirely sure of what I was about to get next. It was even more suspenseful because each of the situations felt like something that could happen to anyone, made me grateful I never was or even intent to ever get myself in that kind of fix. But also wonder how the heck the protagonist is going to get him or herself out of the fix, let alone if I was even in that fix if it's possible I could get out of it.Let alone those endings at time real brought me over the edge as most of them were always twists, it really gave the show a sense of unpredictability because due to how the story was going you honest felt like the end result could go north or south on itself in a heartbeat.There are dozens of memorable episodes that really had me on my toes and really gave me a lasting impression. "Beta, Gamma, Delta" where a fraternity plays a cruel prank on one of the members, but as an old saying goes the joke is on them. Another which is my favorite story is "Man with a Problem" on a guy that is about to jump off a building unless one single cop can successfully talk him out of it. It was a 50 50 situation, I honestly felt like things could go either way. One moment that was blackly funny was when some blowhole teenagers were yelling to the guy to jump, it's pretty much the classic tempting of fate.Well I've said enough, Alfred Hichcock Presents is a masterpiece theatre of suspense.Rating: 4 stars


                
I remember watching this show very late at night as a young kid on WTTG in Washington,DC during the '70s. I never saw it again until the late '80s when Nick At Nite was airing it. This was an excellent series with great acting and exceptional stories. The episode that sticks out most in my mind is "Lamb To A Slaughter" starring Barbara Bel Geddes (Miss Ellie from the Dallas TV series). I won't give away the ironic ending, but watch what Barbara does when the police come to the house to investigate just how her hateful husband met his untimely end. You too will find the humor as you watch Barbara's look of satisfaction in pulling the wool (pardon the pun) over the cops' eyes.
This episode was first broadcast in 1965 on the Alfred Hitchcock Hour. I watched it with my grandmother, and it scared the bejesus out of us! It's called "the Unlocked Window". Apparently the house from "Psycho" is used as the nursing home. There was a remake of this episode in the eighties with Annette O'Toole playing the part of nurse Stella. A nurse is murdered in the first scene. As I remember, she was dragged from the sidewalk into some hedges. The suspense is consistent throughout the story, with ominous radio reports of a killer on the loose, and a violent thunderstorm that has the resident nurses, Stella and Betty (nurse Ames) quite on edge. Killer ending!


                
This is a response to the author of the question referring to the episode of Alfred Hitchcock concerning the nurses in the old house...This episode first aired on "The Alfred Hitchcock Hour", February 15, 1965, and was entitled "An Unlocked Window" and starred Dana Wynter as Nurse Stella Crosson, who is hired as a companion to an invalid, and is aided by another nurse Betty Ames; it turns out that Betty Ames is really a man at the end of this frightening episode....for complete information as to story, etc. of this episode refer to the TVTome.com site and look up the Alfred Hitchcock Hour series; I am sure this is the one...I too was scared out of my wits, but was also quite young when I saw it for the first time; it is really quite well-done and deserves re-airing, as I don't think this series is being aired at the present time. For everyone's information, I believe the first season of Alfred Hitchcock Presents will be available some time this year, I believe for the 50th anniversary of the show; I do hope it contains a lot of good extras.


                
The last time I saw an Alfred Hitchcock Presents episode was possibly ten years ago, and prior to that, another twenty-five years or so, when I was in third grade. One episode in particular, circa 1970, has haunted me for years, though I remember very little of it. Therefore, I am asking anyone if s/he has any information beyond what I can provide below, I would greatly appreciate a reply. Any information such as the year in which it aired, the name of the episode, any actors involved, plot details, etc. would be most appreciated. I have thought about this episode, and have been a bit haunted by it, for years.All I remember is that there were three (I believe that it was three) nurses who either lived together or were just visiting each other at one of their homes one evening. They might have also been keeping each other company that night because word was out that a night stalker/murderer was on the prowl in their neighborhood, possibly killing only nurses. So, in order to keep each other company and protect each other, they decided to spend at least this one particular night all together. And here, my memory really is fuzzy. But, I believe that one of these nurses, whose name is Stella, then becomes sick, and so one of the other nurses, who is quite hefty, walks over to her and begins to check her for fever, etc. After a few minutes, this "doting" nurse then begins to slowly strangle Stella, and tells her "you have such a pretty face, Stella"....but "she" now talks in her real voice, which is a man's. Upon realizing that this strangling nurse must be the psychopath who's on the prowl, Stella starts to scream, and rips off the man's wig at the same time. The effect was completely unsettling. I remember the image of this fat man dressed in drag queen white pancake makeup with his natural hair plastered against his head, to allow for the wig. It was a chilling, very scary image to see his ugly though still somewhat effeminate, dragged-up face with piercing blue eyes, very red lips, fat, pasty, pancacky cheeks, juxtaposed against the sound of his now real, very low, male voice, as he strangles the nurse. I remember talking about this episode in class the next day, in third grade, as well as not being able to sleep for weeks. Can anyone fill in the undoubtedly many blanks I have in my recollection? Any additional information you could provide would be most appreciated. I've thought about this episode for about thirty-three years! Also, does anyone know how many episodes of "Alfred Hitchcock Presents" were made? Thanks!


                
This is from the Alfred Hitchcock Hour (now showing on MeTV)Season 3, Episode 17: An Unlocked Window Original Air Date: 15 February 1965 A third murder in the last two weeks is reported over the television, and police confess they have a psychotic madman on the loose, preying only on live-in nurses. One dark stormy night, Nurse Stella Crosson (Dana Wynter) and Nurse Betty Ames (T.C. Jones) are tending to their employer, a man with a heart condition who resides in a creepy old mansion just outside of town and needs constant attention. A phone call from the murderer informs the women that he knows they're alone, and intends to pay them a visit before the night is over. Checking to make sure all the doors and windows are locked, Stella finds that she overlooked a basement window, a mistake that might prove all too costly.


                
Ne of the best series of the 50's. Very good scenes, very good episodes (each one better than the other). Undoubtedly, one of the best Alfred Hitchcock classics ever. Highly recommend.


                
If you are a fan of this master of suspense, you'll certainly enjoy his legendary TV show. This series of 268 unrelated short episodes, tell interesting stories in Hitchcock's manner, combining crime, mystery and a bit of horror, followed by Alfred's witty and funny comments. Mostly it's nowhere near the quality of his movies, but it's still quite good and very entertaining.8/10


                
