The series consists of 268 twenty-five-minute episodes, divided into seven seasons, that were aired from 1955 to 1962. Each episode is a separate short film and not in any way related, except for the genre. Some of the episodes were directed by Hitchcock himself, others signed by many other writers and directors, but they are all mysterious crime dramas in the style of Hitchcock. Their level varies greatly, from boring and naively predictable, to really quality thrillers, whereby the good ones must really be acknowledged, because it is very difficult to develop a quality story in this genre in just 25 minutes. In my opinion, this is not a series for binge-watching, but I advise you to download around ten episodes at the time and use them on occasions when you really want to watch something but you are short with time. I dragged on the first two seasons for about two years.7/10


                
If you are a fan of this master of suspense, you'll certainly enjoy his legendary TV show. This series of 268 unrelated short episodes, tell interesting stories in Hitchcock's manner, combining crime, mystery and a bit of horror, followed by Alfred's witty and funny comments. Mostly it's nowhere near the quality of his movies, but it's still quite good and very entertaining.8/10


                
(*Quote by host, Alfred Hitchcock as he's announcing the up-coming commercials at the end of the show*) - "I hope you have enjoyed our program. Seeing murder on television can help to work off one's antagonisms. And, if you haven't got any antagonisms, these commercials will give you some."Good evening, f-f-f-folks! It's time to tune in, once more, to the master storyteller as he delights viewers with some of the most deliciously wicked and delightfully chilling television ever aired (1956-1957).This program that ran for 6 seasons (1955-1962) has been the winner of both an Emmy and a Golden Globe award.*Note* - Contrary to what I believe most viewers erroneously think - Hitchcock did not direct all of this program's episodes. No, he didn't. Out of these 39, he only directed 3 of them.


                
The "Master of Suspense", Alfred Hitchcock was the host of the long-running drama anthology "Alfred Hitchcock Presents." It ran for 10 years in both half hour and hour episodes and to me Hitchcock's opening and closing remarks set the scene for success.What I remember the most about the show was the opening sequence with just an outline of Hitchcock's profile on the screen followed by the veteran director filling the profile. Then they cut to a bizarre location where Hitchcock delivered his opening monologue that concluded with a lead-in to the commercial. One that I remember was when he said "It will follow this one minute anesthetic." Following the commercial began the story and then the show concluded with a wrap up from Hitchcock.Many veteran actors and actresses appeared in episodes,though too numerous to mention. Even though I didn't get into a lot of the episodes since I'm not much of a suspense fan, I really enjoyed Hitchcock's opening and closing sequences. Fortunately, Antenna TV is rerunning the shows, so viewers can relive one of the great all-time drama anthology shows. Good night.


                
