I am a massive Hitchcock fan and would argue that his creative peak in features was in the mid-late 50's, ironically just at the time he commenced production of this short-form series bearing his imprimatur, even if he only had time to personally direct a handful of episodes. Of the first four episodes I've watched from series 1, I've been impressed by their coherence, consistency and diversity, for instance one was set in the wild west, a genre you can hardly imagine the Master covering in his own work. Snappily scripted, plotted and edited, these short programmes prefigure the likes of "Twilight Zone" in the 60's and "Tales Of The Unexpected" in the 70's. The production values are high as is the acting talent involved; famously this is how Hitch discovered Vera Miles, who was to feature in two of his features in the years ahead as well as a penchant for a low budget, black and white shoot which would result in a certain movie centring on a psychologically disturbed motel owner, the title of which escapes me. All the episodes benefit from acerbic intros and outros by the man himself, playing up to his curmudgeonly persona while the sinisterly jocular theme music still conjures up that famous pencil-profile image which he would fill over the titles. I think it's great that a top Hollywood director in his prime could make time to adapt so well to the TV market as Hitchcock did here. These programmes are fun, pithy and entertaining and still worth watching today.


                
Ne of the best series of the 50's. Very good scenes, very good episodes (each one better than the other). Undoubtedly, one of the best Alfred Hitchcock classics ever. Highly recommend.


                
Each episode of "Alfred Hitchcock Presents" begins with the unmistakable caricatured profile of Hitchcock himself. He introduces the episode, shows up to introduce commercial breaks and, being the good host, bids his viewers good night at the end of each episode. All of this is done with the pithy, tongue-in-cheek, insinuations for which Hitchcock was noted. He is laughing at us, at the sponsors, and at the world in general, it seems, as if he knows a secret we don't.The series is an anthology of stories and, like "The Twilight Zone", it features stories that are imaginative and cleverly written. Where "The Twilight Zone" features stories of science fiction, "Hitchcock Presents" features stories about criminal intent, psychological aberrations, or just odd views of personalities.It seems that the whole is greater than its parts, because although some episodes--when viewed separately--are not very impressive, as a body of work, the series is impressive, with fine performances and good writing.As a child, I remember that merely hearing the show's theme music (Gounod's "Funeral March of a Marionette") and seeing Hitchcock's profile was enough to suggest the presence of the macabre. His off kilter sense of humor as host of the series, served to tie the individual shows together, despite commercial interruptions. Like a Tony Perkin's smile, he seemed to intimate hidden depths and dark intentions.


                
