How could the owner of a book shop who says "Enjoy. It's dreadful but it's quite short" not be anything short of hilarious. This is so funny, every line is funny. No boring minutes, no fake action, just plain comedy in a style i find very appealing. Crazily funny lines like "Is space hot?" "Of course it is, where else do you think we get pineapples from?" are acted so perfectly making it spectacularly entertaining. A must see. My favorite show for sure.


                
I discovered this show quite by accident while checking out "Father Ted". a website rated them in the same "top 10 britcoms". I love father Ted, i Love Monty Python, Are you being served, Black Adder, all the classic britcoms, but this one is by far the best. The Brits make the best TV in the world and this is, in my opinion, their penultimate achievement. The cast is perfect and work incredibly well together, their chemistry and timing is impeccable. the sets, while limited are so perfectly lit and dressed you almost feel like you're in the shop. And, of course, the writing is genius, i cant think of a better way of putting i (not being a writer myself of course), its just genius. I am continuously amazed at how the British can make hilarious and entertaining television on a limited budget with a very small cast and a single set (maybe two), compared to American sitcoms that have huge budgets, ridiculous casts, expansive sets, and still manage to be barely giggle worthy. If you don't like the dry British humor then don't bother, but if you're what I like call "inteligent and worth talking to" then you will love this show, and be doing yourself a great disservice by not checking it out. Enjoy!


                
Believe me, I have done that more than once while watching it (even re-runs), and I've been given funny look's by people who see me laughing at it.The cast is grate, the character superb and the script is first rate. Going from satire to insane in the time it take to drink bottle (or ten) of wine.I for one can put up with a few more series of this.


                
Black Books is another fine example of just how good British comedy can be. This sitcom is set in a book shop and has 3 main characters. Bernard who is the owner, he is very sarcastic and doesn't like having customers in the shop; he will do anything possible to get rid of them. Then there is his assistant Manny who will do what ever Bernard says. Lastly there is Fran who is always drinking wine and trying to find a relationship.These 3 characters all compliment each other well and provide the audience with plenty of laughs. Some of the stuff they go through is hilarious as well as something that most can relate to. I would say it's a mix between Bottom and The IT Crowd.The 1st and 2nd series where extremely funny and it felt like it was a laugh a minute. The 3rd series was also very good apart from 1 or 2 episodes which didn't quite hit the spot for the entire episode. One of my favourite scenes is Manny making toast in the bath! Overall it is a great comedy series with 3 lovable characters who all add something to the show. You can buy all 3 series on DVD for a cheap price so I would highly recommend.10/10.


                
Black books is a prime example of top notch British humour. Something particularly good was Lineham's ability to write such good and different story lines for episodes mostly played out in a small bookshop setting. The character setting is also fantastic. Dylan Moran as the drunkard, bitter, ironically witty Irish man fits perfectly. Bill Bailey has not appeared in a huge number of recent sitcoms but I don't see why, he's a great actor. You may have seen Tamsin Greig in the hit series Green Wing. She plays a similar chaotic role in this show too. You can access all the episodes for free on 4od. I did this but found that couldn't stop watching it until I ended up watching all three series over just a couple of days. A word of warning to those without the right sense of humour- you probably wouldn't enjoy this.


                
Ah, Black Books. A sit-com, set in a bookshop owned by a weird young Irishman (Moran), aided by his live-in assistant, a wide-eyed innocent (Bailey) Written by and staring Bill Bailey (Manny) and Dylan Moran (Bernard Black), two of the finest stand-up comics in the world, this was always going to be funny. And my word, is it ever.It's brilliant. The characters are almost believable but keep finding themselves in wonderfully surreal and ridiculous situations.. Manny forced inside a grand piano, playing it from within by hitting the strings with spoons so Bernard can pretend to play and impress a girl, the PURE GENIUS of how Manny, while in the bath, provides Bernard with breakfast, Manny, trapped in the shop, crazed with hunger and absinthe, barbequeing Bernards beloved bumblebees on pencils.. every episode has memorable moments.I love this series with all my heart. It's warm, hilarious and wonderfully acted, just the perfect comedy.
There is a lot that can be said about black books, and a little that can be said about black books. The little is that it is good. Really good. If you are the sort of person who thinks Ricky Gervais is 'Like, sooooooooooooo funny' and likens yourself to one of the cast from friends, this may not be the programme for you. For anyone else read on. There are several features of black books that allow the 3 series to rise above most other contemporaries. Forstly, there is the casting. If you have not had the good fortune to see Dylan Moran's stand up comedy, you could quite easily believe he is an embittered bookshop owner. The aura of drunken malice and world weariness he projects as Bernard Black manages to be very real, but at the same time hugely exaggerated. Bill Baily needs little introduction, but takes an almost secondary role in this, bringing in a naive innocence and wide-eyed calm to the bleak world of black books. Tamsin Grieg, best known for green wing, is one of those actors who plays the same role in everything. However, unlike Gervais or Evans, this always comes out looking fresh and funny. She is the perfect sidekick to the cast-mannered much like Bernard, in a co-conspirator fashion, but sympathetic to Manny. Ultimately, the blessing and the curse of black books is that it is very hard to have a favourite episode. Just as you start to consider one to be your favourite, you think of a quote from a different one and become all muddled.This is about the only show that has made me laugh out loud in public places just through memory. If you want to get into it, I'd advise episode 3 of series 1, the one concerning wine, the pope and housesitting.
This comedy with Dylan Moran, Bill Bailey and Tasmin Grieg is one not to be missed. It is truly hilarious, with not only great one-liners but also farce elements. The character of Bernard Black is played superbly by Moran and plays beautifully off Fran (Grieg) and Manny (Bailey). One of the best British comedies, from Graham Lineham, who also wrote Father Ted and The IT Crowd. It is a pity there are only three series of this wonderfully smart, witty and laugh-out-loud show. Each story is full of great moments, but it is the character from which the comedy stems. The direction and writing are superb and the acting by the main cast is outstanding.


                
Channel 4 is known for great comedy series, both old and new. Shows such as Father Ted and The Inbetweeners stand out just to name a few. Black Books, however, is one of Channel 4's finest. A show that continues to get better and better with each episode. Each episode is crafted intelligently by the multi talented Dylan Moran and there is rarely a moment in the 25 minutes when the audience is not laughing. It features a superb and stand out performance by Moran as the drunken, depressed and sometimes neurotic Bernard Black. The show also stars brilliant comedic actors Bill Bailey (Never Mind The Buzzcocks) and Tamsin Greig (Green Wing). Series One is fantastic but series 2 and 3 really up the mark.The show centres around Bernard Black ( Dylan Moran) and his bookshop, named Black Books. Bernard is pessimistic, moody and has a negative attitude towards his business and his customers. His life consists of drinking heavily and smoking constantly. In fact, there is a rarely a moment in the series where Bernard does not have a cigarette hanging from his mouth. When he hires kind, likable but the not particularly intelligent Manny Bianco ( Bill Bailey), the two embark on three series full of awkward and embarrassing situations. Tamsin Greig plays man hungry Fran who is Bernard's best and seemingly only friend. What makes the show great is the dysfunctional relationship between Manny and Bernard. Bernard's treatment of Manny causes many rifts in the show. Bernard rarely calls Manny by name and instead refers to him as Lord Of The Rings or Bigfoot.To conclude, this is a highly recommended series. It is outrageously funny with flawed yet likable characters. Moran has managed to create the perfect comedy show. Three series are not enough of this wonderful comedy. By the end of the third series, you'll be shouting for more!


                
This has to be one of the best series I have ever watched. Laugh till you fall off your chair funny. It is dark, sarcastic and typical of great British television. If you like dark humour and need a break from American "funny" make a point of watching this series, your biggest regret will be that they stopped after 3 seasons.Bernard is the worst boss (and probably person) ever while Fran is beyond "blonde", while Manny is typical of a down-trodden past sell-by date hippie.Just good watching!! Wish there was more.


                
The English have a genre no one else has anywhere in the world. They call that comedies on television. Short less than half an hour episodes of situational humor positioned in one particular social niche. In this case it is a marginal book store held by a social drop out who hates all other human beings and yet cannot survive without constant contact with some of these strange animals we call human beings. Unable to love, unable to have any sentimental life with any person that would approach a gender definition. Yet he recuperate in his book store that becomes a haven for stray cats, though he hates cats, a flunked and failed accountant who is fired from his job because he is kind of abnormal for the job, both in looks and behavior. And he has a neighborly relation with the next door shop lady who is soon going to get out of business and remain behind like an errant animal. And the three of them are going to live the daily life of this book store. But it is nothing close to a social drama or anything social. It is nothing like a soap opera or even a sitcom. Those are more American, more normal, banal and less out of the way, funny or strange. The fun in American sitcoms or soap operas comes from the wit of the characters. The fun of English comedies comes from the situation and the slight details in the behavior, appearance, reactions of the characters that make them weird. There is always something unforeseen and unforeseeable because so much out of the way that we could not even think of it as being possible. Each episode has one unifying element that may get some follow up in the next episode, but there is no obligation. So the episode is not supposed to end on any suspense but on a punch line that signs the end as inescapable. And that final touch or detail is so amazing that you can only sit there flabbergasted and laughing like a baboon in the jungle shade. Have you ever heard one? Very weird, the laughter of the baboon. If you haven't I would advise you to go fast to some jungle and hear it, record it and then multiply it one thousand time into a two or three hour long baboon laughter. That should make you both happy and sad for some time and give you some pleasant dreams. Just like Black Books if you can put your hands or your dirty grubby fatty fingers on the series.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines
I love Black Books more than any TV programme ever made. It had a brilliant cast, Dylan Moran, Bill Bailey and Tamsin Grieg are three of the greatest talents produced by this country. Very few sitcoms manage to get such good actors.My favourite episode is "Elephants and Hens" where Bernard and Manny wright a children's book. Bernard and Manny are hilarious in this episode.I think it's good they haven't done tons of episodes. It's meant that the show hasn't grown stale and repetitive, however I would like to see more episodes of Black Books. The show has proved that the art of sitcom writing is anything but dead.
Black Books is silly and goofy and about a group of messy, mostly useless slobs... and I loved every single minute of it! What great entertainment.Black Books is absolutely one of my very favourite television programmes of all time. I really loved the characters and the silly situations they would get involved in. There were laughs from start to finish.The episode where they drink then foolishly try to replace the priceless wine for the Pope... the episode where she takes piano lessons from a blind man... the episode where they just try to go on vacation...What a brilliant show! Will make you smile.


                
I enjoy British comedy and this show does not disappoint. It is a cross (for me) of Absolutely Fabulous and The Young Ones. I stumbled across the series on Netflix and will be binge watching it all this weekend.Thank you Netflix for including this show in your lineup. The main actors do a superb job of capturing their characters' quirks and idiosyncrasies. I would love to see outtakes because I am quite sure the actors must crack up all through production.Give this show a watch and prepare to laugh your a%* off. Lots of twists and unexpected stuff here.


                
Bernard Black, a paranoid, brooding, wine loving cynic running a small public bookshop. Fran, the best friend...wine loving and love starved. Manny, store assistant with a helpful spirit. The trio all deliver their own comedy in perfect balance with each other. I love how this show displays the glaring defects in each of them, yet underneath you can see what holds them all together and keeps them going.For me, watching this show is like settling down in a comfortable nook and...reading a book. The main set itself is like small, hermit-like wooden paneled cave. Yet there takes place so much chaos.The guest appearances are alone worth a watch, featuring actors such as Simon Pegg, Nick Frost, Rob Brydon, Martin Freeman, and many more.So check it out!


                
While British comedy is often viewed as subtle and sophisticated, this series combines sophistication with absolute farce and over-the-top situations. The real steal for me is the acting though, the chemistry between the actor's is fantastic and every time character's speak with each other you're just holding in furious laughter at the way they address one another. The character of Bernard Black couldn't be more perfect, a stubborn drunk who, when offered help, thinks of a solution that is incredibly implausible, and with a fantastically strong performance of Manny from Bill Bailey who, like Moran, is an excellent comedian and actor, we can really laugh at the insane relationship that Manny and Bernard share. From Bernard eating frozen wine like a Popsicle to using pictures of plates as a crockery substitute, from Manny playing a piano from the inside with spoons to Fran going insane over an odd ornament which is ultimately a cigarette lighter, all of the jokes in this series are charming and laugh-out-loud funny, my only complaint is that the only did 3 season's of this superb sit-com, a must-see if you haven't already, just as good as Father Ted and Red Dwarf, one of the best British comedies of all-time.


                
I don't like to use words like "Perfect" or "execellent" to describe something. However, these are the only two possible words available to describe Black Books.It's incredibly funny. I have had my laughing fits with comedy shows but never have I been in the verge from pissing my pants while rolling on the floor with tears coming out of my eyes.The interaction between the characters, the setting, the acting and the script, ohhhhhh the script. I didn't know that there were people out there who could still create original situations along with fresh and hilarious jokes.I have to say though, that if you're not a fan of British humor or you don't really appreciate it, you might want to skip this one. However, I'd say to definitely give it a try. Trust me, you will have a great time watching this.Thank you Britain. Thank you for Black Books and thank you also for Cadbury.


                
Well i first saw it at a mates house in rye and i have to say i had never seen anything funnier.It never got tiring, always fresh with new ideas and all that.It was impossible not to laugh and with 3 series to watch you would be satisfied.I definitely recommend this one.With only about three sets in the whole thing it really delivered. With smart jokes a few weird scenes and a heck of a lot of booze.It is about three people and their problems and lives all packed in to a bookshop owned by Bernard Black (Dylan Moran). Manny Beianco is the much loved book shop assistant and "Enemie" of Bernard.Last but not least we have Fran Katesjammer (that might be spelled wrong), The booze fueled friend of the two book shop workers.I KNOW that anyone who watches this will laugh their heads off. GO BUY IT!!
Who knew that a show about complete nonsense could be so satisfying? The gags are for the most part well thought out and the episodes wrap up nicely. The episodes range from the simple funny to ridiculous complex plots. Dylan Moran, Billy Bailey, and Tamsin Greig seem to even have fun and enjoy their roles. I bought it on a whim and fell in love with Bernard Black and all the characters. Definitely worth getting your hands on the DVDs if you live in the U.S. Series 1 and 2 are available for region 1, but I'm not sure when/if 3 will be available.~Kathryn


                
If your already acquainted with the stand-up acts of Bill Baily and Dylan Moran you will be well aware of the outlandish and extremely appealing humour they both adopt. Now imagine these two, together, and writing their own script. The melding of the two minds has given birth to possibly the funniest comedy series I have ever had the pleasure of watching. Set in a little book shop, Dylan Moran plays the owner 'Bernard Black'; a drinking, smoking lunatic and Bill Baily plays 'Manny'; the lovable and completely neurotic shop assistant. Together they experience some bizarre events, which always leave you with a massive grin on your face. Better than chocolate...better than...One to watch. Over and over again.


                
I remember the first time I came across Black Books. The first episode aired on Australian Television in early 2001 I think, and I fell in love. I was excited to see another project from one of my favorite Brit-Com writers, Graham Linehan and I knew after his involvement in comedies such a Father Ted and Big Train, that this was sure to become another classic British Comedy. The continually rich three series of one of the most unique British Comedies I have ever seen became one of my favorites. And just like Bernard consumes wine at a rapid rate through the show, so does the audience become drunk on the characters of the show as they consume.One of the things I love about Black Books is the richness of the dialogue. Lines like "I feel like I've been beaten up underwater. I can feel pieces of my brain falling away like a wet cake." This is far from being your usual comedy dialogue. It has a richness about it that is unlike your usual comedy script.Another great thing about this comedy is that it is completely different to anything that I have ever seen. It creates almost another world in which the characters have a license to act in a zany manner and where anything can happen. Dylan Moran, Bill Bailey and Tamsin Greig are wonderful as the three main characters and the special guest spots from Simon Pegg and Kevin Eldon are indeed unforgettable.Black Books contains everything from brilliantly performed slapstick to hilarious one liners. It has the ability to make everyone laugh; because it has something for everyone.


                
Great English sitcom. It's comparable with "The IT Crowd", about 24 minutes per episod, 6 episods per season, 3 seasons. It has the English humour "thing", every plot has the power to evoke laughter. I like especially the third season, it has really great funny scenes! The story it starts with Bernard who run his book shop, but he doesn't really like clients and also doesn't treat them properly, so there's when Manny comes trying to buy the little book of calm and he ends up working for Bernard in the book shop. Fran runs she's own busines over the street and she's the one who complets the trio, always trying to settle things down between Bernard and Manny. It's a great movie to watch, very funny situations!
This is probably the best sitcom to come out of Britain for a while and proof that when it puts it mind to it Britain seems to still have the edge as far as comedy is concerned.The show centers around Bernard Black ( Dylan Moran ), a man who's idea of a perfect life would be to throw away his key to the shop and live inside in a perfect sanctuary. As this is not the case, however, he is vindictive, petty, angry, lazy, unhygienic, and generally awful, particularly to customers that he finds irritating.Compounding this predicament is Bernard's assistant, Manny ( Bill Bailey ), who although he gets on well with the customers ( despite Bernard's protests that "it's not that sort of operation" ) he seems incapable to think in times of importance, which inevitably leads to him and Bernard in another mess.Along with these two is Fran ( Tamsin Grieg ) whose friendship with Bernard is about the only contact he has outside the shop without being dragged by force. Owning the shop next door, she can often be heard to quip "I do sell a lot of w#%k don't I?" It's hard to describe why this show works so well. It's mainly a show, like Blackadder based on quick fire quips and insults, with Dylan Moran brilliant when he goes off his head, reminding one of John Cleese in Fawlty Towers. My personal favourite episodes are Grapes of Wrath and Locked In, but I'm not fussy, for it's truly a great series.


                
This is by far the best comedy series I have ever seen. The witty ideas just seem to surprise you and the atmosphere is something one will remain with as something familiar and friendly. When I think of it it seems like I spent my vacation with some dear nutty friends, not watching a movie. The actors are also giving their best, totally love Dylan Moran and Bill Bailey in this gem of a show, and Tamsin Greig is so well guided that she makes you laugh and love her in the same time, perhaps she is more dear to the viewer that she would be if one would meet her in person, I don't know. A pessimistic, unadapted bookseller with smoking and drinking problems (Dylan Moran) befriends an air headed clerk (Tamsin Grieg) and unwillingly hires a long-haired ex accountant to slave around and sell books, with maximum hilarious effect, that's Black Books in a very very simplified nutshell. They are all great. Geniuses. Only one minor criticism that a friend pointed out: the laugh tracks. But never mind, once you get the taste of this great comedy show, you will not notice them.


                
I've just finished watching through all 3 series (again) and I just cannot get this superb sitcom out of my head. Dylan Moran, Tamsin Grieg & Bill Bailey are all brilliant as the main characters & there are some great cameos from people such as Nick Frost, Johnny Vegas, Rob Brydon, Annette Crosbie, Omid Djalili, Ricky Grover, Keith Allen and Simon Pegg (Don't eat Muffins when I'm developing you!).Bernard, Manny and Fran are deeply unbalanced people who rely on each other to get by in the world. They almost sort themselves out with the help of Freud & a shrink at one point but things inevitably revert to madness before long.Series 1 and 2 are the best. There isn't a bad episode to be found. In series 3 there are a couple of weaker episodes but the Moo-pa Moo-ma and Goliath books ones are great.If you like misanthropy, social awkwardness, dirty little Bookshops and towers of soup, then the surreal Black Books is ideal. It has a great combination of the surreal, slapstick, clever writing and excellent performances throughout. I love it & want to work in Bernard's shop."Everybody get out! The Shop's closed."


                
