Black Books introduce us to three funny people. Bernard, is an owner of a Book Shop. He is anti-social, drinker and smoker. Most of the time he is sarcastic, pessimist, aggressive and hate every costumer. His employee is Manny, a character with no self-esteem who never stood for himself. Maybe the only person who could work for Bernard. Fran is a girl next door who run a shop, and probably is the only friend Bernard has. They have something in common, drinking and smoking.Black Books is one of the best British comedies. Is one of the comedies that is trying to make you laugh in every line. All three characters are funny, especially Bernard. Bernard is one of the funniest characters I've ever seen. The way he treats his costumers with his aggressive language, full of sarcasm. Many is funny too. He's a bit in the shadow of Bernard, but he got his moments too.There are some scenes that you should stop the video and laugh out loud. It's a pure comedy.


                
I had this in my DVD Collection for years but it never caught on the first time I saw it. However, after about 4 years I said "Maybe I'll re-evaluate it". After the first episode I thought it was decent at best, the second episode however is where things hit a consistent high note throughout the show. The plot is that a bookstore is somehow still in business when it's run by a rude and crass heavy drinker who barely opens the store thanks to him going out all the time and systematically trying to stop people from buying books because he hates the ordering process. This changes when he hires a good-mannered yet stupid man to help him out with the shop after saving his life from skin heads. Together, along with the closest thing either of these 2 have as a friend basically get into adventures and outlandish hijinx ensues. This is probably one of the better sitcoms out there in my opinion. If you're a Simon Pegg or Nick Frost fan you'll be able to see them in episodes. I'll also say aside from the pilot, this is probably one of the most consistently good shows I've ever seen. Either way, if you're a fan of sitcoms I'd suggest checking it out.


                
My favorite episode has to be "The Grapes of Wrath." Ignore the opening--where it becomes wonderful is the two roommates finally dealing with the complete lack of cleanliness in the store, and a very, very disturbing cleaner--a brilliant cameo. Worth watching the episode just for that one performance, by the brilliant Kevin Eldon. It's really the love-hate relationship between Dylan and Bill Bailey where the show really shines--and sometimes degenerates into slapstick. Both men have superb comedic instincts and timing--and the jokes both verbal and visual will come at you fast. Is it Python, or Are You Being Served? No. But it is a fantastic example of more modern British Comedy, and well worth watching.


                
Dylan Moran is great and so is Tamsin Greig. Bill Bailey I get tired of sometimes but in this he is usually funny (when the story is not all about him). Sometimes the show would get a bit too far fetched and silly which kind of breaks with the usual real world aspects of the show but I thought almost every episode was just hilarious. Wish they'd have made more!


                
I love this comedy series so much. The interaction between Dylan Moran and Bill Bailey is superb and Tamsin Greig is very good as well. Classic situations always seem to take a weird turn and the outcome is mostly hilarious. The setting is perfect: the alcoholic, cantankerous bookstore owner Bernard Black hires weird misfit Manny Bianco who occasionally seems to have strange powers, odd diseases and the rich social life that Bernard by turns craves or is repulsed by. They spend their days drinking wine, arguing, selling books or actively trying to prevent books from being sold. They get pestered by hysterical neighbor/friend Fran, who has her own problematic life. The jokes and absurd situations are excellent and the timing of both actors is great.The only problem i have is Fran. Tamsin Greig plays her part well but it isn't well written out for her. For example: in the episode "Blood" the storyline of Bernard and Manny trying to turn the bookstore in a restaurant is simply fantastic but Fran's re-uniting with her family just isn't funny and really ruins an otherwise great episode. Still, Black Books is unique and i am genuinely sorry it only ran for three seasons.


                
Brilliantly eccentric British comedy focusing on the antics of three so-called friends in London.Bernard Black is a book shop owner, a man so riddled with neurosis and hatred of humanity that he is utterly incapable of functioning in day to day life. Constantly angered by the presence of customers in his shop - he simply can't understand why they keep on bothering him for books, even though he chooses to run a bookshop - he is kept in check by the ministrations of his only friend Fran, and his single employee Manny, played with relish by the wonderful BIll Bailey.Surreal plot lines, acid fuelled humour and a great chemistry between the three leads adds up to a comedic master piece.Seldom does visual comedy make me so much as smile, but this show even manages that, with wonderfully bizarre visual gags to compliment the viciously sharp scripts.The series takes a slight dip in series 3, although this is only down to the relentlessly high standards set by the first two, and I for one am glad that they put it out of its misery before its reputation was tarnished.A fantastic addition to the comedy canon, highly recommend to fans of such fare as Blackadder and Peep Show.Enjoy.
That a sitcom which has been off the air for 6 years has now reached an almost Young Ones level of cult status isn't surprising when considering the talents of those involved. A who's who of contemporary British comedians had their chance to be yelled at by Bernard Black. The first episode featured a pre-Office Martin Freeman, and was penned by Father Ted writer Graham Linehan. Like both Ted and Fawlty Towers, the characters each have somewhat of a pathetic past, and fleshed out back stories which make them both sympathetic and identifiable over the three series arc. Gen-X sub-intellectuals who can't survive in the "real" world, and instead occupy a surrealist alternative Ren & Stimpy universe.The core cast of course have(had) a wealth of brilliant stand-up to build from. Dylan Moran had spent years morphing from the overgrown Harry Potter of his earlier stand-up career, into the bedraggled failed poet whom only wears suits, and drinks the finest of wines while chain-smoking 400 cigarettes a pop. As a book store owner who hates his customers he delivers each line as if he is a disgruntled, brunt out English professor who's hit the bottle after a failed marriage. Alternating to a poetic disgust with the modern world. You can FEEL every cigarette, every glass of wine dousing his blackened lungs. In an hilarious scene from the second season, he removes all the CDs Manny has packed for their holiday and replaces them with 12 inch vinyl LPs and a record player. In an evening out he decides to go to the movies, and after buying his drink and popcorn says to the gormless cashier "Excuse me, I only bought a drink and popcorn, but seem to have spent all of my money". When told "That's how much it costs" he remonstrates like a elderly man not accustomed to the times, with "Why? Does it produce some kind of euphoric high, or something?" Later that evening he tries to barter his belt for fast-food to the same blank cashier. When that fails he takes a job there, and we are treated to the indescribable sight of Bernard in a fast-food uniform. The look of disgust a misery is priceless.Bill Bailey has gone on to greater heights with his stand-up, but as Manny Bianco he will always be fondly remembered. Despite being the more active and sociable of the misanthropic trio, his naïve innocence hinders him from being able to take care of himself. Becoming a male prostitute on his first day away from "home", and reading aloud from the SAS handbook when locked inside the shop - leading him to devour Bernard's collection of dead bees. He is more than simpleton fodder, he is the key protagonist, and an excellent abusive plaything for Bernard. "Part man, part Fu-Manchu, all BASTARD".While Green Wing proved that Tamsin Greig only really has one setting, Fran (Enid) Katzenjammer is the perfect female counterpart to Black. And despite being the weakest link, her presence on screen is never unwelcome.Yes, some of the jokes are weak. And no, canned laughter is never acceptable. But Black Books reaches well beyond all s(h)itcom clichés through cartoonish surrealism. Bernard literally standing horizontally on a wall to illustrate an illness, and proclaiming in a convincingly wretched whimper "I feel like I'm being beaten up under water. I can feel bits of my brain falling away like a wet cake". While the first two DVDs feature audio commentaries which are as entertaining as the show itself, it seems none of the cast really had faith in the third series and thus didn't bother. The first episode of which does feature a choice performance from Simon Pegg, so t'is not a complete write-off.Black Books was a subversive and entirely quotable series which ended at the perfect time. "Pacman. It's pronounced Pacman."


                
