I just rented the Black Books series on DVD, knowing nothing at all about it. By the third episode, I had to rewind because I was laughing so hard I actually missed the rest of the scene. Tonight, I will tie my room mate to a chair and force her to become a fan as well. I would say the show is more for people who enjoyed Absolutely Fabulous and The Young Ones than fans of shows like Are You Being Served? It has a great deal of energy and runs off in many directions at once. Black Books is a bizarre mix of comedic styles, but the whole thing somehow manages to work together. All three main characters have great chemistry and that is probably the real secret. From the commentary and outtakes on the DVDs, they seem to really have fun being silly together.Black Books is a great deal of fun and well-worth renting. Here's hoping that this comedic team keeps on creating work of this caliber.


                
STORYThe storyline found within Black Books is fairly straight forward, following the lives of three characters: Bernard Black, an alcoholic, short-tempered bookstore owner (the bookshop in question being the show's title, Black Books), Manny, his employee/slave and Fran, a friend of Bernard's that regularly hangs out with them. The show follows of life of Bernard's book-shop, with the series almost exclusively set within or around the bookshop. The various plots revolve around the idea that Bernard is, for all intents and purposes, a cranky alcoholic bastard that treats his only employee, Manny, terribly and expects him to wait on him hand and foot. The group go through life trying to be cool and trying to succeed and this leads to quite a few funny situations. ACTINGThe acting is just superb, in fact after watching this it would be difficult to see Dylan Moran (who plays Bernard) in any other role than a cranky, alcoholic bookshop owner. Bill Bailey's portrayal of Manny is equally amazing, with neither actor breaking character for even a second. The third key character (and, indeed, the only time another character is ever seen they are around for one episode and vanish, giving the whole show the entire focus on just the key characters), that of Fran, is equally played well, though the character herself is not quite as interesting, as such she often comes off as somewhat of a less significant character than the two men. HUMOURThe humour found within Black Books is, at times, very odd. In fact, unless you can laugh at the mistreatment of a character to the extent of Manny's suffering or find the constant and never-ending failure of their lives entertaining then you may not find much to laugh about in this show. The main focus on the humour is rather downtrodden, there is rarely any success of joy found in the show and even when there it is inevitably leads to even greater failure. However this is also compelling and actually makes for great comedy, despite how absolutely dull it may seem. OVERALLIf you are somewhat on the fence about this show then I'd highly suggest watching an episode or two, regardless of in which order as nothing really progresses in an overall sense. The humour can be rather bizarre at times and the overall feeling is that life is depressing, but it somehow combines to make an almost charming comedy about a grumpy bookshop owner and a lively, eager assistant. There is never a moment that feels forced and even when the humour doesn't work it still adds something. I highly recommend this, there is almost no reason not to at least give it a try!RATING: 9/10- An almost must watch for fans of British comedy.


                
Been there, done that (for three months, anyway). Lost money hand over fist, though I must admit I wasn't trying to. Book stores can be very funny places (think about it this way: you're dealing with people who actually read books, who exercise their brains on a regular basis- as opposed to people whose sole source of enlightenment is a glowing box that they sit and stare at for hours on end) (a glowing box whose images and alleged story lines are crummy Canadian knockoffs). BLACK BOOKS was a breath of fresh air... while it lasted. Unfortunately, like most teevee worth watching, it didn't last long enough. Maybe it's just as well: had it lasted, I would've spent even more time slouched down on the couch, staring unblinkingly into that bright, pulsating light...
I tend to be very fond of British comedy. Series like Monty Python's Flying Circus, Fawlty Towers, Black Adder, Only Fools and Horses and One Foot in the Grave (on most episodes) make you laugh with their quirkiness, seldom found in US sitcoms. But, in the last few years, few britcom's have made me laugh... some raise a smile and can kill an hour or so, sure, but it has been a while since I had a few good belly laughs on account of a series.Meet black books, one of the latest to be screened on Channel 4. It was broadcast with half the fanfare of most series, and a lot of people missed it altogether - and the world is poorer for that. Some episodes I laughed so hard I couldn't keep watching for the tears in my eyes. The slightly surreal feel to the dialogs between Bernard (the Irish shopkeeper) and Manny (the long-haired shop assistant) make of these exchanges classic pieces. The girl on the series (a neighbouring shopkeeper) does a good job too, although her part is very under-written compared with the guys. Better yet, the series holds enough steam for the 6 episodes (I expected it would lose momentum after a couple, but it didn't).Bad points? Well, I guess since most of the spark comes from the dialogs between the incredibly untidy "I don't want to sell books because people read them and then bring them back, and we start all over again" Bernard and the only slightly more balanced "I'm eating scrambled eggs out of a shoe using a comb" Manny, the whole things is slightly less inspired when they aren't together. It's worst is still better than most series at their best, though.I hope they put it out on video, as I'm no longer in the UK and would love to re-watch it over and over again. Great stuff.


                
Dylan Moran plays one of the greatest sitcom characters Bernard Black - an unkempt irritable chain-smoking-and-drinking bibliophile who owns Black Books, a bookstore. He takes the same approach to the value of books and despise for superficial customer desires as Jasper Fforde does in his novels about literary detectives. Bernard's constant companionship is, on the one hand, flat mate and coworker Manny (Bill Bailey). Lovable and slightly oafish, he is Bernard's polar opposite. And among them both, is neutral Fran (Tasmin Greig). It's a rather ordinary setting with not so glamorous characters who all seem to share some kind of amusing social awkwardness.Consumers of American television should break from the confines of poorly written sitcoms to indulge the refreshingly situational Brit-coms. Among the best of them are 'The Mighty Boosh,' 'Garth Merenghi's Darkplace' and this -- 'Black Books.' Running only three seasons, it had the unique quality of hitting it's prime at the start of the first episode before somewhat running out of situational humor by the final six episodes. The dialog is its shining quality, and perhaps the best of it were those episodes co-written by Dylan Moran and Graham Lineham.


                
Bernard Black runs a book shop, though his customer service skills leave something to be desired. He hires Manny as an employee. Fran runs the shop next door. Between the three of them many adventures ensue.Brilliantly funny. Over-the-top humour with some clever plots and biting dialogue.Good work by Dylan Moran, Bill Bailey and Tamsin Greig as Bernard, Manny and Fran, respectively.


                
Wasn't sure if I was going to like/understand the humor since I am french canadian but I absolutely loved it. The ambiance is just great, the show is smart, funny and unpredictable. Every character is played well. Just a must watch comedy show for everyone who appreciate the gendra. Solid 9/10 for me!


                
Superbly demented comedy about the adventures (or non-adventures, as the case may be) of three maladjusted eccentrics trying to navigate a sea of troubles. Highly original ideas and concepts, excellent dialogue, fine performances and a tangible chemistry between the leads - so what more do you need ? (In case you're thinking : "I'd like some random dancing of the deconstructivist school", don't worry, there's that too.) For all its weirdness, the series is grounded in reality : as a devout visitor to second-hand bookshops I can confirm that this is a prime environment for the sad, the deluded, the angry, the perverse, the eccentric and the misanthropic.My memories include a manager, in Brussels, who liked to spell out his wishes and desiderata to prospective customers as soon as they entered the store. ("Article one. ALL customers, and I do mean ALL, will greet me in a clear and audible voice upon crossing the threshold"). I also remember a fellow customer who liked to browse his way through stacks of French cooking books - "I don't cook myself but one likes to dream" - while telling everybody about his dog, which had a double jointed tail ; and finally there was a vicious-looking shop girl, tattooed with the ugliest Mexican flower skull I've ever seen, who accused everybody of trying to buy and sell obscene materials. At one point she even accused the postman who tried to give her some mail.But to return to the subject : I firmly recommend the episode about the most expensive bottle of wine in the world. (The episode, sad to say, does not end well for the Supreme Pontiff.) I laughed so hard I nearly fell out of my chair.


                
What do you need for a good show??? Or a good and interesting party??? Isn't the whole life one big party??? For me, it is. But it doesn't have to be glamor, loaded with muscles and tits, covered with action and adrenalin... my party is kind of a Dylan Moran's "Black Books", filed with unusual ordinary people (Bernard, Manny and Fran), living unusual ordinary life and having day to day unusual ordinary troubles...If you prefer sitting home thinking, talking, drinking and having a good times with your friends rather than going out to the big club, you'll love "Black Books".Even if the show is set in a bookshop, which is usually boring place, it doesn't necessary mean you can't have fun in it. The most important thing is that even small and slow places go with everybody else, so it all becomes kind of a messy when you press fast forward...We have Bernard Black, the Owner of the Black Books, weird, angry, scared and filthy guy, who doesn't like people, reads his books, smokes his cigarettes, drinks his wine and usually, doesn't give a flying f**k for anything or anybody else. Next there is Bernard's "slave" and flat-bookshop mate Manny, kind of a cool, nice, sometimes dumb, but all in all, kindhearted person that is the opposite of Bernard's persona, but because of his "norwegian hippie" kind of a look, we rarely see him in better social position than Bernard. And, the last fellow to this crew is next door shop owner Fran, classic, sweet, good, "want to do something with my life", kind of a woman. Altogether they represent one family and they try to get through the everyday life in their own way...So, tie your seat-belt, light your cigarette, and get ready for another piece of little paradise, "Black Books".


                
