I've been looking forward to a viking film or TV series for many years, and when my wishes were finally granted, I was very worried that this production was going to be total crap. After viewing the first two episodes I do not worry about that anymore. Thank you, Odin:-)As a person of some historical knowledge of the viking era, I can point out numerous flaws - but they don't ruin the story for me, so I will let them slip. Historical accounts about those days are, after all, not entirely reliable.Happy to see Travis Fimmel in a role that totally suits him. A physical and intense character, with that spice of humor that is the viking trademark from the sagas. Gabriel Byrne plays a stern leader, that made me think of him in "Prince of Jutland", and Clive Standen seems like he's going to surprise us.Been pondering the Game of Thrones comparison, since I love that show too, but in my opinion Vikings has its own thing going on. Way fewer lead characters to begin with, and also a more straight forward approach. Plenty of room for more series with this high class!Can I wish for more than the planned nine episodes, PLEASE!!!


                
I've watched the two first episodes of the series and I can say that I'm POSITIVELY surprised.I didn't know if this would be any good but I'm most certainly intrigued. It's well written, exciting and charming. The show is very enjoyable, especially if you're interested in Scandinavian/European history.I love Norse Mythology and I am very happy that this show aired, I just hope it continues going in a good direction. :)All in all I can't wait for the remaining episodes and if you're considering picking this show up I'd definitely recommend it.


                
I really enjoyed this first episode. Writing is strong. Acting is good and more importantly I am really fascinated by the characters. The most impressive thing however was the look of the show. Photography, art direction and just whole look is so lush and rich looks like a feature film. Cant wait for episode 2! Both Travis and Gabriel Byne both shine in their roles. I do hope a season 2 is in the works. I have read a lot about vikings and I can see the makes really went to great lengths to bring the true viking ways to the screen. Especially the religion and gods. I am a fan GOT and this show is great that it delves into the ancient world, but this show has a different flavor. More raw and intense, but still with a nice magical feel to it.


                
There have been one or two negative reviews posted about this show and I have to say that after 2 episodes, I really like it... nit pickers may say that there are historical inaccuracies, but there are also many myths dispelled ... and with the appearance of Valkyrie on the battlefield at the very beginning of ep1 to take fallen warriors souls, unless you are deluded and believe in that being factual it was clear from the very outset that there was always going to be some dramatic license used. Others say the show is too Hollywood, this has to be the case to some extent but by no means is this another mass produced piece of garbage, unless you want the show cancelled after the pilot it must appeal to a mass American audience as entertainment it isn't a documentary. I personally feel that the show DOES have a European feel which is absent in many historical dramas, the locations are beautiful, the cast has been well selected and act their parts fantastically well. The good guys are instantly likable where as the bad guys you just can't wait to see them get whats coming to them, that is always a good sign as far as I am concerned as i want to see what happens to them and am looking forward to the next episode. So don't be put off by the pedantic armchair historians out there give vikings a chance.. it is what it is.


                
There are some Hollywood liberties taken during the show this is to be expected it is a show. If you made a show about everyday life during the vikings time most would be dull and not exciting it is not like they went to battle everyday. The show has a lot of historical basis with some liberties taken to liven the show up. It is well produced and has great cinematography . If , you are however looking for a straight fact based view on vikings go to the library and pull anthropology research journals out. For everyone else if you like battles with historical styles, understandings of how they navigated and views on the social structure of the vikings then you will get a understanding. You will also see how laws and ethics were for the vikings so yes there is some historical accuracy to the show . All in all if you want entertainment mixed with history it is a great show.


                
I only watched this show up til Season 5. Didn't watch that season, so my opinion does not apply there.This show is amazing. The development in characters are spot on. Following Ragnar, an very ambitious man going from a farmer to a king. A man seeking knowledge and learning what lies beyond their farm. The character development with Ragnar, Floki, Athelstan & Ecbert is superb. The emotional bond between characters is good. I would really recommend to watch this show.


                
Vikings is a wonderfull series that I recommend everyone to watch.
Cinematography 10/10
Acting 10/10
Picture 10/10
Sound 10/10
Production 10/10


                
Ragnar lothbrok the legend this is such a fun and intense series to watch it's pretty disturbing but worth while it's what the show runs off all the characters except aslug are interesting warning don't get attached I know it will be hard but its worth it its like game of thrones Vikings style


                
Since October 2015 our team here at WoodBangers Entertainment have been working on the development of a game titled "The Darkness of Ragnarrokk" which revolves around Norse Mythology. The more in-depth with what we're doing in the game things have got, we all started doing more research which finally lead me to having the time to watch "Vikings" the TV Series. Being That the show came out in 2013 and during that time I wasn't even aware of the shows existence, I probably wouldn't have watched it if I weren't doing some searches; I'm sure glad I found it though.I started watching the show for some pure entertainment while at the same time looking at things on the Norse Mythology level from a TV prospective. After a few minutes into the pilot I was already loving the characters and how well the story came together. Vikings had me hooked right off the bat and I couldn't stop watching it.Immediately the next morning I reached out to the game development team to mention the TV Show to them so that they too may watch it, again not one of the team members had heard of the show either; so everyone turned on their Amazon to watch. Ragnar is quite certainly one of the top characters though I'd have to say that Floki is my favorite out of them all. I believe Gustaf Skarsgård brought his character to life in a whole other level, though all of the cast were great in their roles too.Now that I've watched every available episode and season on Vikings, I cant wait till the next season which looks to be out sometime in 2017. All I can say at this point is if you want to watch a show that will keep you in your chair with your mind wondering what's next, this is sure one great show to see if you hadn't already; I'm now a huge fan. I like Vikings so much that we're now seeking out all of the Funko Pop Toys, woot.


                
Travis fimmel i think made an incredible job. Made notice the difference between a subpar Actor and a great actor, really hoping to see more of Travis in future movies and tv shows.
BIG FAN!


                
I like this series a lot. Hope everyone will like it too.


                
Been absolutely hooked since season 1. binged every available episode and dying for more.


                
Absolutely fantastic, we'll acted, gripping storyline with believable and loveable (rogue) characters. You will get to understand and enjoy each of the individual characters and there are so many of them. Each series gets better and better and the plot line thickens from episode to episode. 
Gutted that it's finished


                
If you belong to the Nordic History Crotcheters and Knitters Society, don't watch this. If you believe that Ragnar Lothbrok was a very clearly documented character in history and we know all about him, don't watch this. And if you don't understand the purpose of artistic licence in storytelling don't watch this. If you want historically faithful in every detail, make your own show and see if anyone watches.Vikings is a wonderful show. For me, it was a sleeper. I thought it would be all violence, sex and meaningless deaths like GoT, but I happened to tune into an episode of season 3 and realised I had it wrong and had to go back to the start.Whatever the original intent, Travis Fimmel is the beating heart of Vikings. Ragnar's charisma, charm and physicality bind the willing viewer to his dreams and ambitions and carry you through what, admittedly, are some pretty difficult scenes. I will say that (mostly) Vikings does not plunge you into gratuitous gore like GoT - stuff happens, but the camera looks elsewhere. Perhaps Uppsala was an exception.For those whingeing about Denmark and mountains, I think the producers are deliberately vague about Kattegut. At one point Ragnar is shown sitting on the famous Pulpit Rock, which we know to be in Norway, and he is supposed to be near home. And as I understand it, the producers say there is historic proof of the existence of shieldmaidens. Vikings does not pretend that all or even most Viking women were such, just a few, but it has sure raised some male hackles. The lack of wrinkles might be a fair criticism. Allegations that this is an american or 'hollywood' series are rubbish. This show is made in Ireland, the writer is English and the actors are from all over the place, mostly not american. The overall narrative of Ragnar is true - the dream of more fertile land for the hardscrabble Northmen farmers, foiled at stages by greed, fear, ignorance and religion, won by blood and tragedy.As series 5 ends, it feels like a bit of a slump, but there is potential bring it all back. The music, as ever is great, especially in that final moving episode of series 5.


                
This is a show I'd seen advertised a while ago but never really had an opportunity to watch until recently. 
 I would start with this: 
The cinematography of this show is extremely well done. Combined with a haunting soundtrack and scene framing, it is very easy to be drawn into the story. The actors are believable - I haven't seen a single 'over the top' character. It really is a wonderful glimpse into an age long gone. 
Is this show 100% factual? Due to the fact that much of what we know of the Vikings was written by those peoples they raided, most of their lore and traditions will have been lost. Unless I'm mistaken, they didn't truly have a written language, so that information would have passed through time by word of mouth. Therefore, liberties doubtlessly have been taken by the writers/producers. Is that really important? Not in the least. If you look through the 'errors' section for this show, you'll find notes about language, accent, armament, and geography discrepancies. I wager less than 1% of viewers would be aware of, or even be concerned by these items. 
Sit back, turn your phones off and enjoy the ride!


                
There are few quality movies or series about the Vikings, and this series is outstanding and well worth waiting for. Not only is Vikings a series that is a joy to watch, it is also a series that is easy to recommend. I personally feel that the creator and producers did a fine job of giving the viewer quality material. Now, there are a few inconsistencies with the series, most notably would be the idea that Vikings had very little knowledge of other European countries and were amazed by these people across the big waters. In reality Vikings engaged in somewhat normal commercial activities with other Anglo-Saxons, so the idea that Vikings were as amazed as they seemed when they realize that other people were out there is not that realistic. However, it is this small inconsistency that goes a long way in holding the premise together. I simply love the series and would recommend it to anyone wanting to watch a quality show.


                
This is my favorite TV show of all time. I've been watching TV since 1955. This show beats them all. I can't get enough of it. The acting is superb. The sets are wonderful. The music is moving. I just love it. I've not had one moment in the entire show where I was like, "Aww that's just phony, or that's just lame". Everything has been inspirational. I also love Game of Thrones, and Breaking Bad was a huge favorite of mine, as is Walking Dead. But all those shows have moments where...it wasn't well thought out or something just didn't add up. Not here. This show is really worth a watch. Also, the show has opened up an entire new line of music for me that I never knew existed. "Fever Ray" I've really come to enjoy that, and through that found all kinds of music I never knew existed.


                
Updating the review here. Getting near the end of the season.. Still very entertaining.The story moves along. We are not stuck on any subplot too long. The story moves along. Sons of Anarchy analogy very apt. My Danish friend once told me that he thought of vikings as the bike gangs of their age.To the historically picky consider what a strictly accurate series would be like. People farming 99% of the time. Half the main characters dying of some disease before they did anything interesting.If it helps think of this as a kind of alternate earth/universe where there is a lot of overlap with our earth history but important things are different.Older part of the review.This series is like The Tudors. Lots of liberties taken with the historical details. The geography doesn't match properly, characters are rearranged, invented, etc etc. An expert in Viking history could write a book on all the mistakes, I'm sure. BUT this is not a documentary. It's not a university class in the history and culture of Vikings. It's fiction. Since most Americans have about a 5% level of knowledge of the Vikings even if it is 50% accurate that's about a 10 times improvement. I like the story of Ragnar being an explorer, adventurer, and strategist. I like that the show has Christianity competing with Norse Gods, that a monk is a lead character, that the Saxons are caught off guard by the Viking's tactics and ferocity, that the Vikings are a mix of good and bad... I especially like that it deals with a time in Britain's history when a new wave of invaders is coming and what gives the Vikings the edge is a technological advantage in seafaring.Also I think it works dramatically very well, the acting is excellent, the plot is getting more interesting. I even like the credits.Compare this show with the stale old police/detective shows and their stale old plots and stereotypical characters.I give it a 10.


                
Coming from a Norwegian background that is fairly recent, meaning my grandparents and mother were born there, this show is awesome! I am older(67). As a kid, I wrote History reports as far back as I can remember about Norway and the Vikings. This show has nailed it historically. The scenes and costumes are great. You really feel this is Scandinavia and all the beautiful "fjords" which are in the thousands in Norway and Sweden. These are small bays or harbors with towns where Barons and Earls did rule.I majored in History in college. It has always fascinated me. The Vikings did indeed invade England for nearly 2 centuries in the time period of this show. This show is so believable if you know your history of this time and place. The characters and plots are just terrific. The reference to the Gods and sacrifices are so true and legitimate. Given that this is scripted, we have no way of knowing actual features and costumes. But the historical aspect is right on the money. Taking that into your opinion of the show, the storyline is great and mingles well with that true period of time. I love it. To take this era and Viking history and put it on as a scripted show, is brilliant to me. Knowing how Viking history turns out, gives me an advantage when I watch. This show will run just like Mad Men. As long as the viewer wants it and the casts stays around, this show will show true history. In the end, Vikings were turned back by the English under King Albert. He came up with the idea of castles as fortresses. You notice in this show they are nowhere to be seen. Once castles were built, Villagers had a place to go that was safe. Castles turned back the Vikings because they could not penetrate them and were not mentally prepared for this type of warfare or battle. But for what this show gives is absolutely fantastic to me. To me, Vikings is a true historical tool to learn what really happened. When they could no longer raid the "West", they truly did go west under Eric The Red and Leif Erickson. All historically true. This show to me, is a must watch every single week and in repeat also. 10 episodes is enough to keep you wanting more. Well thought out. If any viewer thinks this kind of savage warfare did not go on, it may seem over the top. Believe me, this is the way they fought back then. Not just in Scandinavia, but all over Europe. All the way till the 16th century.


                
I have to say that this is currently my favourite show on TV. I'm so upset that the first season is only nine episodes and History Channel; please extend series 2 beyond ten episodes!! The acting is amazing, sets and costumes fantastic. The content is just glorious. Well written and well paced. I am eagerly awaiting the further adventures of Ragnar Lothbrook and co. After seeing the care and attention that the History channel has given this period scripted show, I hope that they will make more scripted shows. How about Ancient Eygpt or Summeria or Vlad the Impaler as a historical figure! They have made some compelling viewing and I will definitely be purchasing a Blu-Ray set as soon as I am able so that thius can be enjoyed again in the future.


                
Spoil alert: i love the series so much and the acting the scenes almost this series almost stole my heart but there ia some things that i noticed and i was quite disappointed, i hated when the viking protagonists went to war or get aboard from the boat and the enemy fires arrows the protagonists don't take a single hit,i found this really silly sometimes (paris invasion) also the last 10 episodes i got bored so much and really had to abandon the series,too slow scenario and dead epiaodes,i hope the next season will be better and maybe i ll watch it otherwise i ll leave it once again.
This is a "must see" show! It has all the key ingrediens and delivers a world class experience. It leaves you with new cliffhangers after every episode which gives you the perfect addiction. One thing that makes this show unique is that it also is very historical accurate. It has no censuring and is not afraid to show what actutally happens!First season was to build story and get to know characters, which made it a bit more slow than the second season. But without the first season the second season would not have been as exciting as it was. If you have not seen the second season yet, you have about 10 hours of fun ahead of you!So please give us at least 8 seasons of this beautiful masterpiece!


                
Vikings for me is the most perfect historical/drama series I have seen in so long. The strength of Vikings is the humanity or lack there of in the characters portrayed. for example as much as you love Ragnar Lothbrok and he wins you over with that friendly twinkle in his eye you know he is a merciless killer with a talent for deceit. if I knew him for real I would fear him, he is the psychopathic wolf in wolf's clothing. he doesn't care either which makes him even more dangerous. but he is not alone, the cast of the show are sprinkled with such human flaws and failings that you start to sympathize with them until they do something that takes your breath away. I hate to say this there are sinners and then there are Vikings. I mean look at Ivor the boneless, what is this, he is disabled, his brothers don't take him seriously and he's a dud with the ladies. all big mistakes in the realm of assumptions, this guy is chiselled from the rock of Ragnar and as such is the every bit as scary as he, I even think Ragnar might learn to fear him. I could rave on about this show for ages, I want to but I will just say then you for such a wonderful show, I really missed it when it broke for mid season and am so glad its back now and I am whirling in my mind waiting to see what this whole new direction will take these characters. if you are new to Vikings give the early seasons a chance because by season 3 you will totally hooked.
I Believe this show was one of the Best Action Drama's on TV. However, I'm both a fan and a history buff. I believe there is a new writer contributing to Season Four. The opportunities for great history are being lost i.e., Rollo's reconciliation with Princess Gizla, was poorly and hastily done. The grammar, language and sentence structure are now parochial and nowhere near the skill set of the 1st Three Seasons?? What's going on, if they lost a writer, get him back because the show is suffering. Even the killing of Legartha's Bridegroom Galff was rushed and poorly stage, beautiful wedding Tent I'll admit. We want our actors back with less reliance on Gilt (fancy tents & Longboats).Charge the Advertisers more and use less advertisements, Thanks Harris


                
Perhaps surprisingly, both seasons of Vikings have been almost entirely shot in Ireland. I say surprisingly because one doesn't necessarily think of Ireland when one thinks of immense mountain vistas. However, the producers found some awesome locations in the Wicklow Mountains that didn't take much camera trickery to make look enormous and majestic.Lough Tay/Luggala About 70% of season one was shot in the great outdoors, much on and around Lough Tay (sometimes called Guinness Lake, as it's part of the Guinness estate) in Co. Wicklow. The steep slopes of Luggala Mountain look appropriately Scandinavian, and the lake itself provides the perfect location for filming scenes on board the Viking longships (although the finished scenes require a combination of green-screen shots from the soundstages of Wicklow's Ashford Studios and footage captured on Lough Tay and off the Wicklow coast).In the summer of 2013, the production company built an extensive set on the shore of Lough Tay, including several Viking houses and a long boat skeleton. A wooden jetty protrudes into the lake and several longboats could regularly be seen moored there during shooting. (In the picture above, this set can be seen in the lower right corner of the lough. Another longboat set is visible on the lower left.)Luggala is a popular location for rock climbing, with difficult granite cliffs on its eastern face.Thank god there are movies like vikings and it doesn't matter where they are shot if they are as great as this movie. hope for 6 season's


                
