Overhyped , weak plot , weak characters and a complete waste of time , watch last kingdom instead


                
After hearing so much about this show, I may have created a little to much expectation, but I've tried to watch the first two episodes twice, and I still have the very same opinion. It seems like "Vikings" is just another show to please audiences. It is very carefully crafted in a way that balances the "action" and "violence" with "trendy" characters that just don't seem to fit at all in the storyline.What i mean is that, I won't feel, neither for just one second, transported to another age, or feel empathy for the characters, mainly because i don't feel that there's any realistic depiction of customs, conversations, relationships or anything. It could be as well an episode of "Sons of Anarchy" in a middle-age scenario, it's just the same thing. It's nothing close to anything that HBO had made, like "Rome", "Tudors" or even "Game of Thrones", which is based on a fictional world, but still is better on creating an authentic atmosphere than "Vikings".Nonetheless, it seems that somehow it did pleased audiences, but I won't feel like watching any more episodes. Still waiting for a good viking flick/ show...


                
When are we going to stop with this political correct pandering? If you decide to do a movie or series about vikings , then do it as it really was, not forcing 21st century elements into the scene. Vikings did not take their wives in raids along with them and it was very unusual to say the least that women had so awesome fighting skills as Lagertha (Ragnar's wife). And then they had to include the "completely unnecessary nod to empowered women" scenes, like the rape of that Saxon woman during their first raid? or when Lagertha is presiding a hearing ( that also did not happen) and a man shows up demanding that he have the right to punish his wife and Lagertha of course sends him running away with his tail between his legs... "YOu will have to answer to me" and then a Face shot of the guy powerless , having to walk away in frustration after having been dissed and dismissed by a woman, just to make it sure that we get it ... That also would never have happened. Strong women roles do not bother me , it is the fact that they try to impose it on us and it is out of context . And if they are so politically correct, why don't they also have black or hispanic vikings for example? that would be ridiculous you say ?...well, so are these unnecessary scenes


                
The first seasons was good. Not as good as Marco Polo or Last Kingdom but good enough to keep me watching. Afterward, it becomes very clear that the producers wanted to prolong the series so they forced the writers to put in a lot of fluff. That reached it's worst in Season 401 with completely tangential and useless scenes like: 1. the Wessex king kneeling before Chris begging for forgiveness but confessing his weaknesses 2. Ragner's sex scene with his Asian concubine in the hot tub 3. and on and on and on.Very depressing when producers sacrifice substance for fluff.
This must really be one of the worst interpretation of the viking society I've ever witnessed on-screen. I really do not know where to start, as it is filled to the rim with flaws and just things not even done halfway..First off I can start by pointing out -as many other reviewers has before me- that the political aspect is just, well, wrong. Now, as of relying on "History" channel to deliver something that is HISTORY, is a bit of a shot in the dark, I know. But this is just totally a swing and a miss. It is as if they've ctrl+c/v the script for Spartacus, and changed the name of the characters.I can go on and on with things that I, personally, find plain wrong about this series.. I will try not to dig too deep. The aesthetics around the whole thing is just, blargh. Ragnar doesn't even look like any viking.. Moreso a golden boy from southern Europe. In fact, his wife is the only one of the main characters that could have passed me as a Scandinavian. The pronunciations are awful -and yes, I know I can't expect fluent Old Norse, but really.. Ke-noot (Knut)?-, and the earl looks like he easily could have had his throne on High Hrothgar (Skyrim ref. - not that Skyrim doesn't give you the viking-vibes). And when they set sail to plunder, they look like homeless men gone camping. I know my fair share of viking sagas, and have my imagination in order, but I really can't imagine these brutes (sorry, I meant gentlemen with axes, as they're portrayed as in this series) where to sail for months on the open sea to end up as skinheads with dreaded hair and a piece of cloth for armour.. I would say that this, for the viking enthusiasts, is the equivalent of "The Twilight Saga" for vampire-bloodfans. And "Spartacus" or "Camelot" (the series) for historians.. When they've chosen Ragnar Loğbrók as its main character, it gives them obligations regarding some authenticity. Now I don't recall the exact year it said when both Ragnar and Flóki arrived at Lindisfarne in one of the first episodes, but I can remember it not being 793. That's a strike right there! 1. Ragnar and Flóki, allegedly born in two different centuries, arrived as the first Norsemen in England. Seems legit? 2. (a little between the lines, but anyways) Flóki did not invent the long ship. and 3. Knowing that the plunders of Lindisfarne happened in 793, is really basic knowledge.Now, I have to get to the point, and give my conclusion before this ends up as an essay.. As you can see there are many big holes to be filled in this series. But if you want to watch something that is a tad unique from all the other reproducing fantasy/fiction series, and want to learn some real basic facts about the vikings, then this is for you! And if you enjoyed the acting in series like MacGuyver, The Bold and the Beautiful, or any other voice acting from indie games that came out early 2000s, this is right down your lane as well.The only thing keeping it a 2/10 instead of a 1/10 is the chance that the whole crew behind "Vikings" will read this review and instantly get an epiphany, realizing that they have to do better than this. And the fact that it finally came out a series based on vikings, not sooner than 2013..
Began well with tough tales of the north, but drifted into wet stories of fashionably leather, metal-furred ladies chopping up enemies and ruling their wimpy men at home. Now, as of season 3, just another series about empowered 21st century females living in a Norse outdoor makeup parlor. Producer Hirst's daughter Maude may take the bland cake for everybody.


                
Christian status quo propaganda, disguised as a historic serial piece.I can't write much as there is NO SUPPORT for reviews in the IMDb App yet!, now at 50 million-plus downloads.Basically, this is a twisted representation of why the Nordic kings went to Christianity. Christianity was a well-developed control technology. And it had a single, all-powerful god, whom the leader could take the physical place of. Much better, in that respect, than the old Norse technology, more efficient and more powerful. So, a far cry from Ragnar having some kind of epiphany as depicted, it was simply a better management tool that reflected militant hierarchy, and domination of other men (and women) by a means that was started by force, yet could be continued without it (so much).
This may actually be worse than the Lee Majors film from the Seventies, of which the late Desmond Ryan wrote, "They cross the ocean. This is accomplished by throwing water at the camera, and having {the hero} shout 'Row!' a lot." No characters, wooden acting and ridiculous historical errors make this almost unwatchable. I would, in fact, wager that there is more genuine history in _Ancient Aliens_ than in this series. I could put up with some of this, if there was a plot or a character I could hang on to, but there isn't. I think that some of the writers like _Game of Thrones_ but can't figure out how to imitate it, while the rest are deeply enamored of Latin Telenovelas. There should be something that at least lets me distinguish between characters, but nope, no such thing. All that in a dreary, video-game inspired color palette, and with poor CGI. Perhaps Eric the Red's Freydis will appear and kill everyone. I hope so.
I gave it 2 for seasons 1 and 2 were very good. Season 3 will naturally and magically lead you to lose all interest. If you are like me, got so bored with what's out there you decided to give it another chance. You will see that Season 4 was an utter useless TV time. In fact it is so bad they should call it a comedy. Because then people will understand the intent and start laughing instead of lamenting the demise of what once was promising. Like most of Hollywood productions, it seems their life long mission to make women look inferior to men. In a series showing a culture where men and women were equal, that pre existing condition created what I call above a laughable conundrum. They picked many women warriors, however those women were thin, were sexy, but NOT fit. Imagine watching a sword fight where the fighter is barely able to lift the sword up!!! They made men extremely clever, and women inferior in politics, in fighting, in even running a town and keeping a parameter safe. You will also see that as the Vikings warred, there were huge shortcomings in battle plans and battle enactments. You will be left wondering WTF anytime there is a battle! Every time there is battle.I'm hoping this review sheds some light on the series as most of the good reviews you read below are built on the bones of the first and second seasons.


                
I am a big fan of historical fiction and thought this series would be quite good or at least hoped it would be. I am not disputing the historical accuracy as I do not know that much about the era.My problem is the show itself. The characters are almost all unlikeable and when one died did not care at all. Just a few: Rollo is the pathetic weaker brother of Ragnar and his stupidity is just painful to watch. If Ragnar could not see his betrayal coming then he is even dumber.Gabriel Byrne is a very good actor (Miller's Crossing etc.) and I feel he was just wasted in this show. He played the Earl and you knew from episode one that he was doomed. Byrne must have needed the money.Ragnar Lothbrok is the worst of the bunch. He smirks/sneers at everything and from episode three or so I hoped for his death. He treats no one with any kind of respect and is repulsive (character-wise, that is...no denigration meant for Mr. Fimmel's ability as and actor) in general.The son Bjorn is a spoiled little brat who doesn't think twice about yelling at either of his parents. I am fairly sure that corporal punishment was OK in the Dark Ages but who knows.Lastly is just the way the stories unfold. The raids on Saxon villages border on the ridiculous: one time they land on a Saturday and wait until Sunday to attack because they apparently know that church services occur on Sunday. They also know when the service are and attack then! All the swords/shields are pile up outside...ugh.The Saxons themselves are as incompetent as any fighting force ever! Makes one wonder how they ever conquered England. The show's producers/writers could have at least let the Saxons kill a few Vikings...it's just too painful to watch.The scenery is quite beautiful but not enough for me to be able to stomach more than the first season. I like to at least give a series the first season before I pull the plug. With this one I couldn't wait for the end of the season!
The series makes a good fantasy series very loosely based on some ideas of things the Viking did. Do not take it as a historically accurate show. It is not. The costuming is largely fantasy with some well known to be inaccurate depictions tossed in. The depiction of Uppsala was way off base. Watch it if you like Viking-ish fantasy but please do not take anything in this show as history. The show being on the History Channel seems to have given some people the misconception that it has some level of authenticity.A number of the queen's garments are well known to not be historically accurate. The crazy eye cosmetics have only a passing historical comment, not enough to give half the cast the feature. Most of the men seemed completely outfitted in leather for many of the episodes, again an outlier does not make an entire society dress that way. There are some interesting and flashy Viking garments. Enough research would have played that out and they could have made things both interesting and far more accurate.
for the first 45 seconds of the pilot i was actually thrilled but all of a sudden these vikings started speaking English. Even if i tried to ignore infinite historical mistakes and lousy accents - one of the first English words was "OK". seriously? OK?! and here i could rant for days just because of this. hopefully the audience is literate and can invest the effort to read subtitles. it is on history channel after all.so i gave it another 10 minutes before finding 50 irreversibly annoying inaccuracies and deciding that archaeology, history and common sense are all together lacking.and for the record Spartacus compared to this is hundred times more historically accurate.
I'll keep this short. It's a good looking show... it's also superficial, trivial, misleading, melodramatic and the list goes on. When I'm bored and have nothing better to do, I watch Vikings and even then I wonder why? The acting is absolutely atrocious. Katheryn Winnick's accent makes me cringe every time.Every time I think "huh this might be going somewhere" or "Maybe this episode has a point" the writers take us on some pointless left turn into the next big battle. I've heard the inevitable comparisons to GOT and honestly those comparisons insult me. GOT has actual 3 dimensional living breathing characters - After 5 seasons of Vikings... i still have no idea what it's actually about?


                
UPDATE: this show has been getting worse and worse. I continue to watch it to get my Viking fix but it's really bad - the soap opera aspect of it, the awful editing, the random scenes and occurrences for no reason whatsoever. The writers ran out of ideas and did a series of episodes about dreams and visions. Now, in season 4, which is really season 5 but the producers decided to still call it season 4 for who knows what reason, we're on to gratuitous sex scenes, including - spoiler alert - Bjorn sleeping with his now queen mother's lesbian lover. Ragnar's dead and we rarely see Rollo. I keep hoping most of the main characters will be killed as a reward for my time because they're incredibly unlikable.Meanwhile the poor horses have to suffer battle reenactments. ---- I love Vikings, I really, really do so I was thrilled to find out about this show. Season 1 proved to be historically inaccurate but taken for what it is, entertainment (turns out it being on the History Channel means nothing), it was good. In fact, I only wished there were more gorgeous blond Scandinavian men on the show.But by the end of the second season the show was a soap opera and I kept wishing someone would chop off Ragnar's head. The trouble with too many shows today is they try to appeal to men and women, which is definitely and unfortunately, the case here, with the women just, argh, being annoying soap opera women.Some things that might make you roll your eyes, too:-Accents: what's the deal with the accents? I mean, we know they're speaking a foreign language.-Quick trips: the show makes it seem like it took a couple of days to do a round trip to England, on a wooden boat, with a raid on the itinerary to boot. -Ragnar seemed to have an open relationship with Lagertha but suddenly he's putting up with Aslaug's nagging about him flirting with a slave, and more nagging (again, soap opera).Let's see what season 3 brings.
This is a horrible show.Again, the vikings themselves are, >again<, portrayed to the fact that men, women excluded, are a bunch of sex-obsessed, violent nut jobs that make the women do everything. This show is made by History Channel, and they're being historically inaccurate! New discoveries have proved that there were women viking warriors, so whatever 'women are better' stereotype you were trying to add History Channel, real history just shattered it. Booyah.In addition, the main character, Ragnar Lothbrok, is not likable in any way. Neither is his even worse brother, Rollo, who perfectly proves my previously stated point by raping and murdering a slave girl on only the second damn episode. I couldn't even watch more than the second episode! The only good things I can give this show is, the depictions of Norse scenery and viking lifestyle are great, and It does stick to history. Kind of. Unfortunately, this just isn't done right. "Vikings" somehow now has 6 damn seasons(god knows why), and is one of the highest rated shows on tv today. For all the true viking lovers out there, I can only say that this is not a show for you.
