Please no more supermodels in a historic show, bring in some real acting, there are some good actors around, such as ragnar, floki or king ecbert, the kids are also great, but it´s not enough to sustain 5 seasons.


                
I subscribe to the opinions of the other reviewers who criticized the weak screen writing of the series. As an historian with a PhD degree in medieval history I was really looking forward to see the series. It's not easy to watch historical films as somebody who works every day with sources and facts. You have to ignore some historical inconsistencies or mistakes to enjoy a play. But in this case something went wrong... Either You switch off Your brains or You're a complete layman in Norse history and mythology. There are so many mistakes in the series, unbelievable!!! There are no fjords in Denmark. For an US-American it must be all the same: Sweden, Denmark, Norway, who cares... (I'm sure, a lot of You Yanks never heard off these countries). All of'em are sooooooo different in landscape. It's pointless and quite tiring to count all the other mistakes after watching 6 episodes so far. As mentioned: The reviewers above me listed some of them. Something I want to bring up (witch made me laugh for almost ten minutes): In the first episode Ragnar refuses to raid to the East. No more "Russia" anymore, he states. Wait a minute? Russia? Why not Spain, France, Portugal or maybe Turkey? Why not the UK or the USA then? All these states didn't exist in the late 8th century! The name Russia itself comes from the name Rus and the Rus people, a group of Varangians (possibly Swedish Vikings)who founded the state of Rus during the 9th and 10th centuries. Beside the historical solecisms the story and acting are pretty weak. Travis Fimmel should've been stayed with modeling. His acting skills are very poor.


                
What happened with this series? First season was great, couldn't wait for next episode to air. Second season not so bad, third, not so great, but this season got from bad to worse. It looks more and more like an soap opera with cardboard characters dressed only by coincidence as vikings, because no real history is respected here. So many pointless violent scenes with sole purpose to schock audiences, with no real importance for the scene. Ragnar became some kind of paranoid junkie, Laghertha a cold heart killer. And what was with all those exotic snakes? They barely made it to Europe but they made a quick trip to Australia to bring some pitons and keep them so lively in a stone cold shack without any heating in the middle of winter. Also there are some birds that are in changes one minute and absent in the next, only to appear by magic again. Really? Anda a Chinese slave in a viking world? So far fetched. I am really sorry about it because used to be so good but I think episode 5 from this season will be my last as this became ludicrous.


                
Watched the first season, but glaring, massive historical inaccuracies make the show unwatchable going forward. I understand my fellow Americans couldn't care less about history, and therefore don't mind butchering it, but I would expect a series on the History Channel to attempt to, you know, get history correctly. I guess a bit of scholarly rigor is too much to ask.1. The North men were well aware of "lands to the west" in the 8th century as they had been trading with them for centuries by that time. It's laughable they made this part of the story.2. Earl Haraldson - really? Haraldsson is a patronymic and would never be used to refer to an individual in old Norse. It would be Jarl Haraldr. Little things like getting this wrong seem minor, but it would not have been hard to get it right. I'm sure Americans wouldn't appreciate the Norse making a Revolutionary War series and the soldiers walking around calling Washington "General George".3. No one, not even the local jarl could/would sweep into a village and indiscriminately KILL HIS OWN PEOPLE. The society at this time was largely fair and equitable to their own. No one was above the law in this way.4. What's up with the Ménage à trois obsession in this show? There's no saga I'm aware of that describes this. Like almost all civilizations women outnumbered men, so you would imagine the scenario of two women - maybe. Men, even more so then compared to now, were concerned with making sure the child they're raising is theirs.5. While human sacrifice was probably part of the religion, only Adam of Bremen refers to a mass sacrifice at Uppsala and this was from a 3rd party Christian Swede. There is no way they would be sacrificing a man, one of their own, in the prime of his strength and a warrior. Able bodied men are always a precious commodity in a warrior culture.
This show was great in season 1-3 but I had to stop watching in season 4 because they completely abandoned everything that was great about it. They killed off or puscified all the leading male characters, and put a woman, who is now a lesbian who still loves her ex which is a man, as the king.. they made a cripple, who can't move and use a sward at the same time be the hard core Viking, and Floki, (who kills people who have different religious beliefs) suddenly is saying for some reason that the Vikings can't kill Muslims? None of that makes any sense.. not to mention the fight scenes became completely pathetic and the entire show stopped having any relevant character development.. very sad to see a 9 star show get so bad all of a sudden that I can't even watch it.
After the departure of Ragnar, there doesn't seem to be any twists or surprises. All we get is repeated plots, lines,..
Now the main downfall is the Ivar character. Such a badly written character, and badly performed.
There are no more interesting characters, only boring ones like Lagertha, or tired ones like Floki or disgusting ones like Ivar.
Good plots, good acting. Many good dialogues, many really bad ones. The make up and hairstyles are the worst. Women certainly did not wear eye-make up nor pluck their eyebrows in the 9th century. And when they try to start pleasing the LGTB community by mixing Lesbians and transsexuals into the plot, it just gets messy. Turning a historic series into a heavy metal kitch posse just does not work.


                
The effort that they put in to make the series look good worked for a while but in this last series ie no 4 we have seen a very fast decay of the quality and above all of the direction and content script etc. I am not sure why this has happened but the final was just a massive FAIL. The entire episode is a complete mess and the action scenes were just pathetic. What were the producers thinking letting this go to air? Not only are the fighting scenes about as bad as I have seen on TV in the last few years, the ships were a joke and the rowing was idiotic.. Then there were the totally unprpepared scene evolutions. Suddenly Rolo appears out of nowhere with an armada of very weird river boats and wins what can only be described as a battle between the first row of boats as the river is not wide enough for the massive number of boats to get anywhere near each other. So the battle is decided by a few boats and yet we see an entire army retreat, an army of berserker type vikings no less. Then the brothers fight. How totally idiotic that was. Beating each other into pulp and not a single other viking came over to help and put a sword in the ribs of Rolo. WTF? So now for the greatest fail of this show and here we see where a decaying show really shows its colors, in this case a dirty grey. Here we take a massive time leap into a period which can only be described as being forced onto the director by the producers who desperately need to intro the next series which I hope gets cancelled because this has become embarrassing. Valhalla is seriously ticked off.
It's amazing how good series can be so fast to ruin. I clap to writers. The first season was great, as well as others. But the fourth season was a total disaster. Vikings that were presented in the series (not historically true, but it does not matter) completely lost identity. Each episode in season 4 is more boring and boring so that I can not wait to end. The main characters have become incredible boring and uninteresting, completely lost the role and character. If there were not the previous seasons, no one would have watch "Vikings" and this show will end at the beginning. Another show that turned into a soap opera. The main character - Ragnar looks like a psychiatric case, neurotic and irrelevant character. Floki is psychotic too... No viking does not look like a viking that history knows. Bald guys with tattoos and beard are not even close to the Vikings. On the other hand, this series is not historically accurate, more complete fiction (which is more or less OK).What's left of the series in the last season (current): retarded, tattooed and psychotic characters, some blood, boring dialogues and soap opera. I can say do not waste time after the third season.
This series was great until season 3, after that they kinda ruin everything.


                
Here are some historical inaccuracies which really ticked me off. The extent of them forced my hand in denouncing them to the dismay of my friend, which was about to strangle me as I recited the following.1. Corporal punishment - is unheard of in the Germanic tradition of law. It is a mainstay of Roman law but was considered unfit for freeborn men by the Vikings. Roman law of course did not have any influence on the Viking culture until Christianity spread amongst them.2. Capital punishment - is also unheard of in the Germanic law tradition. It is also a feature of Roman law and only spread to the Nordic nations with Christianity.3. Pleading guilty – It does not matter whether or not the defendant acknowledges his crime or not. The burden of proof is not relieved in any way. Guilt was determined by set rules on number of witnesses amongst other things.4. There was no executive branch of government – The earl would not prosecute crimes but rather the kinsmen of the deceased.5. Women casting votes in court – Afraid the Vikings were not that progressive despite women being in a better position than women in continental Europe.Ill explained statements regarding the "laws of men" where sort of strange too. As laws were not considered man-made but discovered (a concept similar to the theory of natural law). Thus lex posterior was not applied but in fact it's opposite where older laws would overrule newer laws.On a positive note there were a few things right.1. Unanimous rulings – Mainstay of most courts in the Germanic tradition. 2. Distinction of slayings – Whether or not a slaying was indeed murder was dependent on a lot of factors. Grievous insults (such as calling one a fag) could justify a slaying while killing someone in bed (night-slaying) was always a murder.The writers of the show seem to have only a superficial understanding of Viking society. These discrepancies are too much to be justified by location, as the main source on the nature of Germanic law are the laws of the Icelandic Commonwealth which were preserved. Off the bat these five things I just mentioned go against the very nature of Germanic law.The legal system in this show seems representative of the late middle ages rather than the early middle ages. Thus the legal system displayed on the show is a better represents Roman law rather than Germanic law.Though I did like Ragnar Loðbrók and look forward to seeing the stuff about him. But if I see more uninformed representations of Germanic law I will go crazy, and I will bother my friends by cursing at the TV and eventually they will ditch me and I will end up a crazy lonely dude that is mailing screenwriters about discrepancies in legal history<U+0085> <U+0085>oh wait.Well I give the show only 3 stars after the first episode. However if there is more chopping and they focus on the wonderful tales of Ragnar Loðbrók chopping Frenchmen and Englishmen rather than exposing their lack of research, I might just give it a bunch of stars.
This season is a nonsensical, illogical, poorly thought out, poorly conceptualized mess.Almost none of it makes any sense whatsoever. If had been the 1st season, it would not have been renewed.The meaningless additional characters they dropped into the show have no purpose and could easily have been ignored. Ragnar the strategist is just loping from one event to the next clearly without any of the spark he had in the first 2 seasons.I Think Travis was just too busy working on World of Warcraft to do be bothered to have much interest in what was going on in Vikings.Llagatha is awesome, as always, but most everyone else was hopeless.If you have not started season 4 yet, don't. Pretend the show ended with the sacking of Paris in season 3. You'll be much happier.


                
The series started nicely, humble to what it was meant to be, a documentary in form of tv series. Then the fame came and with it the rubbish. Now the series is everything but History and there is a lot of liberal ideology in it, which is a crime when it's about a History series. Many people actually believe the things were as the series shows. I got totally disappointed.


                
It's as though a high school drama club was given a huge budget and wrote, directed and acted in this thing. The lead character is horrible.I guess his blue eyes got him the job. The mixture of accents, British to, I guess, Scandinavian is laughable. The great scenery, props, and costumes are wasted on this mindless dribble. Don't want to waste more words so copying- pasting same opinion to reach minimum 10 lines. It's as though a high school drama club was given a huge budget and wrote, directed and acted in this thing. The lead character is horrible.I guess his blue eyes got him the job. The mixture of accents, British to, I guess, Scandinavian is laughable. The great scenery, props, and costumes are wasted on this mindless dribble.


                
Waste of time.
ragnar & floki did something special.


                
There used to be a very interesting character, Ragnar, who had an open mind, curiosity about the world and wanted to improve his people's lives by creating colonies to more fertile lands, a man with a vision. And there were other relatively interesting characters like Floki, Rolo, Athelstan. Now we have Ivar who is mentally unhealthy and only wants to beat people, and he is supposed to look smart and impressive by setting 'Home Alone' kind of traps (not as well as Home Alone) and because everyone around him is stupid. And every other line is a prayer from the Bible or to Odin...Floki is an idiot, a religious fanatic instead of a vey smart engineer...So Vikings are bloodthirsty barbarians who obviously had the best Botox ever cause Lagertha looks same age as her son...


                
I LOVE the fact that something about Northern mythology and life appears!The only thing is, there's only names and nothing whatsoever about the actual thing. Stupid Americans get even more stupid!I read a comment on how she wanted more "big, beautiful blonde vikings". Guess what, she's American.There are SO many things wrong with this show, but the only thing i want to point out since no one else did that... Oden, the god of DEATH. Not war. That was Tyr.How HARD is it to just look up the gods?! It is a plain spit in the northern gods face not to just read one single book about it. Or just get SOME info?Don't call the series "Vikings", if you can't even get the story straight! Show some respect, you ignorant bastards. Your ancestors came from this side! They lived it, so why cant you respect that? It's not a mythological history, it's a religion! What if someone started to lie about Christianity? That would be removed the same day it got aired!Nice show, but the disrespect from America on Northern religion is just plain disgusting. Get the facts straight and do it right.


                
Watching the Vikings makes me feel like I am stuck in a loop that goes like this:1.Kill people 2.Celebrate our victory with feasts & songs 3.repeat This is basically what is happening throughout the whole series only the people they are fighting are different...well, not always. I have watched both seasons thinking okay it might pickup at some point. Obviously it didn't.The plot is very basic and one dimensional. There is no depth, no real story to tell. The show lacks "epicness" and the characters are really boring. I can't feel any empathy for them. I honestly don't care who lives and who dies.


                
I don't know why it is highly rated. I expected a lot of excitement and glorious battles with attractive historical and passion events. However, none was found. Everything was written tediously and even acted more the same. The talks were very slow, quiet and lacked smart. The battles were directed likewise. Even the killing appeared so and when you realize it was done, it was too late to get the intended impression. The whole of the first season failed to keep me keen to find out what would happen next. Why then i watched a whole season? Because unfortunately i had downloaded the whole season depending on its rating hoping of something special which i don't recommend you do.


                
For a show with such promise, the essential scenes in this series, depicting battle and conflict, consistently lack any historical accuracy, as the Vikings are portrayed as some sort of super humans that always kill 100 Englishmen in an instant, or are essentially unscathed by English swords or arrows. Please, they may have been fierce warriors, but the battle scenes are so one-sided as to make the entire series unbelievable and ridiculous. A few simple script adjustments, with strategic or historical information about WHY they won battles, instead of these handful of guys simply wiping out 10 times their number at will, would have made this series FAR more enjoyable. As it is, the battle scenes are laughable, and evidence poor writing that makes the whole scenario unbelievable and biased.


                
i loved this series, but the most recent season (airing December 2016) is turning me off. it's one big ball of negativity. what happened? why do so many shows think they need to go darker and darker to sustain audience interest? also, they should not have lost the priest character. i think it's great they have moved on with the story in time, as now it's just as much about the sons, but why all the venomous hatred, spite and vitriol, torture and suffering? OK, i've only seen two episodes so far, i'm not looking forward to third but i'll give it another chance. is it the producers? is it the writers? they started to odd the last season, with Ragnar getting a drug addiction (trying to make it more identifiable to contemporary viewers?) so perhaps i should just jump ship now.
Having heard so much about this series I decided to have a look and I have to say the comparisons with the likes of ROME and some other HBO series are way, way off the mark. Now, it is better then that God awful GAME OF THRONES milarkie but not much. Episode is playing as I am writing this and I am more interested in writing this then watching what happens. I lost interested after the end of episode one but ever hopeful that it might improve as it went on by the time this latest episode was on I was checking the football scores, reading my e-mails, ignoring Facebook as I always do and looking to see if there was anything decent on the Internet. And now I am writing this crap. Jesus, I need a life!


                
Seaon 1 was fabulous. Character developments, little surpises, excitement were there. Season 2&3 were OK. Things got worse at season 5. Absolutely bad thinking from writers. 
And some illogical things i noticed in the show:
1.Rollo promised he will not betray ragnar again, yet he does.
2. For lagertha, Is it better to be someone's abused wife than being ragnar's first wife?
3. If Ragnar wanted to commit suicide by hanging from trees but failed why he did not give it a second try?
There would be tons of like these.
Yet, everything began well, bleeding Vikings like we love but good family fathers, pretty women, sometimes warriors, a good description of the habitat, the ordinary life, and so on. And catastrophe, the creators began to want to approach religion. Impossible for them, of American culture, to imagine a belief without temples or priests. So they did a great anything on this subject. When you think this show is produced by a channel named History... And if we look at history a bit, we see that kings meet when they have not lived at the same time, that some warriors who attacked Lindisfarne in 793 were in Paris in 885 (beautiful health these guys!). So when characters who have existed marry or betray, contrary to historical reality, we say stop, that's enough! Yes, Ragnar Lothbrock is a legendary character, but when we dress up a legend of an historical coat, we try to do things right, especially when we call History. Ah I forgot, the planned sequences are: Ragnar fights a T-Rex, Ragnar vs Alien, Ragnar and Noddy prepare the Brexit.


                
This review is based on the first 5 episodes, it's how much I could endure through.If you, like myself, enjoy documentary television shows History channel provides, you might get surprised by Vikings. I was. It's not just about the lack of historical accuracy, it's about the lack of accuracy pertaining to real life or otherwise any quality at all.The writers miss on a grand opportunity to draw from the historical knowledge of the vikings for inspiration and rather just paste it over these stereotypical characters and their Hollywood "weekend fun" plot for some novelty, which wears off 15 minutes into the show.If you are looking for a show that will teach you something about the vikings (what I was expecting) you will be disappointed. If you were just looking for good old distracting fun, (which I'll admit, am not immune to) chances are Vikings will feel like something you saw already, it was everywhere for the past 30 years. Personally I found it boring.


                
