S1-3= 10 stars....and then the show died. S4 and 5 is a complete mess with no substance...sooo disapointed.


                
Very good show and then suddenly it was sliding down the hill. And now it is just a soap where you will have a lot of deja vu feelings and weird choices. "No I will not do that!" "Ok relax, I think this and this ok?" "Yes! I am convinced!" or "yes I am in love now!". Also there is not much character development. Most main characters are hollow persons who can drop dead or just vanish without having bad feelings. Also the strong characters from the first seasons are degraded. But yet somehow I want to know what will happen, but every episode I am getting less interested. I think it is a good moment to stop this series.


                
Okay, slow start, but half way season1 I was hooked. That lasted untill end of season 4, when it all went "Walking Dead"Sorry, this show is dead, no need to watch another episode. Sad.


                
I absolutely loved Vikings, up until Season 4 (the first half of 4 was still good). The storytelling was great, all of the pictured characters incredible and unique, and the departing of Ragnar and Ecbert epic.
Every death felt significant and impactful. It was one of the best shows on TV.Season 5 was certainly going to be interesting, since Ragnar is no longer with us - which was a huge loss to begin with, but at the same time it felt like it was the right timing. There was a lot of room for more epic storytelling, but Vikings went completely downhill.Part 1 of Season 5 was actually better than Part 2, still bad of course, but it just turned into a never-ending cringefest.Ivar is very, very difficult to like or even understand. His motivations for being that crazy seem a bit too trivial. And a mad character is fine, but there should still be moments of tranquility and weakness, a "soft" side, to be able to connect to such a personality. They made Ivar just annoying as hell.The plot holes. There are so, so many. Logic is missing in literally every episode, including the finale. The final battle is probably the worst battle they have done in the whole show. There just is no logic anymore.It makes you want to turn back in time when the writing was still pristine.The most interesting characters don't get a fitting position in the show. Bjorn is now demoted to the ever-grumpy Viking who just sees black & white. Ubbe was (almost) completely missing in the finale.Lagartha turned into one of the most boring characters.Viking Season 5 tries too many things at the same time, nothing really ties together or feels significant anymore. The story was all over the place.The whole Iceland storyline with Floki was literally useless.
So yeah...I'm sad. But the Last Kingdom got incredibly strong in Season 3, and has overtaken Vikings for me.I won't watch Season 6.
The show is OK for just killing time, but there are so many errors I have to turn off my brain to watch it.The name-thing is already mentioned. An earl is earl first-name, not earl last-name. Fjords and mountains in Denmark? They barely have hills above 100 m there. Norway is the place to find fjords with huge mountains. Sweden doesn't have fjords with mountains either.Gabriel Byrne serves no function. A Viking society wouldn't have tolerated a purely parasitical leader like that. To us viewers he doesn't make any worthwhile contribution to the community whatsoever. Everybody has swords, so if you're put on top, the dudes with swords below you has to be better off with you on top, otherwise you wouldn't be there. He's simply cartoon evil. Dissing a hero like our brave Ragnar should have been the end of him.And what is up with the accents? Why bother doing accents if the result is that characters within the same family have widely different accents? What is wrong with just plain English? Ragnar speaks fluent English, while his sun has the lamest "Scandinavian" accent I have ever heard, and the wife's accent is just straight out of Skyrim, I'm hoping the arrow to the knee will hit her throat instead.Overall decent, because there is blood and it is vaguely based in history.


                
Vikings is extremely over rated. Pros include cinematography and action sequences. Other than that this show is essentially a bad soap opera about vikings with empty characters and shallow dialog. People do not stay in character, the plot and immersion is weak and poorly written lines are poorly delivered. I struggled through 4 seasons but just barely.


                
Well. I don't know where to start. First of all, I am Norwegian and i do have a university degree in Nordic history. I also have a passion for the viking age. So regarding this TV show, I am abit disappointed. There are so many historical flaws.1. Ragnar Lothbrok was a saga king who, according to the sagas, lived in ether Denmark or southern Sweden. The sources differs in that regard. There is, however, no mountains or fjords in Denmark, and not in southern Sweden ether. The only place you will find that kind of landscape that is portrayed in the series is in western Norway.2. Ragnar Lothbrok did never plunder Lindisfarne. Lindisfarne was plundered in 793, long before Lothbrok was active. And most probably by Norwegian vikings from the Orkney islands, according to most historians.3. There are no sources that says "Rollo" was Ragnvalds brother. And if the series points towards Rollo, as in the viking that settled in Normandy, it would be false. Yet again, historians don't know were Rollo was from. According to Norse sagas he was from Fauske in Norway. According to french sources he was from Denmark, and his birthplace was surrounded by high mountains. Historians still argue about his origin, however a project will try to DNA test Rollos descendants to figure it out. Regardless, no sources connects the two as brothers.4. Ragnar Lothbrok and "Loke" did not invent the viking long ship. And of course they new about England long before Lothbrok was even born. Angles came from Denmark and settled in England long before the viking age. There are numerous archaeological evidence of contact between the British isles and Scandinavia long before the viking age.5. The clothing are somewhat not right, not to mention the heavy makeup on the earls wife. She looks like a modern woman getting ready for a night out.6. As an Icelander pointed out, they portraits roman law as if it was Germanic law.I could go on and on.
As a history buff, I was hoping to see an authentic depiction of Viking life, especially since it is the History channel, and while there is some attempt to do that it is also obvious that the writers and producers are projecting 21th century cultural values into the past and specifically promoting feminism. It is ludicrous to have a diminutive woman like Lagertha and a band of shield maidens take command and become Earl by force of arms. If women attained power in the past it is the same as it is today - not by their own endeavor, but rather through marriage or inheritance. So it becomes more difficult to suspend belief when I see 50 kg women beating and killing 100 kg men. I even read yesterday that one of the writers caters to a contingent of feminist fans in the USA. So while he may placate them he lost me. And a warning to all the lesbian feminists who watch this show - don't try this at home or you will find out why you just can't make it in combat units - you will get pulverized.


                
One writer earlier was correct, The real Ragnar never had a son named Bjorn. Ragnar's eldest son was named Ivor, and it was he who avenged Ragnar's death at the hands of the King of North Umbria. That is Proved History. This is the same Ivor known as Ivor the Boneless, and creator of the House of Ivor in Dublin Ireland. This point should never have been changed. Ivor was one of the greatest warriors known to the world at his time. He was also known for his wisdom, and his fighting ability. His sons went on to rule Ireland with many of them being well known too. Ivor was a historical fact as was his father Ragnar. To leave him out of the story makes your depiction of Vikings to be as big a lie as you claim the Christians were, and show a total ignorance of what was real for them as a people.


                
Historical inaccuracies have never bothered me very much and I have my own opinions regarding how important the subject is. Anyway I don't know enough about Norse mythology to say how accurate this show is. So I'm not going to get into that.Even in its own right the show is awful. Unless you're a big fan of Norse mythology I don't think its worth the watch. I have only seen the first three episodes, so my evaluation is based on those. I wanted to give it a fair go but getting through three episodes was quite challenging.To be honest, the plot had potential. It opened up some interesting possibilities for the story but I'm not sure I like where it is actually headed.The cast is not recognizable and yet you would feel it had potential because their acting isn't all that bad.The music score is mediocre. Its a very important aspect for the mood of a show and Vikings really should have done better.The biggest failure of the show is it's characters though. Good character design and development is essential for a good show and Vikings falls flat in that regard. A couple of characters are OK but you will neither love or hate most characters in the show. They don't seem to have any unique traits and tend to do things randomly. Character development is quite tricky in general. Many TV shows struggle with it. But to get the characters wrong right from the very start is a whole different level of offense. That is exactly what Vikings did.The saving grace of Vikings is the fact that its not filling any big shoes. Shows based on Norse mythology are surprisingly scarce. Vikings can still pick it up. But it is never going to be comparable in quality to Game of Thrones.


                
No Ragnar, no show. Like TWD this show was once an epic one, now it is (brain)dead. Give Vikings a closure and move on.


                
An overrated series poorly written. Everything is solved in a easy and convenient manner for the writer. Action scenes was what held me a bit longer, but I couldn't bare the way too simplist story


                
Was really excited when i saw a series based on Vikings being a historical series buff. It being a History channel production gave a mix feeling - started watching expecting a documentary type series sticking to historical facts and authenticity. Boy i was so wrong. Was positively surprised they made it a entertainer for masses.As for the review - Acting - Didn't like the Travis Fimmel in the role of Ragner he was so easily overshadowed by his brother Rollo (Clive Standen). But as the series progressed Travis does get better but still felt there were better actors around for the main role. All the other supporting cast specially Floki, Lagertha and Earl Haraldson were excellent. Casting- Only Lagertha and Floki seem Scandinavian rest don't seem Viking Action- There does seem to be some small scale action but they are not well synchronized, was expecting bigger and better stuff. Script - I am actually enjoying it but was hoping for a actual historical figure from the viking period(there are tons of them) then a legend.Authenticity - Its zero,Only things which seems authentic are landscaping and using names from legends/history. Cinematography/Landscaping - We do get to see some stunning scenes , especially the valleys with water coming in At the end Vikings is not sure what it wants to be, mixture of Rome, Spartacus , Game of Throne ???. Its enjoyable for me as its based on history but seems more like fantasy series and not a good one at that.


                
This vote is for season 3 Of course I don't expect historical * facts* in a series like Vikings So I g for the entertainment which was well delivered in series 1 and 2 . Even in this series I was a bit weary about the overacting by Travis Fimmel . But is was okay . Now in the third series the man seems to be a lunatic. Twitching his face Rolling his eyes . The fact he wears a Christian cross ? Where does that come from ? He looks like an insane travesty of a Viking. And why does Floki not tell everyone the settlement in Wessex is slaughtered This way he would surely have the upper hand. No , not for me any more . Maybe they restore the series in season 4 But I doubt it Once the trend goes to blood and stupidity it is done
Season 5 : poor and unreasonable story line, bad acting.
A shame and a really big downgrade to previous seasons.at times the actors them self seem like they don't believe what they're trying to act and are kinda stuck on a show that lost its star.Ivar story line so far is uncompelling and the show itself seems to drag on without real purpose.


                
After Romans and Tolkien's Orcs, vikings are pretty much the coolest thing there is. So it was only a matter of time before I gave a chance to this show. I have, however, only seen the first season, so take into consideration, that this review is only based on that.The show looks rather good. The intro sequence is fine both musically and visually. Apparently no unnecessary CGI is not used, which is always great. I also liked the fact that the cast very much looks like real vikings down to their hair pieces, and everything seems dirty and grimy. Costume and art departments deserve appreciation for their skills.And that's about the good of it, since the show is thought out and written extremely poorly. The season doesn't seem to have any sort of sensible structure or goal, but rather fumbles around from here to there. At the worst, the dialogue comes of as old time -style exposition hell where characters with great pain explain to themselves their own mythology, and at best terse and unnatural. Some individual scenes might work, but then the show surprises you with bewildering bafflement: for example the scenes at the court of Northumbria would suit well to one of the Uwe Boll's In the Name of the King -movies.Why couldn't the whole season be about one, single raid mission to somewhere? They could have left during the first episode, and the whole thing would have been about adventuring, bonding and back stabbing of the crew. That could have been so interesting! Not to mention, it would have necessitated some sort of an arc and a goal. Now we spam ourselves here and there, and every long and dangerous sea voyage is over in two scenes. It's a wonder these vikings don't take us with them to the moon when they're at it.About the actors: Gabriel Byrne does his villain role in autopilot. Other than that, as I said, it's nice that the actors look believable vikings, but they could still be able to act. Especially the main character is unbelievable annoying mumbler with a very punchable joker grin that never leaves his face. The actor of his brother would have been actually a rather charismatic performer, but doesn't yet really get to do anything.We also get a woman, who has a sword and kills people. This is nothing if not cool (historical accuracy be damned). Unfortunately she has the ungrateful task of being pregnant and crying about her husband much more than doing anything interesting for much of the show. The child actor is also one of the worst I have ever seen - and now, when we have finally learned to actually spend some time and effort to really find talented, good young actors and actresses to TV shows.Well, truth be told, Gustaf Skårsgard appears as a rather interesting character - sure, someone could say over the top, but I'd rather take that than the gray forgetfulness disappearing into it's own rectum.The show has some blood and some nudity, but that about covers it's "adult" themes. All those lovely, dark spiders living in the human souls, that make the following of long shows such a perverse pleasure, are only noticeable in their non appearance. The characters are as interesting as card board cut outs. Even Batman -show of the 60's operated in more dimensions.Vikings was an unbearable disappointment in every way. Like Heroes at it's time, this also had almost limitless potential but every time there was a choice between poignant, interesting and exiting on the other hand and pointless, boring and tired on the other, it is determined to pick the second one. Other easy comparison is the contemporary Spartacus -show - especially as the bad writing goes - but even that at least had some balls and exploitation values, if nothing else. Vikings would have been something unbelievable if it had come out in 1993 instead of 2013, but what's it's purpose in the era of Game of Thrones, Rome and Boardwalk Empire, I simply do not know.


                
I'm rather generous with the 4 stars here, since I'm not really into this viking stuff. I gave it a chance anyway since it had so many good reviews and I generally heard good things about it. Well, should've trusted my instincts. After finishing the first season, i felt bad for wasting so much time of my life. I won't make a fuss over historical correctness since i don't care as long as the story is good and as far as i am able to judge this the costumes, religion, setting and mentality seemed to be fitting, though it felt a little low-budget. What rally was bad about this was the sub-par acting, the horrible script, the lack of a proper and exciting plot and most of all the fact that the majority of the characters were plain and one-dimensional, I haven't come to like a single one of them although I really tried.This show is only recommendable for people who are REALLY into viking related topics and such, everybody else will most likely feel bored to death, definitely no second season for me.weak. 4/10 first review BTW


                
First of all, I'm a big fan of vikings and of historical fiction in general. What I love about this show is seeing the viking age come to life: seeing crews sailing in the longboats; everyone celebrating in the great hall; seeing what a hard winter is like and the kind of gnarly dried fish they'd have to eat when times were hard... This show does a very good job of reconstructing the buildings, clothing, lifestyle, societal structure, farming methods, etc. of the viking age. That's why I watch this show.I wish I could give this show a 10 out of 10, just for that. But on top of the historically accurate backdrop, the director has added a story-line that I think is just absolutely idiotic. It's the kind of story-line that the market analysts have obviously had a hand in creating. They must have a little list of "shockers" and "oh-no-they-didn't"s that the marketing department has brainstormed, and they're cramming them into this show in a pathetic effort to raise the ratings.For example: every episode seems to have at least one sex scene. Now I have nothing against sex scenes, don't get me wrong. But the panting and the nudity and the kissing is only interesting to me if there is some interesting **context** behind it. Some of the sex scenes in this show are literally just casual conversations that could have taken place anywhere, but they have to take place during an obligatory sex scene because the episode didn't have any nudity in it yet. There's even a sex scene in this show that takes place when two viking enemies meet face to face in private. One says, "yo I'd love to bang you right now" and his mortal enemy, a woman replies "okay, but just remember that I hate you and I'm going to kill you one day. If you accept that, I guess we might as well turn this into a raunchy sex scene." There's other raunchy "oh-no-they-didn't"s in this show as well. Like one scene where a viking guy is masturbating while spying on a girl in the bathtub. Or the time the friggin Queen reveals she's a nympho and all the soldiers come into the royal chamber for a gangbang. Or the time one of the main antagonists reveals to a woman he's into bondage, and they get out the whips and chains. I don't know, maybe I'm strange for not thinking all of that is awesome. I just found it all so unoriginal, so boring. If I had seen this show when I was 13, I would have enjoyed it a lot more probably.But unfortunately, I'm not 13 anymore, and neither is anyone I know. So even though I would love to share my viking enthusiasm with my girlfriend, my family and friends, and my children, I can't. I will never buy this show on DVD and keep it in my home. So it looks like Vikings has shot itself in the foot, trying so hard to get high ratings in the short term, that they have ruined their show in the long term.


                
Well I have to admit I'm biased, I don't like blood & gore stories, but because this series had a high rating I thought I'd give it a try. I expected some blood & gore, but the entire first series appears to be that. I enjoyed the history, but I had to give it up because of too much blood and gore.


                
Don't get me wrong, Vikings are awesome to look back on. Manly AF, who wouldn't want to watch a show about them? Because of that, I did my best to make it through the first season; I couldn't, however. Terrible acting slowly, but thoroughly killed my desire along the way.The main character's wife, the boat maker, and the main character's brother are the only 3 characters I felt like did a good job. Everyone else left room for doubt in my mind. As likable as the lead was, he didn't strike me as a viking. The priest? Really? Didn't suspend any disbelief watching virtually all of his scenes. And the earl at the beginning, who is a famous actor who is so good in so many movies, was very, very average here.Not impressed. Can't recommend it. Sadly. I wanted to...


                
It's motto is keep it simple, "don't keep the viewers guessing, we are not in any race for top 250". Though it holds good historical significance but the show is not at all enjoyable. Conveniently altering the story and poor acting are the main concerns. Unlike other programs which keeps us guessing, it has no surprises and each episode is painfully predictable. They will show you everything as per the viewers convenience and there is not even a cliff hanger at the end of episodes. And what else; poor choice of actors except Athelstan, no character build up, infants are born every now and then, fitting unnecessary happenings just to suit their needs. Last but not the least, poor casting for Ragnar. His poor acting, scornful smile and twitching eyes are annoying. They don't even have a mainstream villain whom we would love to hate (someone like Jeofferry from GoT) and all the part timers are utterly annoying. I am surprised how this show went on to season 4.


                
Cannot understand the hype. We have tried the first series twice and just cannot get into it. The acting and scenery are quite good but basically the story line is slow and predictable.


                
