The moment that Ragnar dies, the whole show dies. Simple. After that just miserable screenwriting and poor acting from everyone trying to mimic Ragnar.
The first 3 seasons are excellent. I used to recommend this series to all my friends. Few episodes, good story, unique characters. Then the fame came and brought greed. History Channel decided to double the earnings by doubling the number of episodes in season 4. Without enough content to fill the episodes, the show became slow and boring. I decided to stop watching it by the end of season 4 because I realized it was declining. I don't want to screw up my good memories.


                
This review is more an objection of the departure from true history than a marked comment on the show itself.... I love the characterisation, sets and plot...But the show has now lost me as it's story arc has gone from Ragnar's adventures (historical legend, no factual base so OK to dramatise) into tampering with the actual, true historical timeline. King Ecbert was long dead when the great heathen army landed (so was Aethelwulf!!). Anyone remember Aethelred the Unready??To be honest to the real history the show should begin with a warning "Beware real history has been warped to suit our script"See https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Æthelwulf, https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alfred_the_Great etcLikewise the show seems to neglect all the other brothers of Alfred- who were all kings in their own right...The saddest thing of all is that this TV series will now become the "true" history and the thousands of people who get their world view through TV shows will now believe this timeline... shame on you script writers, shame!
As other users noted, it is becoming a soap opera. The whole thing with Rollo also doesn't make sense: why kill your own followers if the Emperor wants you to prevent other vikings from sacking Paris? How does that fit with the history of settling Normandy with a viking band whose leader is named Rollo? By the way, what happened to England (besides the rubbish going on in Wessex)? Ragnar Lothbrok is getting spread a little thin here. Worse than that, the constant infighting, betrayal and Ragnar's weird mind trips is really bogging this show down. If they don't get back to pillaging and exploring soon, I may not stick around. The show started off strong, but I get the feeling that nobody expected it to make it to the 4th season. The first 2 seasons were strong, and I recommend them. However, the project is now so diluted by the four different story lines that it is now lost its way.
First of all: I really loved this show and this is the first review I write on IMDb is about this show, because it's simply my favorite show. I would gladly give it a 9/10 or 10/10. But the last season, season 4, ruined it for me.The first 3 seasons had everything: a good story line with many twists, incredible characters, cool fights and of course the mighty story of the rise of Ragnar Lothbrok. I recommend everyone I know to watch the first 3 seasons, but that's it. Stop there while you can.I know what you think right now: "This guy just hates season 4 because *SPOILER ALERT* Ragnar became an old man and died in this season". But no! I actually agree that Ragnars part was done and he reached his end, and I agree that the episodes of Ragnar death were well executed. The episodes that disappoint me, are the 15 episodes before that.They made this season twice as long what I think is the first bad move they made. The fast pacing of season 1-3 was in my opinion one of the things that made Vikings so special. But yet this wouldn't really be a problem if it didn't feel like they did it on the same, or even smaller budget; The fights were very badly choreographed that I even had to laugh when Kattegat was attacked and of course don't forget how disappointing the bear fight was. Another point that really disappointed me were the useless subplots that the producers decided to make: Like Rollo's love drama with a french princess, some random drug dealer Chinese princess and Ragnars drug addiction. If you think about it, doesn't this just sound like some shitty MTV drama show?But the bad things aside, the new protagonists, the sons of Ragnar, are well received and good actors. I'm surely excited for the adventures that they will undergo. I just hope that season 5 will go back to it's roots and not continue with the direction that the show took this season.
Loved the show and would have given it a solid 9 but since the writers killed Ragner they killed the show at the same time. It's as simple as that.
Vikings, a series so well written, acted and produced for the first 3 and a half series. Class scripts and character developement, Ragnar and Ecberts final scenes together in particular were absolutely outstanding. Now however it has been completely ruined by aimless storylines, formulaic American Soap opera style production and writing, ridiculous extended pauses with dramatic backing music. They've managed to turn something that was true quality, into a money making never ending series of well below par, bland play acting
It is clear that the writers of this show knew nothing about the old Viking society or it's rules. It's not for nothing that the first true democracy was established in Iceland where every free man had his vote. What the show depicts is a Stalinistic take on that society which is completely wrong. A ruler like the earl would reign for about a week before he was chopped to bits. I guess it's done that way for the drama but then name the show something else because it has nothing to do with what life was like when every man that was not a slave was a free man entitled is own opinions in that time in that place. Killing a smith (influencial people then because a sword could be worth more than 20 cows or an entire farm) because he made an anchor? Really?
Will watch the rest of season 5 in the hope that things turn around, but I loved this show the most when Ragnar was King The show is still good, but just doesn't have the same spark it had when Ragnar and Rollo were key figures in the story.
I'm puzzled about why Ragnar's sons never took his body or his bones home for a proper Viking funeral to honor him, where was he buried if they didn't?
They went all the way to the place he apparently died, but there's no mention of a grave?
Vikings, I I'm starting to struggle with it a bit. It seems they feel the can simply create history where they like. How can Vikings invade York, when history tells that they founded it? I don't buy the earrings, make-up and tattoos. Modern thoughts that make you feel that they are just about to pull out a cell phone. I suspect Vikings will look very dated in a few years.Also I don't buy the level of violence. Like Son's of Anarchy it's showing an extreme possibility for a dramatic effect not real day-to-day life. Most people traded from fishing villages, and actually didn't do much fighting. I'm sure there was plenty of rape and plunder, but equally I'm sure it was just a minority looking to steal gold, not so much as a murder spree as the one sided written history suggests. I doubt most people were really that psychopathic.Things are getting a bit silly, maybe it's a negative influence from Game of Thrones. Some amazing sets, and great cinematography but the wardrobe, story lines and casting are slightly wobbly.Having said all that, I still enjoy it, and it's worth a watch.


                
I was a big fan uptill season 5. Season 5 was just simply boring! would have rated 10 if it wasnt for season 5.


                
I like the history bit... the raids on the UK coast/ monasteries and the seafaring. The locales are spectacular.The script is weak, the lines are quite predictable and unimaginative. Surely they could have given this job to some professionals. This stuff is amateur.The acting is pathetic... One spends so much effort in a production that it is sad to see it ruined by a bunch of wooden, expressionless blokes who, try as hard as they might, just can't bring it to life.Wonder if this was done on a shoestring budget!!!... and there are folks who actually even contemplate comparing this to GoT... come on, really!!!


                
In the first few seasons there was a decent amount of character development for the main characters. You really felt like you had a connections with the likes of Ragnar, Rollo and Lagertha. There actions and motives were understandable and generally made sense. As a result there was a degree of weight to the series and i would always greatly anticipate the next episode.In the latest few seasons, I almost reluctantly watch the episodes out of a past loyalty to the seasons. More and more characters have been introduced, but they have only served to dilute the series and make it weightless. I feel like i have very little connection with any of the characters because there are so many. The only one of new Ragnars sons given sufficient character development is Ivar and they managed to make me hate him, despite the fact that he is most likely going on to take the lead role in future seasons. Overall, the last few seasons have been incredibly disappointing. The Battles have become increasingly stupid and unrealistic. The Historical Accuracy has gone out the window. The only character i care out about is Bjorn and even his actions are becoming increasingly unrealistic.
First 3 seasons were amazing best show ever when Ragnar was in it. The rest is horrible show lost it's point does not make any sense any more.


                
If I had rated the show 1 or 2 seasons ago, the stars would have been more. Last season although still kind of entertaining it can not be compared to the first few seasons. The story went in a completely different direction that I am not sure I like, kind of scattered.
I really find some of the acting quite bad and that especially (but not only) in the leading female roles (not to mention any names).
The good thing for the new season is that Rollo is returning, so will give it another chance and hopefully I can get past some of the unnatural acting.


                
Honestly can't see what people like about this show it's not even close or on par with Game Of Thrones or better as everyone seems to think. To be honest It's an absolute bore fest. There's really not much variety to the story at all it tends to get pretty stale at times and often keeps repeating itself which makes it pretty predictable after a while. The fight scenes are pretty average at times too and as for the characters there's only a few likelable, the rest are boring. I'm currently midway through season 3 and I'm struggling to find an excuse to continue.


                
Too many weird religious symbolism that divided and diluted the intensity of this great drama series. Some members of the clan left with the shipbuilder oversea. Some took the adventure in the Mediterranean and came back empty handed. There were too many and too much hallucinations cut into almost every segment of this newest season and seems to lose its direction. How could you enter a battle with so crazy hallucinations and win it? So many doomed omens affect almost every one in the battle. The lesbian queen has a new Wessex Bishop lover, a POW, critically wounded but still can make love to her. Brothers killing each other and one another....Okay, that's enough. I quit in the middle of Episode 10 and consider Season 10 a total failure. Still watchable, but not good enough to keep my focus long enough. And it's a bad sign, not hallucination. Every Viking wants to go to Valhalla, but nobody wants to go there sooner. Paradise can always wait, better late than sooner.


                
First two seasons of the series are very enjoyable. For the first two seasons I'd give a 9 or a 10. Problem is, starting with season 3 things slowly start to go downhill. It feels like actors ran out of ideas so they started filling the time with pointless irrelevant drama, characters progressively get more and more irrational and unconvincing, and it all gradually becomes less and less fun.Introduction of Alyssa Sutherland to the show is a colossal mistake as she simply put can not act, resulting in a very shallow and irritating character.


                
First sorry for my bad EnglishI enjoyed the first 3 seasons and the second half of season 4. I never cared how much of this show is real history. This show has many good moments and episodes but many bad moments too. This show often throws his potential away like in the first half of season 4 were 90% of the time nothing happens. There are many logic errors like nobody of the Vikings heard about England in the first season or somebody killed a leader and 95% of his people have no problem with it. I think this show don't need a 5th or 6th season. After the 4th season, I have seen everything I wanted to see. I don't care about what will happen to the characters anymore and I don't care about the factions anymore too. If you don't care much about historical accuracy, you maybe will enjoy this show but don't except to much.I give it a 67/100


                
This is one of my favorite shows for all the reasons listed in all the other reviews. Vikings does, however, suffer from an increasing trend in TV and movies. Current budgets and technology have created a more visually stunning experience than in the past. As a result, shows and movies like Vikings now have these long gaps where they just hang on a scene from a majestic mountain top, or a brilliant waterfall, or even a character wearing a complex wardrobe for minutes at a time. There is no dialogue, no action, no anything, the camera just hangs there for what seems like forever. I get that a dramatic pause can be effective, but sometimes they just hang on a character standing in the woods for 2-3 minutes of nothing while the viewer is just waiting for the next thing to happen. I think it enables them to write much shorter episodes and fill the remaining time with dramatic pauses and images. Again, I really enjoy the show, I just wish it was more content and less filler.


                
I usually try not to write reviews for a show if I haven't seen all episodes yet, but having recently started season 4, I don't think there'll be much of a change of pace or overall premise.What I find quite enjoyable about the show is the display of the raw, merciless and unforgiving life in Skandinavia, with the infamous viking raids being born mostly out of despair and hunger. "Vikings" also beautifully shows the spiritual conflict of two religions existing next to each other and even mentions the Roman empire, which up until some time around 420 A.D. still had a strong presence in Britannia. The show starts of 793 AD and covers a span of several years, though it's never explicitly mentioned how many. Yet seeing that a younger character (still a young adolescent in the first season) grows up to become a respected warrior and produces offspring of his own, we might assume it's little less than 20 years. What one might need to get used to is the linguistical mumbo-jumbo that's going on: During the show, besides vikings we'll also meet Anglo-Saxon and Franks. It is quite obvious that these peoples don't share a common language and every time they speak among themselves, the audience hears it in plain English. Whenever meeting a foreign people, we hear the foreigners in their native language and subtitles are provided. This by itself is quite the elegant solution to emphasize the cultural differences and in addition beautifully shows how drastically languages changed during the course of the time: Fluent English speakers will have difficulty understanding even a single word of Old English, similarly native French speakers will hardly understand Old French. On the other hand this often causes some confusion, as sometimes we hear the Anglo-Saxons speak in modern English and the Vikings in Old Norse, then we hear the Viking speak English and the Anglo-Saxons Old English. One language that is never translated, only subbed, is Latin, which is okay with me, as there's never real dialogue spoken in it. At this point, however, I have to nitpick on the pronunciation of some native English actors when they are trying to imitate a Scandinavian (I'm assuming modern Swedish?) accent. For example the name Knut, usually pronounced like "knoot", with a voiced k, is mispronounced as "canute". Then there's the inconsistency of using the title of Earl and Jarl interchangeable within one people, but that just as a side note. Other than that, especially the armor of the Anglo-Saxons is off-time, as it would be used about 500 years later for the first time, but I guess the producers simply imagine that it was what the audience would expect. Overall, the show has a consistent plot and while I sometimes think it does drag a bit, there isn't really a sub-plot or element I would consider cutting from the show, though it often feels like there are no real lows or highs, as the show doesn't really allow much time for character development. In consequence, there is only a handful of interesting characters. In the end, I find Vikings quite enjoyable and will most likely watch it till the end, though I rather won't watch it for a second time.


                
it's a fun series. i especially love the clothing and hairstyles. i'm not sure of some of the historical facts. for example, kattegat is a very large geographical area today so i don't know if the vikings in Ragnar's group are danish, Norwegian or Swedish.in one episode the earl goes to upsala - the whole troop is show hiking there. if they indeed go by foot it would have taken a very long time from kategat to upsala - a month's walking?Gabrielle burn talks of raiding in Russia. could Russia have existed then.how could a people who fished and raided and lived in such cramped geographical zones not known of the north sea, the coasts of Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands? they were great traders and would have had material contact with the Mediterranean world from pre- imperial times. so not at least hearing about england seems to me impossible. these people were at the edges of the known world but they were not isolated and cut off.one saxon soldier tells his liege that other saxon enemies are holed up on 'an iron age fortress hill' - please. like they would use such terms.these may be piddling gaffes but they make me think i must be very careful not to think a lot of the physical material world portrayed here is accurate. for another example. some of the woven clothing of the earl's wives seem to me to be too sophisticated for this era. also the dyes of the clothing. people didn't have a lot of color in their clothing. i know it looks good on film but then it makes me think - are the viking interiors accurate? the jewelry? the ships? to many people this will not be important. the series is fun and many of the characters are people we care about.


                
The History Channel series Vikings is a fabulous saga full of exiting characters, good action, and realistic Viking settings. In four episodes we have followed Ragnar Lothbrok (played by Travis Fimmel). So far I'm impressed. Just as Ragnar at the end of episode five is preparing for more action, so am I.The Lothbrok character is built on the sagas of Ragnar Lodbrok, who was a legend even in the late Viking Age, and definitely when the sagas were written half a millennium after Ragnar's death. Despite being shown on History Channel, Vikings is not a historical series in a strict sense; it is rather a new version of the ancient Ragnar Lodbrok legend. In order to tell a good story, the series even tends to be rather unhistorical.The settings in the series are mostly credible. The characters' appearances: their clothing, haircut, jewellery, weapons, and attitudes are very realistic, along with the houses, ships and the natural surroundings. The main conflict between the aging Earl Haraldson (Gabriel Byrne), afraid of losing his power, and the young and ambitious Ragnar is also a classic one. But the way the conflict is presented in Vikings is very imaginative: Ragnar wants to sail west over the sea to a fabled country rich on booty and spoils: England. The earl denies him this perilous voyage and calls the rumours of England delusive.The notion that the islands in the west (Ireland, Britain, and Faroe Island) at this time should have been unknown to a Scandinavian earl is of course pure fantasy. Around the entire North Sea there had been trade and cultural contact for centuries at the time when the story in Vikings is set. Some historians even speak of a long Viking Age starting with Hygelac, who is a Scandinavian king in the Old English poem Beowulf. Beowulf commemorates the feats of the Anglo-Saxons' Danish and Swedish ancestors. It is obvious that people in Scandinavia would have known about "England", as it is called in the series (long before the name was established).However, how the early Vikings sailed and navigated the open sea is still not fully established. It is quite OK that, in order to build a creative and knowledgeable character, Ragnar is given credit for having invented a new way of navigating the sea. It is less credible that the otherwise wonderful character Floki (Gustaf Skarsgard), more or less on his own, in secret builds a Viking ship. The building of such a ship was a major undertaking, requiring lots of people and different kinds of craftsmen.That Ragnar and his crew quite accidentally land at Lindisfarne is another improbable part of the story. Prior to sacking of Lindisfarne in 793, Scandinavians had been raiding in other parts of Britain for years. Rumours would have spread back home, and the following raids would have been well planned. The earl's opinion that the island in the west is an illusion and that Ragnar's voyage leads into the unknown are devices and unhistorical elements in Vikings storyline, used to create conflict, action and adventure.But who cares? I don't. I enjoy the series' settings, the characters, their conflicts, their love and loyalty, the rivalry between brothers, the perfectly balanced use of mythological and mystic elements, the realistic battle scenes, the shield wall, and all the rest. I do as the real Vikings did: I regard the stories of the old heroes as "lying sagas": fantasy and entertainment. Vikings is a historical fantasy series. And good entertainment indeed. I'm prepared for more action.


                
If you want to be highly entertained, watch "Vikings" on history:Many people who are giving "Vikings" poor or mediocre reviews are doing so because they claim "historical inaccuracies". They do not seem to realize that history is, at times, somewhat boring and Hollywood spices up historical accounts all the time to keep the audience entertained. No where does "Vikings" claim to be a documentary. Therefore, creative license is not only allowed but welcomed as well. Not only that, but accounts of Viking history differ and are often contradictory with many experts claiming much of the history is unknown or unaccounted for. This show promises an interesting look at a group of Viking people and their lives. This show delivers its promise. The storyline captives quickly and the timing of action verses slower scenes is balanced nicely. I am anxious to see what path each episode follows as I believe this show has great potential to have many seasons of success. "Vikings" started its first episode good and has steadily gotten better over the next four episodes.I watch this show as I watch all non-documentaries: strictly for entertainment purposes. If you want historical accuracy (which will be difficult as Viking history is not the most documented in the world), read an encyclopedia. If you want great action intertwined with interesting and complex yet understandable plot, watch "Vikings".
Watching last episode of season 4 and I feel that I wasted my time, simply it is overrated and can't be compared with GOT ... Thanks Lagertha for keeping me patient :D


                
