After reading praise after praise about this film on the internet from mostly western viewers (such as the completely clueless Tarantino) and seeing as how it won a major prize at the most recent Cannes Film Festival, my expectations were naturally high when I finally got around to viewing it.I'm sorry to say that I do not share in their optimistic appraisal of this movie.After being imprisoned for 15 years for unknown reasons by an unknown person/persons, Daesu (Min-sik Choi) is naturally a bit upset and is dying to figure out who imprisoned him and why. Borrowing a page from M. Night Shyamalan's guide to movie surprises, writer/director Chan-wook Park (along with 3 other writers) attempts to craft a whodunnit that will keep you guessing and interested until the very end. Well, they only half succeed. I'll admit that I'm normally slow when it comes to movie surprises, but this one jumps out at you as soon as Daesu gets out of prison. It couldn't be more obvious unless the director was sitting next to you whispering it into your ear. From that point on, the movie really begins to drag as we watch Daesu meander from one place to the next in an unfocused attempt to find his enemy and discover the reason behind his imprisonment. Perhaps the main problem with the film is the severe lack of information given to both Daesu and the viewer. Rather than finding out the real truth on his own, he is essentially told everything in the end thanks to a well choreographed monologue. This is not a "detective"-style story that gives you clues along the way. Some secrets and identities are revealed much too early, leaving only the unknown reason for Daesu's imprisonment the movie's last remaining attempt to keep the viewer interested. When we finally learn of the reason, it's a total letdown and should leave any experienced movie watcher either scratching their heads in total disbelief that someone actually considered this as a basis for a film or make you angry enough to stop the movie right then and there. With the movie's undeniably gritty sense of style and beautiful classical score, this should have been mind blowing. But it's not. It's pathetic. It's obvious the filmmakers really didn't know how to craft a film of this caliber, so they fall back on the "H" word (you'll catch the "H" word when you hear it in the film) to solve ALL of their screen writing problems.Thankfully the movie does have some positive aspects. The lighting and color scheme really reflect the inner conflicts within Daesu. This is a dark film, and it shows. The cinematography is inventive and vibrant with clever scene transitions and unique movements. The aforementioned score couldn't be better. It's a great mix of classical pieces, original music inspired by classical pieces, and moments of pseudo techno/industrial music, and it certainly does a great job of infusing the viewer with a sense of doubt and depression. Min-sik Choi gives an extremely admirable performance as the mentally conflicted Daesu and handles all kinds of scenes from action to romance with a great sense of confusion and surprise. Finally the relationship between Daesu and the mysterious Mido (Hye-jeong Kang) is really quite touching, allowing for some nice dramatic moments.That being said, it's ashame that the film's story couldn't match its style.Chan-wook Park has directed some of Korea's best and most memorable films in recent memory, such as JSA and Sympathy for Mr. Vengeance, but Old Boy is simply a semi-interesting film. In the realm of revenge flicks, this is perhaps one of the more ambitious (which is definitely a good quality) films out there, but ambition can only get you so far, and Chan-wook Park just can't pull it off. Worth a look for film fans, but it's just not remarkable enough to be recognized on a global scale. Beware before you buy, for you could end up being sorely disappointed as well. 6/10


                
In Park Chan-wook's 'Oldboy' (which won the grand prize at Cannes in 2004 when Tarantino was at the helm), a rough-looking man is held by the cops for some hours after a drunk. A series of relentless jump-cuts show him misbehaving at the police station. Once bailed out, he suddenly disappears in a pour-down rain while his rescuer is in a phone booth. The next we know he's imprisoned in a tiny apartment-like jail cell, and is held there for<U+0085>.fifteen years! Again jump cuts take us through this experience, which includes pumped-in gas while he sleeps, self-tattoos of cross-hatching to remind himself of the years, a journal, a constant TV which is his only companion, imaginary swarms of insects, and personal martial-arts conditioning that includes punching the wall till his knuckles bleed.Once released, having a taste for something other than the pot-stickers he was served all the time in his prison, our man stops at a sushi bar and asks for "something live." He's brought an octopus as big as two fists and he gobbles it -- live -- and passes out. The female sushi chef presiding at this event bonds with the man and they go looking for whoever imprisoned him and try to find out why. I forgot a man who jumps off the roof of the prison building before this: but nobody could keep track of all the hyper-kinetic, dark, grungy contents of 'Oldboy.' It's in Korean, by the way, and if you don't know Korean you may miss a bit of the dialog. It's got those subtitles that fade when the background's light, and they flick by pretty fast too.What is clear is that as somebody taunts him, Oh Dae-Su's just in a larger prison when his captors let him out, and what he does is part of a maniacal scheme to do him far worse harm than mere physical confinement.What's initially endearing about this accomplished but cartoon-like revenge-mystery action film, apart from Choi Min Sik's gonzo performance as Oh Dae-Su, the imprisoned man who turns sushi freak, is its obsessiveness, which Choi's intensity neatly underlines. The troubles begin when you realize that however maniacally determined Oh Dae-Su's pursuit of his tormentor and unraveling of his imprisonment's secrets are, it's all ultimately lost on us because it makes little logical, and even less emotional, sense. Or, where it does make sense, it's patently impossible.Park Chan Wook is a clever and inventive filmmaker who like many of the other 'dark,' 'cool' filmmakers of today has a visual style that outstrips his ability to tell a story. Since you could have said that about The Big Sleep and many still do, it may be that critical head-shaking over 'Oldboy' will seem passé in time and the film will morph into a classic. It's been said already though that Park is pursuing cult status faster than he can keep up with himself.The encrustation of the mechanical upon the living was Bergson's definition of the comic, and by that definition this movie should be a laugh riot. There's both elaborate visual trickery and intense real physicality -- witness Oh Dae-Su's consumption of the octopus. He really bites the thing's head off and chews on the still-writhing tentacles as they nervously coil round his cheek. The martial arts sequences are tricky and complicated; I doubt that the actor is doing all his stunts like Tony Ja in 'Ong-bak: Thai Warrior,' but his physicality is down to earth as he punches out one thug after another. No jumping, just punches and falls. But the images and their sequencing are most artfully manipulated. There's a sex scene, and an erotic scene, and a torture sequence involving dental extractions.How Oh Dae-Su finds people and how people find Oh Dae-Su is pretty confused. There's a vague sense that those tormenting Oh Dae-Su are evil masterminds à la James Bond. They have gangster connections and there's a posh huge penthouse at the end. But our hero seems to have been held in a kind of rent-a-jail cell, and whoever ordered up this treatment was apparently connected with something more mundane than Goldfinger: simply a schoolmate who bears Oh Dae-Su an obscure grudge. When the school enemy appears, if I've got this right, he seems to be a decade or two Oh Dae-Su's junior. Does it matter? Well, cultists of the movie will want to explain everything. But not rest of us, because the people aren't real or specific enough for us to care. Choi Min Sik's a gnarly little dynamo (his wacko behavior fits better here than it did in the artistic biography Chihwaseon) and his nemesis is a tall, cool, godlike personage. That's the point. The contrast is enough.Oldboy has hints of Tarantino and Tarantino's Asian martial arts sources, but although there's a lot of dialog, as far as one can tell the talk is very far from Pulp Fiction's priceless exchanges.You think the idea's unique -- imagine being locked up for fifteen years without explanation -- but then you realize it's not only what happened to Victor Hugo's Jean Valjean, but essentially what happens to a lot of black men in America, only then it isn't the beginning of a hip nightmare film. The imprisonment of black men is the real tale of society's revenge on an undeserving minority, but Oldboy's maniacal and inexplicable personal revenge of one middle class man on another has no social significance; worse yet, it never acquires an emotional one.Director Park Chan Wook is a director to reckon with -- some of Oldboy's sequences are hard to forget -- and he's found a worthy star in Choi Min Sik. But this disturbing, violent movie is clever without being intelligent.
I liked it and agree w/ everyone who says that it is a beautiful film to look at and yes, it does dig its hooks into you at the beginning and yes, it's superbly executed and yes, the acting is very good but when the movie tries to pay itself back in the end, I couldn't help but feel completely uninterested. Maybe it was the fact that movie seemed way cooler than the audience and made no bones of hiding this arrogance. Maybe it was just the fact that it knew it had a secret to tell and when it finally told you - you were left saying, "that's it?!".Maybe I'm too desensitized to all of this but honestly, if you're going to pay off, pay off big. Especially if you've kept me hanging on for that long.


                
Oldboy (2003) is the latest, and possibly most critically acclaimed, of a series of films to come out of Asia, which are best described as "Extreme". They are all very slick, stylish, violent and taboo-breaking to an almost self-conscious level. In my experience they are also all largely unsatisfying at anything other than an aesthetic level.In terms of sensation and brutal violence such films as Takashi Miike's cartoon-like Ichii the Killer (2001) or the brilliant Audition (1999) are unsurpassed by any Western cinema. Oldboy comes close with much tooth-pulling, hammer battering, tongue cutting and live octopus eating, but nothing which quite matches the sadistic, absurd violence in Miike's films.It is easy to see why Oldboy won many people over, including Tarantino at the 2004 Cannes Film Festival, as it is an effortlessly slick, stylish film with many technically accomplished scenes and flashes of CGI-enhanced imagery. Unfortunately, it's narrative is far less satisfying, and no amount of violence or visual trickery can disguise this fact. At best, the motivation for Oh Dae-Su's 15 year imprisonment is coherent, but taken to unbelievable psychopathic extremes. As in many of these extreme Asian films, the film provokes a visceral reaction, but it is narratively, and consequently emotionally, hollow. Worth seeing for fans of the genre, though if you're looking only for violence and gore there are many more Asian films which surpass this.
I feel people somehow invariably overreact when it comes to this movie. Come on guys, it's just a movie, like it or leave it. It's not necessarily a 10 but neither does it deserve a 1. (For what it's worth, I gave it a 7.) How would I explain this split opinion? It depends very much on what one expects from it, as well as on the overreaction of some viewers who feel, perhaps rightly so, that the movie is way overrated on IMDb, so they feel like they have to overreact the other way, giving it a 1, while this movie is most certainly deserving of much more than 1 !What would be my unadulterated view on the movie itself? It's not as bad as some posters write. At least one should acknowledge some very good camera-work and naturalist honesty in projecting a certain darkness that resides at the bottom of human souls. The main actor does a good job in most of the movie, I think, but the script gives him no chance but to overdo things toward the end, in hysterical tones which can easily grate on the educated movie lover's nerves.On the other hand, I cannot understand for the life of me how such a movie made it so high on the IMDb rating system. It's really unbelievable how that could happen. Some viewers all over the world liked the movie but that still does not explain it. Perhaps the pride of some viewers couched in the same culture made them vote en masse with automatic 10's? Hard to tell.Back to the movie now. I would say that within its own rather cheap genre ("B" movie), Oldboy is an exceptional production, more attentively scripted, shot and acted than most. There is occasionally some really memorable touch in there, the trace of the hand of a professional (even if you may find the general tone of the movie gross and overboard). On the other hand, compared with most other movies that share comparable ratings, Oldboy seems to be woefully lacking in both substantial and stylistic qualities that would qualify it for such an unlikely honor. There are literally hundreds of 7 to 8 rated movies which are undoubtedly better than this one.If you enjoy this type of "B" (from bloody but not only (-:) revenge movie _anyway_ (the "country relative" of the "film noir" genre), Oldboy will probably not disappoint you. If you expect to watch some kind of unqualified masterpiece, and you have the cinematic culture to understand what that really means, you might (and, I repeat, might) ask for your money back in anger. I have no way of knowing that for sure.


                
I gave this movie a 7/10 because for me it was very original and I have not seen a whole lot like it before. That being said being different does not make it good. Being Korean and subtitled does not make it good either. Here are some problems that I had with the movie.1. The actors are not very good. I did watch the subtitled version because that is the way you "need" to watch a foreign film, but the acting was still very deliberate and over the top.2. The entire plot "revenge" was based on a false blame the anti-hero places on the hero. He knows what he did was wrong, and he knows he killed his sister but he takes it out on someone else in such a deliberate time consuming manner.3. Why does Dae Su keep tunneling out of his "prison". Every time he attempts to kill himself the gas comes in and he is saved. Does he honestly think he can escape? That is insane.4. Keep hypnotizing people to do what you would like them to do. This would make any movie more interesting, but is very unrealistic. Why doesn't any villain just hipnotize his nemesis into destroying himself. It is a simplistic way to arrange the events of the film into a desired manner.5. How many Asian people are there in the world? Why are they all sleeping with their relatives? I for one am all for a remake. The main reason I am pro-remake in this case is because I feel that the acting was so poor in the first. They do it with Asian actors again for all care, it does not have to be an American re-make, however the acting needs to be much better.
OLDBOY (2005) **1/2 Min-Sik Choi, Ji <U+0096>tae Yu, Hye-jeong Kang. (Korean with subtitles) Intriguing mix of "Memento" meets "Payback" by way of "Chinatown" in this mixed bag of revenge, incest and vengeance when simple businessman Choi is abducted and held prisoner for 15 years seemingly inexplicably and when set free is given 5 days by his mysterious kidnapper (Yu) to resolve exactly why he was. Filmmaker Chan-wook Park (who co-wrote with Jo-yun Hwang, Chun-hyeong Lim, Joon-hyung Lim and Garon Tsuchiya) has a strong visual sense overall with his many layered edits and camera angles askew yet ultimately the film suffers in the overblown last act yet Choi makes a very original anti-hero with echoes of Charles Bronson and the "Death Wish" films but something seems lost in the translation with its execution although there are a few highlights including some visceral fight sequences and the edge-on-your-seat intrigue as to how the payoff will finally arrive.


                
"Oldboy" is best viewed on a clean slate. I knew nothing about it before watching it, only that a friend recommend it. Similar in fashion to "Donnie Darko" or "Fight Club" this is a film that once you know the twist and how it ends (and this has a climax ripped right from the bleeding heart of a Greek tragedy) it probably won't hold up on repeat viewing all that well. As such, I will probably avoid watching it again, as it was oddly endearing and I would rather remember it well than think about it too much and ruin the experience.A simplistic and twisted revenge plot gets shrouded in claustrophobic mystery and visual chutzpah (the camera work and color scheming are intense and satisfying, a stunning blend of Scorsese and Zhang Zimou) that tricks the unsuspecting viewer into thinking they are watching something more special than it really is. There's also a fantastic music score blending classical pieces with techno music. The music and the imagery last in the viewer's mind long after the film ends. Unfortunately the story line and characters do not. I suppose on a simple motion picture level (where one views film-making as a purely visual and sound art form) the film is a rousing success. However, if you wish to view film as a story telling art form, this repetitive and contrived motion picture fails miserably. Already pegged for a Hollywood remake that will no doubt pummel the style over substance nature of the film into the ground.


                
I will admit right off that bat that I'm not a fan of the whole "Asian Extreme" phenomenon sweeping across North America right now; as far as horror goes, my heart is grounded in the Spaghetti Splatter of Fulci and Argento; as for revenge, Charles Bronson always "makes the bloodlust grow fonder." "Oldboy" takes a bit from both: a man is imprisoned for 15 years without any apparent purpose, and vainly attempts to break free of his shackles; once he does, he seeks out those who put him there, and embarks on a stylized--yet strangely 'civilized'--killing spree. For much of its running time, my reaction to "Oldboy" was a stupefied "huh?" It has a plot as excessively complicated as a '70s giallo, and often drifts quite far from reality (not really griping, as it provides the film with a disorienting, surreal sheen), but is simply mesmerizing. From the standpoint of visuals and camera work alone, "Oldboy" is as beautiful to look at as Dario Argento's "Deep Red." However, like Argento, the characters are less prone to expressing their feelings outside the requirements of the plot, and while there is a striking humanity underneath the bloodshed of "Oldboy"--it simply isn't enough to elevate it above its own obsession with surface quality. Too bad, seeing as how the potential for greatness is certainly present.6.5/10


                
No movie stands alone. When we watch it, we bring all sorts of expectations to it, and a large part of that is the genre we expect. If we expect style, we are particularly acute in how we judge that factor, for instance.In fact, we've come to rely on how a film announces itself. What I find interesting about this one is that it deliberately subverts any expectations we might have along these lines.For example, most viewers will consider this a "revenge" movie, a very specific subgenre, and judge it on those merits. The problem is that the filmmaker goes out of his way early in the game to announce that these fellows are correct in their assumptions.He then pulls the rug out from under those simple viewers, just as he does the hero. That's the art here, and you'll have to judge just how important it is to you.I've become aware in the last few years how important the entry into a film is. The biggest, most shocking thing a filmmaker does is take us to another world. There are two big jumps he or she needs to make. The first jump is in the first few minutes, where the nature of the work is presented. If the movie is a strict genre film, this is easy because we have so many shorthand designators. Music is important.The second big step has to do with the first plot point. In this case, the episode tells us that the hero (our surrogate) sees only what is intended. His perception is bent, manipulated. His TeeVee is our movie.I registered this against films that weave stories about how stories are woven. The touchstone of course is "Vertigo," where two forces or beings on screen struggle to create a "movie" in front of us, each one trying to define a false future that merges with the similar future of the movie we watch."Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind," "Open Your Eyes," even "Tampopo" are examples of this notion of storytelling, one that is intelligent and engaging. We have three entities as creators here. We have the guy we think is the master creator, Park, who we see borrows images as if he were in a drugged dream and can dream only in terms that he saw before he was locked up and gassed.We have the supposed master manipulator, who hypnotizes, drugs, confines, bribes, and uses force and technology to make things turn out precisely the way he wants. Precisely, with no misstep whatever. Nominally he is the one creating the reality we see, but his manipulation is more perfect than that even of Park, so we know he is suspect.And then we have the fellow that seems to be the puppet. But is he? He is the one that writes. Such comprehensive notebooks or diaries are common code in movies for something we enter. He is the one who dreams, for whom the images on TeeVee become a fantasy life replacing the "real" one.He is the one with the interesting hallucinations that start with the purely hallucinogenic notion of exiting from a truck onto a grassy rooftop. He is the one who eats life, and in fact traces his roots back to the manipulator by surveying restaurants.That business about snow and lost tongue and erased memory at the end. Shouldn't that tell us who imagined or created what we see? This idea originated in "2001," where Kubrick played with the notion of who was narrating what we see: is it man, computer or deity? See this. Register it so that you can enjoy it.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.


                
The story is quite original. A guy wants to find out the reason why he has been imprisoned for 15 years. Yet in the end it turns out that he has asked the wrong question. Instead of "why 15 years imprisoned", he should have asked "why is he let free now". The choice of music in violence scenes is also quite interesting.I find however rather difficult to empathize with those people. Both the ultimate motive and the ultimate punishment are about incest. Obviously in the Korean culture incest is taken really seriously and you are supposed to really suffer psychologically when you learn that you have had it unknowingly. Rationally I can understand it. Yet emotionally I can't feel it. My natural reaction would be "okay. I have slept with my daughter/father. So what?"
I wasn't able to find the time to see Oldboy at the cinema despite the overwhelming praise it received on release, so I had to wait until today to see the DVD.Looking at the voting results here the split between the usual "love it" or "hate it" responses are even more marked than usual and I've been looking forward to the DVD release so that I could make up my own mind. I'm a little disappointed to admit that I neither love or hate Oldboy.Oldboy is not a bad film, but it didn't bowl me over as I'd been hoping - maybe the months of anticipation meant that my hopes were always going to be dashed.The main problem with this movie is that it's just not very well explained. OK, that can be expected in the beginning where we are all as confused as Dae-su Oh, but too much of Oldboy is played out without the audience having much of an idea about what they're seeing.The explanation, when it arrives after a brief period of simplistic detective work, is something of a disappointment and, frankly, seems fairly trivial compared to the effort expended on exacting revenge for it. Dae-su Oh had forgotten the incident himself, and I really couldn't blame him.Overall, definitely worth watching for the great atmosphere and some nice set pieces, but a little underwhelming in the final analysis.


                
One of the most weird, twisted movie I've ever seen. The ending is nothing short getting slapped in the face with a pan.
P.s. maybe there was just a bit too much incest and rape for my tastes.


                
Before seeing Oldboy, I had heard a lot of good things about it. Many of my friends loved it and many respectable critics also praised the movie. The fact that it won prestigious awards from numerous festivals doesn't hurt either. However, this film seems to be the kind of "hate it or love it" type of film. Even in IMDb.com, many people believed this is one of the greatest films coming out of Korean while others said it sucks.For me, after seeing it, I feel that it is a pretty good movie, visually stunning with sharp script and dialogs. All the actors did good jobs on their parts. Choi Min-Sik gave us a good performance as Dae-Su and so did Yu Ji-tae as Woo-Jin. The chemistry between these two is so good that we can feel the intense between them. However, as smart as the script is, the film suffers from the over-dramatized ending, typical for Korean movies (IMHO only). It seems like after a superb first 90 minutes of the film or so, the director tried too hard to impress us with the ending. The last scene between Dae-Su and Woo-Jin is totally too intentional and over-dramatic; I was disgusted. For me, it is sad because the film, a little after its first half, was on its way to be the best movie from Korean in my list. The ending, however, ruined it all; it's like after eating half a bowl of delicious soup, you find out that there is a pubic hair in it.Anyway, it's not a bad movie, by all means. Kudos to Choi Min-Sik for his great performance in the first half of the film; he really put a lot of effort to it. Park Chan-Wook, the director, is, well, still Park Chan-Wook; great potential but never fully materialize his greatness. I'll look forward to his next film if he can really make it next time.


                
Old boy is not a realistic film. Its characters are cut outs from some hyper thriller genre. Its plot twists are obvious devices to move the story along. And if these things mentioned are not important to you than it is likely you will be entertained by everything else; the camera trickery, the shocking torture scenes, and the comic book inspired story.Old boy is a film made in a Hollywood vein. It is more sensational than anything else. In order to move the characters along Park has placed devices (deus ex machina) with the use of planted cell phones, surprises in boxes, uncovering things the viewer nor the main character, Oh Dae-su, had known. Is this a bad device? No. Its a common device used in many films. Could the story work without these devices? No. And because of this Oldboy works in the thriller genre. Yet Oldboy doesn't surpass any kind of film conventions in this in this genre to receive special praise.The torture scenes are used more to shock than to tell anything new in the story. An example of a film where torture, very graphic torture, is not some cliché shock device but more so a comment on human relationships, pain, societal indifference, is Takashi Miike's film, Audition.Lets not be so hasty in disregarding this film as bad, because bad it is not. It has moments. The opening is definitely an attention grabber - a guy holding a poodle being held by his tie from a building rooftop by some dark faced figure, Oh Dae-su's pleading, after finding out the biggest secret (plot twist), where he performs a disturbing masochistic act, and of course the one long take of the fight scene where Dae-su beats up some forty people. All that is cool. And the film throughout was cool, maybe mostly cool for cool's sake, until the end.So if you're looking for entertainment with torture, blood, sex, fighting, topped with a comic like story of revenge, this film will definitely work for you. And if you are profoundly moved by the genius of this film, I'll be very suspicious. ALl in all, 7 out of 10.


                
Oldboy is a peculiar movie, very well directed, full of original twists and with a double spectacular finale.Until half of the movie I found also some amusing dialogs and situations that made me laugh but then the mood becomes very dark and smiling ceases in favor of some gory scenes, and violence prevails. It reminds me Tarantino Pulp fiction and Reserevoir dogs, but in a more realistic and gruesome fashion.It is an original movie, very crude and harsh with some defects and plot holes such as the main character that comes out of a fight with 15 adversaries with a knife stabbed in his back, the hardly believable 15 years of prisony, the hypnotism explanation, etc A nice experiment that should be seen, definitely.
People tend to find me as a contrarian, but I think I am would be more of a rationalist. Oldboy has a nice "one liner" story line, but in my opinion, does not deliver in its most climactic point, at least as I have expected it to. The movie starts out with our main protagonist Dae-su, drunk in a police station on way home to his daughter's birthday. He never makes it home, because he gets kidnapped mysteriously and puts into a hotel- like prison for 15 years. At first I really liked this idea and where it was going. It was sort of Kafkaesque and abstract. I like to a certain extent surrealism in a movie, and I consider David Lynch one of the best at doing this. It never seems exaggerated, and the blend mystery with lust and sometime horror seems just right, all of it happening in our mind, because we are wired to think in patterns and in the dogma of society. Oldboy was somewhat trying to mimic this surreal motive, but in my opinion in an exaggerated, in your face kind of way. There are scenes in the movie that you get the symbolical aspect of it, but in a too direct way. I am not talking about the violence, I am OK with that, but rather the delivery itself of the symbolism itself is done with a shovel, in this case with a hammer. There is no subtleness about it. That is how it felt for me at least. Dae-su is an ordinary middle aged man, average in its all aspects. There is nothing special about him. But as soon as he is released from the "prison", he morphs into what other would call a bad ass, professional ass kicker. He is an Asian version of Neo from Matrix. I struggled a bit with this, as for the profoundness of the movie this seemed irrelevant. Before he is released from the prison he is hypnotized, but he seems to not remember it ever happened. Oldboy is one of those movies where the producer make a lot of cuts in the scenes. I am guessing this is one of the ways to intensify the agony and desperation the protagonist of the story endures. Again, here, the amount of cuts are simply too many in certain scenes. These are again a kind of exaggeration, a shoveling of "hey this means feelings" kind of message that really for me builds up, reaches a climax and the simply collapses due to overfilling. The story nevertheless continues with our protagonist trying to seek revenge on whoever has done this to him. He soon finds out WHO that is, but he wants to find out WHY was he punished. On his journey on finding the truth he falls in love with a young woman he finds in a restaurant. They make, love, they fight, they have trust issues and they grow together through the movie in search for the truth. One of the truths is that Woo-jin Lee, his capturer, was one of his high school colleagues. Dae-su also has a flash back where he sees Woo-jin Lee having incestuous relations with his own sister. Having seen this Dae-su spreads the news, like any other high school student would presumably do, and if I were him I would have also called the police. In the movie present this incest is presented from a very transcendental and profound point of view, where at the end of the day, blankly put, Woo-jin had sex with this sister. When his sister found out that people might know about this, she committed suicide. In the final scenes of the movie Dae-su, goes to confront Woo-jin in his penthouse where he also finds out the truth about why he was captured, that being, that he was hypnotized to fall in love with his own daughter as well. I cannot say I did not expect this, since the beginning of the movie was all about his daughter and then Woo-jin having sex with his' almost gave it away altogether for me. What I really don't get, is again, the over exaggerations in the last scene and more than this illogical actions of both protagonists After finding out the truth, Dae-su cuts his tongue and begs Woo-jin to not let his daughter know about this, and he licks his shoes, instead of wanting to destroy Woo-jin even more for the abuse he did on him. After this, Woo-jin leaves the room, has a short flash back with his sister's suicide and then kills himself. I am not really sure why he felt that he had to do that now, as he himself talk about revenge, but he did not convince me that revenge was his thing. I was more inclined to think that he was an incestuous psychopath. His suicide makes little logical sense to me The movie ends, though, in my opinion with a very nice twist. All throughout the movie Dae-su hears and is driven by this quote: "laugh and the world laughs with you weep and you weep alone". There are moments in the film where he does just this, but his laugh is not real, but rather a cringy grin that was supposed to replace, what would naturally be a weep. In the end, Dae-su goes on to ask the hypnotist to erase his memory so he would not remember what he has done with his daughter. He is outside, in the snow, when his daughter finds him and runs towards him and embraces him. She says she loves him. The movie ends with Dae-su, looking bleak in the distance and slowly starting his cringy grin. This end is interesting because you are left in a suspenseful where you don't really know if his memory was indeed erased and he does not remember what he did with his daughter or he is just grinning as he would usually do throughout the movie. 7/10
It is one of those movies where you can neither guess the reason for the revenge nor the actual end play (by midway). Definitely the emphasis is on style over substance, glorifying goriness than the emotional connect and acting is definitely not its strong suite. Despite its emotional and language barriers, it is a victory for movie making by having a stranglehold on audience attention up until 90% of the movie. Dae-su Oh (Min-sik Choi) is a careless drunk and has rubbed many people the wrong way. On his daughter's birthday, he is abducted and put in a room without giving a reason for the cause. He is put in an independent room of an apartment without any scope for a conversation except for a television, mostly drugged, fed the same duck dumpling and occasionally visited by a hypnotist. As he prepares himself by learning boxing and other martial arts from what he can gather from television to extract revenge on the person who might have done this to him and also digging a tunnel in parallel for his escape, one fine day he is let off after 15 years. Can he do what he has been preparing for?It is a captivating premise to be imprisoned without knowing the reason and source while also keeping the audience in the same state of ignorant mind as the protagonist. This establishes an empathy from the audience who will embark on a journey with the protagonist till the end of story (or the reveal). As the hype builds up over a period of time, it cannot be fizzled out with a run-of-the-mill reason and that's where the story kicks into another least expected dimension. All the loopholes and misfires are temporarily forgotten and we change to the new ride and hop along with a renewed interest which again acts in the movie's favor.A special mention should go to Ji-tae Yu who plays the character Woo-jin Lee, he does it with such elan that makes you think that you are not just seeing a good vs. evil story. The story and screenplay is well thought out and executed that greatly influences how the editing eventually turns out. While the boldness of the content is surely to be appreciated in a mainstream cinema, the way it ends is what emphasizes the grayness of the human mind. A classic generally attributes to how the audience reacted to it rather than how well it is made, in that aspect Oldboy definitely is a cult classic that overcomes the goofy acting, uneven scenes and continuity issues to become something that is much more.Less you know about it, more you can enjoy its forbidden, adventurous and a bumpy ride.


                
OldboyAt it's heart there lies a story of lost innocence and revenge. In this journey, director Chan-wook Park, travels a road where we question what lies after the righting of a supposed wrong, and the price that man will go to in order to maintain a sense of not knowing.As has become the tradition with much reporting of graphic Southeast and East Asian cinema, a focus on violence and vivid imaginary overshadows the intricacies of narrative development. Of course it doesn't hold an eighteen rating for no reason, but for a moment lets forget some of the comic-book violence in which it excels. Our story focuses on the 15-year imprisonment of Dae-su Oh (the man who gets along with others),confined to a dwelling that has all the apparent comforts of a modern South Korean apartment, but with the added bonus of piped hallucinogenic drugs making our protagonist more susceptible to hypnotic suggestion. Like our prisoner, for much of the film's duration we are limited to understanding why this event has taken place. In the meantime we are invited to embrace both the intentional and unintentional comic and tragic moments that follow as the ticking years wind the tension of retribution as we go from supposed breakout to the incidences of assumed chance meetings. Where true understanding of our journey is confined and complex questions asked in the last twenty minutes of the film, we are treated to flashes of inspirational camera work and effects, which do not in any way detract from the sense of this film. It would be easy to dismiss the violence as over the top, but as Dae-su Oh asks, does fifteen years of imagery training prepare one for the battles that will ensue. Along that way we are treated to a familiarity of claw hammer and human skull, which will have you both wincing and smirking at the same time. Fistfights that will make you take sharp intakes of breath as bone smacks bone in a not altogether unbelievable way. Although not gripping from beginning to end, you do want to find out the reason for such a complex game of cat and mouse, which in essence is what the plot revolves around. Where it is easily possible to miss some of the bigger questions this film asks, if your able to maintain your interest and look beyond the surface violence, days later you can still find yourself asking what price you would be prepared to pay in order to forget or not know, and whether holding onto grudges of the past are really worth expending all that energy.


                
What is so fascinating about Asian cinema is its radicalism and the extremes. Not only the action and the depicting representation of violence are so radical, but also when it comes to aesthetic issues that exceed the lines of occidental films. Such as "Oldboy" does. An attack in philosophical and aesthetic aspects: brutal, disturbing, traumatic - and beautiful. The Jury of the Cannes festival under the lead of Tarantino could not do differently than present the Grand Prix to the work of director Park Chan-wook."Oldboy" is the second feature film of Park's 'Vengeance-Trilogy' which started with "Boksuneun naui geot - Sympathy for Mr. Vengeance" in 2002. The story is based on a Japanese manga book series. Park tells it in breathtaking, disturbing pictures which reflect the state of consciousness of the protagonist: In moments of emotional safety coined in aerated colors, in moments of revenge left cold and grey. A surreal atmosphere, a fragmentarily way of narrating, and a hardly decoded use of symbolism leaves the viewer without control over the reception of what he is witnessing. Instead he gets into the vortex of extremely emotions where there is actually no way out. Ungovernable anger, distress, fear, love, and pain collide with harsh cuts. The film transfers that chaos to the viewing audience brilliantly. That's what we like about Asian cinema in particular the films of Kitano, Kim, and Miike: The fathom of emotional and aesthetic extremes."Oldboy" is not a birth product of the brain. In nearly every shot there is something surprising, every dialog develops a plot-twist and in every character lies a fascinating secret. Enough material that leaves us thinking about the whole point and rearrange the emotional chaos in our heads, even after days and days.


                
The family does seem to be a focus in Asian cinema, and this is no exception. Being imprisoned in a room for 15 years for no immediate reason is a very good start to an exceptional film. But the closeness of the interiors does not seem to stop once our hero is released to get his revenge.The violence in the film while never meaningless does seem to weave a strong unpleasant backbone that gives the film its vivid consistency. But its not a logic - its never an and in itself. While there is a lot borrowed from the modern stylised thriller, which always involves some sort of identity problem, e.g. Seven, Fight club, Momento etc, the film is much more than the sum of its parts. The director has a sense of timing that can only come about from the strength of the written material.But ultimately this is still Asian cinema, with Asian values, yet its fighting for Western cinema audiences. It will be interesting to see which culture makes way first.


                
Where to begin...? I place myself neither with the 1 & 2 star raters, or the 9 & 10s on this. I personally didn't much enjoy Oldboy as a 2-hour experience, but that said, I can see where those who praise this film are coming from. It's a truly mesmerising film in places, mainly because you can't believe what's happening on the screen, and those who love melodrama and totally unexpected (even if ridiculous) plot lines will love this movie.Oldboy is, put simply, an absolute fest of excesses, and the violence, sex, extreme plot twists, and overacting like nothing else you'll see make it a truly unique bit of Asian cinema. There's everything from live-octopus eating and dental torture, to deliberate- and then oblivious- incest! I'm a big fan of Chinese, Japanese and Thai cinema, but admittedly I'm quite inexperienced in S.Korean. The only other Korean movie I've seen is Brotherhood (Taegukgi)- which greatly impressed me- but sadly I can't say the same about Oldboy.The base plot really attracted me to this movie (along with the IMDb rating). The idea of a normal man being kidnapped and imprisoned for 15 years, and then released without warning to discover the truth seemed like it would make a gripping movie. But I found myself drifting out of the plot as it progressed into more and more unusual and far-fetched directions towards the end. You will no doubt notice that this film is very highly rated on the IMDb, and has made it a fair way up the top-250 list. If I'm honest though, I don't have the slightest idea whether it should be there or not! I think a reasonable conclusion about Oldboy would be that it isn't to be approached as another piece of Asian cinema, or even as a westernised one, but as a modern experiment in cinematic extremes. It will affect you strongly one way or the other, and you'll have to watch it to find out!
There seems to be a great deal of backlash to this film, mostly resting on its supposed technical ineptness. I've heard poor acting - not true. Plot holes? Not particularly, if you take the film on its own terms as a world where hypnotism can actually do such things. Too much violence and gore? I've seen gorier and more disturbing films which did not produce quite the distaste and bitterness in my mouth that Oldboy managed.No, I suggest that in order to understand this movie, you have to understand some fundamentals of drama, and in order to understand why it feels so emotionally unrewarding one has to turn to Aristotle's poetics. Start with books ten and eleven, if you want to get right to the meat (but you'll be doing yourself a disservice). It details the dynamics of reversal and recognition, both of which almost overwhelm the ending.The film follows much of Aristotle's demands for making tragedy excite pity and fear. We have the "man who is not eminently good and just, yet whose misfortune is brought about not by vice or depravity, but by some error or frailty" and as said before recognition. And yet, while watching the film I felt little pity and no fear. Well, the teeth-torture had me cringing, but that's a shock-horror trope which cannot help but have that effect. I think because the film may actually be to wrapped up in theory, caught up in so much crude narrative mechanics that the motivations of the characters are not properly fleshed out. This is a very fatalistic universe which Chan-wook Park has created. The director has embraced the modern shock aesthetic too firmly, and mostly abandoned the poetry which a tragedy requires. What poetry there is lies in some of the films cinematography, when it is not too caught up with spectacle and forcibly impressing the viewer.This is technically a good film, but seems to me to lack grace. The ambiguous ending also seems half-baked. We understand that this character has gone from a good situation to a bad situation, but does the last-minute oddness make it slightly less bad? Perhaps the only way to deal with such a traumatic situation? What was the intent, exactly, to have the relationship between Oldboy and his lover to continue as it does? I don't think that this is a polemic in favor of decriminalizing incest - I suspect that the director just thought it would be another cool way to mirror Oedipus Rex, where the father, blinded, walks off into the sunset with his daughter, to wander the world.Hopefully, the next film will be more Sappho-influenced. For a better, more tender example of modern reversal and recognition, look no further than eternal sunshine of the spotless mind.
Lots has been said about this film. It is neither a classic nor a flop. When I heard the premise for this film I thought it would be great. It intrigued me and I wanted to know what had happened to this chararcter that led to him being locked away for 15 years and then released with some kind of mission. The film starts well and it looks nice. I don't mind the shaky camera work from time to time, that some reviewers seem upset about. Some people love those fight scenes, while I find them all a little childish, but it is a comic book film. There is a reasonable amount of violence, but nothing that would put me off the film. The soundtrack is decent. Unfortunately the film then simply fails to deliver. The plot becomes a little silly, which is a great shame because it could be brilliant. But it's not. Nor is it crap. Okay?


                
I'm always skeptic about eastern movies because I'm too used to American (I mean Hollywood of course) or European point of view, sense of humor and understanding that eastern thinking usually feels naive.This movie is sum of all those = very good acting, good work of film making, nice scenes, quite decent story telling... Technically perfect.But subject of it, things it tries to tell are not very clean or acceptable for average western movie goer.I don't want to bring it to east-west debate/comparison here, I'm an eastern myself actually, but the thing is that the movie tells important things that are not important. It strives to make us believe something foolish, we accept it for sake of the movie and wait to see what will happen and nothing happens. Main concept, prison, all the plan and many things in the movie are unreal and non-logical.There are thousands of men in the real life doing 15-20 years of imprisonment and when they go out they don't attack to first woman they see (some of them might do :).Bad guy says "I raised your daughter from the age of 3 to this age", is this easy to buy for us? What kind of wacko plans this kind of "revenge", puts one in to very special prison (private prison ?? ), waits for 15 years ? Bad guy wants to take the revenge, but obviously our guy didn't know that the girl was his daughter so this is not the same thing bad guy did with his sister, they knew everything. At this point what the movie suggests is not moral in any country or community I believe.So, in general, movie keeps your attention, your don't just turn it off, wait but at the end it doesn't worth it unfortunately.
