I read a review about this movie and am aware what business it made in Korea, but nothing (I mean NOTHING) prepares me for this great work. With the exception of, perhaps, SE7EN, serial-killer movie has never been this good. The story (about real-life killings of 10 women in Korea during the 1986-1991) is compelling enough, but the actors (Song Kang-ho cuts you deep even when he's silent, and his big-city partner offers emotional jolts at the end), the director (effectively plays some scenes in docu-style approach), the cinematography (a shadow creeps out in the paddy field will give you, well, creeps. big one.), and the music (haunting) are welcome bonuses.One scene that impresses me most is the crime-scene midnight chase between a suspect, 2 local detectives, and a big-city detective (who doesn't know his local partners are there watching him). Humorously intense, or intensely humorous, whichever serves you well.The only regret is I saw this one on DVD, while I believe a movie this big (in many senses) deserves to be seen in theaters. Korean movies rarely touch Indonesian theaters.**** out of ****Try to listen the song SAD LETTER in this movie and tell me it's not haunting you. A magnum opus.


                
Beginning in the fall of 1986 and continuing for the next four years South Korea was haunted by the nation's first recorded serial killer. Preying upon women in a remote rural community the killer was both vicious and meticulous, strangling his victims with their own undergarments and leaving nothing of any use to the police investigating the crimes. The killer was never caught.I do not envy any director trying to make a true crime film, particularly not one so high profile and so recent that the crimes still live on in the public consciousness. Stray too far in one direction and you devolve into saccharine sentimentality, go the other direction and you risk crass exploitation. Director Bong Joon-Ho avoided both of these traps by charting an altogether different route: he has made a film that is not about the killer or the crimes or the victims but one that is purely about the police officers charged with the case and the devastating emotional toll it took on their lives. In charting his unusual route Bong has created a bleak masterpiece, one that took home a stack of film awards in its native land but which has been largely neglected on these shores until now.The film begins with the first body discovered, a woman strangled with her own stockings, raped, tightly bound, and hidden in a drainage culvert. The detective in charge of the case is Park Du-Man (Song Kang-Ho) and it is immediately clear that he is out of his depth, that the entire local police force, in fact, are out of their depth. The crime scene is chaos, crowded by reporters and locals trampling over potentially vital evidence. Park himself is not what you'd call a systematic investigator, scoffing at the scientific approach and trusting in his supposedly unerring eye at picking out criminals just by looking at them. He relies on swagger and bravado and the brute force of his uneducated assisting officer Jo Yong-Gu.Serving as a foil to Park and Jo is Seo Tae-Yun (Kim Sang-Kyung) a detective from Seoul who has volunteered to assist with the investigation. Seo is the polar opposite of Park - methodical and rational - and it takes mere moments for the two to clash, clashes that lead to the two of them overlooking some key pieces of evidence.As the film progresses and the body count continues to rise you can feel a sense of desperation slowly settle over the department. Under educated, under manned and woefully under equipped the local force is simply not up to the task. As the realisation that they will not find the evidence they so badly need begins to set in Park and Jo resort to planting evidence to bring in suspects Park picks out with his 'keen eye', suspects they then set out to extract coached confessions from. The process inevitably leads to public humiliation. Soon even Seo begins to lose his faith in reason and just as things bottom out they finally catch a break and settle on a prime suspect, one who truly appears likely to be their man. But can they make it stick? What sets Memories of Murder apart from the crowd are the rich performances from its leads and the sure hand of Bong Joon-Ho. Bong knows exactly what he wants to do with this film and he steers the ship with a firm hand. He has a keen eye for imagery but he consistently avoids the cheap resolve, the quick hit, in favour of a slowly building mood and the film is all the stronger because of it. Song and Kim are both stellar in their roles, giving their characters much needed depth. You can feel their frustration and helplessness continually growing and when the final crushing blow is delivered you can feel their utter despair at being abandoned by a system that they have given their lives to. Bong isn't just asking how this could happen, how someone could be as evil as this killer, but how could a government allow this to happen? How could the police not be given the tools and manpower they so obviously needed to protect the people? The DVD release has been given the standard Palm treatment. The transfer is strong and presented in anamorphic widescreen. The film is presented with both the original Korean language track in 2.0 stereo and an English dub in both 2.0 and 5.1. The English subtitles are solid, clearly translated and easy to read. The disc also includes a reel of cast and crew interviews discussing their characters and the creation of the film as well as an extensive reel of deleted scenes.Memories of Murder is a minor masterpiece, a film that moved Bong immediately onto Korea's A-list of directing talent. It is richly detailed, beautifully performed and disturbing in precisely the way that people need to be disturbed in from time to time. Don't miss it.


                
Being a movie buff and a director in the making, I watched this film (with English subtitles, Korean not being my mother tongue), I was completely blown away by this piece of cinematic excellence. There is not a single thing about this film that I can think of in a negative connotation. I wouldn't want to give away anything about this masterpiece. All I would like to say is that this is a film not to be missed. If I want any of my movies to be globally renowned one day, I hope it resembles "memories of murder" in any form whatsoever.This film simply belongs in the top 10 of the greatest movies ever made. 10/10.


                
My "one line summary" might be too subjective (well it's just an opinion after all), but that's what kind of thought came to my mind after seeing this film. It just sucked me in and didn't let away until the ending credits appeared. I'm really not a fan of this genre which is popular in various "detective" TV series but this film was something exceptional. A perfectly made detective film based on a real shocking murder case in S.Korea in 80's. This is a must see Korean film for everybody and this must be a real pearl for those who love detective stories because perhaps it's the best detective film ever...I give it a 10/10 this film is worth it.


                
Since a synopsis would be redundant here, I'll confine myself to praise alone.Each positive comment that precedes this is accurate. I watched this movie yesterday. I couldn't take my eyes off it. Everything taking place on screen was riveting, from the simple act of walking down a dark lonely road in the rain, to a wild chase by three desperate detectives. This movie held me in thrall.As a new viewer of Asian movies, I try to analyze the reason I tend not to be interested in western works any longer. I finally came to the conclusion that it has to do with the accessibility of the players. They seem to be people first, actors by choice, and stars, by the public making them so.In Memories of Murder, I saw this human factor almost too painfully. By the end of the story, I was in tears. Even now, the mood prevails. It's been so long since these crimes took place, and I don't know absolutely that they remain unsolved, but I think it's the case, and I think about that, and how frustrating it still must be to those who worked on the case.The actors have become the people in my mind, and the horrible sense of defeat that becomes palpable eventually, is heartbreaking. When one relates to the inroads made on the health; mental and physical; of the detectives, who are ultimately portrayed as tireless and completely dedicated to the case, you realize that you've watched something that is historic. You have seen the probable truth.The way this movie draws you into it, so that you are walking through dangerous rain, with a warning shout in your throat, points to the brilliance of the director and the players.It is difficult to say, "I love this movie", just as it is hard to say, I love Silence of the Lambs, because love is a peculiar word to use for such fare.But yes, I love it for the fact that during it, I was in a small village in South Korea in a terrible era of sirens blaring, military dictatorship, and the hopeless pursuit of a serial killer. I landed back here in this time and place with a thud, only after turning off the DVD player, and going to the kitchen for a glass of water. While I was caught there mentally---I felt the desperation, and I felt the defeat and the sorrow of the detectives, who were essentially decent enough human beings when all was said and done.There are not many movies that can time-travel you into their present. This will do it.I most seriously recommend that you view the interviews with the director and the stars (all of them are stars of a special kind in my mind) in order to dispel some of the hold the story will have on you.These are incredibly interesting people, and it's a sheer joy to see them smiling and peaceful. They're intelligent, educated and articulate. The younger members of the cast, the less seasoned, are so beautiful in their desire to do it right.They definitely did it right. They were wonderful, and they thanked the interviewer. How lovely that was to see.I watched the movie using the English subtitles rather than the English dubbing because I wanted the authenticity. The subtitles were very good.


                
Two weeks ago I happened to watch David Fincher's "Zodiac", then (thanks to IMDb) I found out about "Salinui chueok". I got the DVD of the movie instantly and saw it the very next day I saw "Zodiac" and the outcome? I have then decided that no other crime/detective movie can be as goo as this South Korean masterpiece. It is power packed Two and half hour movie with equal amounts of action and emotion.Set in the times of mid 80's, the period in which the military rule imposed strict rules on the civilians, a serial killer raped women and killed them. The movie follows the investigation sequences of the village policeman with the help of the police officer from Seoul. The story deepens as it goes ahead, revealing a whole lot of sub plots, each one telling the complexity of team work and human nature. The last scenes of the movie can set your tear glands to work.The last scene of the movie needs a special mention in which Inspector Park comes to the scene of crime after a long time and a girl approaches him and asks him what he is looking for. And she then tell that a man had been there at that place earlier before (suggestively the Murderer). Inspector Park asks the kid how he looked like and the girl replies, "He looked Normal" saying that she goes away and Inspector Park looks at the camera indicating that the killer might be one of the audience watching the movie. This scene by far is the best one I have ever seen on celluloid so far. Kudos to the director Bong Joon Ho for making a crime master piece.Note: Please do not watch this movie if you do not have respect towards cinema made in other languages and also towards other countries culture and also this movie is not for people who always want a villain in the end!. Saying that I conclude saying, one of the best two and a half hours you can ever spend your life is watching this movie!Cheers!
Having seen a lot of good films this year, I picked this up after watching Thirst and wanting to see more of Song Kang Ho, remembering him being great in the Host. However, I was blown away by the fact that I never found this film earlier and while Song is excellent in it, the film and nearly everything about it is flawless in execution. The story about a detective in a small countryside town who finds a serial killer yet it's the incompetencies of the police force in general and human error which leads more and more murders. As the murders continue they find themselves powerless to use whatever clues they have to find the murderer. I'll leave it at that in terms of plot as it the film beautifully pulls you in until it's frustratingly simple conclusion. The cinematography is outstanding with a haunting score worthy of the film's amazing direction. I simply cannot find the words to describe how great this film is. I rarely watch films twice and never watched a film again without getting bored. On repeated viewings, you begin to appreciate the little scenes the director has put in and i didn't pick up one of the running gags until the third time though, they add little to the plot but are enjoyable and fascinating as the director chooses to move at his own pace. While not perfect, the quality of the film brings the smallest niggles to light and while there are only a few, this film does not get the recognition it deserves in the west, yet at the same time, it's like a little secret that is appreciated by those who are lucky enough to find it. As with any murder and mystery, you'll be looking for clues, even on multiple viewings but at best you'll be grasping at straws and jumping to conclusions until the frustratingly simple ending


                
If you want to know why koreans (especially south koreans) are really into the movie you gotta know the history of 80's korea. during 80's south korea had been ruled by military government. Do you remember the siren which sounded when the killing is happen? that siren was controlled by military government. after the siren, nobody is allowed walking outside. they might think it could suppress commiees or anti-Gov gruop action.  AS you've seen the siren had become the perfect chance for murder.
Memories of murder is a masterpiece.WOW! what a brilliant piece of film making!.The colors are filled with suspense and saturated with Korean attitude. I have seen a lot of movies about detective. Memory of murder is the best ever made.This definitely is one of my favorite film. The atmosphere create tension that keeps you at edge of the seat and keep you guessing.You want to understand this movie? You should know Korea history .This movie has many symbols,refer to<U+FEFF> dictatorship. This movie is based on a true serial murder case and they never caught the<U+FEFF> culprit. Between 1986 and 1991 ten women were murdered. There were nearly 3000 suspects questioned and 1.8 million police tried to find the murderer, but he has not been caught yet.I won't hesitate to give this a 10/10 rating. To be very honest, no other thriller impressed me this much.Surely Hollywood must learn lot from this Mesmerizing film.Each and every frame of this movie is important.Bye Hollywood, hello Korea.Almost best film in Korea<U+FEFF> right now so far.Trust me, you wouldn't wan't to miss this brilliantly acted, brilliantly paced, brilliantly shot, brilliantly written, brilliantly directed (etc.) BRILLIANT FILM. the BEST detective&thriller movie! And i<U+FEFF> really have to say the ending scene is once again, just beautiful.Highly Recommend.


                
It's been a while since I wrote a movie review, but so blown away was I by this masterpiece of moody suspense that I had to pen down something. I have seen only two Korean movies in my life so far and both have been among my favorites – this one and Oldboy. If that's not a sign to watch a few more of Korean cinema, I don't know what is.At its heart, the story is based on a real life incident in the 1980's in a small province in South Korea. A couple of women are found murdered - their corpses mutilated and their faces gagged with their underwear. It's a brutal crimes, the kinds of which has probably not been witnessed before in this sleepy town and the bumbling local detectives prove themselves hardly adept at apprehending the perpetrator. Crimes scenes are muddied over, evidence mishandles and suspects brought in on a whim to be tortured or otherwise brutally interrogated by the two cops put in charge. A third detective, who comes from Seoul, is assigned to help them and his evident disdain for the local cops' methods and his reasoning of this being in fact the work of a serial killer puts him initially on the wrong foot. However, when a third murder in similarly creepy circumstances is uncovered, the serial killer theory appears validated.That may seem like another cop movie on serial killers and their hunt, but it is anything but. The story is taken as merely a canvas to paint a wide tapestry of human emotion and character which focuses more on the internal demons which haunts each of these characters. The cinematography and music perfectly captures this mood – slow burning, understated, grime tinted and devastatingly effective. This is not a neatly wrapped up ready to order thriller. This is a movie where the cinematic techniques and writing are at their most superlative. The ending can be considered open ended, unsettling and maybe unsatisfying for some, but bear in mind – this was based on a true story, and this was never meant to be just about the case. A more popular movie which it brings to mind is David Fincher's underrated but very good movie, Zodiac, in terms of its similarities of theme and approach, but I would say this is still miles ahead of that little gem. This is brilliance painted on the canvas of our movie screen. One of the rare 10's I'm giving.


                
A crime-thriller movie has never been this better I think. 'Memories of Murder' offers some elements that some kind of crime movies don't have. First hour of this movie moves quite slowly, many investigations and jokes in it which is enjoyable to see. It shows how real-life detective investigates, makes suspect confess and sometimes cheats the evidence if it's necessary. And last an hour of this movie is so tense and brilliant, especially near ending of it. Bong Joon Ho shows his genius idea by adapted an unsolved true story into a terrifying and memorable film, also combining with some jokes that makes 'Memories of Murder' not boring to watch. What makes it different from other detective movies are some unclear evidence doesn't always lead it to the killer, perhaps it's just an accidental or coincidence. For me, 'Memories of Murder' is one of the best crime movie ever created and the one that could be remembered for a long time.


                
Belongs in my top ten list, never seen something like it before, better than se7en by ages, the direction is just super-fictionally amazing with music that will leave you breathless, and a plot that's complicated as the most professional maze, and the acting that so real that you would go looking for the characters in archives, it's a shame that a movie like this one is greatly underrated, this movie proves that the Korean film industry is gap-ply more amazing than any other film industry found anywhere else, film is not suitable for children at all, Stanley Kubrick wouldn't have been able to direct a movie like that in that way of perfection, Kwang-rim Kim and Sung Bo Shim wrote the most perfected plot i've ever seen so far


                
I am moved to comment after seeing references to the film "Seven". I found "Memories of Murder" to be as unlike "Seven" in style and form as "Star Wars" and "Alphaville" are different sci-fi films.Anyone should enjoy this movie because it is as well made as any film you have seen that you thought was great. Story, acting and filmcraft all are first rate and come together to show what life was like in South Korea in the mid 80's and weaves the story of of a small group of policemen and policewomen around and through that daily life. The portrayal of the cops is honest and brutal. They are as flawed as any of us are and do things they shouldn't. Their own frustration with the system is apparent as they take it out on suspects and each other. The Korea of the 80's is also fascinating as students riot and the whole population practices Civil Defense drills.The murders are dealt with almost entirely from the cops POV; that is, we see the aftermath and search for clues and evidence. There is plenty of frustration there as the cops we get to know can't get enough uniformed police to control crowds of gawkers and stop people destroying evidence by stepping on it as the murders continue.See this movie if you like detective stories, or murder mysteries or if you like true event dramatizations.But the main reason to see is it's just an all around good movie.
This one got it all, beautiful camera work, a great plot, superb actors and an excellent story.This is eye candy, and mind candy! You get funny moment and suspense, thrilling moments and some gore! The only movie I can think of to rival this masterpiece is Joint security area (also starring Kang-ho Sung) and that's saying a lot.I had the chance to see it during a film festival in Sweden a few years ago, and I've watched it 3 times on DVD after that, and it gets even better the more I watch it. The film present you with a lot of gags together with several deep moments of sharing the pain of the victims. So don't just expect a heavy Asian flick, filled with understated emotions, try this and you will go on a roller coaster of emotions, from total happiness to complete sadness within a few minutes.


                
(Minor spoilers below) The first thing I noticed in Bong Joon- ho's newest film is the blocking and cinematography. Every dialogue scene is essentially blocked and shot perfectly, cutting only when necessary and keeping all of the relevant information clear in every shot. Beyond that, however, lies characters that are all far from perfect, but always believable and absorbing.Memories of Murder is essentially a crime thriller/drama with comedic elements and a bit of social commentary. But do not go into this expecting it to be a comedy thriller, because as the characters get more and more serious about the case, so does the film. In fact, the comedic elements essentially stop after the first hour or so.The first time the two main characters meet, there is immediately a conflict between them. Basically the conflict between them is each of their methods for finding the killer; one of them tries to brute force a confession from a possible suspect and will investigate simply based on word of mouth, while the other sticks to the documents and the facts. This killer basically starts out as means for competition between the two of them, each one trying to find the killer through their own methods. But as they become more and more absorbed with the case, they don't necessarily become friends, but both of them start working towards a common goal, both of them using each other's methods.But this film is more than just a 2 way character study. It is also a commentary on what cops are allowed to get away with because of their power. 2 of the cops in this film are incredibly violent and short tempered, and not very smart. The characters pretty much get away with torturing innocent people (and almost killing one), trying to put an innocent man in jail, and inciting one extremely violent bar fight. While it may not be as bad as the criminal they are chasing, those are things most people would go to prison for if they were not cops. We put a lot of our trust in the police, but what we don't realize is that sometimes the people they give the power to, may not be the ones that deserve it.But hands down, the greatest part of this film is the overwhelming amount of tension it builds. This movie starts chugging along after the first murder (which occurs in the first few minutes) and gains momentum for the rest of the film, building to one of the most intense climaxes I have ever seen. As the characters become obsessed with the case, so do you. Every suspect is thoroughly examined not only by the characters, but by the viewer. Every possibility, every clue, building to one of the most immersive and captivating films I have ever seen.I will not spoil the end in this review, but I will say it was basically the perfect way to cap this film off.
One of the greatest serial killer movies of all time! Bong's style and storyline are unmatched in this mystery-thriller! Its powerful to see the police struggling during military control in the midst of a dire situation. The most effective aspect of the movie has to be the fact they the killings continue to grow as the movie goes on, and the identity of the killer remains hidden. That being said, the tension is high and the police must act quickly with limited resources, so its not so much the killer is super human, but that the police are just as human. The movie stays basic, it doesn't involve elaborate SWAT teams, over the top shoot outs, crazy car chase scenes, but instead it stays grounded and unfolds simple clues to pinpoint the killers identity. This is one of the greatest movies of all time, a must see!Full Review at: http://www.simplefilmreviews.com/2014/05/memories-of-murder-2003.html


                
It's been a while since I've seen this great murder mystery based on South Korea's only known serial killer but it was one hell of a movie.You've got your inept cops just looking to appease the scared public by finding any way and using any means to pin the murder of girls on a mentally slow guy who isn't smart enough to know he's being used and framed all the while a smart detective figures out the killer's modus operandi and tries to get the information to the cops but they are dismissive and plod on their own frustrated and angry path to finding the killer. But a break in the case is when the mentally slow person reveals he has seen the murder and is about to tell them who it is when all of a sudden....And I'll leave it at that.


                
Bong Joon-Ho is a director that I knew a little about back in 2006 when I saw his wildly entertaining monster movie the Host. I had only seen that one film from him, but kept him in mind as someone good in the Korean film world (that is someone not Chanwook Park or Kim Ki-Duk). With this film, Memories of Murder, he's more than that now. As one goes through this tight murder mystery, based more on character and on the frustration of a clear pattern of a killer who makes it just a little too hard for the detectives to track down, you forget about the world around you or the time and just focus in on this story, of the grim line that delineates how to find a serial killer. Maybe it's because Joon-Ho knew that he was making a movie about the first ever serial killer in South Korea that he had to make it this way, about clash between inexperience and professionalism and right and wrong that's demonstrated here.It's not an action movie, but a character study, as non-conventional in its outcome or in its style as something like Fincher's films Se7en and Zodiac (for the former there's even so much as a specific shot and scene that is lovingly ripped-off, and the latter, well, just see the results of the case to know what I mean). It's the story of a series of rape/murders in a rural area of South Korea during a time of military dictatorship (watch out those 'citizen' alarms!), where women are being murdered and all in a pattern: wearing a red item of clothing, when it's raining, and when a specific and *sad* song is requested and played on the radio. While the local detectives Park Doo-Man and Cho Yong-koo try and shake down a confession out of a couple of suspects, one obviously mentally retarded, a seemingly hot-shot cop out of Seoul, Seo Tae-Yoon, comes in to help with the investigation and practically takes it over since he is, frankly, best at the job. This is not without some protest from the other detectives, of course, who feel threatened by their means of (nasty) interrogation to get a confession.One of the things that marks this as a departure from a lot of familiar serial killer mystery movies in America is the nature of the characters and how they relate to each other. Take the interrogation scenes early on: would you see in a typical movie an interrogation of a suspect where the suspect starts to go along with the detectives' premise just to get the hell out of the room? It's all about the details in the way the scenes are played out, how specifically and different Song and Kim play their roles, even as they're in the same profession and wanting the same end goal.Bong Joon-Ho also gives actors in small parts some fantastic scenes, such as the actor playing the mentally challenged man, or even the woman who somehow escaped the murderer's grasp but didn't see his face. And we get a real sense of these characters as having real conflicts and lives outside of this- sometimes with humor like Park's attempt to find a "hairless man" suspect at a sauna, or with some dark and violent ways like detective Cho who meets a nasty fate after a bar fight. Barely anyone is just two-dimensional, and even the main suspect-killer in the second half plays his blank-faced part perfectly.The characters all work, and the scenario is played out in a superior style (or if nothing else than with efficiency and a clear eye for details in the case arising naturally and without unnecessary melodrama), and on top of this the film looks gorgeous. Joon-Ho and his DP shoot and shoot away, getting some fantastic shots in these fields of the 'Boondocks' where the detectives find the bodies, or in the rain, or in a short burst in slow-motion that is just the right touch. A similar approach to artistry could be found in the Host, where an attention to light and dark and how to paint black and night scenes don't mare anything with the story itself. Particularly haunting is how he films the glimpses of the killer's-scenes-at-work, or in that masterful climax at the railroad tracks at the tunnel. By the end of the film, we don't know for sure if it's all entirely the truth and the whole truth (based on a true case), but it attains a hyper-reality that one can't shake off once it ends. It's a chilling tale that needs to be told, about the dire straits of breaking ground and not everything falling in to place.


                
A total knockout film. A piece of art which has everything one goes to cinema for. From funny to hilarious and then dramatic, emotional, sad and finally shocked. It's a movie without any ending and the one that attaches a hook to you brain and won't let it go. From the publicity posters to the editing, writing and acting this movie is a thoughtful work. At times it would seem like reading an old novel and at times it would seem like watching a nemesis film. There are many flavors which work because of the terrific acting jobs everyone has done. Every character is a perfect fit. Both of the lead cops are opposite to each other and then the shift in their personality to take each other's place. The suspense is very strongly kept through out the movie and there is a ground breaking background score to lift it to new heights. The chase seen from the woods into the village and then the factory site is very thrilling. Another scene involving the train accident is also placed right. There would not be any department or field this movie could be less then great at. Kang-ho Song, is the best thing in the movie. His portrayal of an aggressive cop is top notch. He brings all the humor and then the intensity in the movie. Sang-kyung Kim, also gave wonderful performance. A cop with less known background which is civilized and honest to his job and then loses his control over the event. A movie which will be on your favorite lift forever.


                
Beginning of this movie and the ending are highlights. in the beginning, the child's innocence and the ruthless of the murder contrast and shock.the scenario is warm, with the sun shining, contrast to the cold scene later. then a woman was found killed, the other two women who were killed in the same way were found.Thanks to the foreign senior police, no one was blamed mistakenly by the local polices, one was utilitarian, the other one is violent and ignorant.There is not much description of the procedure of solution to the case, but the movie did highlight the hero , including his wisdom, his upright, his insistent, his kind and his responsibility. The movie also showed the irresponsibility of some policies that just want to close the case and play in dirty to condemn innocent people.Women were killed one by one, while there was still these policies to deal with this case, with no other policies responding to the request of support or may due to the limitation of the number of the policies. In the final scene, the hero's anger reflect people's anger that the murderer murdered many women and he may murder more while we can't do anything due to subjective or objective facts.The case wasn't close in the end ,while we can infer that the two polices may keep investigating if there is some trace of the murderer, because of their responsibility to be a policy.


                
Korean films are just so remarkable and brilliant,I haven't seen one bad Korean film till date but memories of murder is just another level all together though as a woman I find the film sad and disturbing I cannot deny that it is one of the most intriguing film I have seen,it was so realistic and the acting and atmosphere they created was just splendid.Based on true case which happened in Korea and where they could never find the serial killer this film is a masterpiece from Korea though you need real guts to sit and watch the film.The acting,direction and story telling is engrossing and deserves special mention,loved the two chase scenes esp the one in the paddy fields was so damn scary.THe film creates all the thrill and scare with the atmosphere it creates like late evening darkness,rains,red dress it just send some chills down my spine.Hats off to the whole team of this film for making a memorable film.


                
This is a film I would consider an art piece. There are few films that I consider legitimate works of art and this is one of them. The entire film felt like an expression of conscience rather than the usual film that creates falsified emotions and hogwash character development. This film was trying to express the confusion and frustration that a person feels when they border on unknown territory. The fact that this was based on a true story creates an atmosphere where the audience should stop questioning the plot, and start examining the human condition. Start to analyze what the film is trying to represent with the idea of being without fulfillment. The visceral frustration that comes out when you just don't have any answers.The cinematography is fairly standard, but it can be gorgeous at times. The characters are well developed. The acting is fine. All of the standard film criteria is met, but this film transcends the standard because of how thoroughly, and originally it examines the frustration of the unknown. I will definitely watch this again.9.7/10!!


                
Any film chosen by Quentin Tarantino in his list of top films is a cause of celebration for the film's director as the metteur en scène would get the feeling of being accepted by a wider audience.However,by being a complete family entertainer,Bong Joon-Ho's film "Memories of Murder" outsmarts any move to include his film to any list.It is not so often that you see comedy, suspense and thriller in the same film.Bong Joon Ho achieves this feat with his wry sense of humor which is able to convince viewers to mock some of life's incongruities.His talent at revealing black humor comes in a hilarious scene which features a chief detective for whom nice shoes are as good as Nike shoes.It is often believed that the bad portrayal of women in South Korean films is heavily resented outside of South Korea too.However, positive portrayal of feminine characters in this film reveals itself as a redeeming quality.If one were to single out the most important element of this film, then it would emerge that the endless frustration faced by police forces when the crooked criminal positions himself a step ahead of detectives would take the large piece of cake.The film features nice performances by its leading men Song Kang-ho and Kim Sang-kyung.Film critic Lalit Rao watched this film at South Korean Embassy Cultural Centre,New Delhi.


                
I won't hesitate to give this a 10/10 rating and a double thumps up because this movie truly deserves it. It was my second Korean movie (first one was Oldboy). To be very honest, no other thriller, be it English, Spanish, or any other language, impressed me this much. The movie started to make a different atmosphere around me from the very beginning and in the end, it took my breath away. I was speechless. Everything about the movie is perfect. Acting, direction, screenplay... the movie is full of life. A perfect blend for a stunning crime thriller. It is the best Korean movie & the best thriller I've ever seen. Highly recommended!


                
It doesn't have the theatrics of The Silence of the Lambs, or the eerie quality of Se7en. But what this film has is a concoction of humour, satire, suspense and characterisation that places it a league above those two great films. This film isn't your average serial killer drama, it has no Noirish quality, and the look is one of beauty and nostalgia. What I think it is, is more of a social commentary and a documentation of a real life event and South Korean politics in the 1980's. The film is highly original, the cinematography has deservedly been highly praised, the acting is top notch (and I wouldn't expect any less from Korean veterans like Song Kang-ho), but what really propels this film into movie masterpiece is the quality of the characters involved. Every character evolves with the story; these are very real three dimensional characters that offer no "police thriller" stereotype. Miami Vice these cops are not.South Korean cinema has been consistently one of the world's best this decade and with visionary filmmakers like Park Chan Wook and Bong Joon-ho. This is one of the best films of the past decade, and it's easy to see why Quentin Tarantino agrees with that sentiment. I couldn't recommend this film highly enough. It's breathtaking.


                
