I'll follow the lead of a fellow IMDb user who reviewed this film negatively and merely list my biggest grievances with this South Korean thriller and add a conclusion at the end. This is not meant to list everything I found bad about this film but to give some rough outline about my thoughts on it.1) The detectives and sergeants involved in the case all commit numerous unforgivable and frankly unlawful acts outside and inside the job and suffer almost zero consequences, to the point that even with the knowledge that some extremely corrupt things do happen in the world you wonder if the setting is in fact supposed to mimic that real world or some fantasy land.The two bumbling in-house detectives torture and coerce suspects into confessing for the crime without the sergeant, some sort of internal affairs or anyone in the department interfering until way, way too late. And even when someone does interfere it's not because they recognize it's morally and lawfully reprehensible, it's because they found a new lead and therefore have no use for the suspect anymore. More puzzling is that the suspects don't sue or try to acquire some sort of reparations.One of the in-house detectives plants evidence and the detective brought in from Seoul to assist them seemingly does nothing about it.The other in-house detective assaults pedestrians and trashes a local restaurant while off-duty because of pressure involved in the case and seemingly the next day he's back on the job with no punishment incurred.2) The detectives and sergeants involved are way, way, way, WAY too incompetent to still be involved with a supposedly high-profile case after the second murder, let alone until the end of the movie. Again, is this a fantasy land?Suspects are released and given seemingly no further attention based on the word of a detective and evidence that are at best circumstantial and inconclusive. (Like seriously, they let their best suspect go because his hands were rough and a live victim described a rape from some years ago whose likeness is similar to the the case and she said the perpetrator had soft hands.) Crime scenes are mishandled very badly.The detectives follow a "lead" about the killer supposedly requesting a particular song in the same day the rape + murders are committed and yet don't think to ask the radio station for cooperation.On that note, why did the detectives think the song being requested is a promising lead in the first place? The detective from Seoul is ultimately revealed to be an emotionally-imbalanced wreck who takes cases too personally.3) Terrible deus ex machina, glaring inconsistencies and just outright unrealistic situations. A police officer finds the connection with a song being played on the same days of the murders based on absolutely zero narrative or logical precedence. She was never shown to be involved with the direct investigation of the case before that, never shown to be investigating the radio station in connection with the case, and the detectives were never interested in the radio station in the first place.The killer supposedly targets beautiful females wearing red and yet towards the end of the movie 2 victims are killed who weren't wearing red, one during a day that wasn't raining. With that how come the detectives were still persistent on the song + rainy day connection, even one of them going so far as attempting to kill the suspect who was found to be requesting the songs? What was the point of the peaches lodged in the victim's vagina? Why the bloody hell is the law essentially nonexistent in a police procedural film? There are no lawyers, search permits, or trials. With the evidence they had the detectives had no cause to detain any of the suspects for as long as they did and at one point they just stroll right into a residence and extract evidence just like that. In conclusion, like other critically-acclaimed South Korean thrillers (The Chaser, I Saw the Devil, etc.) this film has offensively bad writing that distracts from its solid acting, cinematography and premise. You will especially be offended if you've seen smarter and better crafted thrillers as this film is undoubtedly an affront to the genre.
I Can't believe the high ratings about this movie. The direction is horrific, the acting is even worse and after sitting through 2h11m of what could have been at least a rescuable story it is destroyed by and ending that is sooo bad your tv might not survive your remote smashing into it. Do yourself a favor and skip this crap


                
