I don't know if I just watched the same movie as everyone else here because I just finished watching this pile of drivel and can not fathom how it is possible we all watched the same movie. Why the high praise? This movie has holes in the script the size of water melons and I'm going to have to vent them because it will save me writing a review.1) Why didn't the cops just ask the retarded guy in the first place whether he actually witnessed the murder? 2) Why did one of the cops feel the need to fly kick a suspect at every opportunity? What if the suspect is innocent? 3) Why did every male cop in this movie talk to each other in a condescending manner and thus heighten the sense of confusion rather than using sound logic and communication to get across their opinions? 4) Why didn't they just flag the song on the radio and tell the station to contact the police the next time they air the song or receive postcards requesting the song?5) So by the end of this movie the killer supposedly looked very 'ordinary', by that the little girl means...? 6) Why does the director want us to sympathise with a cop who gets his leg amputated by the camera homing in on his discarded combat boots with the shower cap on, to prevent scratches mind you, which might I add was used in order for said cop to kick the living daylights out of 2 innocent suspects in this movie. May I add that this cop's leg was also injured as a result of a brawl whereby cop had to be forcedly hit in the leg to stop him from kicking three kinds of daylight out of an innocent farm girl.7) How is it that 24hour surveillance of a possible serial killer, a serial killer might I add whose every crime has been printed on the daily newspapers, how is it that 24 hour surveillance can be jeopardise by one cop taking a 5 minute nap? 8)Would you really trust a policeman who says his true skill in understanding a criminal is by looking deeply into their eyes? No? Well neither did I, and to boot it turns out he was wrong on every occasion in this movie and possibly by the end had let the killer go as a result of this strange method of interrogation so Er, why is that concept even in the movie?9) Peaches, for real? 10) For such a high profile murder case which supposedly has tons of press following the case, we are made to believe that Korea's finest are what amounts to an overweight drunken lout and his hot tempered side kick, and a nothing Seoul cop whose moment of glory is in finding a connection between all the victims wearing red and being killed on rainy days. Is that all you got? I'm sorry if I come across as someone who is slightly out of touch with whats great in modern cinema but I have to say this movie was poor and had no redeeming features what so ever; cinematography? bah, soundtrack? I can't even remember it, mood? It only disappointed itself, acting? I've seen similar acting in Jackie Chan movies.4/10 people, let's keep things in perspective.
This highly acclaimed film by debut director Bong Joon-ho won best new director award at the San Sebastian Film Festival and was a box office smash in Korea. It follows the story of rural detective, Park's, (Kang-ho Song) unprofessional response to the true story of Korea's first serial killings which took place in 1986. These murders were complicated and pre-meditated, taking place on rainy nights after a particular song had played on the radio, and involving the fetishistic binding and gagging of the female, red clothed, victims. The local police response is to plant evidence, beat suspects for a confession, and consult a Shaman. Luckily an educated detective, Seo, (Sang-kyung Kim) is sent in from Seoul, who believes in scientific methods and logically analysing evidence. This sets up much of the films tension due to the friction between the two leading detectives individual approaches, which come down to the battle between instinct and science. The film is certainly well constructed with strong performances from the entire cast, but it is ultimately unfulfilling. It is aimed firmly at the Korean audience, which may mean that the cultural differences form a barrier between the characters and some Western viewers. Whatever the reason the film remains un-engaging due to the difficulties in emoting with the protagonists. The film also covers old ground, with themes that have been covered a thousand times before in more original ways. Instead of looking like a film set in 1986, it gives the impression that it was made in that year. In typical buddy movie fashion the two detectives begin to learn from each other, and about the nature of their profession. The philosopher Nietzsche states that those who do battle with monsters must take care that they do not thereby become a monster, which is relevant here as Seo begins to throw off his logical methods in favour of beating the suspect he feels is guilty. Meanwhile Park relies less on instinct and leans more towards the logical and analytical approaches. This coupling of opposites had the opportunity to be interesting viewing. However, perhaps the films biggest downfall is also the one aspect that gives it any originality. This is based on a true story, a story in which the killer was not found. This means that the story can only be told from the point of view of the police, leaving the audience in the same frustrating position as the detectives. In thrillers of this type it is customary to have a non restrictive narrative, so that the audience can see what the killer is plotting even if the identity is never revealed. It then becomes a series of moves and counter moves, a puzzle to be solved, rather than a frustrating journey of banging your head against a wall, in which no questions are answered. There are touches of humour that lighten the heavy mood, but it is perhaps the scenes that are not supposed to be funny, such as some of the violent assaults by the detectives, that become the most comedic due to their slapstick tendencies. Another well trodden theme is that it is the ordinary person that commits the most extraordinary acts of violence. Park is sure that the killer must be a pubic hair shaving psychopath rather than, as the audience will have already guessed, an average person. Parks realisation of this is handled competently in the films haunting closing scene. Twenty years after the murders Park has changed careers and is now a salesman that happens to pass by the first crime scene of the murders. Whilst he is there a young school girl comments that another man had been their recently and spoke of how he had done something at that location long ago and wanted to remember it. When Park presses for a description she replies "ordinary", which is the moment of enlightenment for this character, who then stares, not at the camera lens, but into the audience, where the killer may well be sitting.
I must be honest, some of the things the police did made me raise an eyebrow, wondering if this is indeed the way the Korean police conduct their investigations. The police are (once again) depicted as idiots more often than not. Interesting to see in how many Korean movies this is the case.The film starts off as a great mystery, then plummets to the eyebrow-scenes I mentioned above, and after the halfway mark it gets really interesting and suspenseful. I didn't find any actors incredibly good, but not entirely bad either - they just didn't seem all that serious considering the film's plot, and considering this was based on a true story. I thought the film had a lot of trivial scenes that could have been omitted, thereby cutting the lengthy running time. Based on the real-life unsolved murders, the film's ending does not provide any closure.It is nevertheless a good film, though, and if you're into Korean movies, I do recommend you see this.


                
