"Memories of Murder (Salinui chueok)" is an involving, cross-cultural take on the "L.A. Confidential" noir genre of a murder mystery with a political filter, layered with elements that gritty British TV detectives have mastered, from "Prime Suspect" on.While co-writer/director Joon-ho Bong uses the conventions of the contrasting buddy cop movie, sometimes simplistically for comic effect, he has more social commentary on his mind than a captivating investigation into a serial killer and avoids the usual titillating gore fest.Set specifically in 1986, the film visually captures the changes in industrializing, modernizing and politically restive South Korea, where new, dark, noisy factories were sprouting up in the middle of agricultural areas. From the opening shot that could be out of "Witness," we see a peasant bring what looks like a city sophisticated cop to a crime scene.But that's just the start of the conflicting comparisons. We've seen enough "CSI"s to sympathize with him immediately as he hopelessly tries to secure the crime scene for clues despite a Keystone Cops-incompetent forensics and investigative team who keep sliding into the irrigation ditch. But he starts to seem a bit of a buffoon to us as he gives more credence to gossipy tips from his girlfriend than clues from the scene and he manufactures "evidence." Our sympathies are curdled even more as we see him conduct an old-fashioned coercive interrogation of a developmentally disabled suspect -- and he's the good cop. Even without knowing anything about Korean law, it certainly looks like they are compromising the investigation, as his thug partner, who is nowhere as complex as Russell Crowe's Bud White, gets as out of control as a cartoonish "Lethal Weapon" cop, and that cop never grows and develops in the story beyond being a brutality enforcer so becomes a pathetic comic figure. Their complicit boss just seems ineffectual as he's clearly over his head with this kind of murder investigation.But through the background TV broadcasts of demonstrations and civil defense alerts and drills, we gather that their interrogation procedures were more developed through oppressing political dissidents and forcing confessions than professional criminal detective work. Ironically, they ultimately can't get the resources they need in this difficult case because of these politically-drummed up time-consumers, especially for manpower and sophisticated forensic tools that they have to beg from the FBI.The film changes tone and settles down into an intellectual thriller as a classic big city detective is sent from Seoul, and we have some of the interchanges we've seen in "In the Heat of the Night" and in "Insomnia," as the first cop now seems even more of a simpleton in his standard operating procedures of relying on his knowledge of the locals and instincts about human nature (though even a fellow officer teases him about whether he can tell apart a rapist and victim's brother), while the city guy is looking and listening for clues and real evidence, like a Korean "Dalziel and Pascoe." But the tension is ramped up as the killer keeps killing <U+0096> and the film starts showing us the murders as they are about to happen just as the cops are getting hints about his modus operandi and even after the police are on alert. Their frustration at not being able to stop him is grippingly conveyed by the lead actors, as each starts to abandon their usual procedures out of mounting frustration, and by the editing.A droll side bar is that the macho team is given a key clue by a policewoman who they otherwise relegate to getting them refreshments. Their macho attitudes also keep them from learning vital clues from the marginalized men they pick up as suspects.The coda in contemporary Korea is effective, reinforcing a sense of societal complicity is letting such murders happen and go on, though I was curious what happened to the city cop as well as the local guy. I had no idea until I read the IMDb message board that this was a based on a real case, so I appreciate even more that a cheap ending wasn't tacked on.The cinematography and editing are terrific throughout, with many of the scenes in the dark and rain. Particularly dramatic are harrowing scenes along railroad tracks and a tunnel that are reminiscent of stark imagery from Mervyn LeRoy's "I Am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang." It is frustrating for English subtitle readers that not more of the Korean on the screen, such as newspaper headlines or heard, such as the TV broadcasts and pop tunes, isn't translated.


                
This one is a interesting film with a deliberate pace that starts slow, then, builds to a surprising ending.There have been several murders of pretty girls in a small country town. The two local detectives, quickly grab up a mentally challenged kid from the village. It was known that the lad liked the one victim.The two detectives administer some rather forceful third degree to the lad. They then get the lad to record a scripted confession. The case is solved and the two are local heroes.That is, till, a detective sent from Seoul arrives. This detective goes over everything and realizes the boy is not guilty. The boy is released and the local cops are less than amused with the new cop on the block.The new guy quickly shows his stuff though by going over the evidence and finding more victims. The local boys again grab up the first suspect for some country justice. Of course they are a bit too quick off the mark and this man is also innocent. The pace picks up steam as more women are added to the victim list. A woman cop helps out by pointing out all the murders happen on rainy nights, and when a certain song on the radio is played that same night.The net is thrown wider and a girl who survived an attack is located. Off her somewhat cloudy description, a new suspect is rounded up. This time the locals do not resort to the "in your face" interview tactics. They do not want anything that could foul up the court case. The man though does not break, and is set free. The police do however have people tail the suspect.There is a mix-up with the assignments and the tail is lost. Another dead girl is the result. On this victim there is a small bit of DNA evidence not ruined by the rain. This is sent off to the States for the FBI to examine.The evidence comes back as inconclusive. The Seoul detective knows they have the right man no matter what the evidence says. Now he goes off the dead end, he intends to kill the suspect. Does he? Not saying.
This is one of the best Korean movies I have seen. The photography is equal to Janghwa, Hongryeon. It is amazing. Some shots are so perfect it makes your eyes hurt. The colors are filled with suspense and saturated with Korean attitude.It is a slow-paced movie with all the sub-parts you need for a great movie. I seldom sit on edge for over two hours watching a movie, but now I did. This is a great Korean movie; The Rain, local cops, great photo, cool attitudes, comedy, sadness, love, action.... It is simply put in class of "Chan-wook Park" and "Ki-duk Kim". There is suspense throughout the movie; a creeping feeling of frustration as the murders go on and no new evidence turns up. We, the audience, get to share their despair and impotence of the case. It's an haunting experience. I LOVED IT.


                
This movie shows us how all countries in the world are able to make a good movies. South Korean movie "Salinui Chueok" (Memories of Murder) is a very good movie for everyone to watch. Movie is based on real events. Film is about one murder that happens in one little city. Local investigators are on the job in very strange circumstances (it appears that no one knows what to do when something like this happens). Local cops got help from a detective who came from the big city to solve the crime. The story is usual and this is not something new. But this movie is good because it's well directed and at the beginning you can't say how it's going to end. I can only say that I'm satisfied with the movie. You can easily imagine Hollywood stars in roles and script like this, but these actors were very good and all I can say is that this is a very pleasant surprise.


                
It seems that apart from the events depicted and unknown at that time, the film provides a realistic overview of living habits/standards and police activities in the townships of the 1980ies South-Korea: tumbledown buildings, destitute people, brutal police etc. - very different from the 21st century Korea. The plot is constructed so that is spite of hard crimes and police violence, there are lots of dumb-and-dumber type giggling moments related to local policemen's comprehension and handling of events, intensified by a fresh look from the outsider - a cop from Seoul, the capital; all those characters are splendidly deliberated and performed. However, the events are not running smoothly and tensions are not always up high: the length could have been shorter and the ending was not up to my expectations either (true, the story is based on true events, but in films as such the viewers would expect the disclosure of a wrongdoer at least, if not more). Memories of Murder is a nice above-average film, but not among the best Korean films I have seen; as for that period, e.g. Shiri and Silmido are more interesting.


                
Memories of Murder is based on the true story of South Korea's first known serial murders. Against the backdrop of the military dictatorship in 1986,the local detectives Detective Park Doo-Man(Kang-ho Song)and Detective Cho Yong-koo(Roe-ha Kim)investigate a murder case which is totally "alien" to them. To solve the murder case in which the killer rapes and gags the women with their underwear, they just brutally beat up every suspect in their ham-fisted way so Detective Seo Tae-yoon (Sang-kyung Kim)who seems more like a professional who knows what he is doing is sent from Seoul to assist them in the case. He easily realizes that this is not a typical easy local case but he has to convince his two other partners that they are actually dealing with a serial killer. No matter how much he feels up to the task, it won't be easy for him to convince his partners with the lack of all the accouterments of modern technology.The evidence is improperly collected, the misused forensics leads only to a morass of inconclusive evidence, and a serial killing is not something that the local detectives are used to. Though it sounds predictable,clichéd and corny at some points,Memories of Murder really gives the you the spirits.You just put yourself in those detectives' shoes...Those detectives who are torn apart between anger and helplessness of someone who can't just solve one problem which looks so easy but which is actually so evasive.It touches you indeed.Somehow Detective Seo's snapping with fury at the end of the movie because of the inconclusive DNA report and the increasing number of the murders reminded me of Eom Joong-ho,(in The Chaser)former police officer turned pimp who is running for the life of one of his girls at one last attempt.
Are South Korean policemen really this bad? The movie made them out to be incompetent, corrupt and laughable.There was use of tension, humour, grime, love, hate, dirt - all pulling you in to the story. But something was lacking - and for me it was the portrayal of the police. They ended up seeming like keystone cops and I couldn't relate to them or take any of their posing-for-the-camera seriously.The part of the movie that stayed with me was the use of young girls in several roles and how that expressed (a loss of) innocence.From the reviews I had hoped for more from this movie. I'll have to settle for slightly less.


                
This is a Korean movie whose reputation preceded it before I sought it out. I had already seen two Bong Joon-ho movies ("The Host" and "Barking Dogs Never Bite") so in my readings, I had learned that his masterpiece is actually this "Memories of Murder." "Memories..." is about a small very rural town which was terrorized by a serial killer who victimized young women on rainy days in the 1980s South Korea.The local police detective of that town (played by Song Kang-ho, whom I saw before in "The Host" and "The Show Must Go On") employed very backward simplistic reasoning in his investigation and violent interrogation techniques on his hapless suspects. The case also attracts a detective from Seoul (played by Kim Sang-kyung) who offers his help in the investigation.But since their logic and approach are polar opposites, the two detectives are constantly at odds with each other. The local detective would especially want to one-up his big city counterpart. This conflict became the source of hilarious black comedy, as well as very effectively tense dramatic moments. I felt this flawed cooperation between these two characters is the heart of the movie, while the serial killer mystery was merely a backdrop.My description here of the film is very broad. There are many gems of character development scattered throughout the film that are very noteworthy as well. The director very frankly captured the atmosphere of the time, with those creepy scenes while the women were stalked, the feeling of sheer helplessness by the police as a whole, as well as how the case affected each cop personally. The ending is quite abrupt and unexpected, but I read afterward that that was how it actually happened in real life (yes, this movie was inspired by a real case!).This is a highly recommended movie in my opinion. Warning on some gory scenes of corpses for those who are queasy. I definitely would like to watch more Korean movies after this one.
The story jumps right into the focus without any wasted second for the opening. The pace goes nicely with a normal speed. The mood is well kept with the mystery just keeps eluding the main characters. It's a great job done in directing the scenes. The drama side gets to feel very intimidating to see, even the smaller laughs inserted as a color feels very funny. I saw Snowpiercer before I saw this, and now my appreciation towards Bong Joon-ho grows even more. He can get the exciting part out of even the normally ordinary scene. Song Kang-ho did a very great job, doing his signature smirk almost all the time, making this kind of character his specialization.


                
