This film shows the best of the American cinema. Whether we like the film, or not, one has to recognize the greatest achievement, perhaps, of the creative talent of the people working in the movie industry. "Gone with the Wind" represents a monumental leap, as well as a departure, for the movies, as they were done prior to this film.The vision of David O. Selznick, the power behind bringing Margaret Mitchell's massive account about the South, before and after the Civil War, pays handsomely with the film that Victor Fleming directed. This movie will live forever because it reminds us of how this great nation came into being, despite the different opinions from the two stubborn factions in the war."Gone with the Wind" brought together the best people in Hollywood. The end result is the stunning film that for about four hours keep us interested in the story unfolding in the screen. Of course, credit must be due to the director, Victor Fleming, and his vision, as well as the adaptation by Sydney Howard, who gave the right tone to the film. The gorgeous cinematography created by Ernest Haller gives us a vision of the gentle South before the war, and the Phoenix raising from the ashes of a burned Atlanta. The music of Max Steiner puts the right touch behind all that is seen in the movie.One can't conceive another Scarlett O'Hara played by no one, but Vivien Leigh. Her beauty, her sense of timing, her intelligent approach to this role, makes this a hallmark performance. Ms. Leigh was at the best moment of her distinguished career and it shows. Scarlett goes from riches to rags, back to riches again and in the process finds an inner strength she didn't know she possessed. Her impossible love for Ashley will consume her and will keep her away from returning the love to the man that really loves her, Rhett.The same thing applies to the Rhett Butler of Clark Gable. No one else comes to mind for playing him with the passion he projects throughout the movie. This is a man's man. Captain Butler was torn between his loyalty to the cause of the South and his sense of decency. His love for Scarlett, the woman he knows is in love with a dream, speaks eloquently for itself.The other two principals, Olivia de Havilland and Leslie Howard, give performances that are amazing to watch. Ms. de Havilland's Melanie Hamilton is perfect. Melanie is loyal to the woman that does everything to undermine her marriage to Ashley. Mr. Howard's Ashley gives a perfect balance to the man in love with his wife, while Scarlett keeps tempting him.The rest of the cast is too numerous to make justice to all the actors one sees on the screen, but omitting the contribution of Hattie McDaniel to the film would be sinful. Ms. McDaniel was such a natural actress that she is excellent no matter in what movie she is playing. This huge talent is a joy to watch.Comments to this forum express their objections to the way the race relations play in the movie, but being realistic, this movie speaks about the not too distant past where all kinds of atrocities, such as the slavery, were the norm of the land. While those things are repugnant to acknowledge, in the film, they are kept at a minimum. After all, this film is based on a book by one of the daughters of that South, Margaret Mitchell, who is presenting the story as she saw it in her mind, no doubt told to her from relatives that lived in that period of a horrible page in the American history.Enjoy this monumental classic in all its splendor.


                
Before I ever saw Gone With the Wind, I was well acquainted with Max Steiner's theme. It opened WOR TV's Million Dollar Movie before every broadcast in New York in the Fifties and Sixties. When my parents took me to see Gone With the Wind in one of MGM's re-releases as the film music started in my youthful eagerness to show off my knowledge I remarked to all who could hear that that was stolen from Million Dollar Movie.Million Dollar Movie is gone now, but Gone With the Wind, book and film, remain eternal. In these days Margaret Mitchell's southern point of view book might have trouble finding a publisher, let alone selling film rights to the story. But it is a tribute to her and the characters she created that they remain alive in everyone's mind who reads the novel or sees the film. And that's just about the same because I can't think of another film that remained so faithful to the text.It is said that Margaret Mitchell wrote the book with Clark Gable in mind as Rhett Butler. As the sober and ever realistic, but charming Rhett, Gable for most of the film is playing a character not to dissimilar from what he usually played on screen. However in the last half hour of the film when he's hit with unbelievable tragedy and he edges to the point of madness, Gable reached dimensions he never did before or subsequently. If Mitchell knew who she wanted as Rhett, nobody knew who would be Scarlett. The search for Scarlett O'Hara is one of those Hollywood legends as every actress with the possible exception of Edna May Oliver read for the part. Gone With the Wind started filming without a Scarlett as the famous burning of Atlanta sequence was done first. While it was being down, David O. Selznick settled on a fairly unknown British actress, at least in the USA, Vivien Leigh.It was a stroke of casting genius. Vivien Leigh's screen output is pretty small, she was primarily a stage actress. Gone With the Wind is more her film than Rhett Butler's. The story is her story, how she evolved from a flighty young southern belle to a hardbitten woman who is determined to survive in the style of living she's become accustomed to from the pre-Civil War era. In the process she helps all those around her economically, but loses all their previous affection. I've always felt the key scene in the film is after Leslie Howard tells Leigh, he'll be marrying Olivia DeHavilland and Leigh makes a fool of herself with him, she finds out that Clark Gable has overheard the whole thing. He's fascinated by her, but because of that he's on to all her ploys.Leslie Howard usually comes in for the smallest amount of analysis among the four leads. His Ashley Wilkes is not all that different from Alan Squire in The Petrified Forest. Imagine Squire as a wealthy plantation owner and you've Ashley. He's stronger than he realizes though, he's the one that reluctantly enlists in the Confederate Army while the cynical Rhett Butler makes some big bucks as a blockade runner.I've always felt however that the most difficult acting job in Gone With the Wind was the role of Melanie Hamilton. Olivia DeHavilland after initially considering trying out for Scarlett, decided to go after Melanie. It's a deceptive part, superficially it's a lot like the crinoline heroines DeHavilland was doing at Warner Brothers. Melanie is the counterpoint to Scarlett, an incredibly kind and decent soul who can't see bad in anyone. One of her best scenes is with Ona Munson who is Belle Watling, the most prominent madam in Atlanta. The other women of society snub her, but DeHavilland accepts her help for the Confederate cause. It's not about politics or slavery for Melanie, her husband is at war and his cause is her's.And DeHavilland's death scene would move the Medusa to tears. It's a great tribute to the playing skill of Olivia DeHavilland in that Melanie NEVER becomes a maudlin character. She got her first Oscar nomination for Melanie in the Supporting Actress category, but lost it to fellow cast member Hattie McDaniel as Scarlett's mammy.Hattie's a shrewd judge of character, she's a slave, but she's also a family confidante of the O'Haras. As Gable says, she's one of the few people he knows whose respect he wants.Of course Gone With the Wind is from the southern point of view. Growing up in Atlanta, Margaret Mitchell heard reminisces from many Confederate veterans and the stories they told found their way into Gone With the Wind. It's about what the white civilian population endured during the war and Reconstruction.David O. Selznick got a bit of irony in there though. Please note during the burning of Atlanta the slaves who are being marched out to dig trenches are singing 'Let My People Go.' And that's just what the Union Army was coming to Atlanta to do.Gone With the Wind copped so many Oscars for 1939 that Bob Hope quipped at the Academy Awards ceremony that it was a benefit for David O. Selznick. Of course it was the Best Picture of 1939 and Vivien Leigh won the first of her two Best Actress Awards.Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer kept itself in the black for years by simply re-releasing Gone With the Wind. Unlike any other classic film, it won new generations of fans with theatrical re-release. Somewhere on this planet there are people seeing this 67 year old classic and it is winning new fans as I write this.And I think Gone With the Wind, the telling of the interwoven lives of Rhett, Scarlett, Ashley, and Melanie and the world they knew, will be something viewed and read hundreds of years from now.


                
Margaret Mitchell's Gone with the Wind, in its true essence, is a case study on the Old American way of living where pride and honor were the very essence of human existence. Victor Fleming's rendition of the classic novel, a classic within its own right, does full justice to the themes propagated by Mitchell's evocative masterpiece. In the words of Mitchell herself, Gone with the Wind is the story of the people whose gift of gumption gave them a definitive edge to endure the tribulation and throes of the American Civil War vis-à-vis those who lacked an inner resolve and determination needed for survival.Scarlet O'Hara, the well bred, haughty, tempestuous and opportunistic protagonist of the saga, is an ostensibly flawed individual whose inexorable urge to placate her ego and realize her fancies appears far stronger than her adherence to any credence pious to her people and relevant to her time. Her scintillating charm and unrestrained zeal not only make her an object of desire for her male counterparts but also an object of envy for the girls around her.Vivian Leigh perfectly fits into the caricature of Scarlet O'Hara. She makes full use of her talent, courage and guile to portray a part that requires subtlety, brusqueness and poise in equal parts. It may sound like a hyperbole, but no other actress seemed better equipped to play the part a southern belle than Leigh herself, who won not one but two Oscars while playing one: first for her portrayal of Scarlet O'Hara and second for portraying Blanche DuBois in A Streetcar Named Desire opposite Marlon Brando. In fact, her portrayal of Scarlet O'Hara, in which she perfectly blends panache, poignancy and peremptoriness, is arguably the greatest portrayal by a female lead in cinematic history. Leigh uses her on-stage experience to improvise in order to add new dimensions and complexities to Scarlet's caricature, which according to the novel was mostly one dimensional: out-and-out bad. Scarlet's stubbornness and her impish obsession for a conformist like Ashley, who is not only indifferent to her feelings but also incapable of reciprocating the passion and zeal with which she pursues him, represent just one dimension of her multifaceted self, which is revealed layer by layer with the progression of the narrative. The viewer is gifted to see Scarlet in various avatars: a usurper, an egomaniac, a damsel, a nemesis, a menace, a guardian, a savior, a patriot, a fighter and most importantly as a quintessence of womanhood.Clark Gable as Rhett Butler perfectly complements Vivian Leigh's larger than life portrayal. He is an outright reprobate, an unscrupulous opportunist whose life revolves around making money and pursuing carnal pleasures. However, behind this facade, just like Scarlet, there is a human capable of love, and worthy of being loved. These unobtrusive yet obvious similarities make Scarlet and Rhett a perfect match for each other. The subtle chemistry and tension between the two protagonists give the story its impetus and resonant charm. The rest of the cast has given exemplary performances with a special mention of Olivia de Havilland, who as Melanie is a paragon of love, humility and forgiveness. She provides a striking contrast to Scarlet's caricature and represents a more traditional picture of womanhood.The movie's direction, cinematography, editing and music are all top notch and it is the great synergy of all these elements that makes the movie an extravaganza and an undisputed master piece, one to be savored till eternity. The movie is an amalgam of scenes, high on emotion and drama, which keeps the viewer absorbed throughout. The scene in which Scarlet's father tells her the importance of mother land, deeming it as the only thing worth fighting for, is pure gold. Other scenes that come close to matching its brilliance include the one in which Scarlet performs the duties of an obstetrician to help Melanie give birth to her child, and the one in which Scarlet pledges to protect Tara till her last breath. The movie also has an amazing repertoire of dialogs that are delivered with a nice mix of finesse and accuracy. Butler's famous dialog in which he says to Scarlet, "You should be kissed and often, and by someone who knows how," also happens to be one of all time favorite. The movie, especially its anti-climatic ending, brings tears to eyes and leaves the viewer overwhelmed as he experiences a rainbow of different emotions, being awestruck by the tremendous impact of the journey that he is vicariously made to undergo.PS. Gone with the Wind is undoubtedly one of cinema's greatest marvels and is a living testament to cinema's timelessness, and its limitless potential. A must watch for everyone. 10/10http://www.apotpourriofvestiges.com/


                
The setting is a Georgia plantation. The year is 1861, and sixteen-year-old Scarlett O'Hara is infatuated with the blond, drowsy-eyed Ashley Wilkes - the problem is, Ashley plans to marry another woman. Little matter that every other man in the county is courting Scarlett and that a charming scoundrel named Rhett Butler is staring at her with questionable intent - she cares only for Ashley.Suddenly, the Civil War brakes out, changing the fates and fortunes of all. Scarlett, clever, manipulative, and charming, proves an adept survivor - but what will she have to do to survive? And will she ever learn whom it is that she really loves?GWTW is one of the most meticulously cast films ever; with the possible exception of Leslie Howard as Ashley (in his forties, rather old to be playing a man half that age), every role was perfectly assigned. After you watch Vivien Leigh you will be unable to imagine anyone else playing Scarlett, and Hattie McDaniel's strong, unforgettable performance as "Mammy" netted her an academy award (the first for an African-American actor).
GWTW's backdrop is the gruesome Civil War, and in the end this film is the story a woman and a civilization (the Old South) going through a war that will not leave either of them unchanged.The cinematography is beautiful, memorable. Gone With the Wind was shot entirely in gorgeous technicolor; the scene of the fire in Atlanta required the use of all eight technicolor cameras in existence at the time.
The pragmatic may think Gone with the Wind overly dramatic; the restless may find it too long; the action-stimulated, too subtle. None of this, however, detracts from the fact that GWTW retains a lasting appeal as one of the crowning cinematic achievements of the 20th century. Those who see its ending as depressing - tragic, even - perhaps miss the point - which Scarlett O'Hara makes in her very last instant with us, tear-stained eyes uplifted in a sudden, curious burst of hope beneath all the turmoil; that .. . "After all, tomorrow is another day." 10/10


                
I believe that when one views a film, one should consider the context in which it was made.Barely 10 years after talking pictures were first created; less than that after the first full-length color feature film was created; near the end of the greatest depression this country ever experienced, and in which pretty much the only entertainment available to most was radio or the movies; David O Selznik decided to turn the biggest pot-boiler blockbuster novel into a movie.And what a movie. Stunning color, the most popular mail actor of his time, perfect music score, incredible action scenes, story line only 70 years removed from when it happened, and on, and on. Can you imagine what a store-clerk or a farmer, or a teacher experienced in that world, seeing Gone With the Wind? What was there to compare with? 1939 was a watershed year for great movies, and this one was the greatest produced. Try watching this movie as if there were no TV, no DVD's, only a few radio stations, spending maybe the second to the last quarter you owned, never having seen such a movie before, and you get what I mean. Masterful for its time, and still timeless today.


                
Every time I watch this film, and I've seen it more times than I can remember, I'm always astonished by the freshness of the story, the power of the emotions it conveys and the beautiful, detailed images of a time long gone. That this film was made in the 1930's is almost incomprehensible to me. The challenges that had to be overcome in order to bring it to life must have been monumental. But come to life it did, and still does! A triumph of film-making ingenuity and genius, that will live on for many generations to come.


                
A perfect epic movie with a great story and a superb playing cast and one of the biggest productions imaginable. Like Ben Hur and War and Peace a classic for all eternity. A world is going down, a new world is rising out of the ashes of the gone - melancholy, fear, the sacrifice, and hope of a whole generation fighting and suffering in the Amercian Civil War. In our troubled times, where war and terror are present almost in every corner of our world and in times where the status quo seems to be a faster and faster-going constant stream and faster-going flow, where nobody can be sure or predict what the future ahead may bring to us, a movie more relevant than most people think.


                
For some nostalgic dreamers, "Gone With the Wind" is a glorious swan song depicting the fall of the South during a devastating Civil War, and its reconstruction on the ashes of the Old Order, a Civilization forever "gone with the wind". It's the adaptation of Margaret Mitchell's epic tale written in bold letters with this peculiar ability to portray the Yankees as the 'bad guys', so common in the stories related by Southerners, as they invite us to understand their idealism if not to root for it: a vision of Gallantry and Old European Nobility where women were courted, wives were submissive to their husbands and slaves treated with paternalism.But for some idealistic spirits, "Gone With the Wind" resonates as one of the most heart-breaking pages of American History, when the North fought the South in the name of Liberty, Freedom and Justice, and when History, written by the victorious side, ultimately showed the Confederate as the 'ones who were wrong'. "Gone With the Wind" chronicles what the South used to be, a world where coexisted two cultures, the Whites and the Colored. And the depiction of the slaves oscillates between the high pitched voice of the simple-minded Prissy (Butterfly McQueen) who knew nothing about "birthin' babies" and the wisdom and authority of Mammy, Hattie McDaniel in her Oscar-winning role: two figures, two extremes, so rooted in our hearts it's impossible to dislike them, despite the obvious stereotypes.For literate minds, History is only the setting while the film is an incredible achievement in storytelling, inviting us to follow a gallery of magnificent and appealing characters during a slice of life, where the passing of time can be felt, when History affects story with mercy or ruthlessness... sometimes tragic, sometimes ironic. It's a narrative whose emotional core is the heroine Scarlett O'Hara (Vivien Leigh), whose heart belongs to the charming blonde Ashley Wilkes (Leslie Howard), married to the gentle and extremely good-hearted cousin Melanie Hamilton (Olivia de Havilland). A triangular love that sets the personality of Scarlett as a remarkable anti-heroine: selfish, greedy, jealous, but so brave, courageous and generous when the circumstances of War forever changed the face of the South. A great soul that could only be revealed by a great opportunity, a pivotal metamorphosis incarnated by the iconic "As God is my witness, I'll never be hungry again".The fascinating aspect of Scarlett's personality is that her flaws elevated her above all the other characters: she doesn't care for etiquette, for traditions, her spirit is free, her ego is big and her heart so vulnerable. While the South is definitely turned to the past, Scarlett thinks of the future, as she says: "after all, tomorrow is another day". Scarlett is a modern figure and that's what makes her so appealing both in the film and to the audience. And Rhett Butler, Clark Gable in his most defining role as 'the visitor from Charleston', is Scarlet's perfect match. Both don't belong to that era, they think of money, greed, prosperity, and passion. They embody all the values that America would stand for, transcending the old-fashioned setting of the South. But like the South's enthusiasm for War, the same pride that drives their passion would ruin their relationships.For many passionate hearts, this is one of the most intense romances ever adapted to the big screen, a frustrating and seemingly impossible love between two strong-minded egos, two faces staring at each other as if they were at the verge of an irresistible passion or about to fight each other. As Scarlett was visibly jealous of Melanie when she went to bed with Ashley, the movie makes you penetrate the soul of these characters with such intensity you could feel she wished that Melanie could die. A childish and immature attitude, probably shared with Butler who wouldn't have minded if Ashley could die in the War, too. The love between Rhett and Scarlett is made of the same idealism that built the South myth, a lost but so endearing cause, a fire that burnt inside, and made pretty fitting that the most intimate and sensual moment they had was under the orange sky, during Atlanta's big fire. Love has never been as passionate as a love-and-hate relationship and never seemed a romance so comparable to a lost cause, mirroring the Southerners' very faith in victory. Rhett's last stand when he takes Scarlett up the stairs in the 'one night she wouldn't turn him out' is the perfect illustration of a love that pumped its energy from hate and anger. As Scarlett, lost in her love for Ashley, will never realize that her man is Rhett... and when she does, Rhett is already fed up and finally delivers the most unforgettable come-uppance ever: "Frankly, my dear, I don't give a damn" before disappearing in a foggy mist. Scarlett gets a magnificent lesson about life, and wouldn't have been as likable without this last slap in the face. This "I don't give a damn" voted #1 in the American Film Institute's Top 100 Movie quotes was Rhett's revenge, and he sure deserved it... and many wannabe-Scarlett would admit that too.But while "Gone With the Wind" deals with lost causes, it's more than anything the triumph of Cinema as the most defining Art of the last century. Echoing the novel's status as a best- seller, it's one of the greatest films of all time, the greatest casting ever, the greatest score and the greatest challenge for superlatives. Victor Fleming's super-production that would become a landmark in film-making, with its unique visual style and beautiful cinematography in colors, forever incarnated by Scarlett's shadowy silhouette standing beside a tree, during a beautiful sunset. Along with "The Wizard of Oz", and "Mr. Smith Goes to Washington", "Gone With the Wind" is probably Hollywood's Golden Age reaching its pinnacle before the War would come in 1939 .
There has never been any movie in the cinema history that was more a legend than "Gone with the wind". It is undeniable that this movie contains lots of goofs, but, despite all this, it is a blockbuster and a real masterpiece. Completely NOT overrated.I love this movie. I can't explain why exactly. There are sooo many reasons. I first saw it when I was a little kid and still can't forget it. It's so special if you can return to movie even when you had seen it more than 100 times... And GWTW is this kind of a movie.In my opinion a movie can not be a good when the acting is not good. And there acting is great! Every character is portrayed so magnificently!I will start with the supporting players. Barbara O'Neil, though only 28 while filming, played mother of quite adult daughters. She was the Ellen Robillard Mitchell descirbed in her book: so stative, so smart, so lady. Thomas Mitchell should have received Oscar for his Gerald O'Hara portroyal, and I think he did not just because he won for "Stagecoach" that year. Scarlett's sisters are really well cast. But the best supporting performance of the film is this one of Hattie McDaniel's. She is simply magnificent, moving and unforgettable as Mummy. Just amazing.Many people claim that Leslie Howard did not fit the role of Ashley. They may be right in some sense, but let's think it over twice. Ashley was more handsome as Mitchell described him, but he was a dreamer who could not find himself in a new, cruel world. And Howard showed this quality as best as possible.Of course, Olivia de Havilland's performance of Melanie was as worth of Oscar as Hattie McDaniel's, but later on she was given what she deserved (Oscars for "To each his own" and "The Heiress"). She plays Melanie with such a sensibility, but she manages to show her hidden strength, but not in a dominate way. Clark Gable was so unsure of his talent till the end of his life. I think that he was a great actor. He's so real as Rhett, and he has to play several dramatic scenes. And he does it perfectly-remember that playing those scenes, like those after Scarlett's miscarriage, needed acting talent. He's perfect. But, I won't hide my opinion that Vivien Leigh's Scarlett is the best and most powerful point of the whole movie. Vivien won the role when she was completely unknown. She managed to master the Southern accent as well. She did not play Scarlett. She WAS Scarlett. But only in this movie. She never acted any other character the same way. She is terrific and has all those features that original Mitchell's Scarlett possesses. I heard that she wanted to play the part exactly as Mitchell created it, and Fleming wanted her to play it just as a bitch, so they fought about it badly, but, finally, Vivien did a great work and her Oscar was something very obvious.If you love good cinema, if you want to see something moving and something that is not getting old, though almost 70!, do not miss it.


                
'Gone with the Wind' is one of the greatest American classics ever made. It tells the story of Scarlett O'Hara, played the very beautiful Vivien Leigh. She is one of the most selfish heroines you will ever see in a movie and still care for her. She is in love with Ashley Wilkes (Leslie Howard) but he marries to Melanie Hamilton. She is played by Olivia de Havilland in a great performance. A new man in Scarlett's life is Rhett Butler (Clark Gable) but Scarlett does everything to get what she wants including marrying someone for money and her own benefit. Rhett loves Scarlett with all his heart, mainly because they are much the same. They both think the world is there for them. Melanie and Scarlett become friends.The movie is set in the time of the Civil War. What happens exactly with Scarlett, Rhett, Ashley and Melanie is for you to see but the war is pretty important for the story and the way it is used is great. The story itself is great anyway. Although the movie is long it is never boring. A reason for that is the performances. I already mentioned Olivia de Havilland, Clark Gable is very good, charming and sometimes funny, Hattie McDaniel as the black made is outstanding but I have to say that the best thing in this movie is Vivien Leigh. To make you care for a character like that is a pretty hard thing to do, but she makes it seem so easy. It is one of the strongest performances I have seen.Besides the story and the acting we have the music, the sets, the costumes, the cinematography and of course the direction. It is all great. It was made in 1939 and over 60 years later it still is a very impressive movie.


                
I watched this movie for the first time at fourteen years old. I enjoyed it immensely. I have always been a fanatic for anything Civil War themed, so when my mother recommended it to me, it was a yes from the start. The opening scenes show the young Scarlett O'Hara as she awaits her father's arrival. Beloved in the eyes of all the men in the county, Scarlett has acquired a high self-esteem, but when the War is announced to come after all, the high-spirited Scarlett soon faces obstacles that are determined to destroy her faith and her hope. She meets many people along the way, she even gets married. With new relationships, new responsibilities come as well. Rhett Butler, a man determined to have Scarlett for his own, comes into her life half way through both the novel and the movie, and he fights her on topics such as love, politics and societal roles. Even after the Civil War, Scarlett is still faced with many decisions. She has faced death, marriage and defeat many times. Still willing to go on, even when it seemed impossible, Scarlett leaves us with the last quote of the novel and book, "After all, tomorrow is another day."


                
If you have ever considered GWTW to be less than a masterpiece, you'll be swayed by the 65th Anniversary Edition DVD. The 4-disc set features the remastered film and more extras than you could possibly watch in one day (after watching the film, of course). The two-hour making-of documentary is fascinating and shows how the producer (David O. Selznick) of the film affected the cast, director(s) and writer(s) -- and shows the publicity frenzy that was the hunt for Scarlett. The feature of Olivia De Havilland (in 2004) discussing her role as Melanie is a real treat. The picture and sound are great on the 65th Anniversary DVD, and the special features are a true treasure. Accept no substitutes, seek out the 65th Anniversary DVD and bring it home.


                
Gone With the Wind is without a doubt, one of the most magnificent romances ever. A realistic fiction that ends abruptly and leaves it's viewer/reader starving for more but unfortunately never produced a sequel. A book was written in the 90s that continued the story but trust me, it sucked. Scarlett was such a complex character, selfish, spirited, passionate about everything she wants. But in the end you see that Scarlett changes, she learns about communication and respect for all those who love her after she lost everyone who did. Never read the sequel if you read the first one because it isn't a Margaret Mitchell novel and therefor you won't SEE the complexity. Those of you who voted for this movie to have one star, I pity you. You cannot see the complexity or beauty of this wonderful tale or you just didn't see it and decided to vote for a movie you thought would be stupid when in fact it is the most popular civil war movie in history. Please support this movie and give it FAIR votes. It won ten Oscars and has claim to one of the most amazing casts ever so take that into consideration (plus the effort it took) when you give this movie a one/ten. It deserves so much more.
I was dating at the time this came out in a small theater on Hollywood blvd for a short run. Me and my girlfriend decided to see a movie and chose this one not knowing anything about it. We sat in the balcony and was immediately captured by the music, characters, story-line and each other as we watched what we thought was a memorable night out together. Unknown to me, when part one ended I thought the movie was over and remarked boy that was good but I wonder what happened after that. We got up to go and found out it was only intermission. I cannot describe the feelings of joy knowing there was more. We were not disappointed either. When it ended I felt totally satisfied and changed forever more. A great movie with my future wife locked into each other for our lifetime. Since then, I have seen this movie so many times never tiring of it. I bought the collectors sets (vhs) and finally the DVD. Just finished watching it again loving every moment until the end. Will I see it again? Why not after all tomorrow is another day....Good movie to eat with while watching


                
I love this film, I have seen it a handful of times, and even though I am always a little frustrated by the stubborn pride of the two main characters, I can never dislike it. True Scarlet O'Hara is a foolish woman who believes she is madly in love with someone else's husband, but she is just as bad as the proud Rhett Butler who loves her through it all. Their problem is admitting their true feelings deep down, and in this small selfish act is where we find the heart of the story and it's timelessness. We all love that great, timeless love story despite it's tragic ending, and Scarlet's tenacity for surviving and keeping her family alive, even if it did involve tricks and schemes on her part. Despite all this, the film managed to capture the heart of Americans everywhere and even those hearts of the generations that followed. That is the true power of this film. Aside from being able to enchant it's audiences, Gone With The Wind was truly a groundbreaking film in American Cinema. It was one of the first major films that came out in vividly well-done color, not only that, but the photography was phenomenal also. Much more can be said about this film, but for now, all I will say is this: Fantastic film, worth the 4 hours.
I waited 28 year before even considering watching Gone With The Wind. Four plus hours long? 1939? It was as old as my Dad. But finally in a desire to see all these classic movies I sat down to watch it...since then and before writing this review I have now seen it three times. Gone With The Wind is quite simply breath taking. It is brilliant and captivating and perhaps one of the greatest epics you will ever lay eyes on. Some people consider Gone With The Wind to be the greatest film ever made and it's pretty easy to see why. Especially if you factor in the time period this was made the 'special effects' the sheer grandeur of it is impressive NOW let alone 65 years ago. The raging war, the fields being worked, the attacks being carried out, the people evacuating, and the beauty and horror of the south during the civil war. Add onto that this incredible unmatched chemistry between the romantic leads and you've got one incredible epic that defined epic before it even existed.Vivien Leigh is Scarlett O'Hara. One of the most influential and recognizable characters in movie history...probably top 3. Leigh's Scarlett will remain in your memory forever. Her character goes through so many changes and at times you literally despise her...she's whiny and needy and mousy and then in the next breath you see this incredible strength and wisdom and this ability to make her such a hero. She's a strong female lead and her performance is amazing. Scarlett O'Hara is one of the greatest characters in movie history. Clark Gable as the irrepressible Captain Rhett Butler. At first I thought Gable's performance lacked depth. I thought he came across as a movie star there to show off his stuff but then as the film progressed I began to see what Captain Butler was all about. Rhett Butler had this air of over-confidence, a macho party man with nothing holding him down including political ties. His reputation as a drunkard and a rich bachelor suited him fine. Then Scarlett comes into his life and he falls hopelessly in love with the most unlikely girl that plagues him for the years and years. Gable is a master and looks incredible on screen and shows why men of his era were leading men the likes of which we've never known. He definitely deserved his Oscar Nomination for the role. The supporting cast is so huge I could go into detail on every single one of them. They all do an incredible job including the first African American actor to be nominated for an Academy Award Hattie McDaniel who is just wonderful as 'Mammy' their beloved house servant. Leslie Howard as Scarlett's love interest for years and years Ashley Wilkes. Olivia de Havilland was one of my favorite supporting roles as the loving and kind Melanie Wilkes (who marries Ashley away from Scarlett.) She was terrific in her role, one of the best characters in the film. Harry Davenport, Thomas Mitchell, Barbara O'Neil, Butterfly McQueen...so so so many other terrific performances in this film. Also watch for uncredited and small roles by future stars George Reeves (Superman), and Richard Farnsworth (The Straight Story/Anne of Green Gables.) For years I haven't been a fan of old classics. Just now am I getting around to watching them but if you're the same way put that aside and see Gone With The Wind. It's LONG, there is no doubt about it but it's utter brilliance, story, action, romance, and just everything about it will keep you absolutely riveted. I now completely understand why people consider this one of the greatest films ever made if not THEE greatest. I don't know if I can say that exactly because I have my own list of favorites for different reasons but I will say Gone With The Wind is perhaps the exact definition of a classic and worthwhile from beginning to end. One of the greatest films I have ever seen and I will be sure to add this to the list of movies I watch again and again. 10/10
Here is how I feel about Gone With the Wind. My mom's side of the family is Southern. They lived mostly around where Scarlett and her gang hung out. Some had plantations and owned slaves. My grandparents were "old fashioned" in the clueless way Margaret Mitchell was. I've heard their side lots of times, and I found it to be wrong. If I were Black, I wouldn't like to pass by statues erected to past oppressors either, nor would I want to have flags in my face constantly reminding me of a sorrowful past.However, please consider this.1. If you're going to get upset at GWTW and ban showing it, then you would also want to eliminate the rest of the movies from back then which show stereotypes as well, correct? Unfortunately, ALMOST ALL, probably about 98% of Black roles for the stage and screen pre-1960's were just as racist as in GWTW, many were worse.The problem is, if you get rid of these movies, you erase the work of any Black actors back then as well. You won't see why Hattie McDaniel won an Oscar for a performance in a land so bigoted, she could not sit in the audience during the premiere. You won't see lots of superb singing, dancing, and acting by any African-American during this time. They will be completely ignored because of the context.You wind up punishing all these people who wanted to work in entertainment and had little influence over the roles they played as well as those whites who made those movies.And...2. Hollywood whitewashes and pretties up EVERYTHING. It always has. Don't get upset because they did it for the millionth time in GWTW.Consider the movie "300", about ancient Sparta. There was no mention of slaves they owned, or the organized pedophilia that went into the training of boys (Google it if you don't know what I'm talking about).And yet, there were no mass protests at the rose colored vision in the movie. No one came to picket the film because it omitted a horrendous flaw in Spartan society.Why? Well, for one thing, that was well over 2000 years ago. What happened in Sparta is no longer directly relevant to anyone. No normal, modern army expects raping young boys as part of their training.It's no longer relevant.Unfortunately, GWTW IS STILL RELEVANT. Many of the problems portrayed in this film and any film from back then with Black actors are still haunting the U.S.. Denying that there is anything wrong and everything is just fine and has been fixed is simply denying reality.Why do I care? Unfortunately, GWTW is one of my favorite books and films. It has a strong, still unique story of feminism I can relate to. That is what is relevant to me in the film. I have tended in the past to brush aside the slave part because it seems surreal to me to own people. I'm certainly not sitting there, hoping the "good ol' days" can come back. I like the modern world with its aim of acceptance and tolerance. I get the feeling the vast majority of viewers feel the same way.How do we solve this problem? When Blacks are truly integrated, and that day will come, then GWTW will no longer be that relevant. It won't strike any raw nerves. The protests will die down, just as they have for every other hot button issue who's time has come and gone.True classics never die. GWTW has many redeeming features which have made it endlessly entertaining to me and thousands of other people. Keep talking about it, show the movie now and then with perhaps a short lecture on history and context before, and know that in time, the pain will fade.ALSO, KEEP IN MIND, when you criticize Scarlett for her actions, there was NO OTHER WAY to survive in the Victorian world if you were a woman other than SEDUCING A MAN. It's not like she could go off to college and get a degree. Women were NOT allowed to own land, have a bank account,vote, hold a job (besides perhaps a hat maker or, much more commonly, a prostitute) etc. If she seems strange for marrying men she didn't love,keep in mind it was that, or be totally broke and homeless.Much of the criticism of her character comes from total lack of knowledge about this context.As for the movie itself. I first saw it when I was thirteen. It made quite an impression. Forty years or so later, it still moves me. Some people criticize the main character, Scarlett, because she's "not nice". She's not "typical" of a main female character.Scarlett behaves in an uncomfortably realistic way. She's not a nice lady, she is a super-rare female anti-hero. She's not comfortingly evil, but she's never going to be a goody two shoes. Some people don't know how to handle that.Melanie, on the other hand, is criticized for being "unrealistic". I would ask anyone who thinks that to understand the context of the times she lived in. There was no mass media, save for the local newspaper, and that was hardly an international trove of information as they are now. No TV, no radio, no internet. A person could grow up to be innocent in a way we simply don't experience in modern society.It's a movie about survival. And it's a war movie without battle scenes. I would urge you to watch it.
Gone with the Wind is appropriate for those 12 and up. If I could have given the movie a 20 out of 10, I would. 1939 was a golden year for movies with both Gone With the Wind and The Wizard of Oz. Color scenes in Gone with the Wind were hand painted movie frames. The era of royalty and nobility in America gave way after the Civil War to democracy and freedom. Yet, dreams still exist. The number 1 and number 3 movie phrases of all time are in this movie. I for one have used both. Vivien Leigh and Clark Gable are both so good in this film that if all the other characters messed up, they alone would carry the movie. Leslie Howard depicts the nobility and royalty of the South, who, when the war was lost, he too was lost. Clark Gable portrays the ultimate survivor and realist. Vivien Leigh plays a character who is in love with the dream, yet has to become a survivor at great personal cost and learning too late what is truly important to her. The director leaves out one-half of the book. Yet, he produces a wonderful, classic movie. If it weren't for the intermission, the movie would be too long. Everybody should see this movie at least once. I think I have seen this movie more than a dozen times. I fall in love with this movie with each and every showing. Great romantic movie. It was a great day for movie lovers when Margeret Mitchell was on the train and met a book publisher. Gone With The Wind is a story which will shine brightly through the ages.


                
It is complex write anything about "Gone With the Wind" because I have the impression that everything or almost everything has been said about this work that remains current and exciting after 76 years. "Gone With the Wind" is far from being an art film, but this fact does not diminish its greatness. "Gone With the Wind" is a prime example of that commercial films can be very good and well made. Commercial films do not necessarily need to be based on cliché's and conventional or happy endings. It can be said that the film was bold by the standards of the time, to invest in a young, brave and stubborn girl, however, full of flaws like any real person. Scarlett drinks, flirts a married man, eat too much in public, negotiates with enemies, collects the debts of friends, accepted dance despite being in mourning, finally defies all moral severely respected by the society to which it belongs. But it does not get to indulge with the transgression. Quite the opposite. Deep down, she is a moralist who lived intensely admires the straight and values <U+200B><U+200B>taught by her mother. She transgresses to survive and to enforce their will. She transgresses to keep the land left by parents who for her, symbolically, it was the parents themselves. To Scarlett, violate or transgress not is not the issue. The question is to survive. Scarlett is a survivor of war, hunger, poverty, the tragic loss of their parents, a never materialized love. Although, it is seen as a great heroine for his tireless ability to fight, Scarlett in a way, it is a loser. As the character of Clark Gable said, she throws out happiness with both hands. "Gone With the Wind" is much more than an epic; It is much more than a movie about the war and its consequences; is a film about determination and survival figures incarnated on earth image. Another factor that deserves special attention is the character Melanie. We are not sure to what extent she knows the real feelings and personality of Scarlett, which is a very interesting open issue. A memorable soundtrack! A 5 stars classic. I know a person that watch this movie 5 times!!!!
I watched this movie last night after not having seen it in many years. Even though I have seen this many times in the past, I was bowled over by the quality. From the beautiful cinematography to the rich characterizations and the wonderful acting, this movie is Hollywood at its finest. Scarlett "over-the-top" character is played wonderfully by the beautiful Vivian Leigh. What more can be said about Clark Gable's masterful performance? There is also a great supporting cast. Love it, love it, love it.


                
I am not going to write a review in a classical sense of things. this is a film which should better be watched than reviewed one thing i would like to say is that our hearts are very silly part of body we don't know the importance of people around us but we focus on some abstract ideal being who only lives in our mind. Human being is actually flawed creature, it is violent selfish and at the same time kind and compassionate animal that is beauty of film till the end you will never figure out who is hero who is villain.


                
For decades this picture remained #1 on virtually all lists of the best picture ever made as well as the all time box office champion. Suddenly though, the film's reputation heads South. I won't elaborate on the excellence or entertainment value because whatever I say you already know. GWTW was bounced off the box office list primarily because movie prices are never adjusted to constant dollars, thus the newest pictures always win. When GWTW opened in 1939, the admission price of $1.15 was so severe that some theaters had picket lines of protest. In 1939 a good middle class annual income was $800, so $1.15 was indeed expensive. Compare that to today's $10.50 and you see who wins. As to the film's reputation for excellence, this has been trashed in recent years because (1) the film portrays slaves during the Civil War era --- and this is shocking to the political correctness crowd; (2) the slaves act like slaves rather than acting like Snoop Dogg, Ice T, or even Sidney Poitier; another outrage to liberal censorship. The wacky left American Film Institute has thus dropped America's All Time Great Movie from #1 to it's current standing in the trash heap. Thinking people, however, still appreciate and love this classic. For the record, this picture was intensely popular with Black people when released in 1939, again in 1941, in 1954, in 1961 et cetera.


                
When I first got this movie, I was a bit skeptical. I'm not a huge fan of war based movies, but I was pleasantly surprised. Gone With the Wind was a beautiful movie that so clearly showed the devastation of the Civil War and how during the Reconstruction the Southerners had to adjust to the abolishment of slavery. Although there are racist undertones and many of the African American characters are stereotypes, one has to take into account the time the movie was filmed and released, and the time it is depicting. The romance element of the movie helps keep it interesting, and the movie perfectly balances romance and the Civil War aspects of the film. All in all, this movie was amazing and I can see how it is one of the greats.


                
Gone with the Wind is a great visual spectacle, but that wouldn't keep people watching after 75 years if it wasn't for the timeless tales of three kinds of love - obsession mistaken for love (Scarlett for Ashley), sexual obsession turned to love for someone who doesn't reciprocate (Rhett for Scarlett), and true love with a barrier thrown in the way to prevent that love from being physically expressed (Melanie and Ashley) - the barrier being that Melanie cannot have another child without losing her life, and in the 19th century that means only one thing - no sex. Scarlett has it all - beauty, brains, and eventually, a husband who can keep up with her - the dashing Rhett Butler, whom she doesn't appreciate because - well - she has him. She wants what she can't have and has never had - the love of the rather drab and double-minded Ashley Wilkes who loves the not so beautiful not so clever and not so healthy Melanie. One thing that Melanie does have - great heart, and a belief in the honor of the people in her life, regardless of whether that belief is earned or not. The story is also one of transformation as Scarlett goes from pre-War southern Belle to hardened businesswoman post-War, in an effort to keep her family together and to keep the family plantation, Tara, out of Yankee and carpetbagger hands. Unlike her more genteel family and friends, who either lose everything or in one tragic case - her father - lose their sanity, she holds it together against forces she doesn't really understand and does whatever she has to do to beat the Yankees at their own game. But through it all she just can't get that unrequited obsession with Ashley out of her head, and that is more her personal undoing than anything the War did or ever could have done.This film is a demonstration of the best the studio system could do in that fabled year of 1939, and it showed that the studios had finally "got" putting together a costume drama that conveys true raw human emotions and reactions and even eroticism without crossing that pesky production code line. For anybody who has ever made a wrong decision in love that you wish you could do over, for anyone who has ever had their world suddenly change for the worse and had to adapt, I highly recommend this film.


                
"Gone With The Wind" won numerous awards, including the Photoplay Gold Medal and the Film Daily Best Picture of the Year (selected by polling over 450 U.S. film critics), but missed out on The New Film Critics (though Vivien Leigh's was voted Best Feminine Performance) which went to Wuthering Heights. The National Board of Review placed Gone With The Wind only 9th (even The Biscuit Eater preceded it).The uncredited writers listed by IMDb all made a fair contribution to the finished script. Other writers who worked on the scenario at various stages include Jo Swerling, John Balderston, Michael Foster, Winston Miller, Charles MacArthur and Edwin Justus Mayer. Director George Cukor also took a hand.The story of the filming of "Gone With The Wind" has been told in many books, most notably "Scarlet, Rhett, and a Cast of Thousands" by Roland Flamini (Macmillan, New York, 1975).The director: Considering the continued popularity of at least three of his films, Victor Fleming has never been a household name. Yet more people have seen "Gone With The Wind" in a cinema than any other movie in history. In 1982, gross film rental to that date from the U.S.- Canada market alone was $76,700,000. (Negative cost: $3,957,000). As some movie prices have increased a staggering 5,000% since 1939, the figure needs to be multiplied by at least ten — perhaps as much as twenty or thirty — to give a just comparison with movies such as Star Wars ($193,500,000) and E.T. ($187,000,000). "Gone With The Wind" was voted the best film of all time in a poll conducted by the American Film Institute. But not only did Fleming direct this outright winner, he had another film among the nine runners-up: "The Wizard of Oz". Fleming was the only director with two films on the list.Some critics have pointed out that Fleming did not direct all of either of these films. He had to leave "Wizard" for "Wind" when the former picture was almost completed. King Vidor finished up. However, Fleming returned after his stint on GWTW to supervise the cutting of Oz and it would be churlish indeed to cavil at his sole director credit. GWTW is a bit different. Cukor had already directed about 5% of the finished movie when Fleming took over. When Victor himself walked out after a particularly acrimonious clash with Vivien Leigh, Sam Wood was called in and then retained to direct a second unit, even after Fleming was prevailed upon to return. Wood directed 33 minutes (14%) of the released footage, particularly in the Reconstruction sequences. William Cameron Menzies directed about 15% of the picture, including the Atlanta fire (the first scene shot) and the memorable silhouette of Leigh and Mitchell at Tara. However, Fleming directed all Gable's scenes (except Rhett's visit to Scarlett with the Paris hat, which was directed by Cukor; and Gable's final exit, which was actually directed by Selznick himself — in Fleming's presence). Fleming also shot the opening sequence of the picture at Tara, Ashley's furlough, Leigh and Howard's love scene in the woodshed, Melanie's death, some of Scarlett's return to Tara, some of the scenes in the cotton fields, and perhaps the film's most memorable shot of all — the enormous crane shot of wounded Confederate soldiers at the railroad depot. (Selznick himself directed some of these takes, and in the end, neither man could say who shot the take actually used in the movie).The film's most memorable scene — Scarlett shooting Paul Hurst's deserter — was directed by Cukor.It might justly be claimed that as Fleming directed the main story- line, he deserved the main credit. All the same he was unhappy at being shut out of the film's editing by Selznick. He boycotted the Awards dinner at the Ambassador at which he would have received his first — and only — honor from The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. (He'd never been nominated before and was never nominated again.)
