I've seen the film many times, have always enjoyed it. But I've been reading the book for the first time. It's a very long novel, and you have to stay with it if you want to see the ending. It's a good read, but Margaret Mitchell, former newspaper reporter, is very thorough in her description of both Southern culture and the changes that the Civil War brought to it. It's the size of the book that was the biggest challenge for David O Selznick. Not what parts to film, but which parts to leave out. So many characters that appeared in the book couldn't be introduced in the movie without extending the film's length to well over four hours. So he had Sidney Howard write the screenplay, then cut that down to a filmable length by hiring several more writers to further pare the script, and was still rewriting it himself while it was being filmed. Selznick was close to running out of money, so he asked his angel, millionaire Jock Whitney, to loan him enough to finish the film. The film was finally completed and edited, then was test-marketed at a theatre not far from LA. The viewers were excited about having seen it and said so on their preview cards, which allowed Selznick to rest easy, knowing he had a hit on his hands.


                
Gerard O'Hara (Thomas Mitchell), an Irish immigrant, settles in North Georgia and becomes a prosperous plantation owner<U+0085> By great luck he marries young Ellen Robillard (Barbara O'Neill) of Savannah, the daughter of one of the noblest Georgian families and becomes accepted by his aristocratic neighbors<U+0085> They are blessed with three daughters, Scarlett (Vivien Leigh), Suellen (Evelyn Keyes), and Carreen (Ann Rutherford).Scarlett, the eldest, worships her mother<U+0085> Yet, under her beauty and Southern coquetry, she is charming, but proud, willful and vain<U+0085> She believes she is in love with Ashley Wilkes (Leslie Howard), a good-hearted young army captain<U+0085> But Ashley loves his cousin, Melanie Hamilton (Olivia de Havilland), a delicate, selfless woman<U+0085> He is frightened by Scarlett's energy and animation<U+0085> And although he admits his feelings for her, he is afraid to marry her and decides to take Melanie for his bride<U+0085> When Scarlett loses Ashley she is more certain than ever that she must have him<U+0085> On their wedding day, she meets Rhett Butler (Clark Gable), a wealthy adventurer from an old Charleston family<U+0085> Rhett, a gambler<U+0097>who believes that self-interest is the motive of all human conduct<U+0097>is attracted by Scarlett's beauty and realizes that they are equally merciless and conscienceless<U+0085>Vivien Leigh is magnificent as the spoiled, selfish southern belle... She carries the picture, and controls it... She reproduces the spirited character of Scarlett in all its fluent complexity... Clark Gable<U+0097>with a smile and great light in his eyes<U+0097>is fascinating as the elegant, heroic gentleman ... He is perfect as the ladies man... His dramatic high point is his scene crying in Melanie's presence... His love scenes with Scarlett give the picture a vibrancy that is one of its great attractions... The film begins with their first stormy meeting in the library at Twelve Oaks and intensifies at the Atlanta bazaar, when he shocks the confederacy by bidding $l00 "in gold," to dance with the newly widowed Mrs. Hamilton who cares for nothing but herself<U+0085>Hattie McDaniel gives a rich characterization as Mammy, Scarlett's shrewd black servant who was never fooled by Scarlett's airs and tears...With a memorable music score by Max Steiner, the film was an instant classic, winner of eight Academy Awards...


                
I'm going to be completely honest, I really hated the movie at first. Scarlett Just seemed to whine so much and it drove me crazy. I've always grown up believing that you make the most of what you have, and she just wasn't fitting the bill of the perfect heroine. She just seemed to lack so much in her character, she had no depth. Then the war started and things began to look more interesting... Until she went and married Charles all because she wanted to make Ashley jealous. When she did this, it felt like my distaste for her would never end. I would have never believed I would be loving her character by the end of the movie.When her first husband died and she was forced to wear mourning clothes at the party, I couldn't help but be astonished at her behavior. Some poor man had just died, her husband no less. Even if she did not love him, she should have at least felt some remorse. Then Rhett Butler entered the ball. This was the turninig point for my view on the movie. I wasn't able to stop myself from thinking "This is it, Scarlett. This is your chance for happiness." And for a moment, when she went to dance with the man, I thought she had. But then she just ran right back to Ashley, even though the man was already married.Jumping ahead to when she was a nurse in Atlanta, it is my belief that this is where her character development truly started to progress. I may sound like a total monster, but the scene when she is running through the streets surrounded by wounded and dying soldiers may very well be my favorite. She was driven to run through such a horrible scene to help Melanie, the wife of the man she loved, to get a doctor as the woman was about to give birth. Scarlett had a huge grudge against Melanie, but because of the promise she made to Ashley, she protected her to the best of her abilities.Much later in the movie, after she had married Rhett Butler and after her daughter had died, the most inspiring moment of the movie came. The death of Melanie seemed to fuel the final change in Scarlett's character. Though it helped puth the final crack in Rhett and Scarlett's relationship as she hugged Ashley in front of her then husband for comfort, it led to many important revelations. First, that Ashley never really loved Scarlett. This in turn caused Scarlett to realise she was not upset by this, for she thought she loved him but she did not. In reality, she had loved Rhett for quite some time.When Scarlett returns home and he leaves her, speaking the famous phrase "frankly my dear, I don't give a damn," she is heartbroken. But she then remembers Tara, and swears that she will return to her home and find a way to get him back.In conclusion, I must say that Scarlett really surprised me. She seemed so annoyingly shallow in the beginning, but as the story progressed and the plot got deeper, so did she. Her character development was truly remarkable. And without Vivien Leigh as the actress, this may not have been possible, her skill at being able to completely become another person is one of the key factors in this films success.Of course who could forget the incredible casting, cinematography, and directing. For a movie from the 1930's, it seemed well ahead of its time. The fact that the movie is still so loved to this very day is proof of that.
I first saw "Gone with the Wind" in its initial commercial TV broadcast in 1976. I have since seen the film numerous times via a succession of home video media: videotape, laserdisc, and DVD. Yet seeing the film once more on blu-ray and a large widescreen high def monitor is like seeing it completely anew. The sweeping cinematography of this classic epic film has never before been delivered to home audiences in such stunning power and detail. The achingly romantic score has never sounded better, whether heard in original mono or reconstructed stereo. Rhett Butler (Clark Gable) has never looked more rakishly handsome nor Scarlett O'Hara (Vivien Leigh) more alluringly sensual. In short, for anyone not having seen "Gone with the Wind" in glorious big-screen Technicolor (almost all film viewers under the age of 70), the recent blu-ray release is a must-see revelation.Beyond the compelling audio-visual experience, "Gone with the Wind" thankfully retains its fascination as a central piece of American popular culture - a work of art complex and rich enough not only to bear up under multiple viewings but to reveal, like great literature, different aspects of its meaning depending on the cultural and personal variables that a viewer brings to the experience. There were certainly a great number of impressions in my recent viewing that I don't remember having in quite the same way 30, 20, or even 10 years ago.For one thing, characters and character relationships impacted me much differently than in the past. Scarlett's multiple marriages and affairs – even the protracted love/hate odyssey with Rhett – seemed less interesting now than the strength of character that enables her physical survival and success as a business woman. In many ways, Scarlett is clearly not an ante- and post-bellum Southern belle, but a woman of the 1930s, newly emerging from a patriarchal culture and acquiring a social role and status equivalent to a male's.As with other '30s films that touch upon the redefinition of female roles, Scarlett's acquisition of masculine power is greeted with ambivalence or downright hostility. Even Rhett, who is generally bemused by and attracted to Scarlett's unbridled "self-interested" power grabs, eventually tries to "tame" and dominate Scarlett via marriage. On one occasion he tries to persuade her to give up the lumber mill and become a more devoted mother to Bonnie Blue. On another, he compares the "heartless" Scarlett unfavorably to Belle Watling, another hardheaded businesswoman but one whose ancient profession is considerably less threatening. Ultimately, Rhett attempts to assert his masculine power by an act of sexual aggression for which he would today be subject to domestic rape charges. Amazingly, given the era in which the film was made, nothing works for long. Scarlett is indomitable and irrepressible. Unlike other '30s heroines, Scarlett is NEVER reduced to a subordinate role. In the end, Tara and the screen are hers and hers alone.Another thing that struck me in my latest viewing of "Gone with the Wind" was how much its creators (particularly David O. Selznick) strove to temper the racist content of the story materials. Of course, they were unsuccessful from today's perspective, but when the film is compared to "Birth of a Nation," the original film epic of the South's secession and destruction, one can clearly see its progressive designs. First of all, glorification of the South's rebellion is tempered from the outset by the dissenting voices of such otherwise dissimilar characters as Rhett and Ashley, both of whom foresee that the South has written its own ticket to destruction by entering into a war it cannot possibly win and for an historically dubious cause. Notably, the two central male characters view slavery askance. Rhett is never a slave-holding "gentleman." And Ashley, who is the scion of slaveholders, reveals plans to free the Wilkes slaves upon the death of his father. Moreover, the slaves on the Tara plantation, while still subject to stereotypical treatment, are far more prominent and rounded as characters than in any previous American film intended principally for white audiences. This is particularly true of sage-like Mammy, of course, but not only of her.The stark differences between the Mitchell/Selznick version of Civil War history and D.W. Griffith's can be seen most clearly in the post-war Reconstruction period. In "Gone with the Wind" the really ugly stereotypes of empowered blacks are absent, with the negative focus centering instead on white carpetbaggers. Even the threats to Scarlett's Southern Womanhood come not from renegade blacks, but first from a white Northern deserter and later from white scalawags in Shantytown, a locale that Scarlett intrepidly, if foolishly, ventures through. From this latter threat she is pointedly rescued not by chivalrous whites, but by her former slave, Sam, who beats off the would-be rapists and drives Scarlett safely home. What a far cry this is from "Birth of a Nation," where Little Sister throws herself from a cliff rather than be raped by a former slave who has stalked her through perilous woods.Above all, "Gone with the Wind" deliberately avoids all mention of the Ku Klux Klan, the terminally embarrassing heroes of "Birth of a Nation." The only scene that comes close to a Klan allusion occurs following the attempted assault on Scarlett when Ashley, Dr. Meade, and then-husband Mr. Kennedy, set about clandestinely to "clean out" the scalawags. Yet even then their targets are not primarily black, nor do the avengers don robes. The audience is not even permitted to witness the attack – only Ashley's wounds from it.If Americans in the 21st century can still respond to "Gone With the Wind" - and clearly they can - it is not only because of its grand pictorial displays and epic action but because in terms of gender and race, this classic of Hollywood's 1939 peak year looks forward to a modern "tomorrow" as much as, if not more than, it laments a tragically flawed American past.
The fact that as at my time of writing, "Gone With The Wind" stands only at number 152 in the best movie rankings of this site, I hope might be mainly attributable to the relative youth of the posters here. Here surely is Golden Age Hollywood's lasting monument to itself, which like another big-subject civil war movie from a previous generation (D W Griffiths' "Birth Of A Nation") while politically flawed in its treatment of black people, nevertheless stands as a significant and magnificent piece of movie-making.It's a film I'd dearly love to see on the big screen but all my viewings of it so far have been on TV which can't begin to do justice to the scale and colour of the achievement here. I know there's some contention about who directed which parts of it but I'm going to give my kudos to Victor Fleming who I believe did the lion's share of the work behind the camera. The sets are magnificent and the set-pieces even more so with several jaw-dropping scenes which are testament to artistic imagination and technical achievement in equal measure. Of course the two most celebrated of these I suppose are Rhett Butler's rescue of Melanie, Scarlett and Missy just ahead of the burning edifices of Atlanta and the rising dolly-shot of the wounded and dead of the Confederate Army as Scarlett seeks out Dr Meade. But let's not forget the acting too, especially the two leads who are both terrific, Gable, in his greatest role, is mean, moody and magnificent, while Vivien Leigh in her Hollywood breakthrough role is captivating as the wild, wilful and wonderful Scarlett O'Hara. While the characters of Ashley and Melanie Wilkes seem almost too good to be true (Ashley's guilty feelings for Scarlett aside), they are nonetheless beautifully played by Leslie Howard and Olivia De Havilland. Hattie McDaniel belies the racial stereotyping of her Mammy character to deliver an unforgettable, often scene-stealing performance. It is difficult today to witness some of the political incorrectness of the treatment given to the black characters, in the main shown as subservient, excitable and slow-witted, not sufficiently redeemed by their brave deeds in the film (Big Sam saves Scarlett from being raped, while Mammy effectively acts as the conscience of the film) and it is dreadful for modern ears to hear the "d" word spoken so casually if only sparingly.However I'm not going to criticise the movie for that when there's so much good to praise. It could be argued too that it's better up to the end of the war and goes a bit soap-opera-ish thereafter and the death-count starts to over-dramatically mount up towards the end, but such is the power of the film-making that it sweeps the viewer right along to both the central character's famous last words. By the time Max Steiner's famous theme plays over the final scene of the defiant Scarlett framed (has any film ever bettered the use of silhouette than this one?) against the burnt ochre sky, you realise you have watched something very special.Movie-making has unquestionably got bigger down the years, especially in the C-Gen, SFX-fests of recent times but I don't think any film will ever look or play better than this one. It's been many times said and written that 1939 was probably the year that more great movies came out of Hollywood than any other, but this one outdoes them all. And most other films since, come to that...


                
Gone with the Wind is one of my all time favorite movies. It is a classic story of romance and the struggle of loving and being loved. My mom, sister, and I have watched this countless times together and it never gets old. The movie wouldn't have been successful without its stars. The main characters, Scarlett O'Hara, played by Vivien Leigh, Rhett Butler, played by Clark Gable, make the movie. They fell into the roles as naturally as breathing. The chemistry between the two makes their love story real to the audience. The struggle in the love relationship between Scarlett and Rhett begins when Scarlett is spurned by Ashley Wilkes, played by Leslie Howard, the man she set her sights on to marry. She finds out that he is to marry his cousin Melanie, played by Olivia de Havilland, and Scarlett does not respond well to his rejection. Scarlett is a spoiled belle used to getting her way and she doesn't realize that she and Ashley are not alone in the scene where he rejects her. Rhett is asleep on the couch and awakens when she throws a vase at the wall in anger. From here on, Rhett and Scarlett engage in a game of cat and mouse throughout the movie. There are not many other movies to compare this one to. The only one that I can say even compares would be North and South. It is set during the Civil War, just as Gone with the Wind is. North and South showcases a well-known actor, Patrick Swayze, who plays Orry Main, the main character in the movie. It is a love story that also shows the struggles in life and relationships that people faced during the Civil War, much like Gone with the Wind. I feel that Gone with the Wind is definitely the better movie. Although it came out in 1939, it was way ahead of its time. The way that Tara was portrayed as a mansion, with its expansive lands and cotton fields made me want to live there. The lighting that was used in scenes helped to convey the feeling of the characters. For example, when Scarlett and her sisters had to work the fields, the lighting was dark and dreary. It effectively conveyed the feeling of despair and helplessness that they were all feeling. Another thing I noticed was the camera angles. One particular scene which stuck in my mind was when Scarlett was in Atlanta. You can see the destruction across the city. There are bodies lined up in the streets. The camera pans out and in the corner you see the rebel flag flying. I think that seeing that the flag was still flying after such destruction and loss was amazing. Gone with the Wind is a timeless classic that reassures me that in the worst of times, people still find a way to fight for something they love.


                
This movie is a true classic, the first half of this film is as good as movie making gets, from any era, the second half may tail off a little bit with melodramatic moments ,but you can easily forgive this film for that after such an exhilarating first 3 hours.The true test of a classic film is could any other actors have done better in the roles and in truth no one else could.Vivien Leigh is supberb as Scarlet who you feel both anger and joy at her reactions, well Gable is Gable and is excellent.Olivia de Havilland and Leslie Howard flesh out the secondary leads, I hope black people can accept that there roles as servants were not intended to demean anyone but to show how things were.Hattie McDaniels is excellent and deserves her Oscar.The DVD is excellent please go out and buy.To sum up a great film and a great DVD, please find the time to watch it again.
Flicking through some old movies on IMDb I came across Gone with the Wind a couple of times but took no notice. I cannot believe I skipped such a beautiful movie and I can't believe I hadn't seen it sooner.However, I was greatly disappointed by the ending at first. It annoyed me, but now I see that it's not about the tragedy of losing her love. It's about having hope, dreams and ambitions. This is one of those very rare movies that I can watch over and over again without feeling tired of it.It's a very long movie, 3+ hours but it's so worth watching you wouldn't notice.
Having watched it multiple times, I have always admired its colorfulness and its technical excellence. One of the first colored films and certainly in the top color films of the black and white era, that is until the early sixties,it exploits all means to convey the traits of characters most effectively through color. Eye colors, hair colors and clothes are used for that purpose.Its extended use of matte paintings is effectively counterbalanced by their absorption and adjustment with live action footage. Certainly well deserving its Production Design and Cinematography Oscars.An equally well distributed and chosen although not flawless cast choice adds to the result. Gable and Leigh are the only, literally speaking, actors of the era that could convincingly incarnate Scarlett and Rhet Butler, and near their top throne also rests Olivia De Havilland. The main cast suffers mostly from Leslie Howard as Ashley. Though he is convincing as for the mental and intellectual traits of the novel character he lacks physical resemblance and his under- toned and flat performance is somewhat distant from the presence of Ashley in the novel who has a few emotional outbursts. The rest of the cast is magnificently positioned, to mention a few: Thomas Mitchell as Gerald is very suited to the emotional spectrum of his character and I would have wanted him in more scenes which were present in the novel but edited out of the film unfortunately, including one that involves Gerald in Atlanta after the bazaar to reproach his daughter, Barbara O'Neill is physically perfect though limited in stage presence and of course Hattie McDaniel shines as Mammy with the strong character and the tough heart. She is something of an accomplice more to Scarlett than a servant or executor. Also, Laura Hope Crews is satisfactorily presented as Pittypat and not deprived of quantity and quality of scenes. Unfortunately, many other characters omitted, edited out or merged with others from the novel are just a little more than extras, including the terrific Jane Darwell and Leona Roberts whose characters are much more significant in the book.Apart from any above mentioned flaws I credit the production with its departure from Mitchell's descriptions of mansions etc, like Tara or the Twelve Oaks, and the quite limited running time of the film. I think it should be presented as a two 5 hour movies sequence to adequately be faithful to the book. I know this is impossible to have happened back then as neither Cleopatra of 1963 managed to be something that innovative, but I lament because only this specific cast could master the whole novel to perfection with all its nuances, so today the latter is not possible anymore. Nowadays it is feasible to make a TV series of better technical standards but such actors are almost impossible to find today!!!!I refrain from criticizing the racial and sociopolitical stance of the film's depiction of slaves, Reconstruction an such things as it was 1939 back then and the novel remained faithful to the depiction of the characters in the book. It is important to understand that the film wasn't supposed to depict 1861-1871 faithfully and objectively but to adapt for the screen a very specific piece of fiction.


                
GONE WITH THE WIND is an epic melodrama which is very difficult to describe. Considering the thirties this movie is something most original in the history of cinema. Institution. The true magic of life. Of course, the term "magic" I think everything that lives in a certain time pass. I'm a little disappointed because I think it is in the final hour of an epic spectacle given the characteristics of the classic soap opera. This movie is full of freshness and strange irony. The irony of the film no one escaped, at least a "gentleman" in the American South. The horrors of war are quite credible. The arrogance and pomposity "Southerners" are completely the opposite of the characteristics of the main characters.Gone with the Wind is a love story at the time of the Civil War, in which each in its own way serves some human punishment. Although I am aware of racist moment that really exists in the film, I would not have acted rudely. Although the "slaves" happy and complex, their characterization is not at all realistic. This is best seen when they become part of the romance or love affairs of their "masters". The film is quite delicate and subtle. Some erotic themes are, to the extent permissible content, quite convincing.Set design, costume design, framing, story, theme and music are top notch. From the first sequence can be seen magic and suggest that this movie is very expensive.Gable (Rhett Butler) and Leigh (Scarlett O'Hara) are excellent. Scarlett is the central figure, and Rhett's character who meets her. Both characters are outlaws, unaccepted and stubborn. Perfect for each other, or just doomed?Howard (Ashley Wilkes) and de Havilland (Melanie Hamilton) are boring. However, when acting individually their good acting comes into play. They look great in a pair with the main two characters. It is interesting that even they do not fit into the concept of people from the South. Novel. So many tragic figure, none of which is happy. One persistent striving toward the one she can not have, and when it gets it is no longer interesting.I always watch this movie with relish, while I do not feel numb ass.


                
This was an amazing movie! This is by far the best Civil War movie! I could never take my eyes off of for one second! Nearly four hours of complete amazement. This movie gives a sentimental view on the Civil War. Scarlett O'Hara is free-spirited, willful women who experiences love in the worst possible way. Scarlett's hopeless love for a married man makes this movie worthwhile. Four whole hours of Scarlett's fight for true love. Even though it's all about Scarlett O'Hara, it still gives appeal to life during the Civil War. Vivien Leigh portrayed Scarlett perfectly and really became Scarlett in this jaw dropping film. It truly showed what slaves were like back then all while telling this amazing love story. This movie may be almost one hundred years old, but it's definitely worth watching.


                
Gone with the Wind, Margaret Mitchell's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel, is one of the bestsellers of all time, with at least 28 million copies and more than 155 editions having been published in nearly every language and country. David Selznick's film adaptation, winner of many Oscars, including the first for a black actor, Hattie McDaniel. It was also one of the first major movies to be made in Technicolor, Gone With the Wind is an epic from the golden age of movie-making. Overblown and melodramatic, it somehow achieves more than the sum of its parts, thanks to a spirited modern heroine, the main character Scarlett O'Hara, and its refusal to give us the neat conclusions you'd expect This is a must see for anyone living in the south.


                
GONE WITH THE WIND is a classic film. The plot is set against the backdrop of white Southerners and against the 19th-century American South, it tells the story of Scarlett O'Hara, the strong-willed daughter of a Georgia plantation owner, from her romantic pursuit of Ashley Wilkes, who is married to his cousin, Melanie Hamilton, to her marriage to Rhett Butler.Because the film is 4 hours and 18 minutes long, it is split into two parts. My mother has seen it and I have not seen this film at all, but this is the longest film ever made to win Best Picture, but was also the first movie in color.This film was nominated for 13 Academy Award nominations including: Best Picture, Best Actress, Best Supporting Actress, Best Director, Best Screenplay, Best Cinematography, Best Art Direction and Best Editing and it won eight in the process. This film is just iconic and memorable.Clark Gable, Vivien Leigh and the rest of the cast in this film are incredible and their performances are good and the screenwriters stay true to the book, but a lot of people complained about the very long run time, but I don't have a problem with the film.This film is remembered in today's popular culture and it's production has also been remembered today as well. It has been referenced, satirized, analyzed and dramatized and this film is just amazing and the poster of the film depicting Clark Gable and Vivien Leigh's characters embracing in a scene from the film is one of the greatest movie posters I ever seen in my life and I like the poster.Overall, GONE WITH THE WIND is simply a classic. There is no other way to describe this film and it is an absolute smash hit. 10/10.


                
This movie showed the many hardships of the Civil War. For example how much people struggled, and not just the soldiers, but the women who either stayed at home taking care of others or who were working in hospitals at the battlefields. The war was overwhelming for everyone and not just physically but mentally as well. Even though it seemed for them like everything was falling apart, the characters in the movie still found a way to get hope, and manage themselves through these rough times. They show the perfect attitude for the hard and good periods of life. Everyone should take ideas of this great movie. I think this movie is the best classic American history movie ever.


                
You can easily Gone with the Wind is the Mother of all movies. Glorious Technicolor, magnificent cast who make their characters their own, wonderful landscapes, excellent, beautiful costumes, rich and warm music, true and believable acting. And the beauty of this movie that it could have been made yesterday - it truly looks like it. Sometimes I just watch it and not pay attention to the characters, just look at the landscapes, decor and dresses, however that is hard to do because the characters are so darn interesting. I find Rhett and Scarlett hard to hate. Rhett because obviously he is very attractive and kind, despite going to prostitutes. Scarlett has been through so much and can be very kind sometimes, but on the other hand she is a manipulative, difficult so-and-so. After you see this movie, you cannot imagine anyone else in these roles. Thanks to the Four Disk Special Edition, you can see who came very close to claiming the roles (the special edition DVD is a must for any devoted Gone With The Wind fan - the special features are wonderful!! The only thing that I was disappointed with is that there are no outtakes! Outtakes are the best! But it is a very valuable, informative DVD.) I love Gone With The Wind. It is one of the most memorable, tragic, hopeful, glorious, extravagant, wonderful, explosive, sultry, sad, bittersweet movies I have ever seen, and I shall carry the experience along with me for the rest of my life.


                
I first want to begin by saying this was a fantastic movie that everyone should see. It is filled with such passion that everyone should experience. Classic movies are not usually good as this one, nor are they as long. Gone with the Wind is basically a four hour movie but it was well worth the sit to finally watch. So I do not know what I enjoyed most about this movie. Was it the character Scarlett O'Hara, Rhett Butler, their relationship, or the way that this movie was filmed?? These people and things all as one make this move. Scarlett you could first picture her as a spoiled little rich brat. She always got her way and if you didn't like the way she was she could care less. Scarlett was comfortable with herself and when she made up her mind that was the end. She used what she had to get what she needed. Whether it was a good or bad thing, sometimes you would even go so far as to call her actions evil or hateful, she would do it and would not think twice. For example, in the movie she needed to pay the taxes on her family estate, Tara, and had no way to find the money. But while she was out on the prowl trying to find this money she ran into a man who was working to save money to marry her sister, and she intentionally broke his heart telling him that her sister moved on to be with another man because she was tired of waiting on him and then Scarlett married him herself. Her sister hated her for this but Scarlett didn't care, it was all for Tara. She was one tough gal. Scarlett never changed very much but she did change some and you could do nothing more than to love her. Now we have Rhett Butler. Rhett Butler was a very handsome man who just like Scarlett knew what he wanted and did what he must to get it. Only in Rhett's case, he would for the most part use money. He was a very rich man and he knew money was a very powerful source. But Rhett Butler was also a smooth talker and he could convince you very easily. I could also tell, though it wasn't shown much in the movie that women swooned after this man. But Rhett only focused on the woman he loved. The woman he would do anything for. He would kill for this woman without even thinking twice but the downside is that she never showed her love for him. Scarlett could never give her heart to him because she thought she wanted someone else. Even after she married Rhett and had his child she still couldn't admit it to herself that she loved him. She married him for his money and at first Rhett was fine with that. He thought that eventually he could make her love him. But when she finally realized she loved him it was too late and Rhett decided to leave her. I loved their relationship so much and the way they acted towards one another. Calling each other names just how kids do when they like someone, teasing them as a way to show them attention. But Scarlett never could break her bratty side of always wanting and getting everything she thought should be hers so their relationship never grew. It could have been something very beautiful if it weren't for that part of her.Lastly, this film is beautifully shot. The lighting is always perfect with what is going on in the movie. If it were a very happy day or well a very happy Scarlett, the light was very bright and she would glow and even the music was a bit snappier. And when there was a fight or just someone angry or something the lighting was a bit red. The connection of the color red with anger or hate was there very clearly and I like that the film was shot this way, using color to display feeling and emotions. The film also uses great camera movement and good angles. If it were a crazy time in the movie and a lot was going on, the camera was sure to be moving fast, jumping from here to there to display all the turmoil going on. There were also a lot of head shots that were used at good moments throughout the movie to show the characters reactions.This film is beautifully made with a lot of abstract things you could notice if you really try to analyze it. I love it, I always enjoy watching it, and it always leaves me wishing it didn't go off when it ends.
This is undoubtedly the greatest film ever. The scale of the film is simply mind blowing. It is almost inconceivable to think this was done in a time before computers, before the advanced technology available today, and it STILL looks incredible! The visuals are great, the acting is great, the story itself is fantastic. The role must have been very demanding for Vivien Leigh, who is in almost every single scene of the movie, with a running time of 221 minutes. An absolute masterpiece and true epic!


                
Gone with the Wind is an amazzzzzzzzzzzzzzingly long yet a wonderful classic film! The cinematography by Ernest Haller is truly gorgeous and add beautifully to the story as a whole. The story duration of this film is spanned over many years which seemed to drag the plot on for quite some time, especially since the screen duration is 238 minutes. But, for the most part the plot moved relatively at a fast pace. The plot was very complex. It had many love affairs going on at one time (love triangles), had the men at war and the women at home, and the multiple deaths of loved ones. I personally think that Scarlett should have given up on Ashley for Rhett Butler wayyyy before she did. This would have made the story line way more interesting. I also wished that they showed a little bit more of the men actually fighting in the war to get a gist of what that would have been like. I loved the scene when all the hundreds of bodies of the men were laying out on the ground and here comes Scarlett with her pink dress on looking for the Doc to deliver Melanie's baby. That was also a great use of cinematography. The above camera angle was perfect for that scene. Overall, even though the film was ridiculously long I did happen to thoroughly enjoy it!
I was put off watching this for a long time, mainly because I mistakenly believed it to be an old-fashioned romance. Boy, was I wrong. In fact, it's a story of how two maladjusted characters come together and the volatile relationship that progresses.That's the central thrust of the tale, but there's a whole lot more to GONE WITH THE WIND than that. It's an epic reconstruction of a by-gone era, a pre-Civil War American South in which man and slave lived side by side. It's a war story featuring some hugely impressive pyrotechnic effects which must have blown cinema-goers away on first release. And it's an exploration of the darkest reaches of the human condition.The actors are fantastic. Vivian Leigh really makes something of what must have been a difficult role to play. It's especially noticeable with Olivia de Havilland starring in the traditional role of the beautiful, warm-hearted heroine, and then seeing Leigh's haunted, bitter and vengeful character appearing opposite her in contrast. I especially liked Clark Gable, who exudes charisma from every pore.The production values are immaculate, the supporting cast don't put a foot wrong, and the ultra-lengthy running time flies past thanks to the viewer's involvement in the events that unfold. Tragic, shocking, moving and heart-warming in equal measure, GONE WITH THE WIND truly is a film for the ages.


                
I know "Gone with the Wind" has been teased to death, and there seems to be a sort of snob appeal among the film critical community in denegrating this film as overblown Hollywood melodrama. But the thing that impresses me about "Gone with the Wind" after seeing it recently on the big screen is that it's one hell of a good movie. The entire first half moves with a propulsive energy that not many films can match. Victor Fleming (billed as director, though there were at least four director names attached to the project) stages one sensational set piece after another, and hardly a scene goes by without a quotable line or a memorable image.The success of any adaptation of "Wind" is going to rely greatly on its Scarlett, and here I can't say enough about Vivien Leigh's performance. I quite simply cannot imagine any other actress in this role, so perfectly does Ms. Leigh embody it. She's in virtually every scene, but even after four hours of her, I'm not tired of her, and her ability to captivate the screen while she's on it doesn't lessen for an instant.Clark Gable is Clark Gable, perfect for his role as well and an able match for Leigh, but his performance plays as window dressing as compared to Leigh's powerhouse work.I also want to mention Olivia de Havilland. In her own way, she is just as powerful in her role as Leigh is in Scarlett's. Melanie's character is less dynamic and so by sheer necessity de Havilland is frequently upstaged by Leigh. But she holds her own nonetheless. And what struck me is the chemistry the two actresses have when on screen together. The scene in which Scarlett attends a party dressed in bright red, braving the gossip she knows will attend her presence, and Melanie walks slowly forward, determined to prove herself a refined lady by welcoming Scarlett unconditionally, is a tour de force for both actresses.I take points away for some soap operatic elements in the second half that grind the story to a halt, but otherwise this film deserves its place as one of the greatest achievements in American cinematic history.Grade: A


                
¨Gone with the wind¨ takes place in the confederate old south during the civil war. Southern girl Scarlett O'Hara falls in love with Ashley Wilkes, but when she finds out he is engaged to Melanie Hamilton and the war begins , her life begins to fall apartThis is a strong love story between two people during a stressful and dangerous time period to live in, the Civil War era. I think this story strongly shows the true effects of this Civil era and how it affected people's lives during this time.The characters were all well portrayed and well the story goes on, you begin to feel their pains with them. The war is not only involves soldiers of the confederacy and the union in this story, but it involves every single person. There is a lot of fighting in the movie, and a lot of romance. The movie is 4 hours long, which because of the quality of the movie is not difficult to sit through, and is rated G. If there was Pg 13 rating though at the time the movie was made, it probably would have been rated that because of the violence of the war.


                
Gone With the Wind is directed by Victor Fleming, is based on the novel by Margaret Mitchell, has music by Max Steiner and stars Vivien Leigh, Clark Gable, Leslie Howard, Olivia DeHavilland, Hattie McDaniel, Thomas Mitchell, Butterfly McQueen and Jane Darwell.As well as being a love story, Gone With The Wind shows the end of a generation of Southern life and customs due to the devastating Civil war.Vivien Leigh plays Scarlett O'Hara, a young southern belle who loves her friend and neighbour Ashley Wilkes(Lesley Howard) but he only considers her a friend and marries his gentle and kind cousin Melanie Hamilton(Olivia De Haviland).Scarlett however won't let Ashley go and believes he is the only man for her, however she meets the dashing Captain Rhett Butler(Clarke Gable) who falls in love with the young belle (although he hardly shows it as she thinks he should.)Rhett is one of those men who you can't take for granted and you just have to accept that he actually cares for you. He loves her and desperately tries to drag her heart away from something she can't have.The score by Max Steiner is unforgettable, suitably dramatic and sweeping and Tara's theme is haunting and beautiful.A film that has stood the test of time and keeps very close to the novel.Gone With The Wind has everything tears,action,romance and drama plus that immortal last sentence delivered perfectly by Gable.Vivien Leigh gives one of her best performances as the young woman who won't be overcome by hardship and will try and get what she wants despite the consequences.
I have always appreciated Gone With The Wind, most well-known by its acronym, "GWTW," (which "the" wasn't originally capitalized), for all of the background work that was completed to create a beautiful film. Not only was the cinematography wonderful (who will ever forget Scarlett walking through the railroad field among the wounded in her bright dress?), but the characters chosen were definitely accurate to play the roles. Take for example Clark Gable playing the rake Rhett Butler - who else could have fit that role? I will always love "GWTW," and suggest all of those "GWTW" lovers to see it at the Fox Theatre in Atlanta, Georgia in the Summer when it is shown on the true big screen.


                
Excellent, this movie is excellent. Everything. First the special effects amazed me! Incredible. This film was based on a book, a Pulitzer Price winner and such as the book the motion picture is great. The film has an amazing screenplay, very complete. Then the performances, brilliant, excellent performances; Vivien Leigh was amazing, taking the role of women during those times and how she completely changed their role in that society. And Clark Gable, specially with his famous line of "Frankly, my dear, I don't give a damn"; his performances in this movie is one of the best I have ever seen. The cinematography of this film is beyond incredible, I loved it, excellent, and again one of the best I have ever seen. In this category also was nominated The Wizard of Oz, and this movie as well has an excellent cinematography, and Gone with the Wind won. I also loved the production and set decoration it really sticks to the time where this movie takes place. This kind of movies are the ones that live forever, beautiful pieces of art, that is worth watching every second of it. 9.9/10
Gone With the Wind (1939): Dir: Victor Fleming / Cast: Vivien Leigh, Clark Gable, Leslie Howard, Olivia de Havilland, Hattie McDaniel: Gone is love. Gone is passion. Gone is humanity. Set during the Civil War with Vivien Leigh playing Scarlett O'Hara, who lives on a plantation and is targeted by every guy. She seeks marriage with Ashley Wilkes, played by Leslie Howard, but he is announcing his engagement to his cousin, Melanie Hamilton, played by Olivia de Havilland. O'Hara catches the eye of a sly playboy Rhett Butler, played by Clark Gable, whom she detests, but he aims to marry her. Director Victor Fleming was blessed this year having also made The Wizard of Oz. Great moments include an exhilarating fire of |Atlantic and the getaway by horse and wagon. Flawed by a corny reoccurring death between two character generations, as well as layered negativity leading to its concluding payoff. Leigh plays O'Hara, widowed after two marriages, yet her pining for Ashley determines her downfall. As Rhett, Gable is charming until he is unable to sustain the love of this woman even when their daughter dies after being thrown from a horse. Howard plays the frustrated and worn Ashley, and de Havilland plays the ill yet gentle spirit of Melanie. Hattie McDaniel comically steals scenes as Mammy the maid. Extraordinary vision of war and passions drained yet the promise of "tomorrow being another day." Score: 9 / 10
