Frank Darabont's follow up to the Shawshank Redemption is a poorly written and painfully unoriginal story. For starters, the Noble Savage stereotype is racist at best. A character that is misunderstood by society and doesn't want to live in that society due to the character's extreme moral idealism (i.e. edward scissorhands, powder, etc.) is far from new. Coffey's character is not the only one that is one dimensional. Pretty much all the characters' dispositions are made to be one of two things: good or bad. There are no gray lines and it is obvious who the audience is supposed to hate and who they are supposed to root for. It's boring and childish. The frenchman, Michael Jeter, is made up so that we feel completely sorry for him. We're not even allowed to know what his crime was because then we might not love him so much.The prison guards are the most loving forgiving group of prison guards that have ever lived. Hell, they're the most loving forgiving people that ever lived. A prisoner spits in Tom Hanks's face and he actually does nothing about it? My grandmother isn't that nice.Stop reading here if you have not seen the movie.And wasn't it convenient that that prisoner, Sam Rockwell, just happened to be the actual criminal behind Coffey's crime? And when they "caught" Coffey with the girls, can anyone honestly say that if a black man was found with two dead white girls that they would not shoot him? Black men in the 30's, and especially in the South, would be killed for being seen in public with a white woman, much less killing a white child.And when Coffey does die, Tom Hanks doesn't put too much effort into stopping the execution. He just asks Coffey what he should do, and Coffey says nothing, so that's what he does. Of course Coffey must die, because in all racist Noble Savage films the savage must die so that his white savior can learn a valuable lesson.And where is the warden at this point? He said he can't stop the execution, but I find that implausible. I'm sure he could at least try to save the man who saved his wife. And wasn't that a plot twist that was hard to see coming? I also found it interesting that when Coffey healed her, he also did her hair and put makeup on her. The whole movie has no real continuity being that it was adopted from a serial novel. The movie could have ended in about five different places and the audience wouldn't have minded. The only interesting element of this movie is its ending which certainly does not save it. I suppose this movie is more Stephen King's fault than Darabont's, but regardless the movie is a disappointment in front the backdrop of all the superb movies that have been released with it in the past few months.


                
Even though everybody I know think that this movie is one of the best ever made I disagree with them. Wile watching this movie I sat in a chair for 3 hours waiting for it to really start but...........it didn't.In my opinion this movie is a very boring 3 hour sit and I don't understand all the people who are saying that this movie is great!


                
That it should've been, at least.But let's start at the beginning, which is, I might add, terribly slow. A lot of time passes before something actually happens. King & Darabont use this time to carefully put their chess pieces in place before making their move in the last 60 minutes or so. There's a host of details during the first 2/3s that later become significant. And since I'm not one of those who need to see fireworks of action and suspense from the first instant of a movie, that's fine with me. After all, the pace increases considerably during the course of the movie.Some of these aforementioned details are so predictable that I could guess the next turn of events half an hour in advance. And that's never a good thing.The last hour, however, makes up for a lot of the film's former trappings. There's no arguing that the solution is quite touching.So finally, a movie worth watching, but there were still a few things that bugged me. First, I would've liked to know more about the inmates as murderers, which I guess they were supposed to be. (You never notice, though.) In the way they're portrayed, these are good, righteous people that are good friends with the wardens, love a cute mouse and are generally lovable. So- why are they in death row anyway? I understand the novel shed some light on this, and the film could've certainly needed some of this other side of the story to avoid some of the schmaltz.
Second, isn't this prison just lovely? I mean, it seems like a camping tour at some points. If death row is like that, I want to be in it!If The Green Mile was supposed to make any statement about the right or wrong of the death sentence, you'd better watch Dead Man Walking to form your own opinion instead of being manipulated into believing that all killers ultimately become nice people once they're in Our Favorite Death Row. It works for tearjerking, but not for discussion of that subject.But, mind you, I couldn't help being manipulated myself- and it worked. I was genuinely moved at the end and, despite the occasional predictability, the story had its clever moments.So, it was an OK movie, at times even a bit more, but it sure didn't deserve its Best Picture nomination at the Oscars, and it sure can't hold a candle to King's and Darabont's first joint venture, the brilliant The Shawshank Redemption. 7 out of 10.


                
While it was a good story and a well written script and memorable performances, the whole movie was extremely predictable from beginning to end. It left very little to the imagination how the characters would interact or develop through the story or how it would even end. Emotionally it was riveting as you could feel nothing but sympathy and appreciation for all but one character in the film. Even with that, it left me feeling very empty afterwords and was almost as depressing as "The Pledge" starring Jack Nicholson. It was overly hyped and not worthy in my own collection although others may feel differently. I appreciate much of Tom Hanks works but this movie and "Saving Private Ryan" are not believable characters for this actor. Who didn't know the character Percy would disappear?
I was coerced into sitting through "The Green Mile" the other evening on video. Quite a watchable thriller, really, but left me very uncomfortable. I'm a white Englishman, but even for me the words "Uncle Tom" were hovering in the air and refused to go away. OK, the plot device of the automatic assumption of guilt and wrongful arrest of the big black guy only worked if he was black. But the - apparently surprising - fact that he could be huge and black but still "nice" then seemed to be a central part of the plot.The only thing this story reveals is the prejudice and bigotry of the writer and his intended audience.


                
I'll admit there's some good to be found in The Green Mile, but not nearly as much as people seem to think. The characters are mostly one-dimensional, the plot developments seem to get progressively worse as the movie progresses, cumulating in an ultra-pretentious ending, and the whole film is way too long. All this is supposedly justified by the touching nature of the picture and its themes of humanity and kindness. Had these been driven home with a slightly lighter sledgehammer, perhaps the movie would have been redeemed. As it is, one would do well to skip back to The Shawshank Redemption.


                
"The Green Mile" tries hard to be a nice movie, to steer your emotions, to feel along. Etc. Everybody who is nice simply is nice, character depth is secondary. What completely ridicules the entire thing is the influence of fantasy elements to enlighten the atmosphere. Not only is everybody nice, but heah, with some special abilities they are even nicer!
Technically the movie is of course well done. Camera, lights, everything is in the green. Unfortunately that doesn't make a good movie, when characters are simply created to fulfill general expectations. Although this simply seems to be a routine production to appeal to mass audiences, anyway, and of course it hits right on the target. That Hanks was in for a role here is understandable - his main aim nowaday seems to be building up his reputation with the Academy. For Duncan the decision was probably more difficult, he got to play the usual part of the black country guy. But a chance to get a role in a "made to please the academy" film is a hard thing to refuse, esp. when your co-star is Hanks and a name like Stephen King stands for the novel.It is much more reccomendable to watch "Dead Man Walking" for a good look on the topic, but of course if you felt along with the characters in Cameron's "Titanic" this is your thing to go for.


                
Despite all its best attempts to seduce with heart-tugging moral lessons and drawn-out Oscar moments, I couldn't help but feel relieved when I admitted to myself that I hated this movie. I actually arrived a few minutes late to the screening and (thank God) missed the "Saving Private Ryan" style old-person-seeking-forgiveness bookend, yet I immediately knew exactly what was coming for the entire rest of the movie. (CAUTION: SPOILER)  You couldn't watch the demonstration of the execution, with its excruciating emphasis on the wet sponge, to know that bad, bad Percy was going to dry-fry some poor sucker.  And everyone knew the lovely dying belle would be healed in a touching climax.  But beyond the utterly simplistic characters, the by-numbers plot line, and the butt-numbing slowness, there was also a self-serving hypocrisy I found absolutely offensive.  Given that one of the main characters is a huge black man on death row wrongfully convicted of a crime he didn't commit, we are naievely supposed to assume that this is a sensitive, anti-racist film.  Yet how challenging would it have been to make that (single) black character more intelligent than even Mr. Jingles the Circus Mouse?  And the final "I ain't never seen a picture show" scene is unforgivably masturbatory.  Given the history of this writer-director team in "The Shawshank Redemption," which managed to skillfully engineer a happy ending and admirable morals without turning into pulp, this film was a major disappointment.
The first 40 minutes of this film promised so much; great acting, great sets fantastically shot and lit. An execution scene full of drama and pathos; all pointed to a tense anti-capital punishment death-row drama of high quality. Then the first of the miracles occurs as John Coffey performs a "laying on of hands" cure on Paul Edgecomb. Later he brings a mouse to life with the "evil" spewing from his mouth! It is almost comic.The comedy "miracles" get sillier and the film drags on and on until it finally reaches its nadir with the shot of John Coffey in the cinema with the projector light behind him like the aura in a medieval depiction of Christ <U+0096> oh please - treat me as a grown up. What a waste of a great opportunity. Could it be re-edited with the daftness taken out? It should have been brilliant.


                
How far will elastic stretch? They managed to stretch this elastic band right the way round the moon. I believe the story could have been told in about an hour without losing any of the story at all, and that's being generous. I am one of those believers in the 90 minute film, but I appreciate that if the story merits it, more time may be necessary. In this case, there is absolutely no excuse. The story barely qualifies as enough for a film at all, let alone an event-less epic-length film.The overall story was weak and the film makers desperation to put in emotion was done in an over-dramatic way with little content and had no effect on me at all, except to genuinely annoy me. I found it to be insulting to watch, to be honest, and was the most boring, most frustrating film I have ever seen.I also felt the ending was obvious for the whole of the last hour. It won't ruin the story to know that there was a piece following a mouse around for about 20 minutes which added little or nothing to the story. I kept watching and watching and watching hoping for something exciting to happen but it never did. I was preying for the film to end for the last 30-45 minutes. I was elated when I finally saw the credits.If I was told I had to watch either this awful film of 3 hours plus, or the worst film I have ever seen, Going Overboard, if my life depended on it, I would chose the latter. At least the suffering would be over so much sooner! I have seen plenty of films where the acting was worse and where so many other aspects of film were worse, but never have I seen a film so unnecessarily long and, with it, boring.Probably the most overrated film of all time...


                
Yesterday, I saw 'The Green Mile'. I actually expected quite a bit from it, based on comments and its rating on IMDB. But disappointment hit me early, and it was a direct blow that knocked me down and out.Prisons are fun, aren't they? Well, in this film they sure are. Chasing a mouse and stuff. And, oh yeah, most inmates waiting for the electrical chair are actually kind, nice, sometimes even philosophical people. THEY are the victims. Not the relatives of the people they murdered. Those inmates are in there for murder for crying out loud. But they act as if they can't even put their own pants on. And this Percy character, he is really 'bad'. But he's the most 'real' person in the entire film---a film which is basically as ridiculous as Tom Hanks playing a SERIOUS role. Tom Hanks IS Forrest Gump, or the main character in "Big", both essentially being large kids. Picturing Hanks as a warden is as silly as claiming that James Bond is a monogamist.
After having fast-forwarded the second half of the movie, I'm trying to figure out whether it was intended to be a comedy or a drama. Essentially, it's neither."I'm tired boss", well, I'm tired of this film, which I give a green light. A green light to take the 3-lane highway, right into the trash-bin.And, please, let someone please get rid of that stupid mouse!Rating from the Dutch judge: 3 (out of 10).


                
This movie directed by Frank Darabont has to be the most overrated movie of the last two decades. The plot is shallow, unrealistic and above all absurd. Not just that the pretentious and so called emotional moments in the film aren't moving and touching, but they are also laughable and ridiculous. The scenes featuring the mouse (Mr. Jingles),Percy Wetmore and 'Wild Bill' Wharton reminded me of the cartoons I used to watch in my childhood. To put it simply, its a bad combination of mawkish sentimentalism and make beliefs. I don't care if the film is predictable but the pathetic attempts of audience manipulation and superficial treatment should keep this movie out of the top 250 movies in IMDb.Some of the scenes were too dragging, meaningless and hollow. Some others were too chaotic and deranged. Overall the film is a classic example of bad filmmaking. We cant really rate the actors as there is no scope of performance in such a poorly directed film.


                
I went to see this at the cinema, half-heartedly, with my brother and a few friends. Half an hour into the film I walked out, paid another nine bucks and went to see American Beauty instead - a film I would have paid another ninety dollars to see. But, I digress...I rented it out a few months ago to see what I'd been missing and, well, I can relate to the lead character. He winds up wishing for death - by the end of the film, I was doing the same.Sorry, but it just didn't grab my heart strings and give them a good old-fashioned tug. More than anything, it bored me. Maybe I'm desensitized, but while I do think there's too much misery and death in what comes out of Hollywood these days, you can go too far the other way. The Green Mile did just that.A story like this could have been told in half the time (my God, it was long), and without the melodrama that was oozing from every pore. I don't have a lot of faith in the supernatural, so the only miracle associated with this film would be getting me to see it again.
Let me start off by telling the positive: the movie didn't bore me like some other people said. Some scenes were funny and the acting was decent. Overall the movie was entertaining.But that being said, I really do not understand this movie being in the IMDb top 50. I found this movie disappointing because of the almost random magical aspect they added. Though this is symbolism or whatever you wanna call it, I didn't buy it. And neither did my friend. When the first "magical moment" happened we were like "hmm okay, that's kinda lame/weird, but okay i guess we'll get it at the end of the movie". Unfortunately that didn't happen and after the first magical moment, this movie just downgrades to a simple childish story of a person having some kind of superpower and the prison guards being amazed by it. To me it lacks meaning, feels way too random and the magical elements are childish. If I were still a kid though i'd probably be amazed too by the magic, just like the main characters. So maybe the target audience they had in mind were kids.This movie did entertain me but nothing about it was touching or shocking. I personally couldn't identify with John Coffey, because to me he's not human but some kind of superpower. This movie was supposed to be meaningful and touching, but it failed miserably hard at it for me, would not recommend unless you're kid or you don't mind the random magic they added. This movie could have been much better if John Coffey was portrayed as an actual human and they kept out the childish magic. But surprisingly a lot of people really like this movie and i'm the minority, so watch it and go figure it out for yourself!


                
A lot of people have told me that "The Green Mile" is a fantastic film, and that I should see it. So I did. Usually, I like all movie's where Tom Hanks is a part of the cast, since he's such a brilliant actor, and no matter how bad a script or plot is, he's making the film good just by being on the screen.I'm not going to tell you about how the film ends, and what made me give it a 3 out of 10, but for those of you who have seen it, I can tell that it was the ending of the film that made me turn it off, before it was even finished. To be honest, I was very disappointed. Still, there's always something good to say about o movie, no matter how bad it is, and in The Green Mile Tom Hanks does a very good job, and the other guards in the prison are pretty good too. Also, Michael Clarke Duncan as John Coffey and Thomas Newman's music saves the honor of the film, because in my opinion, this film is really bad.


                
"The Green Mile" would have been a lovely little indie movie if it had been done small scale. Did it need the full Hollywood treatment of Tom Hanks and ILM special effects? No. It would have made a nice 2 -part Mystery episode on PBS.It also did not need to be 3+ hrs of v-e-r-y leisurely story-telling. Not having read the Stephen King book I don't know what got left out that made the auteur think this was an abbreviated version. David Morse, who is unsung too often, was quite fine. Michael Clarke Duncan added much needed humanity to the film.Interesting that like "Saving Private Ryan," an older actor is used for 50 years hence, not make-up laden as in the days of "Little Big Man."No reason to see this on a big screen; you can wait for commercial-free cable or video tape, what with lots and lots of close-ups.(originally seen 1/2/2000)


                
I can't say that the "Green Mile" was a bad movie but it was far from the year's best. Maybe it's just the Anti-Hanks feelings I have but this movie was somewhat lack luster. I didn't care too much for Hanks' performance but then again I don't care for any of his movies. "Saving Private Ryan" was no "Fighting Sullivans" despite trying to be one, "Forrest Gump" had it's moment but I don't think a retard should be given the Best Actor award. This was the guy who played a manchild and played opposite a slobbering dog. But I digress. There wasn't anything that really grabbed my attention, I take that back. The mouse was the only entertaining character in the whole thing. Maybe it would've been better without the King-esque parts, then it would've gained some respect in my opinion. Honestly there's a better movie out there about a black man being thrown in jail for a crime they didn't commit, "The Hurricane". Denzel Washington's drama was more gripping and heart warming and Washington's performance was far better than Hanks' hick characters in "Green Mile" and "Forrest Gump". If Hanks beats out Washington for Best Actor and "The Green Mile" beats "The Hurricane" then I'm giving up on the Academy all together and sticking to Hong Kong action movies.


                
Well, this is (accessing Sarcasm Mode) one of those upbeat movies that makes you feel all warm and fuzzy inside!  Seriously, though, I know people who cried at the end and I know people (like myself) who though it was good but also thought it was a LITTLE much, and I know people who hated it and walked out in the first half hour!My opinion was this: it was well done, but a more subtle approach would have been better (and I don't know if we needed that cheerful meditation or mortality at the finale).  On the other hand, by the middle, I said to myself "If John Coffey saves a deer (think "Starman" or "Powder" and cringe) this movie is OVER!!!"


                
I'm not sure what the worst part of this movie was.A.)  It never seemed to end. B.)  It was a children's movie with extreme graphic violence. C.)  I ran out of pop-corn half-way through and had to go get more, and ended up with a stomach ache. D.)  There was this very very annoying guy behind me who laughed out loud constantly.I think I'll choose B.


                
There are a lot of loose ends that a big emotional finale fail to obscure, as well as borrowed major plot elements from other BIG IMPORTANT FILMS of the past 5 years. Over-long, silly and manipulative. The acting is good, though.


                
Excellent movie for those who relish suffering; both when watching it and from feeling empathetic pain themselves. Very suitable for either sadists or masochists, and all people who feel a strong need to cry. Brought to you by the same team that created The Shawshank Redemption, of which it is the obverse. Something like the Passion of the Christ. Shawshank described how one man beat the U.S. system, all on his own, and escaped injustice to freedom. It was almost plausible, and positively upbeat. The Green Mile describes how the U.S. system crushes innocence and saintliness, as well as how (some of) the guilty are made to pay for their sins. To be perfectly honest, it is messy. It doesn't make you feel good, and it's a sort of a snuff movie, apparently designed to make you a little sick. If you're normal.It is also completely implausible, and contains any amount of utterly ridiculous miracle-working, some involving the healing of peculiarly repulsive ailments, as well as a gaggle of exceptionally talented circus mice. Presumably this is in homage to Steinbeck's "Mice and Men". The leading character, Hanks, is inexplicably condemned to immortality, although, at 108, and not looking much like his earlier self, the impression is that he's only got about another 5 years to go, at most. Perhaps because the subject-matter was so dippy and off-putting, I kept getting distracted. How did they manage to make an actor, who is in fact a mere 6 ft 5 inches tall, unconvincingly look as though he were eight foot? I spent a lot of time trying to figure out the photographic trickery, and noting how and when it didn't quite work, just like I did with Malkovich, in "Of Mice and Men". I also found myself frequently looking at the time, and wondering how much longer there was to go.There may be an anti-capital punishment message involved, but the only miracle in connection with this movie is how it gets to #71 in the top 250. Watch Top Hat, instead.
This movie was one of the most terribly formulaic movies I've seen in years. It's basically Saving Private Ryan or Titanic's beginning and ending with a different plot thrown in the middle.  While that's always been a typical formula, due to the abundance in recent years of similar films it's just not excusable anymore.  Add to that the trademark, Hollywood cliche mix of cute, out of place humor and overly sentimental drama thrown in throughout the film and you've got one of the most overrated movies of the year.  True, most of 1999's best movies (Magnolia, Cider House Rules, American Beauty, Boys Don't Cry) were also overly sentimental, but at least they had worthwhile messages.  The best The Green Mile can muster is something like a trite "don't judge a book by its cover" or the even more annoying "don't be mean to convicted killers, it hurts their feelings."  Don't get me wrong, it's not that I wasn't disgusted by the treatment these men received (I'm not even an advocate of capital punishment), it's just the way the film handled these situations that made me gag.I really did want to like this film as the acting is superb and the technical elements are all in place, but the contrived plot constantly detracted from the film's overall quality.  If you want to see one of 1999's truly good films, I recommend seeing one or all of the movies I mentioned above.  This certainly isn't anywhere near the quality of Frank Darabont's true masterpiece, The Shawshank Redemption.


                
Well, despite the first half of this movie, this was just a holy miraculous crap.
However, The acting was the only thing that could hold me setting in front of my screen for that three hours, more precisely Sam Rockwell, his performance was astonishing, not to mention Tom Hanks as he did great as well. The beginning of the story made me think, well this is going to be fun at some point, I mean prison.. murder.. big guys... what else can this lead to?! However, I was TERRIBLY wrong.


                
The Green Mile is NOT Sliders. There is no inter-dimensional travel at all. No "Q-Ball" Jerry O'Connell, no Professor Arturo, no Wade, not even a Quinn. There's definitely no Crying Man at all in this movie.I give it a 3 because at least there is some magic on display in this movie, which gives me reason to hope that the sequel may have some Sliding, but there's no Sliding yet so this movie is a failure.


                
The tagline should read "From the director of the overly-long shawshank redemption, the incredibly long green mile.  When the old man character says "Sometimes the green mile seems so long" he got a huge laugh from our audience.  190 minutes!!! OVER THREE HOURS to tell a ninety minute story- even revealing that the big black guy is big took what seemed to to be two minutes.  Thank the Lord it didn't get a nom for best editing, it needed well over an hour cut right out of it.  Does Frank Darabont own eastman kodak? Or do people just give him far too much film stock for free?  Frank writing, directing and producing, allowed him to commit cinematic diarroehea yet again.  There are some laughs, a great ensemble of the guards, but not a FILMIC moment in the whole thing.  It is a play!!!!  Not a movie, but it's framed for television, not one attempt at using the cinematic canvas was attempted or even considered.  The Green Mile is not a film.  It is a two part mini-series stealing good theatrical release money from real movies. Avoid.


                
