This was such an intense movie that, at three hours in length, I didn't really wind up watching this as many times as I thought I would. This was another of those films I rated very high on the first viewing but lower and lower on the second and third looks, finally eliminating it from my collection. However, that first look was a memorable one because this film had some dramatic moments!The acting in here is outstanding and runs the gamut from well-known actors like Tom Hanks to several unknowns, all having major roles. It's also nicely filmed. However, the story and the acting are the main attractions. The unique story gets you involved to the point where, even having to watch several very, very unpleasant scenes, you don't want to put the movie down.Big Michael Clarke Duncan elevated his career a lot with this role, playing "John Coffey," a prisoner with strange powers. You could root for all the characters save two, a sadistic guard aptly named "Brutus 'Brutal' Howell" (David Morse) and Warden Hal Moores (James Cromwell). I was sorry to hear Cromwell blaspheme regularly but not surprised since he seems to have played so many "bad guy" roles in the past dozen years and done this in other films. With those two exceptions, however, it was nice to finally see prison guards as good guys, something rarely seen since the classic-movie era. Michael Jeter, one of those unknown actors, was a lot of fun to watch as "Eduard Delacroix."Overall, however, as much as I praise this movie, the unpleasant scenes, the high use of the Lord's name in vain and the length of it all make this a tough movie to watch over and over, but it's a movie to definitely see at least once. Let's put it this way: it gets your attention!


                
I didn't know that it was a fantasy movie until I started watching the movie. Didn't watch the trailer either. I was slightly disappointed. Although, my disappointment is short-lived.More than the fantastic story and the narration, watch this movie for it's performances. Michael Clarke Duncan. Wow, what an awesome actor. Tom Hanks is his usual brilliant self.


                
The Green Mile is based on a 1996 Stephen King novel of the same name. Done three years after the book release, the Green Mile was nominated for four Academy Awards, which included Best Supporting Actor for Michael Clarke Duncan, Best Picture, Best Sound, and Best Adapted Screenplay.The movie was directed by Frank Darabont who also developed the screenplay of the movie under an eight week period, an adapted screenplay that i have to commend as one of the best i have seen, but it lost in the Oscars to the movie The Cider House Rules. Frank Darabont was also in charge of directing the critical acclaim The Shawshank Redemption which also earned him a nomination of best Adapted screenplay in 1994.The high point of this movie will be the whole movie itself; i happen to have read the book before seeing the movie so watching a well adapted novel on the silver screen made me feel like i was reading the book all over again.The movie plot and the story itself are based on a flashback of a tale Paul Edgecomb was telling an old friend about his time as a corrections officer in charge of death row inmates in the Cold Mountain Penitentiary in 1935.The cell block Paul (Tom Hanks) worked in was called the "Green Mile" because the condemned prisoners walking to their execution are said to be walking "the last mile". Here, it is a stretch of faded lime-green linoleum. The other guards which were Paul's friends in the movie were Brutus "Brutal" Howell (David Morse), Harry Terwilliger (Jeffery DeMunn), and Dean Stanton (Barry Pepper).In addition to the guards was Percy (Doug Hutchison) an arrogant misfit who took pride in terrorising the inmates.Everything in the cell block was as usual until the guards got a visit from two inmates who changed their very view of life itself.One of the inmates that visited was John Coffey (Michael Clarke Duncan) a giant of a man who had some weird miraculous power ability to heal and feel the pain and sufferings of others and the other was "Wild Bill" Wharton (Sam Rockwell) who was a psycho, murderer and paedophile.Their arrival was plagued with chaos miraculous healings and with the addition of Percy it became a handful for the other guards.The Green Mile is a movie i have seen over and over again, and i believe you will enjoy watching it too.www.lagsreviews.com


                
In my "Powder" review I mentioned the similarities between this movie and Powder where the latter was even written years before this one was released. If you see both movies you will know what I am talking about. The most charming scenes in the Green Mile are taken from Powder. I am sure that all who watched both remembers quite well the scene where Powder makes the guy who hunts the deer feels the pain of the animal. Exactly same scene when Michael Duncan makes the guy who kills the mouse feel its pain. Another similar scene or idea is when Michael Duncan in the "Green Mile" heals James Cromwel's ill wife which is taken from Powder who helps the Sheriff's wife to deal with her dying process.I am not saying that the "Green Mile" is not a good movie. On the contrary, I enjoyed it a lot but Powder is a decent one and was made way before the Green Mile so it deserves to be praised being the original at least.


                
What can I say?  Frank Darabont is a cinematic genius.  Every shot was well thought out, perfectly timed, and beautiful to watch.  As the story starts to unfold, we learn what each character is about, and we see them grow along with the story.  I don't think I stopped crying for the last 20-30 minutes of the film due to the amazing performances of everyone in the cast. Michael Duncan Clarke was superb and Tom Hanks delivers another great performance.  I admit I never read the novel,'The Green Mile' and have never really liked many "Stephen King" based movies.  I loved this one as much as 'The Shawshank Redemption'.  When I left the theatre at the end of the 3 hour film, all it's images, characters, and ideals went with me.  I really feel that Frank Darabont finally deserves his Oscar for both best director and best film.


                
'The Green Mile'I have found many prison movies overrated. 'The Shawshank Redemption' was good, perhaps great, but not the best movie ever (according to the average IMDb.com user, the film is number two on the list of the best movies ever). It was actually quite a rip-off of 'Escape From Alcatraz,' but that's a different story. What I'm saying is that prison movies tend to be overrated. But 'The Green Mile' with Tom Hanks was a very nice surprise.Tom Hanks plays a prison guard in the depression-era. He isn't just any prison guard, however. He is a guard on 'The Green Mile,' which houses criminals on death row. He is under the employment of James Cromwell, and is husband to Bonnie Hunt.And then, one day, a huge giant named John Kofe <U+0096> 'like the drink, only spelled different' -comes into the prison, and miracles start to happen. I won't tell you what happens regarding any of the miracles and such, but I will tell you to look out for the mouse. The acting in 'The Green Mile' is excellent. Tom Hanks does a great job in his role, quipping a southern accent and a prison ward cap. Michael Clarke Duncan brings John Kofe to life: a sweet, innocent giant. Irony at its best, considering the man is about eight feet tall.The movie plays with the audience's emotions. At times you want to laugh; at times you want to cry; at times you want to cheer. But at all times you can't help but participate in the film. The film is long at times - clocking in at over a whopping three hours - but I don't have a problem with that. I'm not in any rush. I came to watch a movie, and that's what I'm going to do. I'm not one of those people that complain about the length of time a film has. If I don't feel like watching a movie, then why did I even go see a movie in the first place?'The Green Mile' was adapted to the screen by Frank Darabont, who brought us 'The Shawshank Redemption.' Between the two, I'm not sure which I like better. They are both very good movies.If you haven't seen this movie, I highly recommend it. It is easily one of the most enjoyable movies I have seen in a long time.4.5/5 stars <U+0096>
I sat for  3hrs,8min & 12sec,  watching this very well acted & effectively made bore. The story makes no sense to me whatsoever, I did  not for one second believe any of the story line Stephan King wrote the original story, The director  Frank Darabont wrote the screenplay, The same director did The Shawshank Redemption, ,which was supreme entertainment, You had people you could care for in that one. In this film,none of the major performers are any one who you would want to know. The Guards are all except one  too nice & sweet, The  Inmates are either loonies, or half wits. The main convict a big 6ft 8 in giant is a sweet dumb...../. Tom Hanks is the head guard, & as  usual he does a good job,so do the others.I can only give this  ***      mainly for the acting & productionjay harris


                
Lengthy but well-realized, highly absorbing adaptation of a serialized Stephen King novel concerning prison guards in the 1930's who are profoundly touched by one Death Row inmate. Unpleasant subject matter (and several vile supporting characters) don't detract from the emotional value of the piece, which is professionally handled despite one or two small missteps (an execution scene, for instance, which runs too long). Terrific acting by Tom Hanks and Michael Clarke Duncan, exceptional production design and cinematography. Some may quibble over the epilogue, but it's a sweet touch in a movie which has a surprisingly large heart. *** from ****


                
hi there! I do wanna know that why all personalities are grouped to good and bad . it seems that non of them are human!they are just angel and devil!!and i really had problem to accept Percy as a bad one (as Coffey said)he has problem in his childhood that was obvious and i wonder how a human can decide for another one as Coffey did for Percy because he thought that Percy is a bad person!!!i think if john really was a miracle he must help Percy to solve his mental problem and become a normal person and live his chance of living not make him a guilty one and help him to become a killer . and of course i'm sorry for bill ,too.generally I expect John to not agree with hanging people esp in such a savage way I think all kind of people can be cured and become a normal person because non of us are guilty as we're born and this is the society which makes us normal or not.(tom hanks played nice again)


                
Only two things.
1. The young Paul Edgecomb. At the end? If I was him, I would have said, "My God have mercy on my soul" knowing what he was doing at that point.
2. Dabs Greer was on the screen long enough to deserve AT LEAST a nomination as Best Supporting Actor. Considering his incredible contributions to film and television? This was a terrible oversight!.


                
How come Dabs Greer did not at least get a nomination for Best Supporting Actor?... He was on the screen long enough and his acting is pivotal to the whole movie. A great actor with a great body of work.Also? If I was an actor and getting into character, and the scene at the end?"John Coffee, you have been found guilty, etc. Electricity will be passed through your body until you are dead.".... "May God have mercy on your soul"If I was playing Paul Edgecomb at that point, I would have ended it with"May God have mercy on my soul."
I feel the movie is the right thing to learned fro


                
The Green mile is first and foremost a both heartwarming and heartwrenching tale, bound to leave even the most stone-hearted viewer in shambles.That being said, it doesnt offer anything else to lift it to supermovie status. The plot was rather predictable, the acting was good and the music score was decent.


                
I'm trying to save you money; this is the last film title that you should consider borrowing. Renting green mile will cost you five bucks... just plunk down the $25 and own the title. You'll wind up going back to this gem time and time again. This is one of few movies that are truly timeless. And it's entertaining and moving, no matter how many times you view it
I must say I was pleasantly surprised by this film.  The acting and story were both much better than I thought they would be.However, I do not really agree with the view that Oscars should immediately rain down upon this for a few reasons.  First, the screenplay, while certainly entertaining, has all the originality of a Disney script.  This is not to say it's bad; I just thought the movie was extremely predictable. In places, it even lapses into cliché.Second, while Tom Hanks and company do a fine job of acting, none of the roles were particularly difficult to play.  All of the characters (with the possible exception of John Coffey) were extremely one dimensional.  Half an hour into the movie I knew how each of them would handle just about any situation-- there was none of that ambiguity or uncertainty that can make a character not just an image but an extension of the audience.Finally, the directing is also good, but not spectacular.  While this movie script may be more challenging than most to shoot well, I think our director again lapsed into clichés with some of the screen shots (for a good example, pick any of the bird's eye view shots with the camera slowly moving up. Apparently the director is fond of these, as he also was liberal with them in The Shawshank Redemption.)Overall, this is a good, entertaining movie, but if you want an Oscar winner, walk over to the next screen and see Being John Malkovich or American Beauty.


                
One of the best films not only of this year, but of this decade.  From top to bottom, an excellent film worthy of Oscar consideration...  And if Michael Clarke Duncan doesn't receive at least a nomination for Best Supporting Actor, something is wrong with the system.  He gave the most moving and quietly powerful performances of the year.


                
Titanic, Saving Private Ryan, and now The Green Mile.  They all begin with old croaker characters who begin to tell us a three hour story. Unfortunately, they come back at the end of the film as well and are sometimes nominated for Academy Awards.  Too bad the stories can stand on their own without these unnecessary flashback structures.  In this case, the sequences which take place in the present and are the bookends of The Green Mile ruin the film.  They tack on a good 20-25 minutes and the audience gains nothing for their extra time.This is an average good film.  I had to give it a 7 out of 10 because people are being too easy on it.  Better films about prisons include:  Bad Boys and Dead Man Walking, both with Sean Penn, Shawshank Redemption, and Cool Hand Luke to name a few.  This film joins End of Days (though is obviously much better) as films that mess too much with religious symbolism and are too obvious with it.  John Coffey is a goofy Jesus Christ, one who sucks the tumors out of one woman only to spit them into a troubled man.  The real Jesus Christ would've been more forgiving.If we spent less time with Jingles the Mouse, less time with the old croaker actors (the woman is really bad), less time with everybody but John, this would be a much better film, and no longer than 130 minutes.  While a good effort, this had better not be this year's best picture.  And please, Tom Hanks has enough oscars.  Let Jim Carrey and Kevin Spacey duke it out.


                
Frank Darabont's second adaptation of a Stephen King story is far superior to his first, "The Shawshank Redemption", particularly due to the excellent performances he gets this time around. Credit, however, should be given to Tom Hanks who always manages to bring out the best in the performers surrounding him (particularly David Morse and the sublime Michael Jeter). But there's also a lot to like in Darabont's well-crafted screenplay; he's a fine writer who manages to add some subtlety to King's obviousness and sentimentality. David Tattersall's richly saturated cinematography is outstanding.


                
I liked this movie. However, I found it a bit too longish, and for some reason the aspirations of Darabont to make "another one of those 'Tom Hanks movies'" were annoyingly transparent throughout the film. Praise has to go, though, to the entire cast which delivers very convincing performances.IMDb rating 7.5


                
It's amazing what Hollywood can do to a good book.  In an effort to make this a "new age" movie, Darabont stripped the book of its essential spirituality.  Whereas the book has several, specific prayers and a visible minister character, this PC version leaves out any specifics, in a seeming quest for the separation of church and mind.  This is not surprising, if you visit the official WB site, which has a link to a new age organization peddling a book "Experiencing God without belief."Many of the performances are exceptional, especially Doug Hutchison (Percy), who brought depth and finesse to a very difficult character.  King's compelling book is airbrushed and soft-focused out of leaving anything but emotional impact behind in a new-age soup of feel-good, feel-bad emotional highs & lows.


                
The Green Mile is a wonderful film full of great performances and emotions but, I have a couple of quibbles with it.  1.  In 1930's America, John Coffey (as a black man) would have been strung from the nearest tree WITHOUT benefit of trial and jury for the heinous crime that he was accused of.  (I definitely had to suspend dis-belief concerning this part of the story).2.  As many others have stated the movie is far too long.  It could have been shortened to two hours.3.  The movie could have been just as enjoyable without the mouse.  I thought that the mouse was a distraction to the main story.That's all.  7/10


                
1994 saw a modest Stephen King novel translated into a modest, little-seen prison drama...that is, until it was blessed with a surprising seven Academy Award nominations, including Best Picture. Since then, everyone and their grandfather has espoused "The Shawshank Redemption" as the little movie that could...and did. Five years later, its director, Frank Darabont, has adapted yet another prison-based King tale into a highly pleasing entertainment. But there the similarities end. While "Shawshank Redemption" essentially belied its typically macabre Kingian origins, but for a similar tone and languid pace "The Green Mile" includes a crucial plot element not atypical from the horror-meister's oeuvre. Told in flashback, a former death-row prison guard (solidly played by Hanks) relates the extraordinary story of John Coffey (Duncan), a simple-minded and gentle inmate who is readily accepted as a killer in the summer of 1935 because of his hulking size and damning circumstantial evidence. But Coffey (initials J.C., ahem), in addition to his overwhelmingly considerate attitude, possesses a singular talent for psychic empathy with others and an ability to heal the sick. Gradually, he convinces most of his captors, to varying degrees, that he is not a man capable of the heinous crime he is condemned to die for imminently. Compounding their crisis of conscience are the presence of a callous fellow guard and a psychotic neighboring inmate. Despite its over-length (by at least 20 minutes), the 3-hour "Green Mile" succeeds in every other respect. Often moving and technically astute, its premiere quality lies within its ensemble of actors, each of whom is simply perfect in their respective roles. Hanks may be the star of the show, and Duncan may stand out because of the uniqueness of his character, but their co-stars are consistently equal to the standard they've both set throughout. That alone is reason enough to see "The Green Mile".


                
The Green Mile was well-made I thought, but it was too cruel and manipulative for my tastes. Darabont doesnt spread it on as thick as Spielberg though--I give him credit for that. I didnt mind the tacked on ending either--but i wonder if anyone else noticed that it is very similar to the ending of the Asphynx?Anyway--the movie's heart was in the right place.


                
Good movie, but a perfect example of what a good editor could do for a film. This film needed an editor -- desperately. It was WAAAAAAYYYYY too long. That aside -- the acting was superb -- in particular Michael Clarke Duncan who turns in one of those once-in-a-lifetime performances. Of course, Tom Hanks is excellent (who would've thought that Kip of Bosom Buddies would become one of the great actors of American cinema?). What also gives this movie its heft are the great supporting actors like Michael Jeter.I realize this movie is meant to change one's mind about capital punishment because it is set in the South amongst the stereotypical racists and rednecks and there is a particularly horrifying execution scene that lasts too long, but it didn't change my mind for those very reasons -- Hollywood is trying too hard to foist its political views on me.Overall, the movie is excellent, and I would recommend it.


                
I recently had the pleasure of attending the preview of The Green Mile. What an experience! Throughout its three hour span, I was not bored. Frank Darabont tackled a much more ambitious range of subject than his Shawshank Redemption and gets the same results. It may not be flawless (actually, I don't know what I'd change) but it's a powerful and evocative film. The imagery brought about from the book is remarkably captured.


                
