Having doubts about seeing this movie because of the length (3 hours can be death to a film).I was so surprised that I didn't look at my watch once throughout the whole movie. Tom Hanks, in my opinion, gave the performance of his career by bringing emotion and depth to his part. The only actor that bettered him was Michael Clarke Duncan. How he made this giant like character into a vulnerable pussycat was a marvel. On whole, the cast came together and gave the best performance I have seen in a movie for a long time. Not one of them let the side down by being weak. David Morse who is more known for his supporting roles was also excellent and hopefully not long till he's carrying his own movie. If you haven't seen this get it out now,forget about the running time and connections to 'The Shawshank Redemption' and enjoy it for what it is, a little miracle. 4 out of 5


                
Such an old iconic film - another Tom Hanks great. Michael C-D was an amazing actor who will be missed but his job in this film was nothing short of tear-jerking. Watch it!


                
The Green Mile is a masterwork. This is film as art, at it's very best. The depth of the cast is extraordinary, with all of the players delivering excellent performances. There is a clear sense here that all involved in the production knew that this was something special, and gave it their all. See this film if you truly enjoy actors giving everything to their craft. Watch for the countless subtleties of expression, and the great power that the cast creates with silence. This is evident in the opening sequence and remains throughout. Above all, Michael Duncan as John Coffey is exceptional. He brings gripping emotion to a unique, fascinating character.The Green Mile should bring you joy, laughter, and if you are like most in the theater this night, tears.


                
I believe I'm one of the few human beings that had no idea of what is movie was about. I heard a lot about this picture, of course, but I didn't even know what the main story was. Maybe it's a plus, since it allowed me to see the entire thing without knowing what was gonna happen next. Well, like other death row movies, this one really touched me; ending with people lives, despite what they've done, is a sad subject for me. It must be the most terrifying feeling to know you're going to be killed in a matter of minutes. Preparing yourself for the electric chair might be even worse. As a thrilling Stephen King's story, "The Green Mile" brings an innovation-- this time, a character has a special gift of healing people, like a saint. It is indeed beautiful to see that big and apparently bad guy helping people as he can. Filmmakers are mean in this case-- they make you adore the character, just to kill him in the end and let you down. It happened to me as well, I cried in the end and it is not a common thing for me-- so by that you can imagine how strong this movie is. A masterpiece in matter of acting, story and life.
I must say, this is one of the best movies in the world. But why? I am gonna tell you why, it is one of the greatest movies of all time because: *Good and well written story. An interesting storyline that is entertaining all the way to the end.*From book to movie with a great result. The novel is written by Stephen King and the movie was created in almost the same, good result. But I recommend you too read the book.*Good acting and well played roles by the characters. Tom Hanks does a great job in the movie.*Sadness and Goodness that touches your soul.*Almost all kinds of movie lovers will like the movie. It doesn't matter what kind of movies your most into, this movie will entertain you.


                
Had been long waiting to see this movie. At last when it happened, it was really worth the wait. One of the few beautiful movies i have seen. Hanks comes up with yet again splendid performance and adds crisp to the good cast. Particularly Michael Clarke Duncan as John Coffey, WOW what to say!! He, his size, his innocence surely cant go unnoticed.Every scene creates a sort of expectation on whats going to happen next. n satisfies them pretty nicely too. It makes a good watch. It may not b a feel good movie.. but definitely makes u think a lot about humanity and human values. I am waiting to read the book from which it has been adapted


                
With this movie Tom Hanks proves why he is one of the all time best male actors that shook the world with their abnormal amazing acting roles. Among the TOP 100 IMDB rated movies, he has probably more than 4-5, including The Green Mile, Forest Gump and Saving Private Ryan, Captain Philips was also an amazing movie. But the spotlight in The Green Mile is reserved for Michael Clarke Duncan in the role of John Coffey. Nobody can count the amount of people that this person made cry in the early 2000's. He is the most adoring male human being that showed up on the movie screen in this century, his acting is out of this world and emotions are leaking out of every cell of his body. The fact that the actor died 7 years ago makes everyone 10 times more sad....rest in piece legend. Above all, we must not forget that this is another movie based on a Stephen King novel that succeded big time, which shows why we may consider King as the best novel writer of all time.


                
The Green Mile wasn't as good as the shawshank redemption but it was still worth the watch. It was good because it began as your average prison start that didn't exactly blow me off my seat but it the gradually became more and more interesting until it eventually began to become a bit stupid when the guards discovered that the man on death row had some powers. The story is about an execution place where everything is normal until tall, mean looking, colored man enters and the saying don't judge a book by it's cover definitely occurs with this film when he touches everyone's heart and the workers there start to query the execution of the tall colored man.I'll admit that when the guards call out "Dead man walking down the green mile" it does become quite upsetting for the characters that you have just gotten used to are becoming executed. The acting is very, very good which should have won some awards.I'm not overly keen on the fact of the powers that the colored man gains powers, I found that that turned a normal movie in to a weird movie and those two certainly do not go well together. The directing was fantastic because the picture looked brilliant and the it also gave the depressing mood that it aimed to give.The Green Mile is certainly as I have already explained very different to your average film but still give's that upsetting atmosphere that it was aiming to give. The acting was very good that almost brought tear to my eye especially from Tom Hanks. The Director gave a brilliant atmosphere and the writer did very well until the disappointing end.


                
Well I must say that I was very disappointed with this one. It´s one of the worst "Stephen King" movies. The questions I asked myself that you never got an answer to was -Who is the black man, is he god or something else? Why did he sit there with the two little sisters? where did he come from, and that kind of stuff. But you never got the answer, and that is strange cause you usually get answers in "stephen king" movies. So that was a big disappointment. Otherwise it was kinda boring nothing really funny never happened. Just like the same thing over and over...but the ending made it a bit better though...give it like a 6.5/10


                
I always say fantasy is not my favorite type of genre but this movie is an exception. I loved it. The best thing was the acting game. Every character was made for the actor. Duncan's performance made me so amazed in the beginning and so sad at the end. It's not something common for me to cry this much on a movie. And putting aside the acting game, the storyline was told very captivating and even though the whole thing is three hours long, I wasn't bored of it. I will remember this film as a magical sad but amazing experience.


                
This is a touching film with brilliant performances by Hanks and Duncan - check it out!


                
Perfect blend of story and casting was good. A must watch feel good movie.


                
I'll keep it short with no spoilers:Nice drama movie.
Good story and acting. Good atmosphere and shots.The whole movie feels a bit like The Shawshank Redemption. Same kind of shots, colour and atmosphere. Off course that can happen when the director and writer are the same, as is the case with The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile.
If The Shawshank Redemption is a 10/10(my opinion), I find this movie a 8/10.
I do fancy the story, but I do not like it as much as The Shawshank Redemption.
The score is good, but also not as good as with The Shawshank Redemption.Recommended: Yes.
However, brace yourself, it is a long movie and you need to follow the story. No problem, because it is a good movie, but something to keep in mind.Tip: First watch The Green Mile and after that watch The Shawshank Redemption, if you at this point did not already watch The Shawshank Redemption.


                
Frank Darabont and Stephen King hit that again. I watched Shawshank Redemption and I was really blown out by that movie. One of my favorite movies ever. Knowing that The Green Mile is also a work of Stephen King and Frank Darabont, I expected a lot and I wasn't wrong. The Green Mile is another masterpiece.At first I had doubt watching this movie because it has 3 hours running time. But NOW, i didn't regret every second in my life watching this movie and finishing it. It was really worth it. It is a sad movie but very inspirational. I cried a river while watching this.THIS MOVIE IS AMAZING. 100 PERCENT.


                
A film that will anger and make ill those who watch it. The acting is spot on and the supernatural effects pop out of nowhere. Another very good film


                
Going into this movie, I knew it was goinf ro be very long, as ot's over 3 hours long and I knew it was going to be a dramatic film. But I disn't know what the film was about. This film was dramatic, but the plot was compmetelty different to what I expected. The first 30 mins of the film, it goes on how I expexted ir ro go for, but then, somewhere halfway, the film into a strangely unexpected direction. I sat there thinking, 'what the heck is going on'. Frank Darabont ' Green Mile follows a prision guard who meets a very interesting prisoner. That's all I'm going to say. The film that follows is a really bizzare, trippy, yet heart-warming tale. The pacing at times does help the film to feel faster and move on, so it wouldn't feel too long. Tom Hanks and Micheal Clarke Duncan's performances steal the film and I 100% recommned it.


                
Frank Darabond is one of those filmmaker's who isn't exactly known all that much, even by people who tend to notice the behind the camera happenings but one look at his filmography and you see that he is special: Shawshank Redemption, The Mist and of course The Green Mile are all not just great but genre defining movies. Green Mile is helped immensely by a great performance by Michael Clarke Duncan and ably supported by Tom Hanks and Sam Rockwell in one of his earliest roles. This crime drama is more heart than suspense or thrills but it is a great, unmissable film nonetheless.


                
The Green Mile is a tearjerker and although Frank Darabond is one of those filmmaker's who isn't exactly known all that much, even by people who tend to notice the behind the camera happenings; one look at his filmography and you see that he is special: Shawshank Redemption, The Mist and of course The Green Mile are all not just great but genre defining movies. Green Mile is helped immensely by a great performance by Michael Clarke Duncan and ably supported by Tom Hanks and Sam Rockwell in one of his earliest roles. This crime drama is more heart than suspense or thrills but it is a great, unmissable film nonetheless.


                
Frank darabont makes an incredible job with this one having great actors like Tom Hanks or Jeffrey Dmunn. An intense film in which you can find feelings as sadness and fun at the same time. Nice work


                
Frank Darabond is one of those filmmaker's who isn't exactly known all that much, even by people who tend to notice the behind the camera happenings but one look at his filmography and you see that he is special: Shawshank Redemption, The Mist and of course The Green Mile are all not just great but genre defining movies. Green Mile is helped immensely by a great performance by Michael Clarke Duncan and ably supported by Tom Hanks and Sam Rockwell in one of his earliest roles. This crime drama is more heart than suspense or thrills but it is a great, unmissable film nonetheless.


                
Simply brilliant! A very different Stephen King film, and very special indeed! The film touches you on so many levels. It is both funny and dramatic, and simply spellbinding. Although it has a long running time, the film is never boring. With an exceptional cast, special mention must go to Doug Hutchison. He is fantastic! You can't help hating him with a passion, and then rejoices when the dog gets his day! Michael Clarke Duncan is also an absolute delight!


                
Frank Darabond is one of those filmmaker's who isn't exactly known all that much, even by people who tend to notice the behind the camera happenings but one look at his filmography and you see that he is special: Shawshank Redemption, The Mist and of course The Green Mile are all not just great but genre defining movies. Green Mile is helped immensely by a great performance by Michael Clarke Duncan and ably supported by Tom Hanks and Sam Rockwell in one of his earliest roles. This crime drama is more heart than suspense or thrills but it is a great, unmissable film nonetheless.


                
All of the performances and technical aspects on display here are excellent. The only major problem with this film is the pacing, especially in the beginning. This movie has many amazing scenes, but it also has scenes that go all kinds of nowhere. The scenes with Paul in the nursing home feel so out of place. The only purpose to them is to reincorporate the film being shown later on. There are a number other scenes like that, where nothing of much substance takes place. The only reason I can think of to justify is this: All of the great scenes were shot, but someone down the line thought the film needed more to stretch it out to three hours for god knows what reason, and they just thought of the most generic and unimportant things to address in this emotionally moving story. In conclusion, it's a really good three hour movie that could've been a great 2 or 2.5 hour movie.
Not at all a fun film but a film that you'll remember you'r entire life time just in 1 viewing


                
The Green Mile (1999) This is a fine adaptation of a Stephen King serial novel. It's the chronicle of a death row supervisors' encounter with an unusual inmate who displays inexplicable healing and empathetic abilities. It was nominated for multiple Oscars. The film includes Tom Hanks, Michael Clarke Duncan and David Morse. Despite its length it was critically acclaimed and we'll received by the public. This is a heartwarming film that pulls you inward and makes you truly feel for its characters. It's one of the better adaptations of a King novel.


                
