I went to see ROTK for the 2nd time yesterday and aside from the myriad of minor flaws, want to concentrate on major issues surrounding Jackson's character development.ARAGORN is the first big problem. In the book he is both a ranger from the north, but also a man destined to be king. He knows who he is, and he has an expectation of that destiny. Likewise in the book he has 'spiritual' awareness. Aragorn is descended, not merely from men, but from Numenor: so he already has in him some of the blood of the Elves. Now Jackson gives all foresight to the Elves - making the men merely, men. But the whole point is that the-man-born-to-be-king has the spiritual awareness of the great kings of old. Thus, in book II at the river it is Aragorn, not Legolas (as in Jackson's version), who is aware of a shadow growing in his heart. And, more significantly, it is Aragorn who in the book takes the palantir by his right (Gandalf actually bows to give it to him). Gandalf counsels him not to use it, but Aragorn knows who he is. So he looks in the palantir and shows Sauron the sword. He challenges Sauron, and then wrenches the palantir away from the Eye to use as HE wills, not as Sauron wills. In so doing he sees the black fleet, and so knows the threat. That's why he takes the path of the dead. And when he goes under the Dimholt he REALLY summons the dead. The exchange in the film between Aragorn and the Geoffrey-Rush-Pirates-of-the-Caribbean-look-alike ghost is feeble in the film. In the book Aragorn does not doubt who he is: he calls them, not barters with them.Now Aragorn's action here is part of a much larger cohesion in Tolkien that is entirely absent in Jackson. As a result we're left with a desperately anti-climactic coronation. Why? There's simply been no character development of Aragorn. He's been denuded of a sense of who he is.SAURON is the next big problem. It's true that in the book he is mostly referred to as the Eye. But he also has personality. In the film, apart from the opening sequence to film I (which was brilliant) all we have is a plasma lamp sometime searchlight. Since in the book Gandalf has told Frodo that 'Sauron is taking shape again' why on earth didn't Jackson then develop Sauron from the figure in film I? In the book, we are told of Sauron's gnawing doubt. We hear of reports about 'spies' entering Mordor. We know that he is consumed by fear of the upstart heir of Elendil. None of this is developed in the film. (And the Ring seems to lose power on entering Mordor, not gain it!) Result? There was no sense of elation at the fall of Barad'dur.Now this is a serious theological error that I suspect Tolkien would have detested. Personify good, and you must also personify evil. Tolkien's epic was all about those forces being personified: and how you discern them. Sauron is a personification of evil. He's not actually the worst - that belongs to Morgoth (of whom the Balrog is a servant). Whilst Tolkien rightly loathed allegory, he nonetheless never would have countenanced such a weak and ineffectual portrayal of the enemy. The whole point, and if this isn't obvious in the world today then Jackson is even less astute than I imagined, is that evil in many guises takes human form.OTHERSThe same lack of characterisation in Aragorn and Sauron goes on with many of the others. Notable exceptions are GANDALF and SARUMAN (both well acted). Jackson made a mistake in cutting Saruman out of III having made so much of him in I and II (more than the book). ARWEN is drippy throughout. EOWYN is changed in the film. Miranda Otto was excellent. But Jackson plays up the love between her and Aragorn so much that we are left wondering how Eowyn is apparently beatifically happy to see him with Arwen. On the subject of Eowyn it's such a shame Jackson didn't do the slaying of the witch-king better. In the book the battlefield pauses - a cloud goes up and everyone in Minas Tirith is happy. It's one of the truly great moments, lost by Jackson. The reports even leak back to the orcs in the tower above Shelob's lair so that Sam and Frodo hear that 'No.1. has been done in'.As for the HOBBITS . I think this may be a question of preference. Personally I think Sean Astin's acting as SAM is execrable, but some like it. For me, the simple gardener becomes a mini-philosopher and I find his soliloquy both at the end of film II in Osgiliath (to which they never go in the book) and on the mountain (twice) truly toe-curlingly dreadful: pap I'm afraid. And, oh dear, we even veered towards Titanic-music-moments at the end of film I and again on the mountain. BILBO was fine until the end. Yes, we know he ages fast now he's lost the ring, but the Salieri-style prosthetics are poor. Jackson loves the slow-motion work so much that we have to endure some particularly dreadful sequences with the Hobbits (most notably the already infamous bed scene) and at the end (where I really thought Frodo was going to give Sam a full-on smacker!). A similarly tacky piece of directing occurs when the elves appear - the soft focus lens is deployed with 'celtic' singing. Argh -  this is kindergarten film production.I expect the film will garner the Oscars ceremony. But I hope some people in Tinsel town have the courage to acknowledge that whilst some of the visuals are outstanding (though many are not - e.g. the oliphaunt descent by Legolas, the Merrick-style leader of the orcs, and the Army of the dead), the film is not actually very good.Peter - I'm afraid you've let us, and J.R.R. Tolkien, down.
If you make your way through the thousands of teens, Lord of the Rings junkies, and all the others who voted this movie a 10 for reasons other than a pure movie rating, you'll find that this is easily the weakest of the three films, unfortunately.Pro: It was a good movie and for the most part, entertaining. The characters are well cast, the CGI is good in most places, the actors are good enough to save questionable editing and the scenery is still breathtaking. Great effects in battle... you'll see. Worth the $10 to see but not really one you want to see again without having the ability to skip portions.Cons:1) Way, way too long and poor editing choices. SPOILER --> The multiple endings was totally preposterous and belongs in the extended DVD version for fanzies. Remember, this is a movie, not the book. That time would have been much better spent on main characters that never surfaced, e.g. Saruman whom you never saw again and Sauron who was reduced to nothing more than a lighthouse. Oh yeah, I felt how dangerous he was. You will get restless at the end of the movie and will laugh your head off as to how awfully campy and forced it feels (especially when Frodo wakes up and the silly canned laughter begins...)2) Too much time wasted at the beginning of the film as well. Mr. Jackson, pick your choices of what to develop. The love story and relationship between get any concern for the relationship. Too bad. Too much crap with Merry and Pippin... please, enough of the Hobbit details crap and focus on the main characters. Honestly, I didn't feel like I really cared so much about many of the characters because there was so much cutting between scenes and an incredible amount of time spent on Faramir and his going mad father, an odd area to place so much time.3) Gimli and Legolas again reduced to nothing more than comic relief and incredibly cool and unrealistic CGI hero. There was practically no dialogue with Legolas at all. The reduction of these characters made me care less about Legolas and made the girl I went with happy the one or two time she saw him but wondered why he was nothing but occasional screen candy.4) The movie felt very tired. Gollum again steals the show.5) Some of the battle scenes were tired. A lot of quick cutaways and not as much feel of the one on one combat like you had in the first films. Also very, very poor display assistance of the dead -- it was as though they used up the budget for CGI and had this wave of green just end the huge number of Sauron's army in 10 seconds while the other characters hung out to chat. It was like a comic strip video game.Honestly, I didn't feel like I really cared so much about the characters at the end and felt like the ring was reduced to nothing more than an overblown reason to have a quest. I truly think this movie suffers from wasted time at the beginning and end, too many battle scenes and too little time to continue to develop the great dialogue and character development of earlier movies.My rating would place this film a very good 7.5 but that is as high as I'd go. Definitely bring some nourishment, wear comfy clothes and a watch...
While the first two films of the trilogy where very good in my opinion, the third one is a complete catastrophe, in every aspect one can think of. Its attitude towards the book (and without the book, no one would have heard of Peter Jackson, except few admirers) moves between insult to ignorance - almost no text from the original survives, and the characters and scenes are terribly distorted. Even the climax scene is changed from the genius of Tolkien to a bad Holiwoodic cliché. The most disastrous is what the movie does to the character of Frodo, which, from the original tragic hero, becomes a stupid and gullible fellow, which does nothing (expect stupid things). The "go home Sam" scene, should be candidate to one of the worse movie scenes ever. Other characters, such as Denethor, Faramir, Aragorn, Theoden or Elrond, are either inconsistent, irrational, stupid, badly acted, or all of the above. In addition, unlike the beautiful design of the middle-earth in general in the first movie, or of Rohan in second, there is nothing left from Gondor, except one picture of Minas-Tirith and few fires. It amazes me that not only this film is considered "excellent" by many viewers, but that it is considered the best of the three.
I can not believe that this movie received all the awards that it did. It was long, slow-moving, predictable, and the acting was terrible. I can't believe that they cut out over an hours worth of video to get it down to this length. I wish that Gandalf would have just given Frodo a giant eagle in the first movie so that he could just fly in and drop the ring in the volcano and save us the pain of watching this series. I was also worried that there was going to be a love-fest between Frodo, Sam, and the other hobbits. Also, with all of the computer generated scenes, why go all the way to New Zealand to film it. At least it is all over with now.


                
There's nothing deep or important going on here, so  a critique of this film is almost unnecessary. What passes for quality film making is nothing more than an overproduced, loud, stunning "Imax" experiment in eye-candy that masks, once again, a slowly moving, thin story line. Obviously, the members of SAG have dispensed with background checks on film editors. There's enough slow-motion footage here to circumnavigate the globe twice. Many people will be amazed by the neverending, in-your-face action sequences but for those who still pine to see the actors perform also, you'd better search elsewhere. It's like trying to read the Latin version of "War And Peace" while simultaneously being pulverized inside a blender. And if having way too many computerized fight scenes forced down your throat wasn't enough, just wait the full ninety hours for the saccharine-glazed, overlit endings. And there are at least 5 of them. For a while, I was expectin Obi Wan Kenobi's ghost to show up and smile goodbye. And Cate Blanchett never looked so vapid. It's brass, tacky, loud, long, obvious schlock and thus hugely popular. Beautiful looking rarely translates to quality in content and this is a prime example. Giving so many awards to this fillibuster is just a waste of gold-plating.


                
The expectations that were built up by the first film, and the second (allthough slowed down), really plunged down into the lava of Mnt Doom with this one. It really makes you nauseous thinking about everything that is wrong in this film (I'm not talking about the extended version, that one is a lot better - but still far from perfect) and how everything could have been.Where should I start?... ... It's overly sentimental. I mean really. And I like that s*** usually - I'm a sentimental guy. But here it's really out of proportion, and out of timing. Oh, it's really sad when Faramir rides to meet the orcs when he has no chance of winning, while Pippin is singing som silly song like he's castrated and then breaks out and cries just like that. Bu-hu, this is a mythological-style heroic fantasy-tale, not... Titanic! Everybody are so overly emotional. And I don't even wanna talk about Sam and his constant speeches about bravery and not giving in, with the hand on the chest, looking out over the horizon, with the orchestra at full volume (the only thing missing is the American flag bellowing in slowmotion behind him), and Frodo and his constant twisting-your-head-like-a-puppy-and-looking-with-big-eyes-and-a-"OH-I-love-you-so-much"-smile at Sam every time he saves him or helps him to keep going... OK I'm getting carried away....I liked Braveheart for example, even though it has some major flaws. And people think THAT one is overly sentimental. But that one is at least down to earth-sentimental. RotK is up in the sky, almost gone out to space, like (I thought I'd never say this, but), it seems they (producers, crew and actors) really take the film TOO serious. Really. It's a Saga! Not true. It's a 20th-century, made up mythology-history about an IMAGINARY land. It's NOT a record of the Holocaust for Christ's sake!...I understand how they needed to cut some scenes, to save up time. but, well... First of all, they didn't succeed enough with that, the films are 2-3h long and still it feels you're rushing from one place to the next, like you're on a Middleearth-8hour-safari or... cinematic tourbus. Maybe they should've cut it even more, so we could at least get the feel of BEING someplace and not just passing by? But what's really unacceptable is when he wastes all that preciously gathered time on exploring uninteresting or unimportant scenes and scenes that don't even belong in the story! Completely made up-scenes, for no logical reason!*The ugly made-up bull/rhinoceros-beasts pulling orc-wagons (whatta F--- is up with that? I don't even know if George Lucas would accept such a badly designed creature in the Star Wars universe!)... *The really AWFUL orc liutenant/chief-guy, who's by the way made up out of thin air, who doesn't even look like an orc but more like the aliens from Peter Jackson's early lowbudget cult-films (Mr. Jackson, this is NOT the time and place to have cameos, or draw funny parallells to your Bad Taste-films, that's really... bad taste... disrespectful to the Tolkien-fans)... *The Mûmaks are really cool, but really too big, I mean, they're not dinosaurs-beasts - hey're just big elephants! *All the small details, costumes and armour etc. are really beautiful, really more than you could ever ask for. But the White Dwarf-miniature-esthetics of Minas Tirith is really bad, cause it gives a whole synthetic-comic-book/computer-game-look to Middleearth. Where are the beautiful, classical and authentic designs of Edoras and Rivendell? And no catapult can throw rocks as big as whole houses! That too is just corny and childish like in computergames. All this, and the excessive use and naive belief in CGI-technology, turns the Battle of Pelenoor Fields, which should be the total culmination and action-peak of the film into a foney uninteresting StarWars/Warhammer40000-mess, it's nothing compared to the battle of helm's deep - and that's not right.And this CGI-trend seems to be a virus infecting everybody in the film-business. It's really sad, these films will be outdated in 10 years. But maybe that's a good thing?RotK isn't the worst of the three, technically. But with the expectations you have from the first two, the books (if you know what's gonna happen), the demands should be pretty high; and, in my opinion too, especially after the hint in 2towers that the trilogy was going downhill (just like the matrix), this is the film that disappoints the most. RotK is the greatest and heaviest of the films, the first two would completely crumble under it's weight if it didn't hold, but they could also rise with it if it really grew as strong as it could've, and that is what it should have. Anything else is unacceptable to me, and this is also why I hate it. Cause it really doesn't live up to it's potential, it doesn't even outdo the 2towers and it doesn't live up to the old exited expectations you had from the first film.I can't understand how a New Zeelander, who used to make underground films could turn this old British tale into shimmering Hollywood-cheese. It's too pretty, too pompous and sentimental and all the computer graphics gives it lika a fake sugarcoated shine or crust.It's like food, add too many ingredients and spices and they'll take out each other and the dish'll just taste bland... It's just too much of everything, and the whole film falls flat. It's still stunning, but rather tasteless, and the only profound experience you might get from it comes soely from the overwhelming magnitude of the whole thing.I still wanna congratulate P.Jackson on successfully bringing this gigantic project home. Thank him, even if he's made me more irritated than delighted, cuz I'm still glad that I'm able to watch these films. He didn't deserve all those Oscars, but he definitely deserved a few, maybe not for directing, but for Best Film - for the production. But this film should NOT be ranked as the best fantasy-film of all time! /Sebastian


                
I watched the Fellowship & could live with the changes. The Two Towers made my heart sink too many alterations & additions, yes additions I can understand cutting the story to fit but shovelling lumps of extraneous storyline in that is not in the book WHY? extra elves at helm's deep WTF! Why cut bits that those familiar with the books are expecting to add garbage that no-one expects I can't explain. The Return of the King was for me the last straw, the Return of Jacksons Ego more like. Why they saw fit to change dialogue from the original, in some cases only a few words & in others changing the speaker of the words.This is Peter Jacksons LOTR not Tolkeins, I haven't checked but the credits should show "inspired by JRR Tolkein" because this is not his work.I will stick with the BBC 4 version, which While abridged is true to Tolkein & the pictures are better on radio.


                
first, i am a huge fan of the LOTR series by Tolkien. it is one of the most richly detailed and wonderfully written stories of all time, and it pains me to see the dreck that peter jackson has produced. i didn't mind 'the fellowship of the ring'; i thought it was definitely the most concise and well-directed of the three films. also, the visual aesthetics of the films are excellent. the set design and choice of locale is impeccable, and i applaud the people involved for their dedication to recreating the surreal wonderful world of tolkien on screen. however, it is the technical aspect of the project, what should be the real beef of the film, that puts the knife in.'the two towers' marked the real beginning of jackson's self-righteous altering of tolkien's noble story, and left many fans and serious film-goers wondering what went wrong. but 'return of the king' takes the cake for what could very possibly be the worst adaptation of a novel in film history. jackson changes large portions of the plot of the novel for no apparent purpose; even friends of mine who had not read the book asked me why certain scenes resolved the way they did. the character development is excruciating, as some of the major character-based events from the book seem rushed and inconsequential in the context of the film. jackson has done a great job at remembering the characters' names and their titles, but has drawn a blank on their behavior, values, emotions, and relationships with other characters. the script is pathetic; tolkien's majestic storytelling and tasteful use of pathos and emotional turmoil is replaced by long-winded, sappy, cliché monologues, complete with the exact same musical score used for the previous two films. entire scenes are based around petty arguments and melodramatic emotional breakdowns, and filler dialog is rampant; it seems that jackson did this simply to keep the 3-hour running time.the action sequences are grandiose and somewhat true in objective form to tolkien's telling of them, but jackson employs cinematography that is on par with a nickelodeon miniseries, using cheap close-ups and nauseatingly swirling camera angles that leave the viewer feeling more confused than involved in the action. jackson throws in some cheap action film comic relief during the battles, giving the viewer the impression that the characters are not fighting for their lives, but rather swashbuckling for swashbuckling's sake. very simply, this is not the 'lord of the rings' that i grew to love years ago when i read tolkien's masterpiece. i am a supporter of artistic freedom in the adaptation process (i.e. kubrick, coppola), but not when the adapter simply has no artistic ability in his craft (jackson, genius behind such film classics as 'the frighteners' and 'dead alive'). this film does not belong in the top 250, nor do the other LOTR films. knowing that this film is above 'seven samurai' and 'casablanca' (and that the first two LOTR films are the reason 'citizen kane' sits at #11) sickens me.


                
I want to be as honest as possible in my review of this film, I comment on this movie as I feel outraged that it has been given such a high rating on IMDb. First my credentials as a fair and impartial reviewer: I am a native New Zealander, my mum new Peter Jackson well & I quite enjoyed his early films, Bad taste,the Frighteners, Heavenly creatures & particularly Brain dead. Some of the movie sets were just a few miles from my house, and I had the opportunity to work as an extra on the trilogy and all were treated graciously. Additionally I was a huge fan of Tolkien's book and had a sense of excitement and wonder that the Lord of the rings was to be made into 3 films in my home country. Many of the bad reviews posted here compare the book to the movie and the movie will always come off worse, and I must admit that when I saw the Fellowship I was horrified at how bad and boring it was compared to the book, but come two towers I came with an open mind and quite enjoyed the film, judging it on its own merits and I had the same plan going into the return of the king.Additionally I must admit there were a few parts of the Return of the king that I thoroughly enjoyed; The lighting of the torches, the juxtaposition of the brave warrior riding of to almost certain death, to please and prove himself to his father, while dad casually feasts on grapes supported by a beautiful song, the scene where the kingdom bow down to salute the brave hobbits. Also the brothers acting was fine. aannndd thats about it.This movie was awful for me first and foremost because it did not draw me in to the story, for only seconds at a time did I care for or could I make sense of the story and the acting, I was simply bored and restless. Some of the reasons for this follow:The length: 3 hours + +? Peter, have you heard about the innovations in film editing?, and what is with the multiple endings? It was like one of those nightmares where you wake up, but you are really still in the dream and can't seem to get out! I believe a natural ending would have been with the salute to the hobbits. Frodo: Oh Nodo!!, Frodo wore only one expression on his face for the entirety of two towers, and the majority of fellowship and return. You know that look of pained resignation, of sore weariness. All those head shots kind of got boring. Also I just did not buy him turning on his loyal companion Sam, taking the rascally creatures word over his. Additionally having struggled so long and hard, being so pure of heart for the whole journey, you just suddenly decide you want to keep the ring at the last moment? c'mon!Sam: (Smithers)The part where Frodo sends you away and you start to cry, I wish I could erase the pained forced feeling of that scene from my memory.Warrior woman: I can't remember whether it was in the book or not, but the ease with which you dispatched an enemy far more powerful than you, or just about anyone for that matter, seemed a little unlikely. It Bet Daniel Son's victory over a vastly superior opponent in KK3 hands down.Hordes of the undead: Those ghostly figures Aragon summoned, Um, it wasn't too suspenseful for me seeing them do battle, since they were invincible and could not be attacked back!Legolas: A shame to see the kick arse archer from fellowship & towers reduced to a one very fake looking scene taking down the baddies on the elephant.Dwarf: I like a dwarf to be ascetic and noble, not comic relief.Aragon: Why did you change your voice tone and go all James L Brooks on us when giving your Coronation speech? My friend suppressed a laugh.Karl Urban: There was an excellent scene in the trailer where you screamed and wailed at the sky, below your father-the king's body lying dead on the earth, that scene really got my heart racing, I can't believe it was absent in the movie.The Battles: Who was fighting who? the editing was such that I couldn't see which characters to root for as the action flied by too quickly and clumsily. Golem: We get that the ring has corrupted your soul and turned you into something horrible over the years, we get that you will make a play for the ring before the film is out. Was the opening scene biography really necessary?Finally and by far most disgracefully, please keep in mind that all three films were filmed at the same time, using the same actors, production crew and locations. The first two movies got just a few Oscar nods in minor categories such as sound effects editing, How can Return of the king be THAT much better than the other two that it sweeps up 13 or so Oscars, everything for which it was nominated! Shame on you academy!!, my guess is that the Money from New Line cinema was not all spent on making and advertising the film itself! Bouycott the Oscars!!
I had such high hopes when I first heard that a Tolkien fan was going to write and direct a live-action+CGI version of Lord of the Rings... ... only to have them cruelly dashed.FOTR was a bit rough but I said to myself "It'll only get better".  Boy was I wrong.I suppose the main problem is twofold.First, Jackson is way too young/inexperienced to have taken on this project. He certain has ability but he has a lot to learn about filmmaking before even thinking about tackling such an ambitious project.Second, for alleged lovers of the source material, Jackson and company took WAY too many liberties with the story.  Changing them in pointless and even foolish ways.  Perhaps this was inexperience, maybe it was just laziness or a lack of understanding of the source material.Goodness knows that LOTR is far from perfect as an example of storytelling but there is a great tale buried in Tolkien's massive tome.Too bad that Jackson and his crew were absolutely unable to bring it to the screen.  By the TROTK, Jackson's exhaustion is practically oozing from the screen and he's lost sight of many key elements of the story.


                
I can't talk about the (thousands or more) positive aspects of this film when so many people are so overly optimistic about it and completely blind to it's sometimes unacceptable flaws.When I saw it I wanted to spit at the moviescreen. It's a truly great movie, but there are so many stupid unnecessary faults and flaws preventing it from being perfect that you just gotta hate it!Doesn't people see the excessive use of cgi-graphics making this film look like... Final Fantasy? Don't YOU SEE THAT?! What - you just think it looks cool??!!"Wow, look what they can do those special-effects-guys!"Don't you realize? No one will be impressed by the effex of this movie in 20 years!Those of you who haven't read the books, how can you like this at all as just a movie? cuz it isn't even a movie, it's a really detailed animated synopsis of the books (the three of them, that is) - and not really accurate at that! Ever wondered where the drama went, the depths of any scene or character, the direction and exhibition (if I can use that word) of the parallel story lines? or are you just revelling in the roller-coaster-ride-feel to the film: the cool effects, weaponry and armour, digital creatures, the battle-scenes and the heroic speeches with the typical romantic gaze of the eyes looking out over the horizon (I actually usually enjoy the latter things, but it's just too much here, and not good enough).This really is true porn for the mid-teenage RPG-junkie and immature and nerdy men. Are you really that superficial? Can't you smell the melted plastic? Sure, this truly is a gourmé-dish - all the more reason not to have any funny odeurs interfering with it!!!!!This review wont be helpful to most of you, of course. Cuz y'all are probably like everybody else. I just needed to spread my word. Get it off my chest.Peter Jackson deserves all the respect he can get (and the actors are really great and perfect for their roles) - but don't over-do it! This trilogy-film IS NOT the best movie ever made! Not a chance!!!!! Princess Mononoke and Spirited Away each carry more depth than all three parts of LotR together!It's MAGNIFICENT... and Overwhelming... but NOT BRILLIANT!!!A film of this magnitude shouln't leave anyone unsatisfied, but it did, at least with me, cuz it didn't live up to it's potential and it wasn't even better the the prior part! So of course I was mad at it, how couldn't I be?! How couldn't you be? It's like you're fanatical muslims or christians and this is the holy bible or coran - you can't even question it or criticize it! Wake up!


                
Why? I'll tell you why this is my opinion. First of all I can't believe it's in top five of all times!!! This is unbelievable and I think even the producer is surprised of the position of his movie:) I'm just asking you to think about what major revolutions the movie has brought. First of all the story was already used in a previous movie(The Lord of the Rings 1978). The special effects are great but what about the Matrix? The music and the costumes are great but this is ordinary for a movie with that budget, and the plot is for kids(let's face it) with no passion or feelings etc. just the old war between good and evil witch is present in any Jean-Claude Van-Damme or Stallone movie. I'm very sad, not because the world is insane about the movie, because the movie is in top 5 of all times, so they leaving me no chance but to vote the movie with 1.


                
I have now put myself through the sometimes enjoyable, but mostly painful experience of watching these three movies.  I have to say I do think the 3rd one was the best, but lets be honest, it didn't have much competition. 
One thing is for sure, this film and the trilogy as a whole is easily the most overrated event in history.  Many films should be above this effort, in the top250.The problems: The plot, for starters, not only did it not make any sense, it was basically after 9 hours about destroying a ring and fighting a couple of battles.  All the meaningless subplots and political gesturing really didn't add to the film.The characters weren't fleshed out at all, even after 9 hours.  Could you really mention much about any of the many characters?  As a result most of the time I couldn't care less about who was doing what and why.For a film, to be a classic, surely it must have some surprises or must be original in some way and perhaps more importantly stir the juices of our soul.  All we had were some very good special FX, and some nice New Zealand scenery.  The filming was very much join-the-dots stuff, nothing novel or clever it the way it was shown to the viewer.  Do we really need to here the word `precious' again and again, do we really need to see yet another slow motion close-up of Frodo's face.  All of this made the film and films over long and lacking in any substance.


                
Well, this movie is not for people who like subtlety. Not for people who like good dialogues. Not for people who like interesting characters. It is for people who love action, action, and nothing much else. For people who love pompous battles on big screens, hollow words, rhetorics of of the kind great dictators are so fond of, big words like 'today mankind will not fail'. Sure, I can see why people like this movie. They are just easily pleased. They see a big battle-scene and they're happy. They see orcs, orcs, and still more orcs, and they think, 'wow, these orcs must be metaphors for all the bad bad people that are out there on this evil evil planet. How deep! What geniuses are Tolkien and Peter Jackson!' They see a helicopter-view of a battlefield, great graphics of a fictional city, a realistic monster-spider, and they're happy. They see good triumph over evil and they think that's the way it should be, because... well,..., uhm... because it's different from real life I guess? It gives them... uhm ... hope? It must be nice to not see that cheap emotions, the flat characters, some of the most stereotyped dialogues ever written in the history of film.It must be great to be able to love this movie!


                
Well, the "Lord of the Rings" trilogy seems to be a cheap action movie, which hasn't much common with the great book from Tolkin. "The Return of the King" has some nice battle scenes, but it's just another action movie with mostly good special effects. Many good parts of the original book where totally twisted, mixed or deleted with not much sense, and some very stupid parts are just invented from Peter Jackson, to show more of this not so impressive Orlando Blum. It's good that Tolkin can't see this movie - I just hope it makes him not spinning in his grave. My hint to Peter Jackson: Stay at your roots and make more splatter movies like "Braindead".


                
Many critics cite the 1952 film "The Greatest Show of Earth" as the poorest Best Picture selection in Academy history.   That dubious distinction should now go to "Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King," which makes DeMille's circus epic seem like the greatest show on earth in comparison.   It was not only the Academy, but also the once-relevant New York Film Critics Circle that chose this film as the year's best.  It's a wonder that the ghost of Pauline Kael didn't use her after-life influence with the All Mighty to strike the entire group dead.  This video game-like film goes from one chase scene to the next with little in the way of plot development.  I've seen all three films and don't have a clue what the fellowship of the ring is, or the significance of the two towers, nor where the king was returning from.  Director Jackson failed to include much in the way of plot exposition in nine plus hours of film! 
The computer-generated Gollum was the most interesting character in the film; at least he wanted to kill off those annoying hobbits.  Ian McKellen is distinguished in his knightly role and added a touch of class to the otherwise endless stream of special effects. The female stars of the film, Tyler and Blanchett, have so little screen time that it doesn't make sense to even have them in the film.  Apparently Tyler's character is present merely to suggest that Mortensen's character is heterosexual.  Why Blanchett has such an annoying smile on her face each fifteen seconds she is on screen is a mystery to me.


                
This was the dullest film of the 65 films I have seen all year.It took an age to get going. After 90 minutes many people in the theater simply got up and walked out, the rest were asleep. I personally demanded and got my money back. If people develop DVT through sitting through this then Peter Jackson should watch out.What happened in the Gollum effects department between Two Towers and this entry? For the first few minutes that he appeared he looked like he was made of clay or silly putty. Dreadful effects.I also find the actors in these Lord of the Rings movies to be totally unengaging and uncharismatic. In the end I was willing Frodo to die because I got fed up of his constant whining. Peter Jackson made a BIG mistake dropping Christopher Lee from these films as he was the only one to bring any level of class to them, and was sorely missed.Lord of the Rings will never be remembered as fondly as the original Star Wars Trilogy, simply because it is unremarkable and unmemorable.


                
To say that this movie is overblown pap is an understatement. Like its predecessors, this flick employs just about every movie cliché in cinema history like long, long death scenes; fake death scenes (how many times did Freddo die, only to our "surprise" he's really not dead at all!); "a man's gotta do what a man's gotta do" scenes, in fact what with the clip-clop galloping of horses everywhere I thought it had strayed into a Western. "Ride like the wind" type comments abound. The mad bad king who dies a horrible death coz he's so mad and bad. The cute little Hobbits we're all supposed to cheer for. And even a Darth Vader type chief villain!Coupled with a script that was so lame, the better actors were really pushing themselves to the limit trying to make the lines sound at least half original. In fact, the only interesting characters in this enermous exercise in money-grabbing movie cynicism were the villains! The orcs at least had character. Not surprising then that the movie relies upon the gollum to sell it.In years to come, this lumbering saga of over-hyped over produced trash will be not be regarded in the same way Star Wars is but in the same way Titanic is.... bit of an embarrassment.


                
Obviously this was a faithless and pointless butchering of the novel, but what's worse, a terrible movie.  Lacking flow, sense, linearity and dramatic impact, this played out like a highlights reel, not a coherent story.  The actors did an admirable job with the awful dialogue and nosensical personalities they were given, with some exceptions.  Peter Jackson's only two abilities seem to lie in super close up and super wide out shots, both of which are heartily abused.  And the special effects, for the most part, would have been better served by a cardboard set and some directing ability. There were high points, but this was and is the first and only movie I have ever left before the end and they barely kept me there but for the Eowyn-Nazgul scene.  A hollywood blockbuster?  No Doubt.  A good movie? Hell no.  Possessing anything in common with the literature it is supposedly based on?  The fact is, if this were based on real events, I don't think the people involved would have given them to right to use their real names. Maybe that wouldn't be such a big deal if I didn't have to hear about Jackson's love of the books, or read reviews that discuss staying true to the source material.  There is hardly a scene or underlying theme in the movie that has anything to do with the books.  This movie could probably have been worse, but I would be hard pressed to know how...


                
I've waited three years for a disappointing ending. The scouring of the Shire wasn't in the film, and that was by far the most important scene in the story, with Saruman and Wormtongue. Okay, so maybe it's in the second DVD comes out, after the regular one gets bought up---but this is just a marketing scheme---the exploitation of a fine story. This proves once and for all that literary adaptations are a true rip off of the author's intent, fixed only on making large sums of money. Tolkien is no doubt rolling over in his grave. People against this argument no doubt say that, "well yes, but it brings the story to the masses!" Why not encourage them to read instead? I feel that the imagination of millions of kids is now ruined because they will never be able to read the books without having Wood in their minds as Frodo, or Astin as Sam. And the characters don't act that way in the book.
And how can we justify Jackson's liberal treatment of the story to promote CGI graphics while disregarding the characters in the film. Basically the computer is now a character. These books should have been left alone. This isn't the best film of all time, it is the best example of exploitation that has thus far been imagined.


                
and poor characterization.As a technical achievement it's a masterpiece.  As a work of drama, it's mediocre to lame.The dialogue scenes were overwrought with drama, much like a soap opera, although instead of sappy Hammond organ music, we had the sappy orchestral score, rising and falling on practically every syllable.Jackson deserves a lot of points for his technical skills but none for his artistry.


                
Moves even further from the source material, more so than The Two Towers by Peter Jackson and Fran Walsh. Too many elements are changed from the heart of Tolkien's work. Sam would never have been turned away, and by the way, just how did he find that sword and the light of Elendil in Shelob's lair with no light source? Also, Shelob is spider like, but not a spider. There were no webs in her lair. Even worse is the acting of John Noble as Denethor. Yes, Denethor has despaired, but in the book, his madness is related to his use of a palantir and competing against Sauron. Sauron's will was stronger, and he bent Denethor, left him bereft of hope. This movie, he is a caricature, a cheap, poorly rendered, badly overacted caricature. Faramir's character was assassinated in the second movie, but it is his father who is torn asunder even worse in this one. Aragorn had the sword Anduril after he left Elrond and Rivendell, and says so in the The Two Towers before entering the hall to meet with Wormtongue and Theoden(book). Here, it is given to him by Elrond who never came to visit Aragorn. It was Elrond's sons and the remaining rangers(who allude to no longer protecting the borders of the shire, foreshadowing the scouring) who came to him. And they brought the banner of the king, not the sword. Aragorn acts like a haughty king in the Paths of the Dead, where in the book the scenario is much more dramatic with his humility and doubts. Also, the dead were released after helping them capture the ships with black sails so were not present at the battle at Pellenor Fields. That scene looked like The Frighteners Part 2. Absolutely ridiculous. It is a pretty to look at movie with no substance when compared to the source material. Tolkien loved the Scouring of the Shire, and felt it was the true climax of the entire work. Yet Peter Jackson called it a "simple denouement" and said he hated it. The better story isn't in these movies, and I hope that people can read with a finer eye than they watch these movies with. They aren't that good, and each slips further down. The first adaptation was the best of the three, and this was the worst hands down, yet this one received an Oscar for best adaptation.
SPOILERS Frankly put, this movie sucked. What could have been spectacular with only a little care was ruined. Oh, don't get me wrong. If you are some lazy movie-goer who considers yourself an expert because you own the Extended Editions of the first two movies on DVD, you will certainly enjoy this movie. If you are, like me, a hardcore fan who has practically memorized the books, I don't see how you can enjoy this film.It starts out fairly well, and continues like that for most of the film. Although the changes are not usually welcome at all (cite Arwen's magnified part to make it sappy, or Gollum and Frodo leaving Sam altogether,)I could have accepted that. Sure, Shelob's lair was all wrong. Well, yeah, it did annoy me that at some parts Aragorn was more important than the whole ring-of-power-which-must-be-destroyed. The whole love triangle was blown way out of proportion, and by editing out his almost-death it might have been possible to film some of the wonderful scenes in the book that the movies carelessly deleted. But, like I said, it was all right until the end.The ring was destroyed magnificently, I admit. The aftermath was done well. But there is no excuse for skipping straight to the Happy Ending. Lalala, sunflowers and daisy chains and frolicking puppies for all. WHAT THE **** JUST HAPPENED? No scouring of the Shire. For that, Saruman just might have been left out altogether. No adjustment for Frodo. I might also add that by having Gollum and Sam make so much external conflict for him, it practically obliterates all the internal conflict. The audience is unprepared and confused when he decides to keep the Ring. However, back to the mangled ending.Put aside the major parts. In an effort to appeal to teenage girls, I assume, the filmmakers decided to give Arwen a much larger role, and make Eowyn's affection for Aragorn much more serious as well. So why do they not bother showing her courtship with Faramir? A large part of the books is condensed into two camera shots of them standing beside each other at the coronation of Glorious King Aragorn, who seems to have washed his hair for the occasion. I know, he was on a trek in the wilderness, no shampoo, but how come he shaved more then? But back to Eowyn. Her sudden attachment to Faramir makes her seem like she is nothing but  a man-chaser. First she goes after Aragorn, future king and current war hero. When he spurns her love, she takes Faramir, steward and war hero, as the next best option. Ridiculous. Just ridiculous.to sum up, do not see this movie. Do not waste your money. This review is long, I know, but it could be so much longer if I wanted to mention everything wrong with the movies.  Anyone who is a true fan will regard this as nothing but filth, a pure waste of time.
i don't get the point with all that:11 Oscars, 9/10 on IMDb.. but WHAT? this is sensed to be something artistic? some postal card landscapes and ridiculous one liners, damn try-to-be intelligent scenes about loyalty and all... there is NOTHING in this movie nor in the two others that can let me say it is a good movie. no plot, no acting, no directing. there is nothing in this movie, and i don't post that to provoke reactions. i truly think it and i don't understand to be so isolated with this point of view. There are well done heroic fantasy movies, like Conan the barbarian, that are seen like average movies and THIS is put on a podium... i hope i'm not the only one it makes wanna puke...


                
It is a great pity that people cannot distinguish between great works of literature and the failure to exemplify these works in the cinema graphic medium.These three films adapted from the great work were shot on low quality film and in a manner to make the greatest profit from as much exploitation of its artisans as possible. For example Peter Jackson knew that he could New Zealand Citizens to be extras at no costs due to the novelty of under taking such a project of this magnitude and glamor in a parochial isolated hometown New Zealand Countryside.Peter Jackson, Fran Walsh and Philipa Boynes bought the film rights of the great literature for a massive cost and then hired scriptwriters to prepare the screenplay adaptation in their names at great cost. This was a very poor screenplay if you really loved the books and actually read them which most of the films audience probably never could or did. How the motion Picture Academy members voted it best screenplay adaption and gave the award to these three people is rather suspicious.The cinematography was very poor with many shots out of focus and overuse of various camera techniques. This has been supported many Cinematographers in many blogs.The acting performances were very mediocre and the selection of actors was purposefully chosen from Australians and New Zealanders due to Peter Jackson's view that they are better actors than Americans and the British. In fact Australians and New Zealanders have this strange dislike Americans despite consuming their films.The animations of various creatures was so similar to the vampires in "dusk till dawn" it makes you wonder if the CGI people had much imagination. The many gratuitously violent scenes, not described as such in the books, would have been very frightening to children let alone the ridiculous characterization of the Golum. In fact most of the CGI was carried out by Americans hired by Peter Jacksons multi-million dollar CGI suite.Which at the end of the day makes you wonder where Mr Peter Jackson got the money to not only buy the film rights to the books but to build a multi-million dollar film effects studio in New Zealand.The whole thing was obviously a massive profit making exercise in profit making with Peter Jackson and his mates securing huge merchandising deals in the planning of the project.It is further proof that the very wealthy and privileged can always demonstrate what their money can achieve not what they themselves can achieve due to any talent or real imagination.It was not made for the sake of love of a great work of literature but for profit and self aggrandizement. I fully understand that films must make profit but this one really couldn't go wrong with the material and the present day innovations in CGI. I am certain that one day someone will remake it and do it properly and maybe some one like John Boorman who was originally going to make the film.I am so content in thought that there is a great difference between people like myself and the people who glorify this film and Peter Jackson.


                
