The journey comes to an end. For me the final installment ensures that the Lord of the Rings replaces Star Wars as my favourite fantasy movie franchise. In time the film will look dated, but the story and characterisation far surpass that of Star Wars. The Empire Strikes Back is the only one of the Star Wars films that is in the same league as LOR.As with Two Towers, the Return of the King doesn't recap the story so far, so don't even think of seeing this film if you're unfamiliar with the story. It starts with a flashback to Smeagol and means Andy Serkis gets to appear on the finished print. Frodo, Sam and Smeagol then continue on their quest, whilst the remaining members of the fellowship are briefly reunited at Isengard before taking different paths to Minas Tirith.The action is unrelenting and most people will not notice the running time is over 3 hours. As with the previous films the combination of sets, models and cgi brings middle earth to life.I suspect quite a few of the performers will be in with a chance of Oscar recognition. Miranda Otto is the stand out performer and is outstanding as Eowyn and surely deserves the Best Supporting Actress honour. I'm sure that Viggo Mortensen, Ian McKellen, Elijah Wood, Sean Astin, and Orlando Bloom will all have their supporters for acting honours and rightly so, as they all put in fine performances. I'm not sure whether Andy Serkis is elligable, but I suspect the success of Smeagol/Gollum owes as much to him as the animators. Bernhard Hill should also be in with a shout for recognition for his performance as King Theoden. My guess is that it'll miss out on the acting awards with the exception of Miranda Otto. It's absolutely certain to take Best Director, Best Picture and a string of technical awards though. My guess is that it will be nominated for about 12 categories and take 8 gongs.Return of the King isn't flawless however. Saruman was cut entirely from the theatrical release of the film. We therefore missed out on the final face off between Gandalf and Saruman at Isengard. This was certainly filmed and will no doubt be on the extended edition. When the Hobbits return to the Shire it looks remarkably like when they left. No sign that Saruman has arrived back before them and taken over. In the book Merry, Pippin, Sam and Frodo help rally the rest of the Hobbits to retake the Shire, but at some cost to both the hobbits and the environment. Merry, Pippin and Sam become heros to the rest of the hobbits who are largely unaware of Frodo's adventure and exploits. I'm not sure if any of this was shot, but it would be a welcome addition to the extended addition. Personally I would have followed Tolkien and got rid of 7 minutes of Arwen footage and kept Saruman in. Bearing in mind Christopher Lee's passion for the trilogy it is also sad to see him removed from the final episode. I'm quite sure Peter Jackson must have had a few sleepless nights over that decision.If Saruman's exclusion was the biggest blunder of the film, Gimli's consignment to comic interlude was also a bit disappointing. I'm not against a bit of light hearted relief every so often, especially in such a long film, but it seemed that every time Gimli appeared on screen it was for light entertainment. The "That still only counts as one" line to Legolas was very funny though.Despite these gripes Peter Jackson can certainly be very proud of the Lord of the Rings. Very few people thought it possible to do justice to the book. He has crafted a film that many people will enjoy for many years.


                
Let me say first that after seeing Fellowship of the Ring, I went out and read the LOTR trilogy for the first time. I enjoyed it immensely, but I only read it once and not before I saw the first movie. So I might not be what you'd consider a true enthusiast. From an Enthusiasts perspective:There were a few disappointing momemts: the fact that Gandalf *still* didn't break Sarumon's staff on screen, and the way a lot of things were glossed over a bit. Additionally, there was way too much Legolas jumping around during battles. I understand they cost $9 million to make and not showing them would be effectively "wasting" $9 million, but there are more important things to show.Finally, and this was known very early on so it wasn't a surprise, the conclusion of the trilogy was completely removed. This trilogy began and ended with the Hobbits. It began by exposing them as lovable but helpless characters, and ended showing them to be courageous and capable of addressing significant problems. The movies, however, focused a little more on the characters people love, and while I don't fault them for that, I do fault them for not trying to show the ending of the trilogy in any way whatsoever. As an enthusiast, I can't grade the movie on its own; I must rate it as a trilogy. And this trilogy would get 9.5 / 10. From Joe's perspective:Joe wouldn't be nearly as acquanted with the characters, and a lot of what this movie succeeds on for the enthusiasts plays off of that. This is still a good movie, if a bit broken up giving far too many "it's wrapping up" signals. Frodo spends far too much time crying (honestly, this dragged on), and the characters spend far too much time saying "farewell." Joe liked the movie, but gave it a 7.0 / 10 because there are movies he simply enjoys more.


                
In short, a very, very good film which would have been the trilogy's best and have gained a 10, had not it not gone on so long. I get the feeling Peter Jackson didn't want to end the series, and so made the final film last as long as humanly possible. In the end it just gets tiring.I really will not be watching the extended version, which may well stretch to five hours. Why couldn't they just do a Kill Bill on it?Oh well, I don't want to try to put you off, at 7/10 it is still well worth a watch, just don't try to watch the whole trilogy at once. Not without a family-sized KFC bucket, at least.


                
"The Return of the King" is certainly not the strongest of Tolkien's trilogy, "The Fellowship of the Ring" blows both of the others away, but it is, in the novels, a considerable step up from the slop of "The Two Towers." This film series is different--"The Return of the King" is the worst.There are two gigantic, absolutely unforgivable and completely and utterly wrong changes made from the novel that absolutely kill this film: 1. Frodo's madness ends when Golem takes the ring and then Golem falls into the fire, but the film forces Frodo to continue his madness and push Golem in. WRONG. 2. Samwise would NEVER leave Frodo, but the film has him head back down the mountain. WRONG. Not only are they differences from Tolkien, but these are changes that work against the story in which they fit and that is why they are so egregious.The production is mostly the same as the previous two in other aspects, with the exceptions that Ian McKellen's performance of Gandalf the White is annoying and nowhere near as good as Gandalf the Grey and that as he is given more to do, Sean Astin completely outshines the rest of the cast. It's also notable that this film has no appearances by Saruman, which cuts out the wonderful, charismatic performance that Christopher Lee has otherwise given--he was, in my opinion, the best casting choice of the entire series, with the only possible exception of Viggo Mortensen's perfect Aragorn.It's still a fantastic film, because Tolkien on a less-than-perfect day wrote a novel far beyond what most writers will even dream of being capable of writing, but this production's changes are absolutely unforgivable. The worst of the series, contrary to what the Oscars said.And how in the world can Howard Shore deserve two Oscars for one score that really wasn't all that impressive to begin with? And how can Peter Weir be denied AGAIN?
A movie shouldn't be elevated beyond it's true value simply because of special effects.  All three movies had exceptional special effects.  They were amazing.  The realism is unbelievable.  However, superfluous additions to, and needless omissions from, the original story, along with quite a bit of over-the-top acting are certainly enough to move it quite a ways down the list.  This movie is not better than Schindler's List.  It's not better than The Usual Suspects.  It's not better than many of the movies it's currently beating in the top 250.  This film is currently rated higher than The Seven Samurai -and- Citizen Kane.  Let's vote the real value of a film and not destroy the value of our system.I rate this film 8/10 in it's genre for exceptional special effects and a great soundtrack.


                
It's fantastic that someone finally succeeded in bring Tolkien to the big screen like this, and it took fantastic planning, and Jackson is deserving of every award he's received - and he should have received more.But there comes a time when CGI gets so close to but yet so far from reality that everything looks like a cartoon animated by van Gogh. I think these movies go too far without having much of a choice.The first part was enthralling because it was finally happening, and the Ringwraith were fantastic. The second part surprised by the emotion it invoked - it had all the flurry of a Lucas attempt at an epic but it had guts and grit too. And Jackson made his cast look earthy and human, and he introduced hormones into things that seem absent in the book(s).And it's a fantastic conclusion to be sure, but as with Titanic, the achievement is first and foremost that it happened and that it was a success. There is no way Jackson can get enough acclaim or recognition for what he has done.All I've got to say is I don't especially appreciate all these special effects. They come closer and closer to looking real but they will never be convincing. Serkis is amazing of course, and he should have received some sort of award. But there comes a time when the fantasy of the mind is better than trying to paint the impossible on screen.A lot of people will laud the movie because the effects were so good; this doesn't have squat to do with the quality of the movie. Like saying James Bond's Aston Martin is cool, therefore Connery/Lazenby/Moore/Dalton/Brosnan are good actors.No one can take away from Jackson what he did: a major achievement, a milestone in cinematic and cultural history. But I wasn't overly impressed, and in fact found myself looking at my watch wondering when it would all finally be over. Maybe I was satisfied the movie had made it and lost interest because I already knew the ending; maybe it was the plethora of CGI wizardry that had me longing for Wiley Coyote and his Roadrunner friend.At least there no one's trying to fool you into thinking it's real.


                
I thought this was a very good movie. Very well filmed and acted with amazing sets and scenery. My only complaint was that it went on too long. It should have finished at Mount Doom the rest of the scenes were not necessary.


                
I really enjoyed Return of the King - just like the previous two films. They were fantastic epics, with some great battle scenes, some lovely "epic" acting. But I can't help the feeling the hype has wrecked it a little.In my opinion, it is not the best film ever, nor the third, or the fiftieth. I have seen better epics - ones that didn't need to use CGI (Lawerence Of Arabia). I have seen better battle scenes and action scenes (Braveheart, Last Samurai, Matrix 1). Return of the King is great - just not as good as some people like to believe.It looks fantastic. The design is second to none, and the epic feeling is captured so well on the battle field. Acting from everyone is fantastic - Mckellen and Viggo being standouts, as well as Sean Astin. And, damn, has this film got some great set pieces (Pelannor fields!).But what wrecked this film? The editing. I know some purists loved the ending - but it ended about (checks his notebook) four times. It faded to black - BUT WAIT - it's starting again! Really, Jackson could've cut this down. It made the film over-wrougt to the point of screaming.All in all, a great film, one of the best ever - just not top 10 worthy! It has great production value, Jackson is talented for doing all three in a row - and everyone involved should be proud they've been in such a film. Though, the editing crew must feel a little sheepish...


                
Don't get me wrong, these movies are very well made. It's amazing that these books were actually made into films in the first place. It takes a lot of vision to accomplish that. However, as a film or even a trilogy, there are several fallbacks. Firstly, there is a lot of unneeded dialogue. Secondly, after the audience waits for the climax and then the rundown at the end of the film, the movie doesn't end. It feels it needs to tie up loose ends that most audience members won't see, such as what happens to Bilbo. All in all, the vision deserved the Academy Award, although as always, there is room for improvement.


                
So this is the end of the trilogy. For today's standards it is the apex of epic film making and audiovisual effects. Moreover it honestly tries to follow the plot of the books (but notice I'm referring solely to the plot). The Return Of The King is a movie you simply have to see for the sake of it. Now the bad part. It is unbelievably corny! Please, guys, why did you have to make the breakup of the Fellowship just a series of end-of-summer-camp goodbyes? No respect to the spirit of Tolkien, no inner meaning, no depth. This was completely unworthy of the rest of the effort and it spoiled it for me. Perhaps the whole crew got tired of this enormous project and daubed the last 30 minutes so that they could get over it.


                
The Lord Of The Rings is the best trilogy ever made in my opinion. There is not a single flaw (maybe from book to movie, but I haven't read the books, so I can't say). This series is so perfect. Not only is it for anyone from 9 to 99, but it's just so touching.The Fellowship of The Ring was an excellent movie, probably the slowest one, but you gotta have patience. The Two Towers ups the action and excitement and after I had seen it, I was craving the 3rd one so bad. But when this film finally hit theaters and I saw it, I knew that it was the perfect movie. I cried, I gasped, I jumped, I cheered, I laughed, I clapped, I did everything.This movie will honestly stay in my heart forever. A true example of a perfect movie.


                
The first 2 films were very good and not having read the books, i really wanted to see this, everyone seemed to think it was the best of the three movies and I didn't know what was going to happen next.I sat down expecting to be enthralled for another 3 hours, and to be fair i wasn't disappointed, that is until the end, unnecessarily it tainted the entire point to the trilogy.I'm not sure if this happened in the book but, here we go - Frodo reaches Mordor, has a pretty good wrestle with his conscience and with Gollum, and finally throws the ring into the fires of Morder.Great nothing wrong there, so end the film.But no, we then see the world collapse all around poor Frodo, (who's already had a pretty bad time) and he finds himself trapped on a rock surrounded by the fires of Mordor. And there it is, in flies Gandalf on some winged beast and whisks him to safety. What a crock of s**t! Why didn't the sadistic git's who sent poor Frodo on this voyage, just give him one of those winged beasts in the first place and save him a whole boat load of trouble.This ending really tainted the entire illusion for me, and a trilogy that i could have loved, left me feeling a little cheated.For its attempts at greatness i give it 8/10, but it would have 9 or maybe 10/10 if it had ended a few minutes earlier and not contrived to achieve a bigger climax.
This movie was extremely entertained and well, filmed, my only complaint was that the ending kept ending, then starting, then ending. However, I would not see it again, or purchase it on DVD. At three hours, sitting down to watch it is a daunting prospect to say the least. Some scenes seem to go on forever, but at least it does not suffer The Two Tower's problem of having half the movie be entertaining and the other half necessary drudgery. Still, better editing would have helped step up the pacing a bit, and the filming for close quarters was poorly done, with far too much shaking around and closeups of random bits of steel. Overall, I say rent it, don't buy it.


                
If you were to watch the three Lord of the Rings movies in a row, back-to-back, you would have to be in some pain, not going to the bathroom for nearly 10 hours cannot be good for you. And so it ends in The Return of the King, where we have final fights, final chances of redemption, and final chances for Frodo to either carry out his duty of destroying the ring at Mt. Doom in Mordor or failing and giving into the power of the ring. The film starts by telling the story of how Gollum originally comes in contact with the ring, and we see the evolution of his body as the ring takes over, it is truly disturbing, which is of course the point. Will the same thing take over Frodo? When not watching the efforts of the hobbits Frodo and Sam, we see Aragon, Gandalf, and all the rest of the familiar characters setting up a defense of Gondor at the steps of Mordor (if you followed that sentence, then you are a true fan of the series). And therein lies the problem, but the time we get to the end, only the true fans of the Lord of the Rings films benefit from experiencing this film. No one who had no interest in the first two films would have much interest in The Return of the King. The final struggle between a man and himself is the most interesting part of the movie, again we have a massive battle sequence that goes on and on a bit, but has a few light moments, the battle between elf and dwarf is never done. Then there is the final 20 minutes, or what I like to call "wrap-up central." While the three films in the series tells of a few months of action, the final 20 minutes of the movie tells 4 years worth of stories. I kind of wish there was a mystery to what happened next, like in Pulp Fiction, is Jules still walking the Earth. Instead, we see what happens, and I feel cheated. What can I do though? Just accept it and move on, I suppose. Will we ever see such an ambitious series such as the Lord of the Rings trilogy? Probably not in the same fashion, where three films were shot all at once, then released one year apart. But Peter Jackson did pull it off, and now he's got enough Oscars to fill a boat. Good for him! We'll see him next with King Kong in a few years.
While not strictly related to the books, I must mention that earlier this year when I went to England one of my destinations was Oxford. While I Oxford I went and had a beer at Tolkien's pub, visited Tolkien's house (20 Northmoor Avenue, there is a plaque on the house that identifies it as his house) and paid a visit to his gravestone. Tolkien was a professor of English literature at Oxford and it shows in his writings. As mentioned previously, he borrowed as lot of ideas from the many books that he had read and incorporated it seamlessly into his epic.It is said that Tolkien hated Shakespeare and considered his writings unoriginal and contrived. One thing he points at is Macbeth where Macbeth is told that he cannot be killed by one of woman born. This meant that it was only McDuff, who was born by cesarean, that could kill him. This, Tolkien though, was rubbish, and wrote into The Lord of the Rings a concept that he thought was much better, that is that the Witchking of Agmar could not be killed by any man, and it was Eowyn, the daughter of Theodren, that ends up slaying him. Personally, I think this is just as contrived, but Tolkien's dispute with Shakespeare can be left for another day.As with the opening of the Two Towers we are introduced to Theodren, a king driven mad by the power of Saruman, in Return of the King we are introduced to another mad ruler, the Steward of Gondor. Gondor does not have a king, and has not had a king for a very long time. Instead the land is ruled by the Stewards, but there is an anticipation that a king will return and take the throne, and this is something that the Steward does not want happening. He has become corrupted by power, and the only way that he is able to let go is through death.In Lord of the Rings, power corrupts, and corruption leads to madness. We see this clearly with Gollum. He finds the ring and in finding the ring is immediately entrapped by its power. Bilbo has pity on Gollum, and in the end so do we. His life is corrupted by one desire and that is to possess 'his precious' the one ring. The ring dominates his entire life, and he ends up hiding in a dark cave staring at his precious. However when he loses it his life is destroyed. It is at this point that even we, the reader, pity him, because we know that his life has no meaning beyond possession of the ring. This drives him to then search for the ring, and this greed that has corrupted his heart pretty much makes him untrustworthy. The only reason he helps Frodo is to attempt to get back his precious.There is a point where Gollum appears to have beaten his demon, and truly understands Frodo as a friend, but this changes when Frodo is forced to betray Gollum, but what Gollum does not realise, and never realises, is that Frodo did this to save his life. However Gollum is an individual that is driven by one obsession and it is this obsession that drives him to separate Sam from Frodo. He knows that the only thing standing between him and his precious is Sam, and he does what he can to get rid of Sam. However, as mentioned previously, it is Sam's undying loyalty to Frodo that drives him, and even when Frodo sends him away, Sam always remains there, ready to step up and save his friend.
Without giving away spoilers, I was astounded at the literary and film quality of this series. The lighting, the wardrobe, everything was just perfect for the setting of each scene. No special-effects nonsense needed.Character development and background is bar-none. The trilogy is put together in such a well-blended way. Everything complements everything else.Overall? Pure quality.


                
I have enjoyed the LOTR trilogy as much as anyone, but the computer graphics got a bit out of hand for my tastes in this one.  The sets are fantastic, but they could've worked a little harder on the special effects to make them seem a bit more real.  Aside from that, I wonder how someone can easily breath sulfur gas, wonder why stories must be so tidy, and remember that intermissions are a good thing.  I loved the film, but a few things make it less powerful than the first (which I rank the best of the three), but a magnificent film and story, nonetheless.  Bring dinner and a pillow.  8 of 10


                
Oddly, Tolkien's wonderful book(s), which seemed to create that all-important sense of "this matters" when read, did not translate for me to a "this matters" experience when on the screen.  The movie(s) did a masterful job of rendering both the scenery and the characters.  But, I had to ask myself, "If this were not based on Tolkien, would I care about the story at all?"It's amazing and puzzling to me that they don't stand on their own.  The book certainly does, and this series of films is rather faithful to that text.  Still, for reasons I cannot fathom, I enjoyed the eye-candy, but not the story.If you love LoTR, you must see these films.  But, to be honest, they would never have gained much of an audience, I think, without the connection to their famous progenitor.


                
This is one of the awesome movies that I want to watch again and again and I will never tire to see it...I urge you all to watch this movie to have a real taste of movie. Very nice acting by very wonderful actors.Stories that will make you wonder, "What will happen next?"Hope you feel awesome at the end of the movie, just like I feel awesome every time when I watch the movie.Recommend it to your friends as well.I do recommend it to my friends who have still not seen it.Hope you like it.Enjoy!!!


                
Like with the first two LotR movies, I hadn't (and still haven't I have to admit) read the books. So if your're looking for any comparison between the book and the movie, you have to look for other comments (and there are plenty of them here). The only thing I know, is that a small part of the end of book two (Two Towers) is implemented in Return of the King. Unfortunately for me, a review I read about the movie, did spoil that fact for me.In case you aren't aware of the book, I won't spoil anything that happens in this movie. But I'm going to assume that you have watched the previous installments ("Two Towers" and "Fellowship"). Our group has split up in 3 different smaller groups, each of which has it's own journey to go through. While Frodo and Sam have found themselves a companion in Gollum, the end of part two has hinted something dark that might happen here.That's one of the best things of the movies: The interaction and sometimes even seamless transitions between characters feelings for each other (Legolas vs. Gimli to name but one). Most of the time it's done in a subtle manner and even if it's played theatrically (here in this movie, a relationship between a father and his sons), it's impossible to defy the magic this movie brings onto your screen.The action is great (although a villain we can hang ourselves onto, like the leader of the Uruk-Hai in the first movie, is still missing) and the landscape phenomenal as in every movie of the series. While it was clear, that the actors wouldn't be considered Oscar material, they all bring their A-game and especially Viggo Mortensen is a revelation (makes you still wonder, what would've happened if the original actor that was cast for that role, went through with it).The main problem I see here (and many others have stated that also), lies at the end ... well "endings". The movie doesn't seem to know, when to stop. So while you think all is over, you get another set-piece ... and another one ... and another one. While this might seem like nit-picking to some, some others were bothered very much by that fact. Still this is the best Fantasy Franchise that has hit our screens and makes other efforts seem pretty dull (Dungeons & Dragons anyone?). Now let's see if I can manage to read "The Hobbit" before they make a movie out of it ... (I've already read a few pages)


                
Sitting through a three and a half hour anything is a feat in and of itself, but I was faced with the unique challenge of further physical trials. There sitting beside me, as I sat through the previews, was a mid-20's lady who I'll call Butt-Monkey, sipping on a 2L bucket of Coke. As I turned to talk to my friend I saw in the corner of my eye that Butt-Monkey decides she wants to extricate her vat of soft-drink from the armrest vat-holder BY THE LID to give it a good sucking on. Of course the lid flies off, sending the tub of liquid slamming onto the floor beside my foot splashing my left leg, shoe and sock with the monstrous acidic sticky goop. My foot was soaked and our seating area was like a carbonated swamp. Even after the nice man (14yr old kid) mopped up the pool of Butt-Monkey's beverage, my shoes were fused to the ground for the entirety of the film. I literally spent the next 3 hours with napkins shoved down my sock and sitting on an angle seething with my dagger eyes at this incompetent boob. This still did not, in any way, lessen my enjoyment of this film and after the 3 hour epic I walked out of the theater with a huge smile on my face, only partially because I knew I would be writing this up and making up a stupid name for her. So Butt-Monkey, these butts are for you! Finally the highly anticipated fantasy finale of the Lord of the Rings trilogy is here completing the epic tale of Frodo and the destruction of the One Ring. We see the rejoining of old company as Aragorn, Legolas, Gimli, Gandolf, Merry and Pippin reunite at the fall of Isengard, continuing their story together. Sam, Frodo and Gollum press on along the road to Mordor and to the destruction of the Ring. This is an enthralling conclusion to a masterful cinematic saga that not only does justice to the original literary works but stands on it's own as THE epic trilogy of the 2000's (Read: the Star Wars Trilogy sucks).I so thoroughly enjoyed this film that there are few if any negatives to address, but I did manage to find a few niggles. Unfortunately, we see little of certain characters that were very interesting from the past two films. For instance Saruman doesn't make an appearance at all, Treebeard and the Ents only grace the screen for 10 seconds if even, and Arwin is only a quaint side story of little consequence. I also found the spectacular main battle sequence concluded with a bit of a cop-out with a blanket victory by the good guys. In the very minor niggles category you could see that there were a few scenes that looked very "blue screened" that slightly pulled me out of the movie magic. Finally, I felt that the last few concluding scenes of the movie are arguably unnecessary. Still in the finest Hollywood fashion we see the Lord of the Rings shine and work on so many levels, appealing to young and old, man, woman and child ... as films should.The cinematic journey that has been the Lord of the Rings has escalated over the 2 years of their release, each movie getting better and better, weaving together a tapestry of film making history. The spectacular vistas, spellbinding action, believable characters, friendship, conflict, defeat and victory all intertwine in a such a compelling story that it's redefined the attention span of your average movie-goer. Who can justify spending $13.50 at SilverCity to watch a movie like "Elf" when Return of the King can be had at the same price? This I will never know, but what I can tell you is that RofK is worth every penny. So go and go now to your local cinema and experience the most memorable film event that will impact this generation as the original Star Wars did in the 80s. A well deserved 5 Butt-Monkey salute for Return of the King.


                
If you love visual effects and Middle Earth fantasy, this film is excellent. Casting, soundtrack, effects is awesome (the first really set the stage for the GREATEST adventure). For me Ian McKellan (Gandalf), Viggo Mortensen (Aragon) and Andy Sirkis (Gollum) were exceptional! The visual effects are stunning and it's fun to see orcs get slashed. We all have to wait a year to see each film which builds up the drama so maybe I was a bit disappointed by the ending which was ddddrrraaaawwwwnnn out. Great movies don't need long closure. They simply stand on their own. The last 20 minutes could have been condensed to 5 minutes. Just end with the coronation and Gandalf departing. Watching the hobbits go home and Sam getting married is anti-climatic like seeing an old Scarlett O'Hara in a rebuilt Tara surrounded by grandchildren. Or seeing an arthritic Lawrence of Arabia riding around a jeep in the end (doesn't a horse look better?). I feel the first, the Fellowship of the Ring was the best since it took time to develop a plot and characters and special effects were still terrific. There was suspense to the first movie which was absent in the last. I would have rated this movie a 8.5 or 9 but the last 15 minutes is a 3. That explains my 8 overall. I still really like most of the movie: I was just left a bit flat by the ending.


                
Contrary to my other reviews of The Lord of the Rings film, this review is based only on one screening. I have decided to do so, because on the day that I went to see The Return of the King I felt good in my skin and I could thoroughly enjoy the movie. I didn't look as closely as with the other two films at differences between the film and the book and that made the experience more pure and wholesome and therefore two screenings are not necessary to come to a conclusion about the quality of the movie.
What I really loved about the movie was it's beginning. Heck that was great. One of the most fine moments in the whole of the trilogy, together with the very ending and the scenes with Shelob I presume. Those are the scenes that make the whole trip (3 hours and 21 minutes) worth while. Now almost three and a half hours may seem very long for a film, but will not seem long I can assure you, although the first hour and a half seems to pass much slower than the remaining two hours, that never got boring. Of course there are those critics that say that Peter Jackson seems to knit ending to ending to ending and that the whole becomes too ling, but I as one who has read the book, expected that and am greatly satisfied with the skill of Peter Jackson in knitting the endings together in a way that does not make the film look too lengthy.
This is not too say that I am without criticism. I have some, but it just minor criticism and it criticism of the man himself (Peter Jackson). I do not want to belittle his achievement in bringing The Lord of the Rings trilogy to the screen. He has done great. The battle sequences look great (look out for the scenes with the <U+0091>elephants' versus the riders of Rohan), the acting is good and the directing is superb in my opinion, but he also did some things that I deem unnecessary. I could not quite put my finger on in while I was watching The Two Towers, but while I was watching The Return of the King it suddenly I could. The thing that bothered me a bit during Two Towers and even a bit more during The Return of the King were some of the dialogs (actually monologues), which reminded me of brainless action comedy's and actually added nothing to the film itself. An example of monologues like that is the counting of the victims by Gimli and Legolas or the comment Gimli has when Aragorn utters his plan to save Middle Earth. Also I felt that the burden Frodo was bearing was not emphasized enough in this film and it was slightly <U+0091>overshadowed' by the large amount of battle scenes. I know these are tiny things and I do not want to imply that this spoiled my viewing experience. What I want to point out by stating this, is that while The Return is definitely a good film and an improvement over The Two Towers, it is not a perfect film.
At the end of this 10 hour journey I'd like to say a few things. About the trilogy in general. First of all I cannot believe how well Elijah Wood acted and carried the film. My initial reaction to his casting was: <U+0091>He'll ruin it.' but I have to say that he did an incredible job. The other actors did a fine job as well as did everybody who was part of this epic adventure. There are flaws (as described in my three comments including this one) in the films, but they still are good watching material. The Fellowship of the Ring is in my opinion the best film of the three (8,25 out of 10) as it is a great introduction to the world of Middle Earth and it's characters. The Two Towers was solid, but I felt that it could have been better and it is in my humble opinion the worst film of the trilogy (7,5 out of 10). Second best in the trilogy is The Return of the King, which despite above mentioned criticism is a good ending to a good trilogy. The Lord of the Rings trilogy is what I had hoped The Matrix trilogy would be. It failed. The Lord of the Rings trilogy and all involved in the making did not. Thank you for that.
Oscars for: Best Art Direction-Set Decoration; Best Effects, Visual Effects; Best Cinematography and Best Makeup
Nominations for: Best Picture; Best Director; Best Writing; Best Effects, Sound Effects Editing; Best Sound; Best Editing and Best Costume Design
One ring to rule them all, one ring to find them, one ring to bring them all<U+0085>and in the darkness bind them.
8 out of 10
post scriptum: I WILL watch ALL of the extended editions at some point and that might change my opinion about these films. Maybe I'll tell you about that when it happens.


                
This is one of the best movie ever, I love the story and all actors here.


                
Really good. enjoyed watching it. would definitely recommend to watch it with ur family n friends


                
