Messy, even ridiculous, tribute to the James Bond films of the 1960s, and a disastrous finale to the original Indiana Jones series.Like the locations, the plot is all over the map. Well, sure adventure films should travel the globe easily - but there ought to be a reason for it. The clues leading to the final discovery really have nothing to do with one another, are forced into patterns that really make no sense, and are simply used as excuses to drag the characters from England to Germany to Italy to Egypt - well, eventually, we loose track of just where.Ford and Connery ham it up something fierce. The sets look like sets. The cinematography is second rate. The editing is competent and not much else. Spielberg seems to have fallen asleep in the director's chair quite a bit ("uh, are we making a movie? why didn't you wake me up?") The ending: pseudo-Christian pseudo-Mystical blather, not at all in keeping with any Christian mythos or morality, and dependent on B-movie puzzle solving, pratfalls, and cliff-hanging that utterly debase the mythic references to cheap rumors about possible gods.This is cynical cash-in of the worst variety; stay away.


                
Thanks to Blu-ray, I've been revisiting the Indiana Jones movies and have just sat through The Last Crusade. Now, I never much cared for this when it came out, but how on earth this claptrap can have such a high rating on IMDb is a mystery. Maybe Spielberg was trying to make a "Carry on" film. This could have been titled Abbott and Costello and the Holy Grail, with it's pathetic attempts at humour. Connery is about as convincing as Ford's father as Jessie Royce Landis was as Cary Grant's mother in North by Northwest. And strange though it may seem, in 1938 it was illegal to kill German soldiers in cold blood, which Indiana Jones does with reckless abandon, and without any official sanction (at least James Bond had a licence to kill). Groan inducing scene follows groan inducing scene until the thing grinds to a halt, unfortunately at least forty five minutes too late.


                
Still wondering how this movie, INDIANA JONES AND THE LAST CRUSADE (1989) is so revered in the Indiana Jones "trilogy". Yeah, I'm not counting Crystal Skull, but not for the reasons people think. It's just that it's painfully obvious that Skull was probably never meant to be made and that it was supposed to all end in 1989 with this movie. There are actually things I like about Skull, but not this copycat of Raiders of the Lost Ark.The movie starts out with a silly, "childish" sequence of a Young Indiana Jones (essayed by River Phoenix, who looks NOTHING like a younger version of Harrison Ford) on an exploring trip with his boy scout troop in 1912 Utah, who finds an ancient relic in a cave and is pursued by nefarious villainous types, and goes through all these requisite stunts that mimic action sequences we've already seen in the first 2 movies, but these scenes EXPLAIN Indy's phobias and adult idiosyncrasies. Indy eventually loses the battle, giving up the artifact to the bad guys, but is supposed to have learned a valuable lesson about life....YAWN! We also get a glimpse of Indy's Dad. Flashforward to the film's setting, 1939, where Professor Jones is teaching at university while horny college girls drool over him like a rock star (just like in the original film). Then ANOTHER group of nefarious types approach him about some stone artifact they found in the ocean that is proof of the existence of the Holy Grail, so Indy goes on a trek across the globe (just like in the original film), which encompasses Italy, Germany, and Israel, in search of the Grail. Along for the ride is Indy's Dad Henry Jones (played by Sean Connery in blatant stunt casting), who was the leader of the original mission to find the Grail. And guess how the end up meeting? See, these Nazis are holding Jones Sr. hostage because they are also interested in finding the precious artifact. Does the word "Nazi" sound familiar? JUST LIKE IN THE ORIGINAL FILM! I'm sensing a trend here. Also, there is the required female sidekick. Of course, it's never a bad idea to have an attractive lady in a movie, but this one is a stereotypical blonde bimbo who is supposed to be some kind of smart DOCTOR. I've seen half-naked Bond girls who are more convincing as smarties than this chick!Speaking of BOND, back to the stunt casting of Connery! This movie shamelessly plays on Ford and Connery's universal appeal by pairing them as son and father, because they bear absolutely NO resemblance to each other. I can suspend disbelief in a movie like "Highlander", because there are so many things that movie has going for it other than just Sean Connery, but not in this movie. He is in no way, shape, or form convincing as Indy's Dad. Ford had way more chemistry with his co-stars in the previous 2 movies. The humor between the 2 actors is very strained and not funny, their dialog composed of endless, annoying bickering.The action in this movie is nothing to write home about either. It's amazing, but I actually thought much of the effects in this movie looked incredibly cheesy! And this movie came out years AFTER the first 2 movies, whose effects to this day look fresh and engaging. Then we have the repetitive battles with Nazis. Now, I actually think that Temple of Doom is the best Indy flick, but Raiders still is entertaining with many positives, and at least the villains in that movie had a panache and mystique about them with talented actors playing them with flair, but the villains in this are incredibly stale with no flair.What boggles my mind even more is that there is a healthy amount of fans that actually think THIS awful movie is the BEST of the original trilogy when it is nothing but a sad clone of the Raiders and not nearly as entertaining as Doom! A case where mindless action wins over real filmmaking. Can't win 'em all!
Saturday afternoon and the TV started playing this movie. I had nothing to do and liked the idea of seeing an old good 'classic' that I have not seen since I was a kid. The movie is terrible. Sometimes it looks like a poor low budget series or videotape movie. But the worst of all is the script. Indy meeting with Adolph Hitler and Hitler hands him his autograph??? I used to think it was a real adventure but now I realized it is a family comedy, a movie for children, where 100 persons die and no blood is shed. Where the script has more holes than a cheddar cheese. When nothing makes sense... poor Indy...


                
Raiders of the Lost Ark was perfect.  Temple of Doom was okay, though gross. And this one..... well, it probably bombed at the box office now that I've seen this.For the third film, the creators add in a new character to the series: Indy's father, played by Sean Connery.  Unfortunately, this idiot, although a better archeologist than "Jr.," as he calls his son, winds up tripping the traps that Indiana does his best to avoid.  He basically screws up nearly everything they try to do.  I guess the writers decided he would make a great comic relief.  He doesn't.  And that look on Harrison Ford's face... it looks like he just wants this nightmare to end as soon as possible.  He looks really bored.  He just doesn't have the same magic he did when he first donned the hat eight years before.  What a shame.  Too bad the upcoming DVD contains all three films, including this one.BOTTOM LINE:  Thanks a lot, Jones Sr.  Bow down so I can belt you one, and then take your place along with other franchise enders, like Jar Jar Binks and the Ewoks.


                
OK, let me start by saying that I loved the Indiana Jones franchise up until this point. Raiders of the Lost Ark is one of my all time favorite films, I really enjoyed Temple of Doom (not as good as Raiders but still amazing), so I had very high hopes when I saw Last Crusade for the first time as many of my friends said it was the best in the series and I was very excited to see it for the first time and I assumed it was going to be one of the greatest films ever made. Well I was wrong, Last Crusade let me down more than any film I have ever watched. The opening prologue with River Phoenix was a horrible, contrived mess. Indy somehow gets his fear of snakes, his whip, his hat and his scar all in a matter of 10 minutes, River Phoenix while I have not seen any of his other work gave a god awful performance the "this should be in a museum" line makes me cringe every single time. Unfortunately after the opening "1912" sequence it doesn't get any better, Harrison Ford seems bored out of his mind and gives an incredibly dull performance, I didn't care much for him in Return of the Jedi and I don't care for him in this either. The supporting cast doesn't do any better, Alison Doody is a laughably atrocious and bland actress , Denholm Elliot is back however he is so different from how he was in Raiders that he might as well be a completely different character, and oh my god he is a complete moron who has been reduced to comic relief and to me is the "Jar Jar Binks" of the Indiana Jones franchise (yes I realize this came first). Julian Glover was an amazing Bond villain, I loved him in For Your Eyes Only and in his brief appearance in Empire Strikes Back, I don't know what happened here, again he gave an incredibly boring performance, he wasn't the least bit threatening and gave another terrible performance and then there is Sean Connery, one of the greatest actors ever who has basically been reduced to a bumbling idiot. John Williams score is a complete letdown, one thing that made Temple of Doom so exciting was the music, especially the scene where Indy freed the kids, which gets me pumped up every time. The score of Last Crusade is pretty boring. The plot is simply a rehash of Raiders, while Temple of Doom was not as good as Raiders I do respect it for trying to do something different. I felt the plot of Return of the Jedi was way too similar to A New Hope and I can't give this one a pass either. However what really disappoints me the most about this film is the tone, yeah it is not dark or gritty anymore like the first two were, it is very campy, childish and silly. There is nothing suspenseful about Last Crusade it is pretty much a comedy, a really bad comedy while I'm at it. Yes the first two had funny moments, but they both had dark, witty humor which worked very well. The comedy in Last Crusade is pre-school humor, my evidence: There is a Mickey Mouse joke in an Indiana Jones film!!! After watching the opening of the Ark and the sacrifice scene in the previous two films I never thought we would have jokes about Mickey Mouse but here we are. The film is also riddled with plot holes, there is a moment where Indy and his father are stranded in the middle of Nazi Germany and in the very next scene they are in Hatay (present day Turkey) which is at least 1000 miles away with no explanation!This film disappointed me on every level, the only redeeming quality this film has is yes Walter Donavan's death is kind of cool but it lasts a total of maybe 15 seconds and out of a 2 hour movie that is simply not going to cut it. I cannot watch this film in one sitting, the last time I watched it it took me at least a week to finish because I had to keep turning it off because it was so incredibly cringe worthy. This movie is Batman and Robin level of bad except a film like Batman and Robin is at least the kind of movie you can laugh at and have a good time with, Last Crusade doesn't even rise to that level.OK obviously I don't recommend this movie, go watch Raiders or Temple of Doom, or even Crystal Skulls (yes I said it). Last Crusade just depresses me as it shows a once great franchise with a lot of potential hit rock bottom. I'd give this a zero out of 10 if I could.


                
Seriously, I've never watched a movie aside from this one that contains a character that screams "DAD!" like 50 million times! That got really annoying really fast. And seriously, what's up with Spielberg's obsession with Nazis??? That same old story gets OLD and repetitive, even more repetitive than "DAD!".I give this a 1 star out of 10. If the cowboy dude with the whip would of shouted "DAD!" just 1 less time I might of given it 2 stars.Only redeeming quality this film had was the HOT blonde woman named Elsa. Other than that...all I gotta say is..DAD!!


                
Im not a stupid hippy or something. But you cant just step on rats and use alive animals (2000 of them) for a scène which lots of them died for. Pathetic movie. Cruelsome


                
