Many years ago as I watched the first Jones' movie in college, I was amazed by the story. Somehow the impression of all three movies were quite good. This led to the decision of buying all three movies for my collection.The third one, last crusade, was remembered by me as the best one so I took it for a review. Immediately after the first 10 mins, I found I had made a mistake of buying and watching it.The story line is quite thin compares to the other two. That is why young Indy took the first 10 min scene. After that, the movie became a well predicted story with non-logic events. Also, it made fool of the Indy sr as if every schoolar is dumb. The movie tried to make fun of German as well, which is pointless.As the scene entering desert, the story fall apart. At one hand, the goal became to save the Grail from Nazi, at the other, how good is the two Henries trying to steal it as well?! If there is no German, Indy is no better than a thief with no repect of ancient tomb and ancient body (see the tunnel in Italy scene).If the whole movie is fake on trying to be a hero by being a thief, it is meaningless and disappointing. I gave it 4.


                
Plot: It's not made clear why any of the characters is after the Holy Grail. In the tank scene Indy has his bag strap caught around the barrel of the gun and is unable to release it. But after escaping from being crushed by a rock, his bag strap suddenly no longer restricts his movement. In the invisible bridge scene he crosses the bridge on faith alone and then scatters dirt to reveal the bridge. He could have used dirt to reveal the bridge in the first place. In another escape scene Indy drives away with his father on a motorbike with side car. But he doesn't wait for the Germans in the boat to motor off the shore. There are only two sections of the story that involve the Holy Grail. The rest of the story is once again about Nazi Germany. In general, the story relies too much upon comedy to see it through.Characters: Predominantly male dominated. The only female is a young woman who sleeps around without contraception and yet miraculously fails to get pregnant. Is she a Nazi, isn't she a Nazi? Even she doesn't know. The 700 year old crusader knight was particularly unconvincing and looked like he was in the wrong movie. Perhaps he thought he was in Monty Python's The Holy Grail. Connery's character struggles to portray Indy's father. Acting: Harrison Ford's facial expressions are well rehearsed by now and used in every scene. Connery normally relies upon his deep smooth voice but it sounds weak in this movie.Scenery And Props: The tank was very odd. A WW1 British tank with a turret being employed by the Germans. Even odder was it's speed of 20mph. Most WW1 British tanks could barely manage 5mph. The final location of Petra in Jordan now looks unconvincing considering we know it has no affiliation with Christianity.Conclusion: A hash of old ideas and a bit of a disappointment. Once again relied heavily upon the Germans as an opponent where the opportunity was there to introduce new adversaries such as the Knights Templar or another religious sect.Best Scene: The No Ticket scene on the zeppelin.
I really do not get these Indiana Jones movies at all. These are all average adventure films but evidently somehow in IMDb they got the best ratings.Like other Indiana Jones films this one also has a weak script which is full of plot holes. There was hardly any logic in the story. Although acting was decent but without a strong story the film was not that enjoyable.The action scenes are the most weird of all. They tried to add comedy in these scenes which made them rather childish. They should have these scenes intense and serious instead.Overall it is an average film and good way to spend your spare time.


                
Wow a bad indiana jones movie, how is that possible i hear you ask? the overuse of the same tired family friendly Nazi stereotypes. where are the death camps. or even the little evil guy from the first one?this movie was like an 80s version of the scorpion king. absolutely unbearable. 4 out of 10


                
