Indiana Jones teams up with his father to try and locate the Holy Grail. Something that the Nazis are again particularly interested in themselves. We didn't know it at the time, but every Indiana Jones fan on the planet presumed that The Last Crusade was to be the final film to feature the intrepid archaeologist. As it turned out, another film would surface in 2008, but casting that aside (as many would like to do), Last Crusade should, and is, judged as the trilogy closer it was meant to be. In 1988 Steven Spielberg was deep into bringing Rain Man to fruition, all thoughts of Indiana Jones had gone by the wayside with the harshly judged part two, Temple Of Doom. In stepped George Lucas to politely remind Spielberg that they had an agreement to make another Indiana Jones picture, Spielberg no doubt obliged and humble, passed on his Rain Man work to Barry Levinson who promptly bagged himself an Oscar for the film. It can be guessed that Spielberg was probably grouchy around this period, but he needn't have worried, because The Last Crusade provided a much needed hit for not only himself (post Empire Of The Sun), but also Lucas (Willow) and Harrison Ford (Frantic). I mention the run up to this picture because it explains a lot on why the film is pretty much a retread of Raiders Of The Lost Ark, something that some detractors find unforgivable. Yet Last Crusade is still an immensely enjoyable adventure picture, with Spielberg proving that he was still capable of a popcorn bonanza. Using the Raiders formula and moving away from the dark flourishes of Temple Of Doom, Last Crusade is actually the simplest film of the three, but still it manages, courtesy of a sparkling casting decision, to become the most entertaining of the original trilogy. Is it better than Raiders? Of course not, but it positively rips along with sparky dialogue and an agenda of cliffhanging suspense like the adventure films of yore. In comes Sean Connery as Dr Jones Senior, and its the picture's trump card, because the magnificent interplay and obvious rapport with Ford (cool as a cucumber) is there for all to see. It's this what drives the film on thru it's more mundane and picture filler sequences, showcasing two top wily professionals with care and consideration to their craft. The casting of Alison Doody as the main female is a poor one, and one only has to look at her subsequent career post Crusade to see she wasn't up to the task here. Bonus comes in the form of the River Phoenix prologue, Phoenix as the young Indiana paves the way for the jaunty path that Crusade takes, whilst simultaneously giving us a nice little back story from which to launch the adventure. Made for $48 million, the film went on to gross $474,171,806 Worldwide, now that's a lot of people who evidently were happy with Raiders Of The Lost Ark 2! And I gleefully count myself amongst that number. 9/10


                
When the two greatest filmmakers in the world teamed up to create the best action movie of all time - Raiders of the Lost Ark, it seemed unlikely that they could duplicate their divinely-inspired work. After a miss with the entertaining yet forgettable Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom, Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade comes pretty close to doing just that.Film history's most profitable star Harrison Ford returns to his signature role in a performance that speaks for itself, and benefits greatly from a gallery of memorable supporting characters. That includes Sean Connery, the grandest of all modern action day movie heroes (and appropriately cast, as the spiritual father of the character is James Bond). Connery plays against that, in a performance that is different than anything he has ever done, and it works. Even so, Denholm Elliott can't seem to help stealing every scene he's in as Marcus Brody, a lifelong friend of the Jones family.This movie stands by itself in the way it deals with spirituality, and is thick with religious themes throughout, without preaching to you. This is a very difficult balance to achieve in any film, and that alone makes the film stand out as brilliant. It is more abundant with humor than the previous two films, without the characters falling into irritating self-parody. Being a sequel, this is a difficult balance to achieve as well. (Look at action sequels such as Lethal Weapon 4).This film stands among the greatest action adventures of all time. I don't know anyone who hasn't seen it, but if you haven't, don't walk to see it. Run.


                
Indiana Jones And The Last Crusade was, in my opinion, the best movie of the Indiana Jones trilogy. This movie featured the same type of humor we have become accustomed to from Jones, as well as another beautiful woman (also probably the best Indy girl) and lots of great action scenes! This movie starts off with a teenage Indy (River Phoenix) which gives us a look at an event that molds his life and character as well as his relationship with his father, Henry (Sean Connery). We also learn he is a "Junior" and that he hates to be called that.Back as an adult, Indy's father is kidnapped and he must set out to find him. His only clues are his father's diary notes, which were mysteriously sent to him earlier that day. They lead him to Italy, where he meets the gorgeous blonde, Dr. Elsa Schneider (Alison Doody), who becomes an integral part of this story.Once again, the grown up Indy (Harrison Ford) does battle with the Nazis. Apparently, Adolf Hitler is after the Holy Grail, which contains the blood of Christ. So Indiana and his father team up to get there first. Along the way, there is a great action scene where Jones fights a few Nazis on board a moving tank.Overall, as I mentioned earlier, I believe this to be the best Indiana Jones movie of the three. This action movie was good long before movie studios learned to make the great CGI and special effects. It's effects were pretty good anyways but back in 1989, things just did not look as good as they can make them today. Still, highly recommended and worth your time. 9.5/10


                
After two successful big-budget starring vehicles, we finally get an origin story for Indiana Jones. Of course, that's largely to facilitate the addition of a new supporting character (Sean Connery in a wonderful casting as Indy's long lost father, who we'll get to in just a moment) but that extra layer of nostalgia, wrapped around a property that's deeply nostalgic in the first place, manages to avoid numerous pitfalls and serve as an effective prologue. River Phoenix performs especially well as the young Jones, expertly wearing Harrison Ford's mannerisms throughout the long callback, and somewhere along the way we get a worthwhile genesis for the grown-up version's affinity for leather jackets and fedoras.Once the story jumps ahead to a more familiar era (if not precisely the present), it's full speed ahead on the hunt for the mythical holy grail, a lifelong obsession for the father and recent fixation of the third reich. Soon reunited, both Jones boys dance through precarious situations and near-misses in the history books, a full battalion of Nazi soldiers nipping at their heels, before drawing close to the prize. Ford and Connery are dynamic together, boiling down a complicated father-son relationship to a series of glares, grins and grunts. They alternate between bickering testily and slapping each other on the back in camaraderie, and I honestly can't say which makes for a more entertaining watch. There's depth, too, a stinging blend of long-simmering resentment and earnest care for one another, which often bubbles up just in time to enhance the plot's heaviest moments.Naturally, it simply wouldn't be an Indiana Jones movie without big action sets (in which the series somehow manages to one-up itself yet again) or boatloads of witty retorts and punchy one-liners, and those two essential elements combine to give the film a loose, fun-loving quality without compromising any of the more serious moments. All this without going too far over the top, as we saw more than once in the mildly underwhelming Temple of Doom and borderline-disastrous Kingdom of the Crystal Skull. It's well-written and purposeful, successfully intense and humorous, an in-the-wheelhouse serial-styled adventure that spans several continents before confronting superstition and cracking several dusty, life-threatening riddles on the path to a biblical treasure. Indy probably should've left well-enough alone, because this chapter is essentially impossible to top.


                
Last Crusade is without a doubt my favorite of the Indiana Jones series, and I think a lot of people would agree. Sure there are some people who prefer Raiders of the Lost Ark, but this film is often regarded as one of the best sequels of all time. As it should be, it fixes most of the problems with it's predecessors, and enhances on the stuff that made that film work.There really isn't that much wrong with the movie, at it's worst moments it can be a little boring. But I also get confused as to what the movie is trying to do with with Dr. Shnieder. Spoiler Alert, but it turns out she's a Nazi, but then she's crying at the book burning, then she's clearly evil again, then she's good, then evil, by the end I wasn't sure if I was supposed to like her or not.The best part about this movie are the scenes between Indy and his dad. Harrison Ford and Sean Connery are downright hilarious at times, and have great chemistry, I actually believed that they were father and son. The action scenes are fantastic, and unlike Raiders the pacing is perfect, a perfect blend of action, comedy, drama, and adventure. Most of the special effects have held up pretty well, sure some stuff is obvious green screen but most of it's not noticeable. The villains are good, not quite as good as the ones from Raiders, but very threatening. The adventure element is great, it's sort of a mystery as well as a treasure hunt. And River Phoenix looks exactly like a young Harrison Ford.Despite not being a hardcore Indiana Jones fan, I say Last Crusade is one of the best adventure movies ever made. It's funny, exiting, has some great characters, and is very well written and directed.


                
I always thought 'Raiders of the Lost Ark' was a great movie and I gave it a rating of A-. I'm surprised that I enjoyed 'Temple of Doom' more than the first one and gave it an A+. I was looking forward to 'The Last Crusade' and now, its pretty evident how much I loved it 'The Last Crusade' joins the adventure of Indiana Jones once more who is on a rescue mission to rescue his father, Henry Jones, who went missing on his search for the Holy Grail. This film is purely brilliant in every way possible. The story is the best of three. The characters in this movie are much better than they are in the first two, even though I like the villain in the second one more than I did in the first one and this one. The musical score by John Williams in this movie is to me, the best its ever been and feels even more magical than the first two. The characters and story are engaging, the movie is directed and written almost perfectly and overall, the movie is very comedic in its tone but also serious, with two such opposing tones mixing together perfectly! There are so many amazing sequences that clearly demonstrate just how amazing the art of film making was back in the glory days. There are so many scenes that are filmed amazingly, the visual effects looking great and the action sequences looking better than most CGI crap today. The film is well aware to not be over the top but is instead a perfect blend of just the right amount of everything necessary to make a movie great.There are however a few goofy scenes with Henry Jones but this is so easily forgotten as everything else in the movie is beyond the credibility of film making.In conclusion, I can easily draw the review down to this and say that this movie is an absolute must see but is always best to watch the first two and come into this. Every aspect of film making is easily surpassed in this masterpiece. Must see A++ In my Top 10 all time favorite movies!


                
"Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade" was made in 1989 and bristles with excitement, humor, suspense, special effects and, as a real plus, character development. In the beginning we get to see young Indy (River Phoenix) and where he got his fear of snakes, etc., and we meet his father, Henry Jones (Sean Connery), a brilliant professor.In this story, Indiana Jones (Harrison Ford) leaves his teaching job to again save the world from the Nazis. They have kidnapped Indy's father for his diary. The Nazis seek nothing less than the Holy Grail, for which Henry Jones has maps and notations in his diary which can lead to it. The Holy Grail here is a chalice used by Jesus at the Last Supper, received by Joseph of Arimathea and said to possess miraculous powers. Joseph used the Grail to catch Christ's blood while interring him. It's up to Indy to free his father.Directed by Steven Spielberg, Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade takes the audience on a thrilling journey to Venice, Austria, Germany and remote locations. The film never lets up its fast pace and around every corner, there's a special effect, or funny dialogue, or a brilliant escape.The great cast also includes Julian Glover, John Rhys-Davies, Denholm Elliott, and Alison Doody.


                
Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade starts with a great opening scene and never lets up afterwards. River Phoenix is cast as the young Indy and he does a terrific job. There's a great chase on the top of a train and a neat little reminder of how Indy received that scar on his chin. The opening, however, is just the start of a fantastic journey that involves Nazi's, a dogfight with fighter planes, and a well done journey into the lair of the Holy Grail. The screenplay, written by Jeffrey Boam, is terrific. It has the right amount of comedy one-liners and adventure to hold your attention for 2 hours. I have to comment on this character of Indiana Jones again. Harrison Ford plays this character so perfectly that he almost made me forget Han Solo and George Lucas has created one of the most memorable characters in the modern cinema. Steven Spielberg seems very comfortable with the character and the stories. I'm hoping for a new Indiana Jones picture soon.


                
It's unanimous, "Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade" is one of the best action-adventure films of the series and may even be one of the best of the 1980's. The action, the humor and the sets, props and costumed are well nuanced and the action will keep you on the edge of your seat. Another great feature is that the Indy girl Dr. Elsa Schneider (Alison Doody) is up to par with our thrill-seeking archaeologist as the quick pace will make you dizzy.A memorable scene in flashbacks shows a young Indiana Jones (River Phoenix RIP) that further examines his upbringing that leads to the relationship between Dr. Jones (Harrison Ford) and his father, Dr. Henry Jones Sr. (Sean Connery) and his disdain to be called "Junior".We go back to 1938, as the adult Dr. Jones is out to rescue his father who's been kidnapped. With the help of his father's diary, which arrived unexpectedly, Dr. Jones can track down the whereabouts of his missing father. The diary locates Dr. Jones to Italy where he's introduced to Dr. Schneider who becomes a vital character in this tale.We now see Dr. Jones battling the German Nazis as the evil dictator Adolf Hitler is after the Holy Grail, which has possession to the blood of Christ. Which leads Dr. Jones and Henry Sr. chasing after the Grail before Hitler's henchman retrieve it. One of the best fight scenes was when Jones was battling the Nazis on a tank.This stands out very well in terms with very limited CGI graphics and everything looks and feels more real and natural. Even back in 1989 the graphics were pretty good and might be slightly ahead of its time. I recommend you see this movie. You won't be disappointed.
This is part three of the Indy trilogy. In my opinion it is the best one. It is very good. This movie is full of action. If you have yet to see this movie go and see it. See this movie is all that i have to say. It is fun and action packed. We get to see Indy as a kid and also find out how he got his hat. We watch Indy and his dad go on a quest to find the Cup of Christ. The movie is very well done and if you liked the other two you will like this one. If you haven't seen this movie see it. This movie is one of my favorite action movies. It is just plain good. there is not much else to say about it other than that. Go for it. I strongly recommend this film. Sean Connary is great as Dr Jones. Good movie. nine out of ten.


                
I remember anxiously waiting for this film to come to the cinema, so I would be able to see myself. I was 17 years young and cast as a civilian along with my father (they didn't require any women, my mother was disappointed). I always remember wearing a flat cap and a swastika on my arm (I was very tempted to keep the swastika as a memento of the film). The part that we were in was when the soldiers were marching around a large fire and Indian Jones bumped into Adolf. The funny thing is that the books that was being thrown on to the fire were actually old British Telecom phone directories. That fire was extinguished about ten times by a fire brigade every time the scene was stopped and re-lit when they were ready for another shot. The building used for the Adolf/diary scenes was also used near the start of the film when Indiana is pursued by the students to his office and he climbs out of the back window. I was able to get very close to Harrisson Ford and Steven Spielberg the time they shot the scene when Indiana went to retrieve the diary from the blonde Nazi (sorry I forget her name). This is an excellent film and I still watch it to this day. Pity Harrison is too old to make another Indi film.


                
That's right, folks! It is slightly better than the amazing film, Raiders of the lost ark! Its also an improvement from Temple of doom as well. But here's why its so great In this, the prologue takes place with young Indy's adventure in 1912, which is fun and interesting to see Indy as a boy scout escaping from gangsters. The rest of the movie takes place 2 years after Raiders in 1938, where Indy must hunt for the holy grail before the Nazis and find his missing father. OK, I admit that it is like Raiders, but I am totally fine with it because Raiders is an amazing film, and this is a well executed film that is linked with it. Unlike Temple of doom, its a sequel that actually follows raiders and has Marcus Brody, Sallah, and Nazis, making this related to Raiders. But the only problem is that there were some plot holes in the 3rd act (I won't spoil it). But other than that, its much more pleasant and great than seeing monkey brains being eaten and children being enslaved, and having an annoying love interest like in Temple of doom.The special effects are great as always. But the only problem is that in one flying scene, it looked fake. So great special effects that look great are a great addition to a great movie (That may've sounded ridiculous).The characters in this are great as well. Indiana Jones is charming as always and fun to follow on his adventure. Marcus Brody is very helpful and smart, but I've always noticed that every movie that character is in, it turns out amazing. Then there's my favorite character in the movie, Henry Jones Sr played by erstwhile James Bond, Sean Connery. Not only is he charming, but he's smart, funny, (especially "Junior")and extremely helpful. The Nazis (not the same ones in Raiders of the lost ark)are greedy like in Raiders, but they are great as villains because they are fierce for power and memorable. There's Sallah (who was in Raiders as well) who is kind and helpful, making him a great character once again. The only character that's kind of in the middle is Elsa Schnider, the "love interest" that turns out to be a Nazi villain like Donovan. Sometimes I just feel like she switches sides a lot like I was confused that at the Nazis burning the books, she looked upset watching then the next time we see her, she's loyal to the Nazis. Se is a kind of OK villain, but it just leaves me a little confused. So overall, there truly is a great set of characters.The last crusade is my favorite of the franchise. It is the most exciting, with great characters. I am surprised that some people think Temple of doom is better. I think not. I notice that Raiders of the lost ark is to The last crusade as Home alone is to Home alone 2. Well, Last crusade isn't exactly like Raiders of the lost ark, but they are similar in their own franchise. So if you liked Raiders of the lost ark,, watch this!!
Indiana Jones is one of my favorite movie franchises of all time though I watched only two films of it!!!I am a huge fan of Steven Spielberg he is so awesome in his work and the acting done by Harrison Ford makes the movie even better.This movie is focused on the glass of carpenter and all the suspense adventure shown in the movie is superb.Other supporting cast were good at their places the direction acting as I mentioned above is superb.Overall the movie is a must watch for all the audiences i liked it very much and I also liked its sequel "kingdom of the crystal skull".
Justifiably one of the most indelible adventure films in cinematic history, Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade is pure escapist entertainment of the highest caliber. In his third adventure, whip- smart archaeologist Indiana Jones has to rescue his dad rather than a damsel in enduring distress, a cunning ploy that deserves a tip of the fedora to those shrewd storytellers – a certain Mr. Steven Spielberg and Mr. George Lucas.Opening with a fantastic prologue revolving around one of Indy's early escapades, the movie immediately takes us to 1938, when Indiana Jones (Harrison Ford) discovers that his curmudgeonly father Henry Jones (Sean Connery) has disappeared while tracking the Holy Grail - the cup that legend holds Jesus used at the Last Supper and now contains his blood. But as we soon find out, he is not alone in his quest. He has company in American millionaire Walter Donovan, who believes that a drink from the cup will confer immortality and a slew of Nazis who will kill anyone to win the prize. Soon we find Indy travel halfway around the world to swash-buckle his way through a company of Nazi brutes, to unite with his tweedy, mildly befuddled father. The duo teams up to begin Indiana's last crusade, as they endlessly elude the Nazis in race to capture the Holy Grail. Can the father-son duo save one of the world's most precious relics from Hitler's minions?Steven Spielberg has the truest instincts for keeping an audience visually engaged and at his natural command of the simple mechanics of storytelling, it enables him to evoke a kind of pop transcendence that comes close to the effect of the higher, classical arts. Here, he delivers the action with breathless enthusiasm in a movie bursting with thrilling action set-pieces - Indy discovers catacombs, sways through rat-infested tunnels, finds himself right beside the Fuhrer and even manages to reach the coveted Holy Grail, making the pursuit wonderfully perilous.But it's not the relentless action that you eventually prize in this lavishly executed entertainment. It is the amazing chemistry between its two lead actors that makes it so thoroughly entertaining, never allowing the film to lose sight of the contentious but charming relationship between Indiana and his father. As soon as Connery's Henry welcomes his son's first rescue attempt by addressing him as Junior and they discover they have bedded the same gorgeous Nazi spy, the right note of cantankerousness and grudging affection on both sides is struck. Connery playing against type as a book-wormy professor is solid-gold as Indy's crotchety father. He also brings out the very best in Ford, who is at his charming best as the rugged, macho Indy. The snappy by-play between them adds a wonderful facet to the adventure and together, their timing is impeccable.When Steven Spielberg takes off his serious hat and channels his inner-child, there's no one better at making sheer entertainment. And that is what Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade is - pure entertainment!


                
I mention the run up to this picture because it explains a lot on why the film is pretty much a retread of Raiders Of The Lost Ark, something that some detractors find unforgivable. Yet Last Crusade is still an immensely enjoyable adventure picture, with Spielberg proving that he was still capable of a popcorn bonanza. Using the Raiders formula and moving away from the dark flourishes of Temple Of Doom, Last Crusade is actually the simplest film of the three, but still it manages, courtesy of a sparkling casting decision, to become the most entertaining of the original trilogy. Is it better than Raiders? Of course not, but it positively rips along with sparky dialogue and an agenda of cliffhanging suspense like the adventure films of yore. In comes Sean Connery as Dr Jones Senior, and its the picture's trump card, because the magnificent interplay and obvious rapport with Ford (cool as a cucumber) is there for all to see. It's this what drives the film on thru it's more mundane and picture filler sequences, showcasing two top wily professionals with care and consideration to their craft. The casting of Alison Doody as the main female is a poor one, and one only has to look at her subsequent career post Crusade to see she wasn't up to the task here. Bonus comes in the form of the River Phoenix prologue, Phoenix as the young Indiana paves the way for the jaunty path that Crusade takes, whilst simultaneously giving us a nice little back story from which to launch the adventure.


                
Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade is the third instalment of the Indiana Jones trilogy and brings the franchise back to what made it so memorable in Raiders of the Lost Arc. Now for me this film didn't do it better than the first one but it was a definite improvement over the not as good Temple of Doom. It bought back the action adventure elements that were missing in Temple of Doom and made this so fun and entertaining to watch. Along with the classic action sequences there was still plenty of room for the comedy that you expect in the series and it delivered a lot more that the previous film, as the first one did. Plot wise, it took an approach more similar to that of Raiders of the Lost Arc, which i found to be a very interesting and engaging plot. At some points it did feel like i had seen similar things in the first film but it was for the most part full of fresh new ideas, better comedy and surprise twists. The best thing about this film had to be the addition as Sean Connery as Dr. Henry Jones, and his amazing chemistry with his son Indiana Jones. These two really led the movie for the last two thirds and they only made it better. Their relationship was entertaining, funny, and felt really natural. Once again John Williams with another great score that can instantly improve any film with its classic, memorable songs. In the end Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade brings this series back to the tomb raiding that made the first film so memorable and provides another fantastic action adventure film that anyone can enjoy. - 8.7


                
Watched Indiana Jones And The Last Crusade was, in my opinion, the best movie of the Indiana Jones Series. This movie featured the same type of humor we have become accustomed to from Dr. Jones, as well as another beautiful woman also the best Indy girl and lots of great action scenes! This movie starts with River Phoenix(Stand By Me) as Teenage Indy which gives us a look at an event that molds his life and character as well as his relationship with his father, Played By 007 Himself Sean Connery(Dr.No) We also learn he is a "Junior" and that he hates to be called that.Back as an adult, Indy's father is kidnapped and he must set out to find him. His only clues are his father's diary notes, which were mysteriously sent to him earlier that day. They lead him to Italy, where he meets the gorgeous German blonde, Alison Doody(A View To Kill) as Dr. Elsa Schneider , who becomes an integral part of this story.Once again, the grown up Harrison Ford(Blade Runner) as Indiana Jones does battle with the Nazis. Apparently, Adolf Hitler is after the Holy Grail, which contains the blood of Christ. So Indiana and his father team up to get there first. Along the way, there is a great action scene where Jones fights a few Nazis on board a moving tank.Overall, as I mentioned earlier, I believe this to be the best Indiana Jones movie of the three. This action movie was good long before movie studios learned to make the great CGI and special effects. It's effects were pretty good anyways but back in 1989, things just did not look as good as they can make them today. Still, highly recommended and worth your time and also amazing Score From John Williams(Star Wars) and Direction From Steven Spielberg(Jaws). 9/10


                
Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade took five years to get off the ground, due in large part to schedule issues with Harrison Ford and Steven Spielberg. Audiences greeted the return of Indiana Jones enthusiastically (one wonders if the same will be true of the fourth installment, which follows a nineteen year absence). The film was the second highest grossing picture of the year, trailing only Batman and finishing ahead of a number of other high-profile sequels, including Back to the Future II, Lethal Weapon 2, and Star Trek V. The mixture of action, comedy, and romance provided in Raiders of the Lost Ark has been imitated many times over the years, but never matched. Of all the pretenders, The Last Crusade is among the few to have come close, and a lot of that has to do with the movie's three invaluable assets: star Harrison Ford, co-star Sean Connery, and director Steven Spielberg. So, while The Last Crusade is not the second coming of Raiders of the Lost Ark, it's as worthy a sequel as any is likely to be.


                
I liked Raiders of the Lost Ark and considered a masterpiece of cinema history while Temple of Doom, despite it's annoying characters and flawed plot, was at least a pretty good sequel to it's predecessor. So, when Steven Spielberg made the third film in the Indiana Jones franchise known as "The Last Crusade".It takes place after the events of Temple of Doom where Indiana Jones acquires a diary that holds clues and a map with no names to find the mysterious Holy Grail- which was sent from his father, Dr. Henry Jones, in Italy. Upon hearing from a private collector, Walter Donavan, that the mission for the Holy Grail went astray with the disappearance of his father, Indiana Jones and museum curator Marcus Brody venture to Italy in search of Indy's father. However, upon retrieving Dr. Henry Jones in Nazi territory, the rescue mission turns into a race to find the Holy Grail before the Nazis do- who plan to use it for complete world domination for their super-race. With the diary as a vital key and the map with no names as a guide, Indiana Jones once again finds himself in another death defying adventure of pure excitement.Well, like most people, I officially like this film despite it's lack of efficiency of Raiders of the Lost Ark which is the reason why I'm giving this a 9/10. All of the redeeming qualities saved this epic film for me. The action is as gripping as ever, the story is much more engaging than the story in Temple of Doom (which had it's insensitive portrayal of the Indian culture), the pacing is very brisk and doesn't drag on the action throughout the film and the music from the excellent John Williams is light-hearted, dramatic, and atmospheric, but the strongest aspect goes to the cast. Harrison Ford and Sean Connery had great chemistry as Indiana and his father Henry Jones, Alison Doody did great as Elsa, and Julian Glover and Michael Byrne did great as the frightening Nazis.Well, despite the fact that Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade was officially the last film of the franchise, Spielberg decided to make another one nineteen years later known as "Kingdom of the Crystal Skull" which was met with positive reviews, but received a mixed reception from fans of the trilogy. With that said, this movie is a solid improvement over Temple of Doom although not nearly as excellent as Raiders of the Lost Ark.


                
This is the last good Jones film before the emotional roller coaster that is Shia Labeouf ruined it. It is also the second best Indie movie, behind Raiders Of The Lost Arc, and is arguably better. The casting of Shaun Connery was genius. It is also a sign of respect, as I believe that his portrayal as 007 James Bond was an inspiration for 'Junior'. It is certainly the funniest Indie film. It was the perfect ending to a very personal and favourite trilogy, and I will try to ignore George Lucas' greedy fourth money making film. Because that is all it was, a quick money making scheme that upset and betrayed many, many fans. But like I said, I wont dwell on that and I will discard it as part of the trilogy. Check out the 'How It Should Have Ended' for Indiana Jones 4, I think you lovers of the first trilogy will laugh :)


                
"Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom" is a prequel to "Raiders of the Lost Ark", the first and most popular installment in the Indiana Jones franchise, whereas "Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade" is a sequel to the 1981 blockbuster. In terms of popularity, this third installment comes somewhere in between its two predecessors. I saw a bit of "Last Crusade" on TV, starting near the end of the film, as a kid. I think this was around 1993, but I didn't know what I was seeing at the time. After all these years, I've finally found out that it was this 1989 action adventure I was seeing. While it didn't do much for me years ago, and I was too young for it at the time (one MIGHT wonder why it didn't really frighten me), watching it from start to finish twenty years after its release was not an experience to forget.In 1938, Indiana Jones is informed by a wealthy businessman named Walter Donovan that the leader of an expedition for the Holy Grail has mysteriously disappeared, and that leader happens to be Indy's estranged father, Professor Henry Jones, Sr.! Indy has received a package in the mail from Italy, which turns out to be his father's diary. This diary contains clues and a nameless map to find the Grail! The archaeologist flies to Venice with Marcus Brody, and there they meet Dr. Elsa Schneider. She takes them to the library where Henry Jones, Sr. was last seen. This library used to be a church, and it turns out that there are catacombs underneath the building! Indy and Elsa go down through the floor, and after facing several life-threatening situations, Indy learns that his father is being held captive in a castle on the German-Austrian border! He goes there with Dr. Schneider to find the senior Jones, and soon does, but then learns the truth about Elsa and Walter. Both of them actually work for the Nazis, and are helping them find the Holy Grail to use for their evil!The movie starts with a prologue, featuring a young Indiana Jones in 1912, played by the late River Phoenix. Phoenix' performance may not be good as that of Harrison Ford, but it's not bad. The beginning of the movie is no match for the beginning of "Raiders", and the part with the grave robbers digging during the prologue is a bit silly, but the suspense quickly begins. There's much more suspense after the film skips to 1938, as usual for the Indiana Jones franchise. We once again see our hero in different types of danger in different places, making for some great, intense action! There may be some lacklustre moments, such as the bedroom scene with Indy and Elsa, but for the most part, the movie is steady. "The Last Crusade" introduces Indy's father, and Sean Connery shines in this role. There's definitely some humour, and Henry Jones, Sr. contributes a lot to it. Connery does a better job with the humour in this role than Kate Capshaw did as Willie Scott in "Temple of Doom", that's for sure. Like its two predecessors, this third installment also has some nice visuals and sets.Some have more criticisms of "Temple of Doom" than I do, but my main problem with that second Indiana Jones film is the brutality, which doesn't start until the second half of the film, but really brings it down in quality. Fortunately, they took the original trilogy back in the right direction with "The Last Crusade", as the kind of brutality featured in the second movie is nowhere to be found here. This one remains an entertaining action adventure throughout, much like the original. There are parts that could scare younger viewers, and the film is rated PG-13 (a rating that "Temple of Doom" apparently helped lead to the creation of), but it certainly never gets as disturbing as the middle film in the 80's trilogy eventually does. "Last Crusade" may not be quite as good as "Raiders of the Lost Ark", but if not, it comes very close! For fans of the classic film that introduced the Indiana Jones character who were disappointed by its first successor, I would say this 1989 summer blockbuster was a return to form.


                
This is a great adventure movie but if you try to look at more things than the adventure and the stunts you will ask yourself the questions of immortality and greed. Sort of like Ingar Bergaman's The Seventh Seal. Not only that it has a great pairing of Connery and Ford. This movie will forever be in my top 20. **** out of ****


                
The Last Crusade is an adventure film that will always remain a sign of the good ol' days. ( AKA not the 90's )  It is a great film, although a bit along the same lines as Raiders ( with a guy "melting" and all as the climax ) it is nonetheless exciting.  Sean Connery is great as Henry Jones, and he's hialrious too.  True, there is a lot of humour in this film, which can sometimes detract from the excitement, but the overall effect is fun and thrills.  Though not as impressively executed as Raiders, with some effects that are actually worse, the film is still a perfect demonstration of Spielberg's direction (e.g. the shadow turning on the blimp signalling to Indy that the blimp is heading back for Germany ).  Overall, a reliable choice that deserves a place in your video library beside Raiders. 9/10


                
Simply a very entertaining movie with great stunts and great adventure. Sean Connery is great as Indiana Jones's father and is the complete opposite of his James Bond character, the chemistry between Connery and Ford is great. You would want to see this one again and again.


                
Who are the morons that say the first Indiana Jones movie is the best? Have they entirely missed The Last Crusade? Adventurous? Tick. Music Composer? Tick. Funny? Tick. Just about any category you could think of, George Lucas ticked every box. Sean Connery's chemistry with Harrison Ford was hilarious. "I like the Austrian way better." "So did I..."


                
