***This review contains spoilers***The biggest problem I have with this film is the same one I had with Coppolla's `Dracula':  this film is a hodgepodge of vignettes, less a continuous stream than a series of carefully crafted scenes.  Normally the editing process of a film patches the scenes together into a unified whole, so that the resulting film flows, but in this film nearly every scene opens and closes like its own little film, leaving little room for character development.  I have no idea what motivates Frank Abagnale, for example. One might be tempted to look at the failure of the family business or his parents' divorce as a catalyst, but still we are given absolutely no insight into the character.  It would have been nice to see the characters given a little humanity instead of looking and acting like stiff background characters from some crappy 1960s cartoon.In one of the most bald-faced product placements I've ever seen, three FBI agents, including Hanks, are invited in to Franks's mother's house for `Sara Lee'.  One of the agents says:  `nobody doesn't like Sara Lee.'  That might be true if the only food you've ever eaten is tree bark, but the waxy, unsatisfying desserts offered by Sara Lee are the Keanu Reeves of the dessert world:  they look good, but have no substance.
Situations arise and disappear like zephyrs.  Why does Frank apply for the job at the hospital, did he get tired of being a pilot?  He gets the job at the hospital, okay that's simultaneously interesting and funny, but then what happens?  Does he quit, is he fired?  How does the girl get back together with her parents, did they forgive her, does she keep her job? How did Frank perform as an attorney?  When and how did he buy a house in Atlanta?  Who are all those people at his house?  What was the deal with model/prostitute?  The whole scene served absolutely no purpose.  There are dozens and dozens of unanswered questions such as these, from start to finish, leaving a curiously empty, unsatisfying feeling, much like eating a frozen dessert made with artificial chemicals.  That Sara Lee gets such a high-profile product placement in this film is no coincidence, I am sure.Christopher Walken gives one of his best performances as Frank's father. Like Richard Farnsworth in The Straight Story, Walken's face tells more about the character than anything he could ever say.  His performance is so rich and deep that he should be nominated for best supporting actor.  LDC, having shown so much promise in `What's Eating Gilbert Grape,' is merely adequate in the role of Frank Abagnale; he's no Christopher Walken, that's for sure.  Hanks plays himself, doing his best Robin Williams impression of Tom Hanks playing a dramatic role, occasionally raising his voice just like he's been doing since Bosom Buddies.  Hanks is the Sara Lee of actors.All in all, this is an interesting film, albeit a curiously empty one. The day after you watch it, you won't remember any of it.
I love a good "con" flick and when I read about the exploits of Frank Abagnale recently in the prerelease publicity for this movie I was psyched to see this flick. Hey, it even has Steven Spielberg directing with a huge budget!The story as it was told in the publicity for the movie left me filled with anticipation because I could not understand how a teenager could do what Frank Abagnale is reported to have done, and after watching "Catch Me If You Can" I still don't know how he could have done what he is supposed to have done.Obviously this is a big problem, and the problem exists because Spielberg does not understand how Abagnale could have done these otherworldly things.
Spielberg took the lazy way out; he decided that because the events are supposed to be "true" (hey the FBI says they are!) he as director was under no obligation to convince us.Wrong!If you want to see a great "con" flick see the film masterpiece known as "The Sting". That was not "based on a true story" and thus George Roy Hill understood that for the film to work he had to make us believe that Redford and Newman could pull off such a caper and he succeeded so well that under repeated viewings we have no doubt that these two could both devise such a plot, find the "talent" to do the job and lead them successfully to the end.In "Catch Me If You Can" Tom Hanks playing the FBI agent who tracks Abagnale around the country and in Europe (though he apparently went to South America as well and Spielberg or not South America never seems to fit into the budget) asks Abagnale to the very end how he passed the Bar exam to be an attorney in Louisiana.We never get a believable answer. After 2 hours and 22 minutes we don't know how a teenager could work as a doctor in a hospital (and in a supervisory capacity over other doctors no less!) or become a prosecutor (!) in Louisiana.What you will get though is all the "big budget Spielberg" that you could expect along with all the other Spielbergisms that you are familiar with. That's the problem with "Catch Me If You Can", it's a story that needed the recently departed George Roy Hill, but instead was bought by the director of "The Color Purple".


                
I lasted about ten minutes in this "gem" before running from the theatre in disgust.  I'm so sick of movies that tell you every moment how you should "feel".  Spielberg doesn't trust his audience to make their own decisions about what they are watching.  Each and every single second is so manufactured that it is impossible to react in any other way than in the micromanaged specific predigested fashion in which Mr. Spielberg wants us to.  Perhaps his movies are meant to be watched with the sound off.  They are like panels of a cartoon.  The visuals are clear and they certainly tell a story in a clear and distinct way, but there's no room to breathe, no air on the screen.  It's like being at a Natural History museum looking at stuffed cavemen hunting a sabre tooth tiger.  Sure is pretty.  But nobody's breathing up there.Since I only saw ten minutes (which is enough for me if a movie is as terrible as this one.  The film could've turned into "citizen Kane" the moment I left and it wouldn't matter, the damage had been done) I can only comment on what I saw, so here goes:The title sequence:I hated those faux-sixties cartoon drawings.  Like everything in Spielberg's post-"Close Encounters" body of work, it doesn't quite make it.  It was a cute idea, but instead of getting an artist who would really do a good job stealing from the Saul Bass school of design, he got somebody who fumbled the job, making it seem more like the cheapo animation in one of those 70's health movies like "I am Joe's Stomach" or something.  Even worse is John Williams score, but the less said about him the better.The "To Tell the Truth" opening was one of the laziest first draft attempts at expopsition I'd seen since the Ndugu letters of "About Schmidt". Doesn't anybody know who to write dialogue anymore?  Plus, the transition from the gameshow to the rainy sequence in France was both clumsy and non sensical. Once again, Speilberg gets a case of the nauseating "cutes".  Gee, French people are funny, they can't pronounce this character's name.  Gee, does everybody in the audience get that THIS is the guy that Leonardo De Caprio was talking about in the previous frame?  That fat guy who looks like he ate Tom Hanks?  By this point I had one foot aimed towards the exit.
Then we get another "cutesy poo" Spielberg moment when the fat guy who looks like he ate Tom Hanks has to open an umbrella inside because there's a leak. Sacre Bleu!  That's Hi-larious!Then we get another in a long list of what I like to call the "Pinnochio meets Faces of Death" moments that Spielberg seems so fond of.  Where broad bad comedy meets the harrowing and gut-wrenching.  Like in Amistad where first we get Matthew McCaughnahay doing his best High School Acting version of "Mr Toad's Wild Ride" and then we get African American slaves chained together and thrown into the sea.  This is where Leo's consumptive hacking (which is better suited to "Midnight Express" than this lightweight ersatz caper/chase flick) is juxtaposed with the worst accent I think I've ever heard in a movie (even worse than Leo's irish? accent in the Gangs of New York).  The fat guy who looks like he ate Tom Hanks is nattering on under that umbrella, the faceless French guys are chimpering in inaudible francois and Leo is hacking up like John Hurt in Aliens.  What's wrong with this picture?  Why is Speilberd so determined to gross us out?  (See "Minority Report" with its hacking of snot and rancid-food-eating scene for his most recent offense)Then we get Leo's attempted escape which of course is accompanied by the entire prison population shrieking and urging him on like the Forum crowd in "Ben Hur".When Christopher Walken arrives, he managed to use his own quirky acting rhythms to throw a pleasant monkey wrench into Spielberg's well oiled McMovie.  But by the time Leo was watching his parents dancing the wine stain into the white rug, and then when Walken told Leo not to hit the curb while parking (guess what he does anyway!?  Screams of knee-jerk laughter from the multi-plex crowd)I had seen enough.  I want to have my own feelings, Mr. Speilberg, thank you.  I have only to refer to "Far From Heaven" as an example of how to let an audience think.  Even though the movie had an arch tone and over-the-top dialogue at times and looked like a techinicolor fantasy, it never told you how to feel.  It allowed you to make your own decisions.  But I'm afraid Mr. Spielberg has morphed past the point where he'll have anything meaningful to say to someone past an eighth grade education.Yuck.  Ten minutes was tooooooo much.


                
'Catch Me If You Can' is inspired by the memoirs of Frank Abagnale Jnr so it is suprising that Spielberg shows no interest in Franks' character or the amazing feats/cons he accomplished. Instead of a movie about a remarkable young man we have one about motivation for criminal actions stemming from a broken home and a dishonest father and the particularly unremarkable FBI agent trying to catch him.There is little description of how he charmed his way through cons as most of the movie is spent giving a completely false impression of his father(and hence him)or showing the plodding Hanratty one step behind him again.The characters are simplistic, one dimensional and worse dull.  In one scene as Hanratty is reporting to his boss his assistant agents loitering at the back of the office are licking ice-creams, they're dopey and outsmarted by Abagnale, WE GET IT ALREADY!I would like to be able to say I was disillusioned having read Abagnales' book before watching the movie, but I can't. This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen.


                
Leonardo Dicaprio unfortunately marred and tainted his career for life by choosing to do titanic. If I had the chance to make multi-millions and be an international sex star I probably would sell out too. His performance in this along with the rest of his films is superb. Unfortanetly Tom Hanks does exactly what he always does, act poorly. He always plays tom hanks playing someone else, he's not playing the FBI agent, he's playing tom hanks as the FBI agent. Tom Hanks AS Tom Hanks AS some character. Once again, Spielberg also is merely mediocre. He has no edge nor directorial creativity and hardly does anything but tell an interesting story in a very bland way. The best part of the movie was the opening credits which was a throwback to the classic graphics of the opening credits of the 1950 (eg. anatomy of a murder) Walken plays his role quite well though. Overall, the movie was pretty mediocre but DiCaprio and Walken make it enternaining enough for for me to have stayed awake amidst the tired work of spielberg and hanks.


                
8.1, brilliant seriously ?? Over exaggerated boring movie.Nothing close to brilliance in this movie.140 minutes of boredom.


                
Spielberg has made some awful films in his long career (AI for one) but this is by far his worst. Its such a shame because the guy is obviously highly talented, doesn't need the cash, and should have the confidence in his own abilities and the audience not to need to stoop to Disney techniques in order to embellish a great, true story. So many things just didn't add up, particularly in some of the characterisations - the young girl's parents, for instance, just weren't the type to have thrown her out of the house when they found she was pregnant. No, reality really is better than fiction and all those things that Spielberg added in a naive attempt to interest the audience were just the things which turned them off. And, oh, what was that awful boring, long, pastiche of a title sequence at the front? Most of the audience were asleep, or talking, before they saw the first frame of the story. Hollywood yet again gets it wrong.


                
How many dreadful movies can this Spielberg guy generate before the public catches on that he's a flash-in-the-pan non talent who got lucky with Jaws and Raiders, crash-diving every time thereafter. Sure, some were taken-in by Saving Private Ryan, actually taking it as a patriotic movie when, in fact, it thoroughly trashed our World War II veterans. Perhaps the day has arrived, as this and other Spielberg films (Terminal, Lady Killers) did poor box office.Herein Spielberg takes a hand at retelling the story previously filmed well by Universal in "The Great Impostor" starring Tony Curtis. The original film was definitely offbeat, but lighthearted. Impossible to believe, except they said it was all true. The newer version has a nasty tone to it, and fails to engage the audience. I like Leonardo De Caprio a lot, but thought he struck out in this one. Tom Hanks used to be an exceptional actor, but now seems content to be an extended body part to his one and only master. This is really half a review, as I couldn't get beyond 60 minutes of the dreary mess.


                
Im sorry, but this movie was beyond boring and way too dumb to take seriously. Over 2 hours of nothing. How can you drag out something as pointless as running around writing bad checks? Um yeah, because everything presented in the movie could really happen right. Dont believe the hype, a stinker through and through.


                
I suffered through this waste of film just a few hours ago and I really disliked it.  The movie was extremely slow and the story was just boring.  Also it didn't help that I hate, no loathe Leonardo de Craprio.  The movie had nothing that I enjoyed.  Nothing.  I wish I could get back the time I lost watching it.


                
If you can make it through this Chinese water torture you can get POW status! This is the slowest movie I think I have ever seen.  (My wife claims that only "True Stories" by the Talking Heads makes a better sleeping pill.)  It is a good example of how a lot of talented people can get together and in a self-important moment design a mundane period piece that only artsy types would like.  Except this trifle is not even artful.  Part of the problem is the movie claims to be a "secret agent man"-type thriller...but where you expect a Beatles concert you get "That Thing You Do." Tripe.


                
This movie is long and drawn out. I was surprised to be in a movie theater by myself for the first time in my life. About half way through the movie I thought "okay all the set-up is done, now it will get more interesting." It didn't. Now I know why there was nobody else in the theater. This movie is just long and drawn out and there is no climax, no build-up... You would think that a movie called "Catch Me If You Can" would be a fast paced movie... but this one only made time strech out and slow down.


                
Were very disappointed with this movie, and we want our money back. Except for few laughs here and Steven and Tom's partnership should end NOW just like it should of ended after the lousy band of brothers.Wait for the video to come out. Go see LOTR II or GONY.another disappointing movie this year.


                
Why is it that Leo always gets these roles that cast him as a suave, debonair ladies man from books such as the Beach and now Catch Me if You Can?I actually read this book fifteen years ago as a fifth grade autobiography project. What I do remember is that Frank Abagnale stressed that he was able to accomplish his feats because he looked ten years older than he actually was. Yet you have the reverse with Leo. Can anyone tell me why?It is almost as if Steven Spielberg recognized the moral vacuum of this film and looked to Leo as some sort of insurance.I did find one chuckle. I was ten years old when Frank Abagnale managed to capture my attention by his bamboozling, and now Leo seems to have stepped squarely into Frank's shoes. Way to go Leo!Please go watch something else, anything else, except for The Beach.


                
Maybe this is the worst movie for Tom Hanks...In other words...It's the first bad movie for Tom Hanks.... as Usual..Steven Spielberg ruins the movie as he did with Minority Report and he turns out the actors into machines and takes away their ability to show us the great emotions and drama ...that's what he did with Tom Cruise and this time with the other great Tom....HanksSpielberg turned him to a lousy F.B.I agent with no creativeness at all..doing just his boring job to catch a boring kid and for what ?..to work in the next office to him in the end in the same boring job. that's itSpielberg turned the great actors to machines-like and ruined the whole beautiful emotionable story..so I don't think this movie is gonna win anything in the Oscar and I think it's a great chance for Tom Hanks to start thinking again about his Old movies and to try to get his high level back in the future...


                
I heard a lot about this film.I saw it today and thought it was a brilliant script and how the big name director and star actors ruined a beautiful script.This film was about brilliant characters of Frank and his father which should have been played in a unique way not just plain ,the way Martin Sheen and Leonardo played them.Tom Hanks looked like a stupid who could not capture a victim who is right in front of him like four times.Can you imagine that FBI would act like that and let the guy run around like that??? Leonardo, Martin Sheen and Jennifer Garner were more concerned about what they are wearing and how they look rather than getting into depths of these wonderful characters. It was not a comedy as I read the script and Spielberg could not get the script and just made it a plain movie .Give this film to British directors and actors and see what a wonderful classic film they will make out of it.


                
This is a disgustingly moralistic story. And what makes things more unpleasant is that the book was pleasant.The book was about the fun the guy had. He never stole. In a way he can be the emblem of any left leaning government: stealing from the rich to make the life better for those poorer than the rich. He is not violent. He is not a clownish serial killer turned forger. Yet the character in the movie does just that: leaving trails and taunting the smart cop.And the cop was not in the original story. The cop is pasted. And it turns out the cop is the actual character of the story. He is nice. Not only he does not beat the hardened criminal, but he spends his time trying to free him and give him a job and we can assume the path to a regular life. The cop is moral and just. He does not spend government money unless it is to safeguard the rights of a criminal. He spends his free time away from his family to work. He is almost a saint.And the adventure? There is no adventure. Only a fatherly law enforcer that rehabilitates a criminal. What about the European trip? Who cares?Contact me with Questions, Comments or Suggestions ryitfork @ bitmail.ch


                
