From the opening credits design we get in the mood of this very entertaining film. They create the tone for what will follow. Steven Spielberg is in rare form directing this movie that doesn't have a dull moment.Mr. Spielberg has found a perfect actor to fill the shoes of the con man with the perfect casting of Leonardo DiCaprio. It's very easy to see why all the women fall prey of this charmer. He was a fast talker and a slick operator. He exudes charisma to fill another couple of movies.
It's a welcome sight to have Mr. DiCaprio working in a vehicle that shows his talent as Frank Abagnale, a man of many faces. He plays a game of hide-and-seek throughout the movie with Hanratty, the FBI agent that is in his trail. Tom Hanks shows great assurance and gusto with this character. Of course, the DiCaprio magnetism dominates the action with the many ironic twists and the miraculous and narrow escapes he pulls with an aplomb that's bewildering to the Feds, who are on his tail all the time.The minor roles are equally important. Christopher Walken as the father starts out as the prototype of the con man, but he's too decent to do wrong; his business fails eventually. His marriage to Natalie Baye, the fine French actress, ends in divorce because obviously she hates being married to a loser.The action doesn't stop for one moment. This film is great fun to watch with the winning combination Mr. Spielberg assured hand gives us this time out. Mr. Spielberg can thank the genial Mr. DiCaprio who responds obviously to his direction and makes this con man endearing even when he is committing crimes.


                
What a terrific piece of film-making! From the charming animated title sequence (featuring John Williams's delightfully sneaky score) to the end, this is an enormously entertaining film from the gifted craftsman, Steven Spielberg, who is so damn good people take him for granted or resent his "manipulation," i.e. his seemingly effortless ability to create effective drama.Leonardo DiCaprio (in his best performance that I've seen) stars as Frank Abagnale, Jr., a real-life teen-aged con man so spectacularly gifted that he was able to steal millions from various companies with forged checks, while successfully impersonating an airline pilot, a doctor and a lawyer, among other guises. He is chased by a rigidly rule-bound F.B.I. agent, Carl Hanratty (Tom Hanks), who is at first comically out-classed by the young improvising criminal genius; but the agent is steadfast and relentless and has the law on his side. The movie is filled with delightful supporting performances, starting with Hanks and continuing on with Nathalie Baye as the boy's selfish mother, Amy Adams as his immature fiancée and on down to the tiniest role. I'm especially grateful for the sympathetic part given to Christopher Walken, as the mischievous and spirited Abagnale Sr., whose life darkens as his fortunes fall. Walken is one of my favorite actors, but while I enjoy the occasional one-dimensional freak or villain he plays, I wish most of his parts were like this.Spielberg's movie is rich with fascinating details and memorable incidents, while the script by Jeff Nathanson moves backward and forward in time to tell the story in the most engrossing way possible. This is top-notch entertainment.


                
This is one of the best movies I have ever seen. It had everything - great actors, great music by John Williams, the amazing director Steven Spielberg. It wasn't boring for a second although being over 2 hours long. I simply didn't want it to end and this is the main reason I gave the movie a 10. I loved the main character Frank's attitude and his brilliant way of thinking. The fact that it's based on a true story makes it even better. I had to Google Frank Abagnale Jr. after watching this and the friendly face that smiled on the pictures wasn't really what I expected. Leo plays the roll very well - give the man an Oscar already! I'm also thinking that Leo and Tom Hanks must have had a lot of fun filming this.There were many famous actors and actresses in smaller rolls, which I liked. Perhaps some of them weren't so famous back in 2002 (I'm a bit too lazy to do the research at the moment) but seeing for example Ellen Pompeo and Jennifer Garner made me even more interested in the movie. Sometimes, movies with too many movie stars falls flat, for some reason. But this one certainly did not!I'll definitely watch Catch Me If You Can more than once, more than twice! Loved it! <3


                
I have just finished this movie and I can honestly say this is such a addictive movie!! once you have watched it you want to watch it over and over again!!! It is so funny how Frank passes himself off as a Pam Am pilot, a lawyer and a doctor all before he is 21. It is also a shame at the end where Carl tells Frank his father is dead and he doesn't believe it. It is funny at the beginning where Frank says he is dying and they take him to the hospital and he escapes and when he pretended to be a substitute teachers and calls himself Mr Abagnale and when he embarrasses the bully in front of the entire class!!!! He looks so cute as a boy!!
Catch Me if You Can is one of the best movies I have ever seen. It is without a doubt the most underrated movie I have ever seen, especially with the all star cast it has.Directed by Steven Spielberg, I know this might not be a popular vote but it is my favourite Spielberg film he has made. The acting is perfect. Leonardo DiCaprio is Oscar worthy, the fact that he didn't win Best Actor at the Academy Awards is amazing. Tom Hanks should have also received Best Supporting Actor and Steven Spielberg easily Best Director.The script is one of the best scripts I have ever heard with some of the best dialogue ever. This movie is so funny. There is one scene towards the end were Tom Hanks is on the phone at the airport and you just see Leo and the stewardess' walk write by him, that had me on the floor laughing.The ending is a perfect wrap-up to a perfect movie. 2 hours and 20 minutes of perfection10 out of 10 stars.Perfect!
I think the movie is some kind of comedy. What would you say about that? The most of my friends think that the movie is not funny. They think that it's too serious. I watched it 3 years ago and i truly had fun. Tom and Leo act very comical.The way that Leo's character lies everybody about his life and his job is very, very, very interesting!Tom's character chaising is laughmaker too!When he take all the pink clothes from the washmachine and so on...when Leo cheat Tom with the document in the hotel room...when hot girl throw at Leo the playcards and ask more money...when Tom sing at the table on cristmas and slap his hands...and more and more funny staff about this great movie! I cant understand why they told me that this movie is not funny!?!


                
Going into this movie I was far from excited but I was utterly impressed by how this movie was executed. I knew the acting was going to be solid, you can never go wrong with Tom Hanks and Leonardo DiCaprio, but they weren't the only superb things about this movie.I was most astounded by how entertained I was during this film. It was brilliantly put together and wildly engaging. To say I was surprised by the bouncy and vivacious screenplay is an understatement. There are scenes that are truly playful, lively and to my surprise, comedic. DiCaprio executes his perky and charming character flawlessly; he handles the vibrant persona with ease. Do I even need to talk about Tom Hanks, I mean, we all know he's a remarkable actor. Amy Adams has a small but very spirited role.I came into this movie because of the actors and came out immensely delighted.


                
Inspired by the true story of Frank William Abagnale junior the movie follows Frank's runaways of being a con man successfully posing as an airplane pilot, a doctor and an attorney Frank by escaping from FBI for years.Here we see the story of a schoolboy, a minor American teenager who managed to work in different spheres while being so young. The movie itself is light and fascinating with a good humour as well. However, the story also touches some deep social issues by showing a guy who has experienced the divorce of his parents, the adulating period and the significant time when he was completely lonely. Being influenced by parental problems, he decides to escape a life he no longer loves as well as to escape from himself. Therefor, the film gives us the opportunity to wonder about who we are in the face of where we have come from.Dreaming about a united family, Frank works to get his mother and father back together and make the family whole again. Of course, this can't work. During the movie he meets with father a several times and tries to convince him to get his mother back but a teenager doesn't understand that everything is broken and he needs to face the cruel world by himself. The moment, when Frank sits with Brenda's family and watching them being happy he wants so badly to have the same reunion and be frankly loved by his own family. While I was watching the movie, I clearly saw that Frank tries to resemble his father. Moreover, he learns from his father how to be the "second mouse" and get off with whole skin, whereas the moment with a necklace demonstrates it clearly.I also was astonished by this movie as the director shot so many peculiar and unique details which helped us to understand the personality of Abagnale. For instance, the scene when Frank comes to cash his checks and witnesses the name tags whether the woman is Miss or Mrs. for the purpose of flirting or not. Or another moment, when at the beginning of the movie the comics with Flash hero are shown just next to the Frank's bed and after that the allusion to this hero appears during the whole movie.So , I highly recommend to watch this movie as you will surely enjoy the great work of Spielberg and the perfect acting of Leonardo DiCaprio and Tom Hanks.
This is one intriguing movie about a very fascinating real life sociopath, that, fittingly, works for the feds nowadays. Movie is fast paced, grips your attention from start to finish, Leonardo Di Caprio almost redeems himself for Titanic, in any case he is brilliant here. The Spielberg shows his talents too. There is also a beautiful opening credits animation as an icing on the cinematic cake.


                
This movie was absolutely fantastic. The movie was so versatile and could be watched by many types of audiences. I really enjoyed the plot of this movie and although I wish the ending would have continued, I truly enjoyed all of the movie. There was not a part that dragged on for too long, the entirety of the movie was spaced out perfectly and the acting of both Leonardo DiCaprio and Tom Hanks was splendid. They both have acted perfectly in many films, but so far, this is my favorite.The movie simply is about a 16 year old boy (DiCaprio) who when finding out his parents are getting a divorce panics and runs away from home. Trying to survive on his own, he takes on the role of many professional jobs, and forges himself paychecks along the way. He has a detective (Hanks) hot on his trail, but always a second too late.The fact that this movie is based on a true story really shows how fantastically smart and cunning some people truly are.The movie plays on many of your emotions, and is a movie you can watch over and over, and still marvel at.A fantastic movie that I would recommend to anyone and everyone.


                
Beautiful film. Of course it was obvious to see an Italian film with a low vote. A film that shows very well interpreted in the squalor of the lives of the policemen. Kim Rossi Stuart, Amendola and Placido are really good at acting their parts. UInfatti carabiniere life is always surrounded by this unique squalor. Kim Rossi Stuart plays the part of the carabiniere naive and problems. The rawness in the film is very scandalous and ugly to watch but that is why it is close to reality. Vedilo, you will like it, without following the miserable rating of this site. Not understand why on this website must always utilizzaree a low voting against movies less spectacular than for Hollywood.Spielberg, Lucas, Scorsese and give high ratings to bad movies like sin city. ON THIS SITE I PREJUDICES AND THE RULE OF TWO WEIGHTS AND TWO measured E 'AGAIN THIS! 10 votes


                
Fully realizing the acting opportunity he was given, Leonardo acts his tail off in this true story of a real crook.  He's not as cold-blooded as, say, Angelica Huston in "The Grifters", but he's ruthless, unstoppable and sharp as a tack.  In many ways, he was just ahead of his time. Today he'd be on talk shows bragging about his conquests and would seem right in time.  Back then people were more decent and trusting and he was able to exploit that. 
Steven gives the movie a lot of style.  It all looks and feels correct to the period but you are not assaulted w/this.  Christopher Walken, Martin Sheen and Jennifer Garner are terrific too.  Even Tom Hanks doesn't come across as annoying and self-important as he usually does.  Leo baby, I missed you.  Thanks for coming back to the big screen. 9/10.


                
I got this at a garage sale, and I am so glad that I did! While the beginning may seem slow at first, this incredible true story of a minor who frauds over millions of dollars while gaining 3 careers is sure to enthrall you.I myself was enthralled with it my first time and spent MONTHS telling about it to nearly all who crossed my path. I saw it with a friend and he loved it too.Recently, at tech school, I brought it to show my class and they ALL thought it was the bomb! A classmate even asked me the next day if he could borrow it to show it to one of HIS friends.The disadvantage to showing it in class was that they kept yapping their lips: "Oh, is this going to happen?' "How did he escape that plane bathroom?" blah blah blah-and they would know if THEY WATCHED THE DANG MOVIE AND SHUT THEIR TRAPS!So shut yours and witness this modern masterpiece, and let it play out-and do not miss it! Catch this movie if you can! :)


                
This movie simply combine all the factors of a successful movie, like talented actors, great directing, fascinating 60's scenes, catching story and happy ending.I believe this movie should remain in the memory of everyone who watches it, and it has to be watched by every interested person in movie making. The brilliance of Spielberg meets the talent of DiCaprio and Hanks to come out with that masterpiece.You will enjoy each and every aspect of that movie, you can watch it in whatever mood you are in, and still you will see the beauty in it. You may even watch it more than once and you will never get bored of it.Finally, watch it now.


                
Steven Spielberg frequently adds the father-son element into his films, but rarely is it as strong as it is in this movie. It never stops being flashy and fun as Abagnale embezzles and defrauds his way around the country, but Spielberg wedges that family angle in there and suddenly the film changes. It becomes about a boy in denial of his parents breaking apart and he thinks that by getting all this money he can push them back together. For all of his fake titles and wealth, he's just a sad kid trying to make his father proud of him.DiCaprio's performance is essential to that focus. He's a perfectly glitzy casting choice to play someone who weaves his way through the world on his charms, but his emotional distress at the shattering of his world is much more important. Of a hefty supporting cast, Christopher Walken shines as Frank Abagnale Sr, an infinite sadness appearing in his piercing eyes as he observes his renegade son during their many meetings. Amy Adams is a delight as the bracey, ugly duckling Brenda, and Martin Sheen adds considerable heft to the film as her father. Tom Hanks goes toe to toe with DiCaprio all throughout and makes for some of the best moments.All of the con scenes are superbly written, directed and shot, with lingering shots on DiCaprio's unblinking charm and clever movements disguising things to be hidden. The first meeting between Hanks and DiCaprio is a classic scene in its own right. The dialogue is so clipped and so well-written that it seems perfectly reasonable not to, say, open a wallet or trust a man's word. The scene in which DiCaprio escapes through a police blockade is superb, with the camera focusing on all the minute clues and then ending with that plane takeoff. The whole thing is timed to perfection.Catch Me If You Can is an absolute blast to watch with a big bag of popcorn, but its also an impressive work of dramatic film that ranks with Spielberg's best.


                
Catch Me If You Can "is one of those movies that show exactly how good of a storyteller Steven Spielberg actually is. The strong feature of this film lies in the quality of its actors. The chemistry between the protagonists is extraordinary, and how could it not be when we have two leading men who do not stop to thrill us from project to project. Leonardo DiCaprio is phenomenal as a very clever but emotionally weak guy, while Tom Hanks is brilliant as the agent and provides an excellent complement to Leo's character. Christopher Walken is really impressive in the role of Frank's father and gives a high quality performance. "Catch Me If You Can" contains all the elements a top film should possess.


                
What an amazing movie. Another masterpiece of Leonardo DiCaprio. Really Leonardo has done best to make this movie a super classy, triumph movie! The directors, writers, and actors have done excellent work and finally made this movie a top class loving and suspense full movie. Also because of true events, this movie is liked and anticipated by people. Because when you know that this was happened in real life then you get excited and think about reality that how did this person do in real life! This movie is seriously a triumph in Hollywood and any movie who have done good in Hollywood it has done good in whole world because Hollywood is of course the best industry in whole world. So i was saying about this film that the plot and story of this movie and like, from beginning to ending, the actors and story-line is superbly on balance. The suspense of this movie and excitements after every minute is truly admiring. So far I'd like to say that this movie in now in my most favorite movies list.


                
After the dark worlds Steven Spielberg imagined in AI Artificial Intelligence and Minority Report Steven Spielberg has fun again with this entertaining light bonbon of a film which has a lot of fun telling a serious story it feels like you're drinking a cup of tea and a biscuit with this film I know that might seem a bit silly but it is so light and frothy it entertains and charms you although there's a serious story to tell about fraud and investigative crimes It reminds of a style of film made in the 1960s but was old fashioned this is a rare style of film which does not get made any more this is the only film I have seen recently which is a serious story with a light undertone I enjoy the fast pace of the film You are running with Frank and Carl it is so fast paced boom boom boom etc run run run you have to pay attention with the film other wise there is no enjoyment I do think if you come in at half a hour in it will bore you It does not for me but for 1st time viewers you might not like this film I love the energy of the film and light performances from Tom Hanks and Leonardo DiCaprio Christopher Wallken deserves a Honorable mention however for his stunning performance as Frank's father Oscar Winning in my opinion just beautifully devious and full of gleeful deception like he enjoys what Frank is doing impersonating a doctor a air line pilot a Lutheran etc Carl Hanratty's Character has a wicked sense of irony and is extremely dead pan about the whole situation he never enjoys the light comedic foreplay of Frank and his delicious enjoyment of evading the law because Frank Knows he is going to get caught he just wants to enjoy the moment while he can before his life escapes him he does not want to be classed and know as a criminal he is 17 years old he has his whole life ahead of him and that's why he does things quickly getting married getting many jobs as he can without telling anyone what he really is a con man Leo's Performance is one of pure genius and invention he can slip into any character or persona in a finger snap when he is coning everyone he is loving every minute of it when he is serious mainly with the scenes With Christopher Wallken he really acts and understands the brevity and the consequences of his actions it is a extraordinary performance of real style and sophistication I love the sexiness of the cinematography and music it looks sexy and retro and really old fashioned The music has a sexiness and a coolness almost erotic in it's performances on the saxophone Stunningly sexy and erotic sax solos by Dan Higgins Just Incredibly sexy and erotic almost soothing like a love poem The film's style and shot composition has a stunning hint of sexuality in the clothes the characters and how the women are perceived All the women as Soon as Frank meets them swoon all over him and have sex with him he is a elusive man a real smooth classy man which is a rare commodity these days! I can't not mention the really sexy erotic score by John Williams which is a beautifully stunningly sexy showcase for the saxophone just beautifully erotic and sexy which is really interesting for John Williams because it is rare for Him and Steven Spielberg to direct and compose a score for a film like this they have not made a film like this recently a sexy erotic score with almost no other musical accompaniment the stunningly sexy saxophone solos are beautifully composed and painstakingly planned and timed to perfection just classy and sexy Thanks John Williams yet again it is an beautifully gorgeous sexy sophisticated score and your outstandingly beautifully sexy musical contribution to the film is undeniably perfection sheer perfection! Thank You Steven Spielberg for making a wonderfully entertaining light breath of air of a film after the darkness that prevailed AI and Minority Report Steven Spielberg lightens the mood with Catch Me if you can he entertains and really thrills you with the most sexy crime caper I have ever seen!
All of us have different opinions, especially about movies and women.. but this film is definitely an all time favorite of mine.Every now and then you probably feel like me, watching the collection of your watchlist movies again and again, over and over, never feeling bored of the past, craving to go back in time, and wishing that you could just see it again for the first time. The years go by and we get older, and your watchlist grows. At least that is the case with mine. Ever since I joined IMDb I have added some films that I saw to my watchlist. Although I do admit sometimes I forget to add films that I already saw. So far during my lifetime I have watched over 1400 movies if not more and I can tell you with confidence that this film is not something that is going to disappoint you. Retrospectively, 2002, seems a long way back even if some people say 'Darling, its as if 2002 was just 'yesterday'. I cannot put it into the span of this box how much happened since then...But the one I recall most recently, is that I have lost one of my favorite actors and I still sometimes feel like crying when I watch his movies, speeches, and stand-ups...Robin Williams and also the Hungarian equivalent of him an actor called Imre Bajor. I tend to get nostalgic from time to time; if most of you would know my age you would probably say I am still very young for that.. However, I cannot forget the joy some of these films like CMIYC gave me and the feelings that it conjured up in me as I was growing up. Catch Me If You Can ensures that the viewer is experiencing never ending excitement, thrill, and pure entertainment. This is mostly due to the fact that the script is extremely well written and tailored immaculately to the characters, and it all becomes realistic. The performance by the three major actors Leonardo DiCaprio, Tom Hanks, and Christopher Walken is truly off the charts. You know when sometimes you have a movie or TV-show where the cast just fits exactly like a puzzle? Well, I do and these three are meant to be on screen together as it is in Catch Me If You Can. In this film Tom Hanks is persevered,Christopher Walken is Mysterious as usual, and Leaonardo DiCaprio.. the lad who is an adventurer.I do believe Hollywood should aim to go back towards making movies like this, I personally despise the fact and find it vile that we have all these supernatural, fantasy, space movies. I was never really a fan of Star Trek or any other 'battlestar galatica' movies...and hopefully, someday they will indeed produce films that are of such quality as CMIYC.If you have not seen this movie yet...then waste no more time searching for another film to watch this December, or on this Sunday afternoon... and if you already seen it then you know how it is good and the environment which it should be watched in. To make it ideal...I usually get some wood logs from outside, put it in the Fire place, get a hot chocolate, some popcorn/pistachios and lay back in your usual seat on the couch. For me it just matches the movie to watch it during the winter season... and if there is snow outside and you can hardly see out from your windows then you know its time.I know that I did not provide any details to the plot or described what the movie is about, but I hope I got you into the zone of having a relaxed afternoon and I shared true honest feelings with you about how I feel when I watch movies.Thank you so much for reading this 'review', (More like a 5 minute monologue) BD


                
One of the great movies. Great actors. The best thing about this movie is that it is based on a true story. It is about a kid who is good at making fake checks and earning millions of dollars by pretending to work in different jobs. The first job was that he pretended to be a sub teacher at age 17. Then his father lost his business and the family had lost their house and became broke. When that happened the parents got divorced and the kid wasn't happy about it. So he ran away and depend on himself. He became so professional at making fake checks. He once pretended to be a co-pilot at Pan American World Airways. Then he pretended to be a doctor and a lawyer. While making fake checks the FBI started to notice that the kid had stolen millions of dollars and FBI started looking for the kid. That is why the name of the movie is Catch Me If You Can. Because all this time the FBI had been trying to catch him and they funny thing is that he got caught not in the United States, he got caught in France. I recommend this movie to everyone who are a fan of Tom Hanks.


                
This film is a thoughtfully arranged drama-biographical narrative based on the life story of Mr. Frank William Abagnale, Jr. that tag-lines as, "The true story of a real fake". Although this story lacks violence, blood, murder, and other stereotypical understandings of this genre, this film reinforces its true crime integrity through the criteria use of narrative style, the text at the finale, the explanation for the evil, and the psychological understanding of this true, blue collar crime. All in all, this 2002 film, Catch Me If You Can, directed by Steven Spielberg cleverly captures the loopholes found in the criminal justice system, not only in the police force but the Federal Bureau of Investigation, making this film a true crime reflection as well as an explanation as to why the accessibility of actual criminal minds is necessary in these judicial forces to ensure safety and justice. This film is not only well written, entertaining, and includes a star-studded cast, but it also has a deeper meaning, a real life application, and new ideas for the viewer to think about after the credible finale; therefore ultimately earning my vote of a full, ten out of ten production.
Based on the biographical true story and novel of con Frank Abagnale, Jr., this comedy-drama, directed by the amazing Steven Spielberg, is a look in the process of cons, criminals, and money scams. The movie stars Leonardo DiCaprio, giving the best performance of his career, as Frank Abagnale, Jr., who successfully performed cons worth millions of dollars, way before his 19th birthday. He was able to accomplish this crime by posing as a Pan Am pilot, a doctor, and a prosecutor. Since his primary crime was check fraud, Tom Hanks and the rest of the FBI are trying catch this maniac. This is truly one of Spielberg's best films, and I think I already knew that I would love it. Steven Spielberg delivers a fine directing job in this movie, and he truly knocked the ball out of the park once again. As for the acting, Leonardo DiCaprio delivers the best performance in the entire movie as Frank Abagnale, Jr., and he should have received a Best Actor nomination. Tom Hanks is just awesome in this movie, playing FBI agent Carl Hanratty, who tries to catch Abagnale and throw him into custody. Amy Adams is pleasant in this film as DiCaprio's nurse girlfriend, and Christopher Walken brings his classic "nice guy" attitude in an Oscar-nominated performance as Abagnale's father. Once again, this is another classic Spielberg collaboration, and it has never looked better. John Williams makes a classic original score, Janusz Kaminski creates fine cinematography, Michael Kahn delivers unique film editing, and Jeff Nathanson has created such a brilliant well-written script that really recreates the life of this regular criminal. This movie is filled with surprising drama, some funny laughs, and some brilliant touching moments that only the greatness of Spielberg can provide. This movie was so brilliant, that I couldn't stop thinking about it for days. This is one of Spielberg's finest films, and it's a memorable favorite. "Catch Me If You Can", in my review, "a true and original concept, Spielberg at his best".


                
This is such an all-around exciting, fun movie that you could watch over and over again and never tire of. It's an interesting, light-hearted look at the true story of an extremely clever con artist, and full of great performances. Christopher Walken shines as Frank Abagnale Sr., adding an honest, bittersweet quality to the movie, and his relationship with his son made for the most moving scenes of the film. Tom Hanks has the perfect dry wit in his role of Carl Hanratty, and his portrayal of the somewhat nerdy, striving foil to Leonardo DiCaprio's smooth character created a lot of comedic moments. And of course, Leonardo DiCaprio is amazing as the lead character, Frank Abagnale Jr., as he is in all of his roles. He really lets us see the humanity of the character and why he was the way he was, as well as does a great job in a more comedic role, different from the dark ones he usually tends to take on. He's the perfect mixture of suave, boyish and troubled that this character needs to be believable, and he pulls it off amazingly.In brief, this movie is something really different and incredibly interesting. Frank Abagnale Jr. is a fascinating, intelligent man with a true story that is both funny and full of real emotion, and these actors and director take it into their hands in the most perfect way. Definitely a must see.


                
To tell the truth, for a long time I rejected to watch the movie, as I didn't like 50-60's movies at all, no matter what actor staff plays. So, one day, I took the DVD of "Catch me if you can" out of my bookshelf, (it was dusty, cos no one touched it for a long time). Began watching... and, bum! I fell in love with it! Especially I liked Leonardo so much! I just couldn't stand him before, you know! So, this movie completely changed my mind about both Leonardo DiCaprio and 50-60's movies. Movie's excellence is provided by: -at first, talents of actors, especially, DiCaprio, Tom Hanks; -at second, extremely interesting and intriguing screenplay.Well, watch it and enjoy!


                
This movie portrays life of Frank Abagnale Jr. who before his 19th birthday posed as a teacher, lawyer, doctor and airline pilot. He was one of the most daring con men, forgers, imposters, and escape artists in history. Throuout his teen years he had commit bank frauds and collected almost 2.5 million dollars. The character Frank Abagnale is played be Leonardi diCaprio who has done an excellent job playing Frank and also Carl Hanratty who is a FBI bank fraud agent played by Tom Hanks. Hanratty mission was to track down Abangnale with his team and during the movie Frank even encountered FBI agent face to face but he failed to recognize that it was him. FBI agents were no match for this great con artitst. This is another Steven Spielberg's great hit and the story line and screen play in this movie is really enjoyable.


                
