and the results are deadly: a technically flawless but self-righteous, humorless film maker, he is utterly incapable of embracing the joy of this cat-and-mouse chase, much less, appreciating the delicious irony of Abagnale's post-conviction life. Ironically, the usually-bombastic (and equally self-righteous) John Williams manages to reign himself in; his score was such a surprise, I though someone else had done it.Although DiCaprio tries mightily, Abagnale remains a selfish punk not worthy of our sympathy. He lets his father, for whom he launches his crime spree, drown in debt while he makes off with suitcases stuffed with cash. That Sr. has no problem claiming to be a Medal of Honor winner in a pathetic attempt to secure a loan tells us he wasn't above accepting "help" from Jr.Which leads us to Hanratty, who is not only self-righteous and humorless, but mean. He takes a perverse joy in telling Jr. what happened to Sr. And he wonders why Jr. escapes from the plane!The ER scene should have been written thusly: Jr. storms in like a general, talks to Mom while examining/comforting the boy, respectfully asks the interns for their diagnosis, forces himself to soak up the blood from the wound (which we get a gratuitous close-up of) while trying desperately not to pass out! That would not only have been funny, it would have displayed Abagnale's moxie and pluck. Instead, I found myself hoping he'd rot in jail.When Jr. is given a bogus check by the FBI agents, he notes that the paper is not perforated. Since we never learn how he mastered making bogus checks or obtained the tools needed, we must assume that he wasn't working with paper that wasn't perforated, either! How this minor detail got past the "experts" at the FBI (and Spielberg) is not for us lesser minds to ponder.
Frank is a con-(young)-man. He cashes fake checks totaling up to millions, cheats and lies his way into several professions, and charms several women onto his sheets...but that is just because he is a lonely, lost boy, because his father was always in money trouble, and he had a broken home. He writes sentimental letters to his father, offers him expensive gifts, and talks about his mother rejoining them. He is actually a genius, see, and, when given the chance, proves himself to be virtuous by helping the authorities. And he has good, honest, hardworking potential too!! -- he passed the bar exam all on his own after loads of studying. This movie struck me as so false throughout that I couldn't help but see through it and overcompensate for its dishonesty and false sentimentality by continuously re-imagining it: what might REALLY have happened? How sociopathic might Frank have been to lie, cheat and steal so easily and continuously? How many women might he have slept, really? And how many times did people catch on to him? A brief look at a wiki article proved my suspicions. Frank's first victim was his own father. He ran away from home and never looked back. He failed the bar exam several times and his passing may have involved bribery and other methods of cheating. After being placed in prison he tried to escape to Brazil but was caught repeatedly. His cons sometimes failed as people suspected his lies. If this story was even mildly hollywoodized, I would have been fine with it (and if the writing, acting and visuals weren't as bland). But it takes sentiment and dishonesty to the oomphth degree. Take for example the window scene near the end. It again reinforced the theme that Frank was just a lost and lonely boy who committed all these crimes because he missed his mother. And the cheesy label-removing motif. That was just a waste. Tom Hank's character was worst at the beginning when he was going room to room shouting comically and trembling like an old lady. He got slightly better at the end. Leonardo's character was as I mentioned unnatural and flat, so I guess he made the best of it. The female characters were very fake and comic-booky and annoying, yelling "yes, yes" during the sex scenes or crying after being yelled at by their boss and falling bashfully head over heels for the guy who comforts them. The worst offenders might have been the FBI and law enforcement folk who were a bunch of bumbling cartoonish idiots, too shy to reach their arms over for a fork. There were also a whole bunch of random scenes that didn't give anything to the movie. Some, like the prostitute scene seemed to be out of nowhere and would have fit in more if the whole movie wanted to show Frank as mildly sociopathic (which would have been more realistic). The one scene that I did like was when the agent came to France to see Frank's setup. Money flying everywhere and tilted camera angles gave it a cool look. But even then you are given the dishonest condition of Frank in stress and somewhat unraveling, a condition which screams at you, 'hey! look! look how worn out and rambling he looks! This criminal spree is taking a toll on him too, you know. He does have a heart!'
Good films generally have good stories which have been rewritten as great screenplays. This film's screenplay fails to live up to the story it retells. Any film portraying the hero/villain (Frank Jnr) as a contestant in a game show as a first take has a lot of ground to make up before it ends.There is a hollowness in this film which begins with the tale of the two mice who fell into a bucket full of cream, because I thought only one of the mice was honest and, by the end of the film, I knew I was right. There is a nastiness in this film which is apparent via the targeting of the female bank clerks and others for trickster game playing during the film. The scams actually do harm people along the way although we are not credited with enough intelligence by Mr Spielberg of what that harm may be.We have an unlikeable character for the alternative hero/villain (Hanks's FBI investigator Hanratty) who is not allowed to show any redeeming quality at all, except for a crafty swipe at Frank Jnr whenever he can, and doesn't the lad deserve it? We even have characters playing 'suspicious minds' just in case we lose sympathy with Frank Jnr's game playing, but, unlike Hanratty, they are actually mostly clueless. And any who aren't clueless seemingly don't get a mention in case it spoils the plot. So what may have been a very believable book is not a believable screenplay.The acting is patchy. I enjoyed Frank Jnr's parents doing their thing, and, mildly speaking, Amy Adams's Brenda, but that is about it. The rest were just not very convincing at all.So definitely not Spielberg's best and if you'd like to see the man at consummate ease with his medium spend your money on a re-run of "Duel" which is still my favourite Spielberg film.3/10 because it is overlong and I wasn't entertained.
Spielberg/ Decaprio/Hanks - just those three names alone are enticing enough to get viewers into cinemas to watch this film, based on true life events.I can't fault this film. It's entertaining, it's well performed and well directed (of course!), but it just didn't grab me in the same way my favourite films do. Perhaps I found it hard to root for a character who is clearly breaking the law, I don't know.I would recommend it though, because it's a pacy, fun film that is entertaining enough.It just sadly didn't do much for me.


                
