Finally sat down and watched this film starring the always awesome Leonardo Dicaprio. Great story based on actual true events revolving around the criminal career of Frank W. Abagnale (Leonardo Dicaprio) a con man who as a young boy worshipped the ground his father (Christopher Walken) walked on .His dad teaches him some lessons at a young age on how to get things for free unfortunately not knowing how far his son would run with this info. Frank's world is shattered when his parents divorce causing him to runaway and start is life of deceiving companies and people for their money, major ally from a prestigious airline. Frank learns the art of deception in the form of creating fraudulent company cheques getting it down to a science and distributing them all over various point of the globe. During his tenure he imposed as a pilot, a doctor and a lawyer all the time switching identities every time the feds especially one FBI Agent Carl Hanratty (Tom Hanks) gets too close for comfort. Enjoy the cat and mouse game as Hanratty chases Abagnale all over the world.


                
Frank Abagnale Jr. (Di Caprio) makes his way across America posing as a lawyer, a pilot, a doctor whilst all the while being chased by Carl Hanratty (Hanks) Based on the true story of conman Frank Abagnale Jr. this ambitious crime caper is a turn for excitement harmless joy that encodes spurts of comedy in a dramatic construction of a man looking for a sense of mayhem and wealth, to live in his father's footsteps.Flowing with the energy you would expect from a Spielberg project alongside Oscar nominated scorer John Williams you would expect a ferocious appetite of crime shindigs and sharp tantalising scenarios across America and for the most part we see a relaxing and remarkable story that is hard and equally remarkable to believe really happened.Leo Di Caprio, in his first paring with Spielberg, stars as central character Frank, giving the conman an elusive personality whilst aiming to be naïve of the difficulties at home between his parents. Encoding uses of his father's charm and wit may seem corny but the resemblance between Di Caprio and Oscar nominated Christopher Walken is mirror like, giving the film a formidable consistency.Tom Hanks, in more of a supporting role, has his moments as the stubborn and driven FBI agent determined to catch Frank. Hanks uses the character's intelligence to his advantage to make his acts seem fruitless whilst all the while maintaining a key objective. Hanks even slides in some delicious deadpan expressions, the knock knock joke in the car for one arguably one of Hanks best ever comedy moments, which is quite something given the American's CV.The plot is the main drawback of the film's potential. Whilst the story itself is based on true events, there feels a lack of consistent believability, which is purely down to the messy structure placed upon it. Starting on a game show, it jumps back to Frank's youth, then to prison then forward to school years, then his fleeing, then forward to present and so forth and because of these Kangaroo style jumps there feels a reluctance to let us into the moment of the character and situation. We are just getting used to Frank being a pilot when the film shunts us to present day dealings and it is a real pain as if this film was portrayed in chronological order we would have had a flawless foundation for an endless chase without knowing the outcome.Williams' score is brilliant, especially the title sequence and Oscar nominated was a truly deserved. The title sequence matches the feel of the music so poignantly we are instantly engaged and ready for the off.The film collaborates usage of career mastery and unanswered questions to the eventual finale, that is worth catching and as mentioned, had this film gone from past to present with no flash back/forwards it would have been perfect. As it is, this is a charming often funny crime drama that is an enjoyable ride of a true story.


                
This is kind of an odd story, another one of those based-on-a-true life tales. This was hyped up a little too much for me because I expected more than what the film delivered. However, it was still a decent yarn about a kid who impersonated people in different professions and forged checks along the way. He did all of this in his teenage years.Leonardo DiCaprio plays his normal cocky role while Tom Hanks is the straight- and-narrow looking FBI man on his trail. Although not a tense thriller, the movie holds the viewer's interest throughout the 2 hours and 20 minutes with the last half hour being the most interesting, capped off by a satisfying ending. The only thing I didn't enjoy watching was DiCaprio (as "Frank Abagnale") taking advantage of genuinely-nice girls. This guy was no hero, believe me.


                
There wasn't much that I found wrong or exceptionally great about this film. It had some great comedic moments, and I felt that it was an entertaining flick all the way till the end. How much of it is true is beyond my knowledge, but for a man to get away with so much.. it's kinda crazy. I will say that other than the great characters and their development, this did not feel like a Spielberg film. It just didn't have that masterful touch that I usually get from his other films. Is that bad? Well, no. It just doesn't feel like his best movie. So in conclusion I gave Catch Me If You Can a "Good" on theVade Review Bar or an 7 out of 10. Although I wanted to give it an "Alright" this film's characters and actors were outstanding and really made this film a good movie. The small issues with how the story was told, and Jennifer Garner's character (kidding) really held this film down from being a truly memorable one. If this film showed each event in chronological order this movie would have had great suspense and would have be a great movie overall, yet all it really gives us was Jennifer Gardner, and no one really wants that.Read more at theVade.


                
enjoyed this sanguine film immensely despite the Spielberg saccharine confluence... how believable was the plot portrayed? hmmmmm, knowing others who pulled off some major impersonation heists more probable but the pace and typical overkill of "whew, missed him by this much" is troublesome... Walken in a wonderful sympathetic role was my reward to take it all in without hesitation on first viewing.... Hanks unremarkable in the duality of his love/hate for Frankie... many laughable moments unexpected i.e. university of Ben Casey and Perry Mason, table blessing of the two mice, knock knock joke, prostitute paying customer, Ian Fleming fitting, necklace recovery, not Lutheran?, french class substitute, to name a few... perhaps only 50% of the 80% claimed by the real Frank for the events in this film is enough to impress and I was... loveliest scene of Judy Garland's Embraceable You kitchen sway with Martin and wife, ahhhh vive l'amore!! high recommend for chase thrillers in world wide locales, cheering for the bad guy theme with happy endings, Steven knows what most of us want.... kudos!
This movie is based on real story . Since this is a Hollywood movie probably some things were changed , but that doesn't really matter . What is important is this movie entertains . It's long , 2 hours and few minutes , yet it's never boring . It's set during the 60's and 70's and the humor in "Catch me if you can" reminds me humor from movies from that time. My favorite joke is the "knock, knock" joke from Hanks.The opening credits sequence is brilliant. It's one of the best opening sequences ever. DiCaprio fits in his role well with his boyish look .Tom Hanks is nice as the grumpy FBI agent. Christopher Walken steals the show with his performance as the charming , always optimistic father of our hero. He deserved Oscar nomination. It was also good to see Martin Sheen and Amy Adams. Jennifer Garner appearance was rather pointless.The tricks that DiCaprio uses look believable . I can only complain that he acts a little bit stupid during the second half of the movie , but maybe that's how it was in the real life ? Anyway the movie provides good fun . There is some depth here . Both DiCaprio and Hanks are lonely people who have nothing more than their jobs . Spielberg also tries to explain why Frank Abagnale Jr. started his criminal career . His explanation sounds logical – he was running away because he couldn't deal with his parents marriage problems (He was 16 years old then). "Catch me if you can" is a well made fluff entertainment. I give it 8/10.


                
When we were children, we used to imagine who we want to become: astronauts, firefighters, top-models, whoever. Apparently some people live their lives as if they are still playing in the courtyard; they easily change their occupations, looks, even characters. Catch Me If You Can is about such a man.This is a true story about Frank Abagnale Jr. who, before his 19th birthday, successfully conned millions of dollars' worth of checks as a Pan Am pilot, doctor, and legal prosecutor. He admires his father and from him he learns how to manipulate people and systems. Of course, he attracted attention of the police forces, and in particular of Carl Hanratty, man in charge of falsifications in the US. The pursuit that ensues is the main focus of the movie.The plot is based on the autobiographical book by Frank Abagnale Jr. himself, where he describes his adventures, and despite the huge potential that the book had to offer to the movie makers in terms of the characters, relationships etc, the movie turned out to be nice extra rather than the stand alone piece of art.The movie lacks personality. Charisma of real Frank Abagnale Jr. did not allow Steven Spielberg to put anything personal in the movie. It is simply re-telling of the book; the director or the screenplay writers don't have their own opinions on the matters going on, they simply take the back seat and show us what happened to the main character. This approach made the movie automatically inferior to the book – the audience still needs guidance; good movie is always a dialogue, not a monologue, not a dry ascertaining of facts. It is still amusing and interesting to watch, but poor Frank and Carl look like animals in the zoo rather than humans with human feelings and emotions. It starts to feel artificial game of cat and mouse.The famous director failed to inhale life in the characters. Little surprise that the star cast didn't manage to do it either. Leonardo DiCaprio and Tom Hanks clearly do their best. DiCaprio convincingly plays immature kid with little understanding of consequences of his actions. Hanks convincingly plays workaholic cop. But the lack of conflict, lack of deep interactions means that the characters don't evolve, and in the end of the movie we see the same two chaps that we saw in the beginning. Christopher Walken, Martin Sheen, Amy Adams – they all play their parts perfectly, creating exactly the characters they were asked to create. Shame they still look unnatural. And in the end, all the action around the master of reincarnations simply leads to the thought that maybe exciting, fulfilling life doesn't need to be full of action and pursuits and God-knows-what. Maybe what people actually need to live truly interesting lives is the presence of other people, who would guide, teach and just talk meaningful talks. Who needs all the checks and all the millions if there is nobody around to tell you where to spend it? The story of the man who never stopped being a small child is worth watching only for the sake of this idea.VERDICT: Good illustration to the book, amusing and interesting, even though it fails as the movie.m-picturegoer.blogspot.com


                
Review first published on Dec. 27, 2002.The one thing we do not see enough in movies today is a good animated opening credit sequence. That's why when "Catch Me If You can" began with such a treat, I immediately knew this was going to be an exceptional motion picture.And my prediction was correct.Starting off with the clever cartoon opening and the quick, jazzy score by John Williams, the perceptive observer recalls films such as "The Pink Panther," "Around the World In 80 Days" and "It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World.We are then swept into the world of Frank Abangale, Jr., taken from his book and adapted for the screen by Jeff Nathanson. In a nice opening scene, Frank, Jr. (Leonardo DiCaprio), a man — who because of various situations in life — impersonated a teacher, an airline pilot, a doctor, a lawyer and a Secret Service agent (and almost gets away with it), is introduced on an episode of TV's "To Tell the Truth." In addition to fooling hundreds of people over the years, he cashed over $4 million in fraudulent checks. During most of his escapades, Frank is hunted by an obsessive FBI agent, Carl Hanratty (a wonderful performance by Tom Hanks).In almost a Wile E. Coyote/Roadrunner fashion, the impersonator pulls off several miraculous escapes, leaving the law with a fresh coat of egg on its face. While DiCaprio's Abangale is clever, free-spirited, charming, sexy and charismatic, Hanratty is a lonely divorced father, dull, sour and doggedly determined to catch his thief.Both manage to communicate with each other over the course of several Christmas Eves because they know each others' minds. Both are also pathetic characters in their own way, although poles apart, personality-wise.While Frank's choice as a pilot (he only flies free as a "dead-head," never actually attempting to control an aircraft), is to attract women, he is forced into the medical and legal professions directly because of Carl's detective work.Hank's character — complete with a perfect Boston accent — can get close to his prey, but can never quite bring him in. Meanwhile, as a doctor, Frank (who watched episodes of "Dr. Kildare" to bone up on his surgical technique) attracts a naive young nurse in braces (Amy Adams) whose father (played by Martin Sheen), is a District Attorney in New Orleans.Studying for two weeks — and watching "Perry Mason" — he passes the Louisiana bar exam on his first try and becomes Sheen's assistant. Playing it super cool, as well as picking up professional jargon and vernacular, Frank bluff his way through several hilarious situation, including making $400 from a prostitute who thought SHE was ripping HIM off.Later, though, things become very dark, indeed, as Frank's constant dodging the law is less and less fun. During the masquerades, his mother (Natalie Baye) divorces his father (Christopher Walken, an Oscar winner for "The Deer Hunter" and who will probably get a nomination for this role, as well) after an affair with a lodge buddy (James Brolin).Frank's father, hounded himself (by the IRS), sees through his son's fraud, and while secretly envying him, knows it can only lead to misfortune. Finally captured, Frank is given an entire new career in a nice twist of an ending."Catch Me If You Can" is a major departure for director Steven Spielberg, whose last several films — "Schindler's List," "Saving Private Ryan" and "A.I." — have been of the utmost seriousness. This almost lighter-than-air picture still manages to tug a few heartstrings here and there, but maintains its cheerful look or the most part.Sometimes, a bit too long (at two hours, 20 minutes), audiences will nevertheless find the humor and breeziness of this movie too irresistible to let this bother them.
Well, first I'd like to comment how easy it is to lure spectator into this movie, due to the great names involved in this project. Steven Spielberg, Leonardo DiCaprio and Christopher Walken are what made me wanna see it. To be honest, the film as a whole is good. Frank Jr. is a guy who is willing to do anything in his power to make easy money, even if it means stealing and cheating all around. There are plenty of moments in which the spectator gets to think "he won't get away with it", but, surprisingly, the well written plot always allows him escaping from the FBI. However, sometimes the way DiCaprio's character gets away feels over-the-top, considering that people wouldn't be THAT dumb in real life. I mean, how would Frank Jr. work as a physician in a hospital without EVER being asked about diseases or something related to it? Wouldn't Brenda's family make questions involving medicine? So, in my opinion, "Catch Me If You Can" is a well directed movie that entertains the spectator for the whole time, but sometimes admits to be just a movie and not a real thing.
This movie is about the making and doings of an incredible con-man. The movie should NOT be seen as a biography of the real con-man (assuming that his co-authored autobiography is for real), since the interesting psychological background is made up and some of the incidents are fictitious. The movie uses a couple of framing devices to get started: the hunter goes to a French jail to get the hunted and take him back to the United States; the hunted is introduced on "What's My Line" ( a popular mid-century U.S. t.v. show). Then there is a flash-back to the hunted's childhood, and we watch his development into a con-man.The pacing and characterizations are well done, and the viewer is kept pleasantly off-balance by both situations and switching empathy for the hunter and the hunted.The period items (like the "What's My Line" bit, clothing, cars, ways of talking) do more than just ring true: they draw viewers back into that time and place.Although the film is primarily entertainment, the story it tells gives one pause more than once. What does it mean that a teen-ager could pass himself off as a professional in various fields? Was he really driven to do what he did, or was he simply a rogue? (This latter question might be answered differently depending on whether one is discussing the movie or the book).


                
This is a movie based upon a true story of a young con man who, in the space of a few short years, made millions of dollars cashing dodgy checks and passing himself off as an airline pilot, a doctor, a lawyer, and many other things as well. The movie is pits a determined FBI agent against this slippery criminal in an exposition of how hard it actually is to catch fraudsters. It is a very amusing movie, especially the scene where he walks into the French class of his new school and passes himself off as the teacher for an entire week (and he is able to do this because his mother, being French, has already taught him the language).I'm not a big fan of Spielburg Movies, meaning that whenever he releases one I generally feign acknowledgement and then go off an do something much more interesting. Indeed I find most of his movies are either boring feel good movies (ET, Close Encounters) or simply movies demonstrating how wonderful he thinks he is. However, this movie was actually quite a surprise. It was funny, absorbing, and the characters were quite intriguing.I remember when Tom Hanks was a comedy actor, though I would never put him in the same class of actors such as Eddie Murphy or the like. Once again, a lot of his old movies tended to be very light hearted feel good movies. However, he changed his direction with Philidelphia to more challenging roles. I can't say that this movie is one of those roles, since his character is very much like a cardboard cut out. However, this could simply be because the character that it is based upon is like that. He is an FBI agent that is determined to get his man and since he actually has nothing else for him (his wife left him) this is all that he has to define who he is.De Caprio has actually come quite a long way. He definitely is no Brad Pitt, but a number of movies that he has been in (Inception for a start) are starting to catch my attention. However I am still ingrained with the concept of the teenie bopper heart throb that I suspect he never intended to become (particularly since The Basketball Diaries was one of his first movies). In this movie he also plays a character who is alone, however his loneliness does not arise from his dogged determination to succeed, but rather because he is always on the run. He cannot stop, and Hanks will not stop chasing him. This is not surprising because he is a crook, and the FBI will not let crooks (or at least the poor ones) escape. He is caught in the end, but the end actually provides a further twist. Still, I thought the whole enemies talking to each other on Christmas day, when both were alone, did emphasise the loneliness of both characters.
"Catch Me If You Can" is a fitting title because I really tried to catch the appeal of the film and I almost managed until a final act that confirmed me one thing: a good story doesn't necessarily make a good film, a pity because the movie had great potential but <U+0085> only as a comedy. This is the film's problem; it's so ashamed of its comedic tones that it uses the moodiest drama as a counterpart. You have two levels in the film, when it's funny, it raises the humor to the level of greatest comedies reminding of good old Billy Wilder or Frank Capra's classics, and I mean that for the two acts, but when it's dramatic, boys it's so depressing I wonder if it's still the same film I'm watching and if it didn't actually convince Scorsese to hire Di Caprio as his new protégé. If only for one thing, I blame the film for having introduced Leo's new serious side.I'm aware that Frank Abagnale Jr.'s back-story carries many serious undertones, but come on; the guy is a con artist, and the premise is so entertaining, why should we care for the whole torment inhabiting his heart? Although I admit I love the whole father-and-son relationship and I thought Christopher Walken delivered a great performance, the story of Frank Abagnale Jr. was begging for more and more comedy. The material was shamefully wasted in Spielberg's attempt to make a serious character study out of this. And if it remained true to the first comedic premise, who else could have done a better job as a 'straight man' than Tom Hanks as Hanratty? He was a constant enjoyment as long as he was fooled by Leo -their first encounter is one of the funniest movie moments of the 2000's- but when the cat-and-mouse situation turned to his advantage, and Frank ultimately decided to help the FBI and become a new Hanratty, I couldn't help but be disappointed. I was waiting for the punch line, but I know, I know <U+0085> this is a true story.Well, let's admit this is not any con artist, this one was real, but that would have provided twice the excitement, even as a drama. Franks impersonated an airline pilot, doctor, assistant attorney general and history professor, and some of these exploits were made before he was 21. Well, I'm sure if a poll survey was made after the film's viewing, the majority would agree that the 'pilot' part was the most covered, with the most details about his growing craftsmanship as a fraudulent checks' maker. But how did he live as a doctor? How did his life consist on when he was a secret agent? The different chapters of his lives were so unequally covered that all we had to do, is to trust Leo's talent and sex appeal: if he did it once, he can do it anytime. I'm sorry but when you spend so much time on very depressing parts, why do you apply shortcuts on the most exciting ones?And are we supposed to believe that Frank's talent relies more on his sex appeal than a developing expertise? I'm certainly not a feminist, but the way women were depicted in the film was offensive and killed off all the charm of seduction. There is a part where the flight attendant welcomes the pilots with a sort of sexy wink in her eyes: if at that moment, you can't guess that Leo will bang her in the next scene, you haven't seen enough movies in your life. There are absolutely no redeeming female characters in this film, their whole purpose is to serve as a foil for Leo's charm, falling in the most obvious and degrading traps like compliments about their eyes, or a necklace. What was a cute running-gag became a blatant exploitation of women regardless of their differences: from the sensitive nurse to the over- glamorized hooker, not to mention the poor flight attendants applicants, all smiling around unknowing that it's only their sexy butts that are used as a cover.The whole film works as a fantasy anyway and not just for the chicks. It's so stylized that it was impossible to get any hint of realism even in the scenes that rang true, script-wise. The movie had one of the most memorable and stylized opening credits, the whole setting was trying so much to look 60's to the tiniest details, the cars, the clothes, the girls fashions, everything was aesthetically great looking, but at the end it was just like too 'sanitized'. I had the feeling I was watching an idealization of the 60's rather than a true biopic, maybe Spielberg is more at ease with World War II when it comes to the realism of a setting, but "Catch Me If You Can" was a fantasy on that level. This is why it should have kept the comedic tone, and spends more time on the other chapters of his life, yes, it wouldn't have fitted the title, which was about a cat-and-mouse chase, but let's face it, at the end, after two long hours, it was becoming too redundant. Once he's caught, another time, he escapes etc. etc. and any attempt to focus on the deep relationship between Hanratty and Leo was just bullshit, one was doing her job and the other wouldn't have cared less of becoming his friend, or working with the law. He was in a dead- end and had no choice. So at least the film, could have been an entertaining story of how you can fool the system with a nice creativity, but it chooses to be a biopic with cringe-worthy voyeuristic value. A nice try, an excellent premise, but a movie that doesn't know which direction to take, and this is saying a lot, coming from a Spielberg film.
One of the most important things a film should offer its audience is surely a story worth being told. "Catch me if you can" definitely achieves this. The story of a charming fraud, a young man that starts his career in crime out of desperation and boredom and achieves everything a regular man or woman can only dream of without really hurting anyone. The story of a most unlikely friendship between two men that play cat and mouse with each other for such a long period of time that they finally come to respect each other.While the story thus has a lot to offer, there are also some points that prevent this movie to really become a classic in my eyes. The characters, apart of DiCaprio's one appear a bit flat and one-dimensional and not much effort was put into their development. Some exaggerations further lead the way into a movie that's definitely entertaining, more so than many other blockbusters, but that in the end doesn't really leave a huge impact as well.Well worth a watch for an entertaining evening but not a must-see in my opinion.
SPOILERS Each individual director has his own unique style. Whether including a specific type of shot, or links to past films, there is always something unique to directors. The same is true of legendary director Steven Spielberg. Spielberg's films always tend to have an almost childlike feel to them. Often feel good films, Spielberg will create a film which, irrelevant of subject matter, always has a colourful style of imagery and background. In "Catch Me If You Can", Spielberg repeats this style with a clever little film telling the story of Frank Abagnale Junior.From the very beginning of the film, Frank Abagnale Junior (Leonardo DiCaprio) is shown to be a clever boy. Learning skills from his father (Christopher Walken), Abagnale slowly begins to learn how to copy cheques and over the next two years spends his time travelling from location to location, conning his way into different professions. All the time however, Frank is followed by FBI agent Carl Hanratty (Tom Hanks).When Steven Spielberg directs a good film, the man directs a VERY good film. Able to create an almost cartoon like world, Spielberg manages to grip us from start to finish. Whilst the opposite is true and Spielberg can sometimes create the most appalling work, with films like "Catch Me If You Can", we can perhaps forgive his mistakes.From the opening animation of the film, we know the basic premise. As Abagnale travels from place to place, there are moments of pure brilliance as this quick witted boy (since he's not even 17 when he begins the journey) outfoxes Hanratty time and time again.The connection between Abagnale and Hanratty in particular is what makes this film. With two well developed characters, both DiCaprio and Hanks give brilliant performances as we begin to bond with both characters. Superbly assisted by Christopher Walken and a few other actors, the two stars thrive in this fun little film.The beauty of "Catch Me If You Can" is the partnership of the main stars and the direction of Spielberg. Working brilliantly together, these three men and screenwriter Jeff Nathanson, have examined Abagnale's story of his life and produced a great film which remains fun from start to finish. Great fun.
"Catch Me If You Can" tells the story of Frank Abagnale, con man. With Spielberg in the director's chair and A-listers leading the way, you'd expect something a little better than this story about a kid who conned his way into jobs as a Pan Am pilot, a lawyer, a doctor, and into some serious money. Reasonably entertaining and well crafted, this film runs a tad long and is smeared with comedic overtones making it difficult to take seriously. It might have worked better as a serious rather than playful drama. Nonetheless, worth a look by anyone interested in stories about scamming. (B)Note - If you like this flick, you might want to check out Tony Curtis in "The Great Imposter" (1961)


                
...but did Steven Spielberg's latest Blockbuster-fodder, Catch Me If You Can, have to be released now? The two leads, Leonardo DiCaprio and Tom Hanks have already turned in their best for the year (Gangs of New York and Road to Perdition, respectively), even if those performances weren't great, and Spielberg's other chase film released during the summer, Minority Report, was one of his best films. While the release date shouldn't directly effect the film itself, it might've given Scorsese's Gangs a little chance to breath without having this and that as two Leo films at once during the Christmas-break film rush. Catch..is inspired by the story of Frank W. Abignale Jr., who as a teen became a con-man, impersonating an airline pilot, doctor, lawyer, etc, and was finally caught in France. DiCaprio plays Frank, and tries to play him as a suave, if occasionally panicked, teen, and while there have been worse performances this year, it is very clear that the better work for him is in Gangs, not here- he's often too straightforward with his emotions and only hints to that he's someone outside of a conniver. Hanks, on the other hand, does a decent job, with a keen accent and demeanor, and Christopher Walken, who plays Abignale Sr., turns in the best performance of the film, and shows more depth than his son in the few scenes he has. Overall, there are some moments of fun that shine through, like when Frank Jr. does his first con as a school teacher at 16, or when he fools Hanks at the Miami airport, yet it can be seen in many scenes that more challenging material was manipulated by Spielberg and company. Still, it should appeal to the mass market of movie-goers.....this is a re-edit some four years later. On repeat viewings, the film works better. DiCaprio actually works as more effective with his character, and even Hanks becomes more interesting than just 'decent'. B+


                
To say that CATCH ME IF YOU CAN is a true story would be to stretch the truth. Some would call it a flat out lie. If you look up the real story, you realize that there are few similarities past the main character's name and a very basic description of what he did. The filmmakers took countless liberties.But they did it in order to make a fun movie. It's nothing groundbreaking. It's not great art. But it's good fun for the entire duration. The actors did a great job. Recommend.


                
Great humor, great cinematography, great actors. It's an interesting story that is told in a very entertaining way. And even though it has an original plot and it's inspired by real events, the movie is still somehow not the best. It's okay, it has very good things in it but it was too long (and that's why boring at times) and even though DiCaprio is a great actor he looked too young for this specific role. I mean, it sounds pretty odd that Frank got away with all of his felonies for such a long time but it's even more unbelievable when we see Leo on the screen. In real life, the real Frank looked much older and that's why people believed he's 28. But still, great performance by DiCaprio and Tom Hanks. Not the most outstanding movie though but it's good for a watch or two.


                
The bad: this movie does last about an half hour too long to be really captivating till the very end. Because when all the con tricks have been played out, the magic of this upbeat con story has somewhat faded. At 2 hours and 15 minutes this movie overstretches it's attention span.The good: cheery, upbeat story about a boy who wants to be succesful and figures out a conning way to do so, when he knows that the honest way to achieve succes is out of his league, because of poverty problems. By simply impersonating pilots, doctors and lawyers this boy succeeds in achieving the succes he always dreamt of. It is a very alluring story about tricking your way into succes and the constant chase between Di Caprio and Tom Hanks makes for a suspenseful game of cat and mouse.
Really enjoyable watch for young and old, with a romantic interlude with the very young Amy Adams.Biographical end note: director Steven Spielberg parents got divorced, when he was a kid. Many of the themes in Spielberg's films are about single parents and this movie is no exception. It is striking to see that this movies plot is also about a boy, who sees his parents struggle with financial problems and end up in a divorce. The boy copies his father's behaviour to solve his financial difficulties, by trying to con his way out of debt, in order to bring home the bacon. The father fails at his con jobs, whereas the son, played by Leonardo di Caprio, succeeds in conning his way into succes... Quite charming.


                
This is a great casual film to watch and appreciate. Apart from Leo and Tom Hanks we also have minor characters played by the then new Amy Adams, Martin Sheen and Christopher Walken and all come together to create a near perfect feature film. Speilberg should be commended for taking on such a light fare and making something so interesting out of it.


                
I enjoyed watching this movie, despite it features one of my least favourite actors, Leoanrdo Di Caprio. Tom Hanks gives a good peformance, although, compared to his performance in 'Saving private Ryan', it sucked.The movie has an excellent twist, as we see how the main character 'Frank Abagnale' cons thousands of people, when he relentlessly continues to pay for expensive purchases, when the amount cannot be obtained from his account.   Although I thought the film in general was fairly good, it didn't seem to be a movie made by Spielberg. To me, Spielberg seems to create superb master pieces again and again, for example; Schindler's list, and saving private ryan; and, this film seemed to be directed by a more novice director.Having said that, the characters, acting and dialogue are very good, and the movie concludes with a big thums up!
Spielberg offers us a light and entertaining comedy. Tom Hanks steals the show, while Leo DiCaprio is bearable (which is a good thing concerning his other roles). I guess this has way deviated from the real story, some things depicted just can't happen. An honorable mention must be made for the fantastic opening titles.


                
On the drive home from the movie I found myself thinking about my life and compared it to the life of  Frank Abagnale Jr.  This movie is based on a true story.  Frank's story is very intriguing and exotic.  It is about a man that in the late 1960's that makes a living through fraud.  He writes bad checks, imitates professionals such as doctor, lawyer, and airline captain. He made millions of dollars living this way.  At this rate it will take me two or three lifetimes to make the money he made.  He lived like a god for about 4 years.  It makes me want to just try to make one big score.  This movie is an inspiration to me to do `wrong' for profit.  If only I could have one chance to make big money.  I would go for it.  Yeah right, I don't have the courage to do it.  That is why movies exist.  It is escapism for the average man, ME! 7/10


                
**POSSIBLE SPOILERS INCLUDED**I was skeptical about this film, because I know how sappy Spielberg could be, and I am in no way a fan of DiCaprio.  Although, after seeing this film, I'd have to admit that I enjoyed it.  The appeal with this film, above all else in my opinion, is the facination you're forced to have with Dicaprio's character....just HOW did he get away with all of that!?!?!  It didn't seem to me that Spielberg involved himself too much in this film, and I must admit that DiCaprio shines in his lead role.  It seems that he is finally starting to come into his own as a decent actor.  Christopher Walken (a favorite of mine) was great as always.  Tom Hanks, suprisingly, was tolerable as well...it was refreshing to see him in a role where you're not forced to see him as an immortal, or always feel sorry for him.  He played his role straight-up and I enjoyed him.  The story was told very well, although I thought the film was a bit too long.  One thing I didn't quite get though...whatever happened to the gameshow sequence in the beginning of the film?  That was never explained.  Anyway, this film is not a classic by any means, but was suprisingly good and I would recommend it to true fans of 'cinema'.  3 out of 4 stars.
Catch me if you can is an enjoyable film that has a certain something that you cant put your finger on.Perhaps it is the DeCaprio charm or maybe it is the Tom Hanks factor that makes this very watchable but dont be fooled into thinking this is as good as everbody says because it does have one very poor floor.The problem with Catch Me If You Can is that it is one of those film that starts at the end then goes back to the begining and keeps switching to the end again and this really spoils the movie. We dont want to know what happens at the start we want to find out at the end!Only films like Momento can pull this off and this is no Momento. The acting is good and i would say the best display is from Christopher Walken and we should see more from this highly underrated actor. All in all not a bad film but it could have had 20 minutes shaved off of it. 7 out of 10.


                
