Spoilers ahead.I frankly do not understand why "The Big Lebowski" has been elevated to the point of being considered one of the best cult classics of all-time. Why this cult around the character of "The Dude", one of the blandest, flavorless, most uninteresting comedy protagonists ever to be put on celluloid? He's simply some dopey hippie who loves to hang around a John Goodman cardboard-cutout Vietnam vet gone loco (real Vets should raise their fists in anger over such an overdone, unfunny, disrespectful and insulting characterization) and a seldomly-seen Steve Buscemi, who doesn't really do much. The plot winds into so many different twists and turns and includes so many supporting characters, all of whom seek The Dude's bag of money, that trying to understand this movie is like trying to untangle the Gordian Knot by hand. What's the point of placing layer upon layer upon layer of weird, uninteresting characters to the point that you forget what the hell this movie is about? Nihilist German rockers? Some sicko Hugh Hefner clone? A gorgeous yet incomprehensible avant-garde artist who wants to have "The Dude's" baby? A strange drugstore cowboy who serves as some sort of Greek chorus? Stop it! "Pee-Wee's Big Adventure" had an array of weird characters, but it succeeded because it had a straightforward plot and brilliant acting and writing. The Coen's monstrosity has little wit or signs of superb comic writing, and all of their characters, though weird, are totally boring and flavorless. For weird characters to work, they must act totally off-the-wall and twisted beyond realism. The weirdos in "Lebowski" are actually regular, and seem like a mish-mash of all-too-real rejects from a yuppie coffee bar.Who likes this stuff? I have just seen "No Country for Old Men", and, like "Lebowski", that was poorly written in terms of a smooth plot; and, like "Lebowski", lacked any interesting characters. I'll give "Fargo" a chance; otherwise, the Coen Brothers ain't reeling me in with their weird, clunky movies.
I like non-main stream flicks - Blue Velvet, Boxing Helena, and so on. I like comedy that is not dependent on stupid sight gags or scatological humor. This movie had been out for a few years before I watched it. It was, I had heard, a gem that was waiting for me. I had looked forward to it greatly.I didn't find any aspect of the movie funny, other than the enigma that it's well liked by many.I suppose this is where I differ from most - I don't find a guy walking around with a mixed drink all the time funny. I don't find Dan Conner overreaching as a guy who is a Vietnam vet freaking out about anything funny, particularly because that's been done before. I don't find the Italian guy acting fooling while bowling to be funny. I don't find referencing a guy as "the dude," with article obligatory, to be funny. And on and on. What's funny? Dennis Miller. He's funny. George Carlin. He's funny. The Big Lebowski - not funny.I really don't have any comment on the ins and outs of the movie. Just not funny, and, given that it's a comedy, that, to me, is a fatal mistake.
Certain movies you can sort of understand why they are cult classics, other films such as this one, seem to be funny and intelligent because someone said it was funny and intelligent and therefore must be funny and intelligent.I suppose you could find deeper meaning in this, or perhaps the meaning was right there on the surface. But like many of the Coen Brothers films that I have watched I either like them or I don't.The ones that I liked usually have a strong story behind them, the ones that I don't like seem to be more of a "day in the life of" story about people who really don't seem to matter and about events that no one really cares about.Maybe there is some type of amusement in trivial matters, making bored college frat boys feel more intelligent then they really are, but I need something deeper for intellectual stimulation.For my comedy, I don't need slapstick or pie in the face humor to make me laugh. Cynicism, witty dialogue, sarcasm, commentary and so on, not one line random events that happen out of no where with no real context and then expected to be funny.(which is not to say that slapstick pie in the face humor doesn't make me laugh at times...) A very random film with very to little no substance to it. A few quirky one liners here and there, but in all honesty I was more looking at the clock waiting for this film to end then I was looking at the film waiting for it to be entertaining.Yet for some reason it has a cult following and there it is... However one should keep in mind that cults generally comprise of brainwashed individuals who really can't think for themselves anyways and generally follow wherever they are pointed to like mindless sheople...


                
Absolutely unwatchable. Tried it twice, figuring one attempt wasn't sufficient.I am not offended by vulgar language, but when it is such a major portion of the dialogue, it had better be with good reason and to great effect. Neither is the case, here.These characters are the types of people that normal people with lives pass by numerous times a day without taking any notice. There is a reason for that. Folks like that are uninspiring, dull, and generally useless to the world they inhabit. Centering a movie script on them is going to make you a dolt or a genius, depending how sycophantic your fan base is. It seems too many people checked their good judgment at the door - not only giving this movie a free pass, but pumping up the votes to the extent that this turd rates in the Top 250. Whoa geez.Again, I say, "Absolutely unwatchable."


                
I have just written one review, but this awful movie deserves one. This is absolutely incredible, but seems that lots of people liked it! I did not found anything funny in it, nor action, nor story, nor the way the story is told, nor the script that is horrible. This is a flat movie without any depth, the most superficial movie I have ever seen. You simply can't find any knowledge nor inspiration, nor entertainment in it. It is a great black hole, you'll only spend time watching it. There is no way to found something interesting in this movie. Except some seconds in a bowling scene, I can't find any interesting point of interest in this movie. And the hilarious part is that it was recommended to me by two friends of mine. There is something wrong in this world that I am not aware about.


                
I'd been nagged by friends and colleagues for years to watch this movie, face-palms all around - they couldn't believe I hadn't seen one of the best movies of all time.I have a 30min rule for movies, if it's rubbish I turn it off to avoid wasting my life on a bad movie. As this one came with such a high regard, I gave it a full hour and then was forced to turned it off.Don't ask me how it ended, it was so dull and boring I really don't care. It was slow, I found myself falling asleep and I've never before watched a comedy with no laughs. Reading the other reviews, I wonder if we were watching the same movie.I watched "Street Fighter: The Legend of Chun-Li" earlier this year just for fun as it had such poor reviews and ratings. Sadly I enjoyed it more than this "classic". Whoever invented the "dark comedy" genre should be put against a wall and shot.


                
i saw this movie because of good rating and expected a good movie. My expectations were torn to pieces after seeing the first 20 minutes itself.i was literally bored to death but went on expecting something at the end due to its rating. but the ending was something far worst than i thought. well it was nothing i only understood it was the end when the credits came up. this movies is worst crap ever. the summary of dis movie would be weakest plot, worst acting ever, use of F word for almost every second maybe more than the actual words, no proper ending. There isn't absolutely anything good to write about this movie the lead actor was total bullshit. for review i wanted to give 0/10 but options started from 1. If you want to ever waste your 120 minutes, your energy and totally spoil your mood please watch this movie.


                
First of all, what the f**k was this? I found 8.2 rating on IMDb and movie totally sucks! I am still wondering what made people liking this movie so much? Plot was totally stupid and very much ordinary without any extraordinary element or one-liners, funny scenes, acting, or even photography. This was way too boring and pointless movie to me and it got 8.2 rating? :) Are you kidding me? I think even 3 stars are higher for this boring, jarring, pointless, stupid, silly, worthless, waste-of-time, mind-sucking movie. From the first scene to last scene, I have watched it and thought now there would be something now there would be something but no, at the end, credits started rolling and I simply threw the movie out of my collection. I think I should stop believing IMDb rating as there are movies with 4, 5 or 6 ratings and they are wonderful whereas this got 8.2 stars and movie? Cut it off.


                
Sometimes the film is so good you have to say something. Sometimes the film is so bad you have to say something. Unfortunately it is the latter in this case. I finally started to watch The Big Lebowski. Great reviews everywhere. Have to watch it. It is one of Coen brothers movies. It is rated almost five stars in Amazon. It is rated 8.2 on IMDb. It has to be good, right?Not quite. I couldn't finish it - I had to stop watching it.In the beginning you see a resemblance in the style of this movie and a lot of Quentin Tarantino's movies. I don't know if Coen brothers are borrowing from Quentin Tarantino, or if it's the other way around, but there seems to be plenty of resemblance to this film and Tarantino's films in general.The best Coen brothers movie that they made was Fargo, and maybe it was so good because it was based on a true story. But for this, The Big Lebowski, it reeked of stupidity...but without comedy. It seemed to border on fantasy and improbability.


                
This is just a long boring crime movie with no mystery and fewer jokes. This movie has no more comical moments than any other "action" movie. Jeff Bridges is not a comedian nor funny, and is insolent in his satire. He is just another terrible actor riding his parents coattails. The Coen Brother are also not comic writers, frankly, they are the definition of overrated. Writing long boring movies isn't being deep, it's writing long boring movies. This film fails to entertain, unless you are some uptight over privileged classist who has never met real people, and enjoy the mockery of the lower class. There is a reason this bombed the box office...


                
Why the heck did I tell you the Big Lebowski is not funny three times? Because this is once for every 50 people that told me this movie was the funniest most entertaining movie EVER. After years of being berated at parties and get-togethers with people spewing line after line from the movie, I gave in last week and rented it. Wow.It's so bad on so many levels it's hard to describe. Let me be very very clear: It's not funny. At all. It's mildly amusing in parts but of the six people I watched it with, no one laughed once. Not once. I don't think it's a spoiler to tell you the language is sickeningly bad. Up there with Team America bad. Like Scarface bad. There is one reason and one reason only that this movie is popular: College aged men (or guys who wish they were college aged) own the DVD and watch it repeatedly. After watching the movie once (and not laughing), they then watch it repeatedly memorizing the movie. They sit around the DVD owner's sectional couch elbowing each other before each "big" scene almost spilling their friend's beer and yelling, "HERE IT IS! HERE IT IS! HE"S GONNA SAY IT!" They then laugh at how clever they are. They're part of "The DUDE" club and they are very, very special indeed.This is the most unfunny movie I have ever seen. Other than Scarface and Team America, the movie contains the foulest most unnecessary language I've ever heard in a movie, and overall is one of top five worst movies I've ever seen (and yes, this includes You Tube cat movies).


                
This is definitely one of the most worthless movies I've ever seen in the theater.  I'm STUNNED that it has been voted in the top 250 movies, which shows you that this must be a movie you either love, or totally loathe, as I did.I'm not going to be like most other negative reviewers and just post "it sucked" and not give any reasons for that opinion.I'd gotten a ride to the movie theater so I didn't have any way of getting back, so I sat through a movie I ordinarily would have walked out of.My main problem with this movie is the dialogue.  It is laced with so many swear words, yet this doesn't give the dialogue any additional kick.  I have nothing against swearing in movies as long as it accomplishes something. The fact that nihilists feature prominently in this movie makes sense since the whole movie is pretty meaningless.  No real plot, random and incoherent dialogue, just a loser of a main character (Jeff Bridges), and I really didn't care if he lived or died.Obviously the "genius" of the movie eludes me.  Note that I have nothing against the Coen brothers, I thought Fargo was brilliant.This movie was awful though.Ack.


                
I love the Coen Brothers work.I watched all their films, and Fargo was in many ways the best.However, their latest effort - The Big Lebowski - I found almost unwatchable. The Coen Brothers' films have always, shall we say, been quirky. This hasn't got in the way of good acting, a great script, an interesting plot, a relevant musical score, or excellent cinematography.However in this film, the quirkiness got in the way of everything else. The plot is awful; the script is dire, with the dreaded 'f' work appearing at least once every five seconds (I'm not anti-swearing, but I do get intensely bored of hearing the same dialogue over and over again), the acting is uninspired - Buscemi is totally wasted, Bridges is irritatingly whining (though Tuturro is great, in a small part), the score is unmemorable and the camerawork is dull, except for the dream sequences, which seem forced, irrelevant and pretentious.I couldn't wait for this movie to end. I also cannot believe that people honestly buy into the hype and liked this movie. This is NOT a good movie.


                
I was quite interested in watching it.I thought it would be a 2 hours of laughter marathon.In the end i realized i didn't even laugh a single time. the whole story is hardly bears any meaning and there were some jokes i didn't get at all. One more important point is IMDb has been very poor in case of judging comedies.I just found "Monty Python and the holy grail" the same boring as Big Lebowski.So,don't be fooled by rating like me.My rating is 1(aweful)


                
when i saw this movie i thought how the hell can this make the IMDb top 250 when it should have been in bottom 250.This film is about a pair of lazy douchebags who are supposed to make you laugh but all they are able to do is make u angry with all their useless talk. Then the hero gets attacked in confusion with a man of same identity and the attackers pee on his rug we are treated to his stupid talk of trying to claim the carpet from the original intended victim and the man throws him out.But unbelievably he employs him as a negotiator when his young wife is kidnapped.Julianne moore in the role of a nymphomaniac looks pathetic.And the hero's friend walter tries to be funny but he falls way short of that and makes you sleep with his boring and brainless talk.And i will not talk about the end but i will say it it's as stupid as the movie itself. So if you want to watch this movie on basis of its high rating you will be hugely disappointed. Avoidable.
Yes, there was a plot, but for this picture to exist was only because of the actors names. They were not good in this awful example of a comedy either. Not really a spoiler, but, Jeff Bridges finally figures out what is going on with the other, main Lebowski and confronts him at the end. Also not funny. The whole movie is not that funny for listing this as a comedy. I'm sorry I wasted my time watching and am writing this so others don't waste theirs. I think I may have laughed once, if that. Also, in IMDb movie synopsis it states that there were two people pissing on his rug. There were not. It was just one of the thugs doing the pissing. I really wish people would get their facts straight. Really stupid movie. Not a funny movie, at all.
I am in shock that the Coen brothers, who are responsible for Fargo, one of my ten best, could have written such a sophomoric waste of talent, most especially Jeff Bridges who is given the wonderful words, hey man and hey dude, over and over. It is as if Beavis and Butt head have turned from cartoon figures to real flesh and blood. Bridges is the dude, who has been mistaken for a rich guy with the same name. The wealthy mans wife is kidnapped and the dude is drafted to be the go between for the ransom payoff for her safe return. The dude smokes loads of pot, drinks heavily and enjoys bowling on a regular basis. His best friend is Walter, played by John Goodman as a Gulf War veteran with a violent temper. Steve Buscemi completes the triad and all three have never had so little to work with. What a huge disappointment from the usually reliable brothers.


                
I have been a fan of a number of efforts from the Coen Brothers. Truthfully, even when they miss the mark, I am still able to find something worthwhile in the effort. The Big Lebowski is the exception to that rule. I originally saw it in theaters, where it played for an eyeblink and received mixed reviews. It was one of the few films my family has ever walked out on. I caught it later on cable and watched it to the end to see if I missed anything worthwhile, since it had inexplicably developed a cult following. The answer was a resounding no.In what can complimentary be deemed a plot, the action centers on a zoned out bowler nicknamed The Dude, who somehow is mistaken for the title billionaire and gets pulled into what must be the most ill-conceived kidnapping plot in the history of cinema.The ludicrous nature of the action would seem to recommend it to comedy, but the film is devoid of laughs. Unless the idea of a young woman's body parts being sent via mail is especially funny to you. The film introduces one needless and ostentatiously bizarre character after another in order to drum up some semblance of entertainment, but since none of them are important to the "plot" and have nothing of comical worth to contribute, it all seems a huge waste.The dialogue is basically thinking up new ways to drop the f-bomb every 10 seconds. What passes for comedy is having the avuncular narrator (Sam Elliott) actually stop the proceedings at the midway point to good-naturedly ask The Dude why he has to to use such chronic foul language, to which The Dude responds with another f-bomb. How meta! How coy! And to rouse viewers lulled into a stupor, there are occasionally pointless unrelated fantasy sequences.Julianne Moore shows up to no avail, speaking in some wacko old-Hollywood actress rhythm (think Jennifer Jason Leigh in The Hudsucker Proxy). But whereas Leigh's impersonation had a legitimate reason to be, Moore's quite simply does not. Jeff Bridges can be an amazing actor and has contributed some wonderful cinematic contributions. This is not one of them. It seems incomprehensible that a following has cropped up around this character, because The Dude is little more than a cipher. The Dude is a completely passive non-entity, who spends the duration in a zoned out state. He seems to have nary an opinion on anything and it is inconceivable that anyone could mistake him for the title character, much less a sentient being at all. The plot careens him from one improbable and unfunny set-up to another eliciting little in the way of energy or emotion from him. He is just not remotely interesting here.The only appealing or likable characters in the film are Elliott's narrator and Steve Buscemi, as a perpetually sunny and helpful fellow bowler. Alas, Buscemi is basically here to be bullied, brutalized, cursed at, and finally die. If most of the cast is awash in unlikable and appalling characters, the worst by far is John Goodman. The normally reliable Goodman is so over-the-top that his every moment on screen is like fingernails down a chalkboard. He plays The Dude's "best friend", a completely incompetent bully who inserts himself into everything to the detriment of all involved. He drops the f-bomb as much as The Dude and treats everyone around him with loud-mouthed contempt. He is an illiterate, detestable, brutish bore and the performance desecrates the screen, yet the filmmakers actually seem to think his antics are a riot. The film is pretty awful without Goodman's godawful work, but with his participation it descends even further into cinematic hell.I cannot think of anything to say complimentary about the film and the fact that this abomination was vomited forth by otherwise talented filmmakers seems inexcusable.
Jeffrey "The Dude" Lebowski (Jeff Bridges) is an unemployed slacker whose only interest is bowling with his moronic friends (John Goodman and Steve Buscemi). He becomes involved in a kidnapping case when he is mistaken for a millionaire also named Lebowski. Mayhem ensues.I had heard for years that this was a Great Movie, a piece of Film Art from the Coen Brothers. So much for my curiosity. If you like your movies PG like I do, this is a movie to avoid at all costs. The main character is a disgusting slob with no redeeming qualities and the "F" word is used 260 times in 117 minutes. The movie is vulgar and pointless. I give it one star only because I can't give it zero stars.
I would like to get the last two hours of my life back. It's the first time that I write a review about a movie but I can't let go this one without trying to low down the score that it has on IMDb. Honestly, it's unbelievable that somebody may enjoy this crappy movie even a little. Maybe is for all the dudes that pretend to be cool enough to understand this kind of "humor". Maybe the only good thing about the movie is that it has good performances but I can't believe that such good actors agreed to participate. Hope tomorrow I will not even remember a couple of annoying characters that gave me a nice headache. Don't waste your time.


                
I like the Coen Bros usually,....Fargo doesn't seem as great so many years later but films like Miller's Crossing the recent and very excellent No Country For Old Men are masterpieces,....but this should be changed to The Big Nothing. God, this movie sucks so bad. It was tedious to get thru it. Why do people love this movie so much? I thought it sucked worse than House Of The Dead. Talk about bad stilted dialog, poorly staged scenes, and uninspired scripting....hard to believe it's the Coens at all since their stuff is usually really great. This movie has attained almost cult status and for what? Pure crap. I'd rather watch a Troma film made for 50 bucks.
I wanted to spend my night laughing and so i skimmed through about 100 movies on IMDb, i came along some really funny movies, but i wanted to see a really good one so i kept looking until i came across this one. Excellent reviews, excellent rating !!!!! What more could i want. I rent the movie from the store, get cozy with my girl friend, and wait for the fun t begin.The movie starts with a guy being a target of a mistaken identity.....some bad things happen....to a certain extinct, little funny....and the plot continues and it goes on and on and on....and nothing at all is funny...by the mid of the movie, me and my girl friend are both bored and pi**ed off...... We couldn't take it anymore. I dint watch the rest of it.Moral: DO NOT WATCH THIS MOVIE. I dunno what kind of people gave a high rating to this crap.


                
Trust me, I am a very open minded film viewer and have enjoyed a vast variety of movies. This film however was a complete waste of time.I got what was trying to be achieved with the movie but it just didn't get any where near where it was supposed to.Sorry folks, a terrible movie that had good intentions but bad guidance!It seems this was a movie that Tarantino would have got a few ideas from but then made a so much more enjoyable film. I was just sitting watching it getting more bored and tired by the minute.This film has a serious 'false' rating.


                
Can someone explain what was funny about this movie?  I know I am in the minority, but I just don't get it.  I found it predictable and annoying. I just wonder what I missed.  Anyone have a clear explanation ?


                
I saw this movie when it first came out and thought it was hip, funny, original, quirky and cool, as did so many of the gushing reviewers who have commented already. The problem for me is that this movie is NOT classic material, because it does not age well. In fact, I could not watch more than ten minutes of it on the second attempted viewing. Perhaps the problem was the fact that I lost count of the number of F-bombs in the first few minutes. When the opening dialog would be incomprehensible if all the obscenities were bleeped, you know you have a problem. When the slutty wife of the rich Lebowski (as opposed to Jeff Bridges' character) offers a "bl*w job" for $1000, it's no longer funny to me - it just makes me squirm. Perhaps I am just becoming stuffy as I grow older, but I don't think so. I think I have a better appreciation of quality, and this movie ain't it.


                
