The Big Lebowski is the type of movie that is so funny, and so clever, you want nothing more but to meet the Coen brothers, congratulate them personally for their unique talent, and get inside their heads and find out what makes these two geniuses "tick".  The main characters are Jeff Bridges (who plays such broad roles like The Muse, The Contender, and Sea Biscuit), John Goodman (who should have won an oscar for best supporting actor for his character, Walter Sobchak)Juliane Moore (Maude Lebowski)and Steve Buscemi (who is unique in every Coen Brother movie).The first time I saw this movie, I will admit that I enjoyed it, but did not fully appreciate its level of humor and raw talent.  I thought the middle section was a bit too depressing and long.  But trust me, this is a movie that gets more funny every time you see it, even if it's your thousandth time seeing it. Its level of comedy, action, brutality, and vulgarity become that much more evident and important.The characters are brilliantly written by the coen brothers, and, likewise, are brilliantly portrayed by the actors.  The Big Lebowski is like no other film.  It will make you laugh and it will make you cry.  There is no other film such as TBL that is sharp and witty all the way through. One of the Joel and Ethan Coen's best, and one of the movie industry's best comedic film of all time.  You want to go see this flick.


                
Those Coen brothers have an ear for language. You feel it in the sing-songy banalities of Fargo, and in the noiresque machine-gun dialogue of Miller's Crossing, but neither of these can prepare you for the feast for the ears that is The Big Lebowski.Channeling the opaque mysteries of Raymond Chandler, the Coens throw LA resident bum and Bowling aficionado Jeff Lebowski ("The Dude" to his friends) into a strange triple-crossing case of kidnapping, ransoms, nihilists and urinated-upon rugs. It is the equivalent of throwing unrelenting forces at an immovable object, the Dude's bemused stoicism at constant odds with the world around him. He'd much rather be bowling with crazed Vietnam Vet Walter (John Goodman) and pure silent soul Donnie (Steve Buscemi).As with so much of the Coens' output, style is more than half the point: not just visual, though ace DP Roger Deakins paints an alluring canvas, but tonal and auditory. This is an insanely funny head-trip of a movie, with wonderfully idiosyncratic characters, down to the smallest part. Who better than the Coens to reinvent the comedy of errors?This is without a doubt one of their very best, a personal favorite, an unmissable film and the kind of experience that will plant an indelible smile on your face. Do yourself and see this now, if you haven't already.


                
With the combination of the writing of the Coen brothers and the Cinematography of Roger Deakins, they created a film as beautiful as it is funny. The Coen brothers consistently impress me with their ability to write an interesting story with fascinating yet quirky characters. Without resorting to gratuitous sexual scenes like many other writer/directors of R rated films the Coen brothers manage to add the right amount of language and violence that is necessary to the story without it becoming the only reason for watching. 'The Big Lebowski' has so many clever and hilarious lines that you have to watch it over and over again. Nothing else needs to be said about it other than it is the greatest movie ever made.


                
How mysterious certain films can be. They become addictive. I've seen Lebowski at least a dozen time and most of the times by accident. It was on TV or a friend is watching it and it is enough to catch a glimpse to be hooked, completely hooked. Last night I saw it on purpose with a couple of friends and I think I'm stating to realize what is it - A unique combination of talents all looking in the same direction --- The Coen Brothers are, probably, the only ones who know what they are seeing and the rest just trust their vision. Totally. Jeff Bridges is miraculous. His character is unique, never seen and at the same times is all of Bridges characters put together. I love him in this part and I love the Coen brothers for writing it knowing, I'm sure, that Bridges was going to give it that real, totally real surreal kind of life. Philip Seymour Hoffman, comes in to do what he does best, being memorable and then, of course, John Tarturro, John Goodman, Steve Buscemi, delicious, each one of them - I'm pretty sure The Big Lebowski will be around for centuries and it will always have something to say even if we don't know exactly what.


                
No movie has entertained me more in the last year than this film. It's delightfully written, directed with poise and acted with extravagance and excellence. I do admit that this is a film that I had to see six times to get. Every time I watch it I learn something new. The genius of the film lies within a game I think the Coen brothers play with their audiences. There are the touches of the masters in many of their films. In "The Hudsucker Proxy," it was Preston Sturges and Frank Capra. In "Raising Arizona," I felt a touch of Sam Fuller. In this film, I felt many touches of greatness, but more specifically I felt John Sayles or even John Cassevettes in spots. The camera was manipulated beautifully and I felt a tinge of their talents lurking in at many a turn. The performances are astounding, especially Goodman as the deranged bowler still living deep within the jungles of the Vietcong. Huddleston is also quite wonderful as the title character. Turturro gives a fine cameo as "Jesus," coupled with a rousing and humurous version of the Eagles, "Hotel California," done in Espanol. I hope this is a film that is looked at with more seriousness. It is, once you dig deep, a fine piece of filmmaking.


                
The Coen Brothers did it again! Just when I had lost my hope of seeing a new, GOOD, American movie, I went to see this. It absolutely blew my mind! Now I've seen all the Coen-films, and I'd have to say that this is one of the very best. It's about this guy, "The Dude", excellently played by Jeff Bridges, who gets an unexpected visit from two thugs who soil his carpet. This event triggers a kidnapping-drama, filled with black humor and crazy characters. I'd recommend this film to everyone with an open mind and a twisted sense of humor. Perhaps thats why I liked it so much.


                
Looks like while making "The Big Lebowski" (1998)– weird, nutty, outrageously funny and deliciously twisted movie, the brothers Ethan and Joel Coens, known for their unique and dry humor, sat back, laughed out loud, and had fun. "Big Lebowski" turned as one of the funniest comedies ever made. It is funny because of the incredibly off-beat characters, their weirdness, flaws, their interactions, the surreal situations they found themselves in, and perfectly written and delivered hilarious dialogs. There is the story, of course, which is based on the case of mistaken identity with the following kidnapping, villainous nihilists, vanguard erotic flying painter, the bowler named Jesus but the story is truly secondary to the delicious craziness of the movie.Some reviewers call Big Lebowski misfire and deranged mess, saying that the story is convoluted with the characters we would not care about a bit. It was also interesting to read the reviews that were written upon its release and compared it to Coens' "Fargo" that had been made a year earlier than the adventure of Jeffrey "the Dude" Lebowski (Jeff Bridges)."Fargo" could be Coens' masterwork but it does not make Lebowski any worse. It was dismissed as the inferior film and was predicted not to stand the future re-watch. The time has proved the predictions wrong. "The Dude" Lebowski - middle-aged pot smoking, White Russian drinking, bowling enthusiast ex-hippie, and his friends, Polish Catholic converted Jew, "more Jewish than Tevye" Vietnam veteran Walter with anger management problems (John Goodman) and timid, little slow, "sweet prince" Donny (unusually quiet Steve Buscemi) have become the cult figures, the beloved characters, for millions of film lovers of different generations, not only the baby- boomers.The Coen Brothers have made twenty films, and all of them are treasure, including their contribution in the 2006 anthology, Paris, je t'aime. I've seen all their films and I want to repeat the title of my review on their latest, "Burn after reading" - The Coen Brothers don't make bad movies, because they don't know how. Their films, Including the cult favorite, Big Lebowski, should not be missed. They are clever, darkly funny, and beautiful without being pretty pictures. In short, they are first class entertainment.
The movie isn't bad, but as one of the best of all time? Hardly, the scenes were bland, jokes were average and not a highlight of the Coen's career. John Goodman had a small role, the movie may of been more impressive if it wasn't seen as such as masterpiece. Worth watching ill admit but should not be raved about like a Pulp Fiction 2. Judge for yourself but your taste of movies would of swooped to a new low if you consider this as a 90's classic. Fargo, O brother where art thou, Paris... they can be remembered but this was just a standard movie to kill some time. Best 250 films of all time? hardly.. Feel free to comment back but don't blame me if you are utterly disappointed


                
Great comedy, great story, great characters and great acting. I really love this movie, and I have seen it over ten times. I'll be watching it again soon, and I advise, if you didn't like it, to try and put yourselves in the shoes of Jeffrey Lebowski and imitate him, for the duration of the movie. Thanks


                
Mild SpoilersThe classic Hitchcock premise of dropping an ordinary man into extraordinary circumstances and watching him go is used to terrific effect by the Coens, who are matched all the way by their players.The Dude, a permanently stoned, nihilistic hippy for the nineties who likes listening to tapes of Creedence, whales singing and bowling pins tumbling is attacked in his apartment by two thugs who mistake him for a millionaire of the same given name - the Big Lebowski of the title.Jeff Bridges as the Dude, excited by intermittent moments of clarity, is sent on a journey through mazy plots and sub-plots populated by outrageous characters from the Los Angeles netherworld. Confronted by kidnap, deception, extortion and German nihilists desperate for cash, he is alternately helped and hindered by his buddy, a Polish Catholic, 'Nam obsessed vet who thinks he's Jewish and who threatens fellow travellers who commit minor bowling transgressions with summary execution. The character is played with relish and perfectly by John Goodman in what may be his finest hour. Their bowling buddy, Steve Buscemi, is underused but sports his best crestfallen facade throughout and demonstrates first-rate comic timing as his character tries to get with the programme.The Big Lebowski is not for all tastes, but, if you get it, is one of the most engaging and side-splitting films around, and one which is eminently quotable: "Walter, you're my friend and I love you, but sooner or later you're going to have to face the fact that you're a goddam moron."If you don't get it, watch it again. And, if you do get it, watch it again.
The Big Lebowski, whether you laugh during the film or not, is assuredly one of the most laid-back of the nineties. I don't mean that by saying that its main fan-base are slackers or hippies or other, but that the whole tone of the film has that air to it. The plot the Coens construct, which is as wonderfully convoluted as a 40's mystery tale (the kinds of stories they get inspired by- The Big Sleep was most likely their title goof), almost gets in the way of the main character and his friends' lives. "The Dude" Jeff Lebowski (Jeff Bridges) has a good, if devoid of "meaning", life- he bowls constantly with his crazed, Vietnam-vet friend Walter (John Goodman, also very note-worthy) and quiet friend Donny (Steve Buscemi, a fine performance based mostly on reactions), with the occasional setback or weirdo to confront him (i.e. John Turturro's Jesus, a highlight in the film's most absurd moments). Enter in a group of deranged ex-musicians turned nihilists (which include the likes of Peter Stormare and Flea), a pornographer, and a rich man with the same name as Lebowski and his family, and the Dude's cycle is turned upside down, though not knocking into his chemical intake.On top of The Big Lebowski, at the core, one of the most odd, off-the-wall, and creative of the Coens' scripts, with a interesting story and dialog as real as it is sometimes insane, the casting is near perfect, if not so already. It's been said by the Coens that they write some of the parts specifically for the actors, and it shows because it's pulled off. Aside from some usual Coen regulars that don't disappoint, Bridges, for lack of a better term, displays his versatility in taking on this role. Often his roles are of the normal-Joe or the businessman, but what the Coens see is that with the right character he can be funny, and make the people around him just as funny. Not to say there aren't serious parts in the film, where he's put into a rut of conflict by way of the plot. But by the time the audience starts to shift its mindset, another strange, surreal, and/or hallucinogenic bit is kicked in. Throw in some unique production design, and Roger Deakins' expert eye on the scenes (will there ever be another film that captures bowling the way this film does, or at least in such scope and lack of subtlety?), and The Big Lebowski ends up as a cult classic. Not the kind of film that could really play for long in a multiplex (it made back its budget during its run, but not by much), yet one that will continue to have at least a little relevance in not just the indie crowd and Coen fans, but with the kinds of movie viewers who like to have a film on during a party or get-together. In fact, I'd say this beats films like Dazed and Confused and Mallrats as being something that can appeal to a younger (and older, depends) viewing crowd with its ridiculous set-pieces and still be a considerable artistic achievement. Look at it this way, think of the silliest, though smartest Cheech and Chong or Three Stooges film you've seen, and when filtered through a mindset that's loaded with European and film-noir influences, and you'll get The Big Lebowski. Not to mention it's one of the most quotable comedies of the 90's, and has a toe-tapping soundtrack. A+


                
A highly original neo-noir comedy, one the greatest feats by the brothers Coen. Great roles by all involved (even the tiniest, like the ones by Jack Kehler or David Thewlis), but of course Jeff Bridges and John Goodman steal the show. The story is simply a load of fun, but with great attention to detail, and with a perfect sense of humour. The soundtrack has no striking Carter Burwell theme this time (he only did that technopop thingy near the end), but it consists of various songs and themes, aptly chosen to befit the required mood; from classical to country or pop music and so on - I just discovered there's even a little bit played by the (Dutch) Koninklijk Concertgebouworkest.Apparently, there are some folks even who dón't like this film, or just don't get it, but I certainly don't feel like the Good Lord gypped me, because sometime there's a film... sometimes there's a film - kinda lost my train of thought here... but, aw, hell...11 out of 10.
This is a rare gem. The most original, hilarious, and unforgettable movie I've ever seen.The Big Lebowski is not a movie with a straight forward plot. It is not a movie that is going to give you closure. And if you don't pay attention, most of it won't be all that funny. But if you sit and watch, soak it all up, and allow yourself to get lost in nothing, it is a one of a kind experience. Please watch this movie, remember the one liners, and become one with the dude.
I caught this film a few years after it came out, with no real expectation, and thought it was OK. However, I had a nagging feeling that there was more to it than I first realised. So I watched it again, and laughed or smiled the whole way through! The Characters play off each other so well; Walter who is actually never really wrong, Donnie who never quite manages to get involved, and the Dude, well, he just wants his rug back.As I am writing this I feel a sense of pride that I re-watched this film as quick as I did. I have since found other "Lebowski" enthusiasts who agree that it was on the 2nd watch that the film really comes together.I could quote the film silly, but that would spoil it, so just watch the film. If you like the Coen's or just quirky humorous films, then this is for you...
This movie is sort of like a circus minus the clowns and the freak show; everything about it is attractive and entertaining. The characters are deep and interesting, and even the most minor of characters have their own unique personality. The camera work is ingenious, as are the visuals and costumes. The comedy comes in from all sides, whether subtle, witty, or straightforward. The Coen Brothers use stereotypes and wording like Van Gough used a brush. It is one of those few movies where almost every line is quotable and easily recognizable. Unlike most comedies (if you could call it such) the story is both followable and enjoyable. One of the true masterpieces of our time. If you don't like this movie, I'm sure you hate to laugh.


                
How can it be that a movie can make you feel better?Well, "The Big Lebowski" will make you feel better and this is how: It is honest, it is ruthless and it is funny.The best part of the movie is that it combines reality with fantasy without exposing the seams.The movie is flawless in its ruggedness. The characters are strong and you know what they mean, regardless of whether you might agree with them or not. In this sense (character complexity) the movie is simple, but it takes this simplicity through an exquisite path of interactions and decisions. At then end you might question yourself "How can someone end up in this type of situation?" and the answer is clear; if that someone is anything like "the dude".Enjoy it, d.


                
The story of the big lebowski is as difficult as funny. It begins with a lazy man in Los Angeles who's parents named him Jef Lebowski, but he prefers if people call him "the dude", played magnificently by Jeff Bridges. One evening two men come into his house and confuse the dude with Jeff Lebowski, a millionaire, where they want to steal from. One of the two "pees" on his rug and the dude wants a new rug. That's where the trouble starts. His bowling-mates Ronny (Steve Buscemi)and Walter (John Goodman)try to help him but do more harm than good, Jeff Lebowski's wife gets kidnapped and the dude has to help her back. But is she really kidnapped, is she really his wife and what's doing Maude Lebowski(great role by Julianne Moore)in all of this? Between all this adventure they have to play a tournament and might meet the incredible Jesus (John Turturro), who is a great bowler but "also a pervert". The movie contains hilarious scenes and unbelievable trips and is packed with great one liners. The dude is an anti-hero who does the things his way and most of the time, that's very relaxed. It's also relaxed for us as a viewer and the dude at some way is even inspiring. Maybe the Coen brothers made with Fargo a better movie, i was caught immediately by this one and since then i seen it over and over again but i never got bored. The film is based on a friend of the Coen brothers, who called himself the dude and Jeff bridges did nothing more for to make this movie then to eat and drink. "the easiest preparation i ever had for a role" as he said. It proved that he did his preparation well and its actually strange he didn't even get an Oscar nomination for it. If you never like to bowl, you will love it now. "You roll!!"


                
I was really looking forward to watching 'The Big Lebowski' because i am a big fan of the Coen brothers work. Fargo was brilliant and they have done some other very good movies to, but The Big Lebowski is overrated. People tell me the whole plot is kind of a joke, well if thats so it's the equivalent of a 'knock' knock' joke. Although perhaps the dude is a great character... the plot doesn't really go anywhere even though i though it had a lot of potential, it just came off weird. Although the character 'Jesus' a strange man they go bowling with gave me a few laughs along with some other mildly amusing parts, The Big Lebowski should certainly not be on IMDb's top 250 because i was personally unimpressed by it.


                
If you were a fan of "Fargo," you might just like "The Big Lebowski," a bizarre comedy whose hero (if that is the appropriate word) is played by Jeff Bridges as a spaced-out junkie who lives in Los Angeles, unemployed, with a trashy apartment and few belongings. His name is Lebowski, but he is known by his friends as The Dude, and he prefers that moniker rather than his birth name.Every evening Dude goes bowling with his best buddies, Walter (John Goodman) and Donny (Steve Buscemi). Walter is a Vietnam veteran, and in his perception, all incidents relate to the war. "What does the Vietnam War have to do with anything?" Dude asks him at a fragile moment in both their lives. Instead of disputing, Walter gives him a big bear hug.The story begins with a humorous and self-aware voice-over by the narrator, played by Sam Elliot in a few recurring cameos. He informs us that Dude's adventure started on an eventful night not very long ago, when a duo of criminals broke into his house in search of The Big Lebowski, a local millionaire who happens to share Dude's last name. After dunking Dude's face into a toilet bowl and realizing that they've attacked the incorrect individual, the pair of idiots urinate on Dude's rug and flee the apartment.Dude figures that the only man truly responsible for the incident is Lebowski himself, so he makes a trip out to his mansion and is informed by Lebowski's assistant (portrayed by Philip Seymour Hoffman with the perfect amount of nervousness) that Lebowski's wife has been kidnapped and is being held for ransom. Suspecting that she is in the custody of the two men who attacked Dude, Lebowski offers the slacker a chance to be the courier of his ransom fee. "Her life is in your hands," Lebowski tells him. He promises him some cash to transport a briefcase containing the money, and Lebowski agrees to help him out.Unfortunately, the kidnappers never receive their ransom, and Dude's car is stolen, along with Lebowski's money. It just so happens that Lebowski's unfaithful wife owed some money to a trio of German nihilists, as well as an adult filmmaker and an assortment of other odd creatures, and now Lebowski is being targeted for the cash. Everyone seems to think that the briefcase is in his possession, and he is threatened that he will lose his "Johnson" unless it is returned. Fearing for his life (and more importantly, his Johnson) Dude takes comfort in Walter, who tracks down the 15-year-old teenager who stole the car and the briefcase and has apparently bought a sports car with a small portion of the briefcase's contents. "See this Tommy? This is what happens when you mess with a stranger!" Walter yells at the boy as he single-handedly demolishes the sports car. We all anticipate the obvious punch line far ahead of time, but the result is nevertheless extremely funny.The Coen Brothers, Ethan and Joel, are extremely gifted filmmakers. They burst onto screens across the nation in 1984 with their indie classic "Blood Simple," which starred Frances McDormand and Dan Hedaya, the former of whom would later star in "Fargo" as the bumbling police officer Marge Gunderson.As usual, the Coens fall back on their quirky characters for comic relief and enjoyable antics, particularly Buscemi, who is one of the best character actors in Hollywood, and who also manages to be funny in whichever role he chooses - despite having to say anything funny at all. In "Fargo" he was the blundering kidnapper, Carl, and in "The Big Lebowski," he lets his hair part across his head and hang low across his face, completely changing his entire pattern of speech. He's the goofy little squirt who tags along with Dude and Walter, and manages to repeat everything they say and ask questions about discussions long after they have ended. "You're like a child who has wandered into the middle of a movie and wants to know what's going on!" Walter tells him. "What's your point, Walter?" he asks. But it's the innocent nature of his tone that leads us to like him, and it's Walter's crazy antics that makes us feel attached to him, and it's The Dude's trademark humor that makes us enjoy watching him. The Coens have succeeded at making a great comedy with characters that actually have their own characteristics. But it is the Coens' eloquent use of proverbial language that is really what elevates the film above all else. The script is wonderful and witty. This has some of the best dialogue I have ever heard, ranking up there with "Pulp Fiction" and the work of Elmore Leonard. Walter's rants consume much of the dialogue, which I think is fine."The Big Lebowski" is a movie with considerably large structural flaws and weaknesses. Yet the film seems to know this, letting the audience in on the secret during the introductory voice-over narration. "Aw, I've lost my train of thought," we're told, as The Stranger mumbles on about the movie's plot. And towards the end, we're all told by The Stranger that he sincerely hopes we enjoyed the story, even if it's nothing special. Yup, that about sums it all up. "The Big Lebowski" is a movie with a lot of joy, wit, and wicked humor: three reasons you've got to see one of the most enjoyable films of the past decade.


                
I'm a huge fan of the Coen brothers, and even their weakest films (with the exception of Barton Fink) hold some allure for me. I think they simply lost their way with The Big Lebowski. There is an interesting premise there - somewhere - but it gets awfully muddled up with allusions that just never go anywhere. But it's the Coen Brothers, so I make an effort. I've made the effort several times as a matter of fact. I'll hear someone whose judgment I trust lauding the film and I'll think, "Maybe this is the time I'll get the beauty of this film." I strive to find meaning when none is there. And I can't just enjoy it for the slapstick comedy, for that's not there either. There is a grotesque perversion of slapstick, but it doesn't work on that level. And then the movie commits the greatest sin of all; it just ends. I'm not the type of guy that needs things neatly wrapped up. I love the ending of No Country for Old Men. That was a great film that didn't provide easy answers and a pat ending. No, I fear that the Coen Brothers themselves didn't really know where they were going with The Big Lebowski. I think the film is a failure and in no way deserves the cult following it has received.5  
"The man in me will do, nearly any task." – Bob Dylan A "noir plot" is really an impenetrable web of cosmic betrayal in which our hero is trapped, helplessly pushed around like a tumbleweed in the wind. Consider Howard Hawks' "The Big Sleep" - a film which "The Big Lebowski" homages - in which we the audience feel a bit like Humphrey Bogart, as we hack our way through Hawks' convoluted narrative.The Coen brothers' "The Big Lebowski" is just as confusing as Hawks' film, filled with dead ends, double crosses, and confused characters who eventually learn that there was really no mystery at all. But what happens, the Coen's ask, when you take a stoner, a guy who just abides, and put him in a noir plot? What happens when you swap an active hero like Bogart, with a a passive slacker like Jeffery Lebowski? Jeffery "The Dude" Lebowski doesn't try to battle his way out of his noir plot. He doesn't fight fate. He simply says "f**k it!" and abides. As such, the film's tumbleweeds, bowling pins etc, are all metaphors for a highly deterministic universe. The tumbleweed itself, like The Dude, simply goes where the wind takes it. It's a reversal of our typical noir hero.The issue of the femme fatale is also updated. Maude Lebowski, a feminist and artist, has The Dude checked by a doctor. She then sleeps with him simply to get herself pregnant. She's a woman who uses and discards men, using them purely as sexual objects. Throughout the film, The Dude even makes some subtle jabs at Maude's male replacement role ("Hey man, why don't you fking listen for a change?") But what makes Muade choose Jeffery as the perfect mating partner? And why does the narrator deem the Dude worthy of such noble treatment? The film articulates these questions itself when the Big Lebowski asks the audience, "What makes a man?" With it's phallic imagery and its frequent threats of castration (scissors, ferret, dropped cigarette etc) and male rape ("f**k you up the ass!"), the film goes on to offer some answers.Firstly, all the men in the film are weak. While the Big Lebowski is confined to a wheelchair, Smokey, the landlord, and Donny are all d*ckless. When talking about penises, Donny even says "What do you need that for, dude?". Then there's Jesus, who lusts for kids and Walter, who's so whipped by his ex that he still babysits her dog. Then there's Jackie Treehorn, the alpha male who, quote, "Treats objects like women, man!" The film's original script makes the themes of masculinity even more implicit. In the final scene, when The Big Lebowski is thrown from his chair, he yells: "Stay away from me! You and these women! You wont even leave a man his balls!" But unlike everyone else in the film, The Dude (always in shorts, his legs wide apart) seems more in touch with his masculinity. By abiding and not refusing to be "tied down" to any one cultural identity, he is flexible and free ("Do you see a ring on this finger? Do I look like I'm fking married?").All these themes have recently led to feminist writers discovering and falling in love with the film. In her writings, gender theorist Monique Wittig says that "woman" and "man" are merely political and economic categories. We create personas based on external forces. Wittig says that the rise of the individual and the liberation of desire require the abolition of gender categories. And that's just what the Dude is, freedom from desire and total individuality in the face of a world that wants him to conform.These writers read The Dude as a noble individual who, because he refuses to adhere to the films ready made male stereotypes (castrated or alpha male), is a more whole character and thus more appealing to the female Other. But they fail to realise that The Dude, like the cowboy, is himself a heroic distortion of the male identity. To the Coens, he represents an idealised version of the "failed male". One who pleasures himself with constant buddy interactions, poses with cool solidarity (and nonconformity) and is always strictly heterosexual.But the dude is really a bum and a failure, constantly playing with his balls in fear of castration. The appeal and popularity of the character is essentially down to males loving the carefree masculinity he projects, despite the world deeming him a failures as a man. In fact, the only truly "successful" man in the film, Jackie Treehorn, makes a living out of subjugating women, has a big d*ck, and seeks to develop machines to replace women so he can jack off with technology.So war and female sexuality are both tied into the rug at the centre of the film. As such, the film treats the Persian Rug as a mini Persian War. A piece of territory which the female (Maude) eventually wins. The dude thinks he's a "man's man" who gets the woman and doesn't have to bother about rearing the kids, when in fact he's just abiding to the superiority of the Female Other.But the Dude is unconcerned about all this. Unlike the pacifists (Donny, Landlord, Smokey), nihilists (Russians) and aggressors (Walter/Bush) in this war, the Dude is very much a non-interventionist. He has no real desires, avoids women, is happy and lives life without worry. He's the ultimate introvert, while the Big Lebowski is the ultimate extrovert. Ironically, both men really haven't accomplished anything on their own. When the Big L asks "Are you employed Mr Lebowski?", he's just covering up the fact that he's also useless and unemployed.9.5/10 - Worth multiple viewings.
This is such a beautiful movie, to my opinion certainly the best the Coen brothers made. For anybody who sometimes gets tired of the hectic life he lives, this is a must see. It will make you want to be like the Dude. Because whatever happens, the Dude will be the Dude.This movie was made with a moving subtlety, although I must admit I didn't see that at first. It makes anything that takes itself too seriously look stupid, it's a manifest of Dudeness. The actors in this movie must have had incredible synergy when this movie was made. Without exceptions, the acting is really phenomenal. Especially Jeff Bridges (the Dude himself) John Goodman (Walter) and Philip Seymour Hoffman (Brandt) do amazing jobs. This movie, through excellent storytelling and acting, shows such a comforting humanity, it's warm and moving on many occasions. And it's hilarious at the same time.In the end, we learn that the Dude abides. And I don't know about you, but like the Stranger, I take comfort in that. The Dude abides.


                
This movie is the best. I laugh every time like it's the first time seeing it! Can't get enough of the Dude in this classic film.


                
I love the dark comedy genre and this film takes the cake. Both tragic and very funny; the dude will have you in stitches!


                
The pacifist Jeffery Lebowsky (The Duder) finds himself in the middle of a crime scene just because he wanted his rug back. Walter, his hillarious Vietnam veteran friend, tries his best to help him, which makes the whole story a masterpiece. The story is a bit confusing because you are walking by the team. You know nothing more than what the dude knows. So, even if you can not make sense of the story at the end, do not worry at all Because it took the whole movie for the dude himself too to figure it out. Just watch it again and again. This way you can die with a smile on your face with out feeling the good lord gypped you.!


                
