TBL is not a terrible movie, but I apparently just don't get it. My lady-friend's daughter is always telling her that she should see TBL in order to understand some of the "in-humor" and comments of her generation. I kept telling my friend that I really didn't think that the movie would be what she expected, but we watched it together anyway. (I had already seen it a couple times.) My friend was flabbergasted, as she couldn't identify any phrases, humorous scenes, or references that she had ever heard or seen her daughter's group use. She didn't like the movie, either, and was actually checking to make sure that it was the same movie her daughter had recommended.I feel the same way. Frankly, this movie is boring and pretentious. I love most of the Coens' work, but not this film. It goes into a category, along with "Young Frankenstein", of movies about which other people make a fuss and I just don't get. Maybe I'm slow.Anyway, if your idea of fun is watching a laid-back dude drink White Russians and a lot of unnecessary one-dimensional characters get layered on, go ahead. It's just not my cup of tea.


                
It's such a boring movie. I wasted some valuable time watching it. There is nothing funny in it and I couldn't laugh even for once even though I tried. I really don't understand why this has such a good rating. It's such a usual Hollywood story with stereotypical characters. As soon as the daughter of Mr.Lebowski(the millionaire) appears, you know she is going to have sex with the main character. Such a stupid script and the message they give at the end is just for the sake of creating some sense to what they did with the movie. IMDb says they need ten lines of text in a review. Seriously? I don't think this movie even deserves a review. But, I'd take this opportunity to warn those who haven't watched it already.
I just had the unfortunate experience of watching The Big Lebowski for the first time. All I can say is that I'm amazed at its popularity. It's hard to comprehend people actually like this overrated dud and claim it's funny and entertaining. As if the muddled and overloaded script and plot weren't enough, the characters aren't the least bit interesting to watch. Jeff Bridges' character is an unemployed loser, and for that reason alone, we're suppose to think he's "really cool". I bet slacker misfits must be the only ones who could identify with such character. Moreover, John Goodman's character is downright obnoxious. Julianne Moore, Steve Buscemi, and John Turturro are wasted in nonsensical roles. Plus, the laughs are few and far between. The cliff scene when John Goodman scatters Steve Buscemi's ashes but the wind blows them on to Jeff Bridges' face, is probably the funniest bit in the whole movie. Everything else seems forced. The music is forgettable and if you want a better display of Roger Deakins' cinematography, I suggest you see a better Coen brothers' film - O Brother, Where Art Thou? To think this film came from the same people who brought us Fargo and Blood Simple.


                
I've read about 100 comments on this film and didn't find any negative ones. To me that's very weird since this film only has about 5 memorable laughs.You can predict every single joke miles ahead, the one with the ash in 'dudes' face at the top spot.Then that guy dies in the end.. what about that? I didn't feel any connection to any of the characters, so I couldn't care less..This film could be funny when you're high on weed, but everything is funny then.If you're looking for stupid practical joke stuff, watch this. Otherwise don't ever bother and watch a Friends rerun instead. Even that is more funny when you watch it for the tenth time.
I love the Cohen Brothers. I've seen most of their movies way more than once. This one.. barely made it through once.All the characters were horrible! I wanted to reach into the movie and clunk "The Dude" in the head. John Goodman's character was unspeakably rude and stupid and offensive. What a waste of Steve Buschemi! The only part that was amusing was Julianna Moore's character-- mostly because she was doing a great impression of Katherine Hepburn. Now that I think of it, the dream sequences were surreal enough to be interesting, especially the bit with a POV of the inside of a bowling ball! My friend who recommended it replied to my objections by saying, "Oh, maybe I forgot to mention that this is a movie best watched stoned." Yeah... maybe. Do yourself a favor. Skip this one and watch Miller's Crossing again!


                
I thought it slowed down.  There are good comedic moments throughout, but the script slows down a notch about a third of the way through.  It was not clear if slow moments were intentional, meant to be surrealistic, or what. The comedic moments are good, though, and I would not discourage anyone who appreciates humor from seeing it.I got tired of hearing the profanity.  It's use was in a consistent vein, relative to the movie's style and supposed intent.  Still, enough.


                
I have no idea why this film is loved by many including critics all around the world, and it is seen as a masterpiece for some. The story is pretty interesting, it is a nice film, there are Jeff Bridges, John Turturro and John Goodman and even more, John Goodman is very funny as usual, in my opinion, the most funny character in the movie, Jeff Bridges is cool, but no more than that. Moreover, this is not a comedy, this is black comedy, no problem, but I just try to say that "the hype" doesn't say that. The hype is problematic also. Some critics write that it is one of the best examples of pure cinema. Sorry, but this is not a Kubrick or Tarantino film. I don't call a movie as pure art so that the camera follows the bowls which roll over! I couldn't see anything great in the movie. As known, the movie has big fans who saw the movie again and again, but never got bored! At the end, there is a speech. It ruins the movie for me a sort of. Therefore, a humorous and entertaining film, but it is not great, it is not a piece of art or it is not brilliant. One of Coen's disappointing movies unlike No Country for Old Men and Barton Fink.


                
I realize that there are all these cinema people that have obviously voted some high marks for this movie,  that would be the only way to explain the high marks.  I was bored out of my mind!!   As far as I am concerned that means the movie sucks.


                
While there is nothing outright terrible about The Big Lebowski, from the very beginning it lacks the wit and intelligence of many of their other efforts.  The double-dealing twists and turns can't hold a candle to the level of intrigue in Miller's Crossing (nor the humor, which is mostly missing in Lebowski), nor does it have the dramatic photography of Fargo, which it resembles quite closely in both plot and tone, to keep it interesting.  It is a luke-warm film that could have easily been directed and written by any of a dozen writer/directors out there.  While there are a few quotes, they are fairly few and far between, and do not stand on their own in any meaningful way (and to all you who think "The Dude abides" is a great quote, then you know why I call this the lowest common denominator). To paraphrase from an earlier Coen film, "we all have that Coen Brothers feeling, but since this film was by the Coen Brothers, we figure it should have it in spades."  Unfortunately, it doesn't, and it suffers because of it.4/10


                
This film had glowing recommendations from so many people.  The Big Lebowski had an intriguing plot idea, and some very good performances, e.g. from John Goodman in particular. It is just that I can't bear the 'Oh so clever' style of the Coen brothers films. It seems they put a lot of effort into being quirky just as an end in itself, and this film was no different.There is nothing wrong with dream sequences, off the wall dialogue etc. Far from it. They feature strongly in some of my favourite movies of the last 30 years. I am a huge fan of David Lynch for example. But this film has a sense of desperation on the part of the filmmakers. That feeling of End of Year film school project about it. Like the geeks who watch the great movies and want to distill all the best bits into their own creation, but just don't get that you can over-egg it and whackify it so much that it simply becomes awfully tedious. There are probably a lot of people out there who admire the intentions of a film like the Big Lebowski, without stopping to think: 'Did they actually laugh?' I felt like I ought to at times, without actually getting near.


                
I honestly really did not enjoy this movie and actually think that it is highly overrated.I am thinking of watching it again because I must have missed something, there was absolutely no storyline, acting was average; all in all I could see nothing that separates this movie from the rest despite it being bad. OK, let me not be so hard, there were some elements in the movie that were not bad and the movie did display unique traits, I guess I was simply expecting more based on the very high IMDb rating and the other comments posted. I only hope that my comment will at least level the expectations of this film so that others who view it can be satisfied customers because I for one was not. In summary I am giving this movie a 4 out of 10. As said above I do intend to watch this flick again and hope that I can see what others have seen. Anyway this is just my two cents.//Mr. Blunt


                
I've been using for a while a rating system that considers a "Watchability Factor", Acting and plot... The rating system goes from 1 to 10, with 5 points given to the "watchability factor", 2 for the acting and 3 for the plot.The scoring works as follows:Watchability Factor 5 - Spectacular! Worth watching over and over again4 - Outstanding<U+0085> will watch several times 3 - Really good movie<U+0085> will watch more than once 2 - Good movie<U+0085> may watch more than once 1 - OK movie... but once is enough.Acting 2 - spectacular, Oscar worthy 1 - Really good, enhanced the plot0 - movie wasn't about the actingPlot 3 - Spectacular, nothing else like it in the genre, nominated for Best Picture (Oscars) 2 - Makes you think well after, unique 1 - Interesting idea / story 0 - Run of the millThe Big Lebowski??? Two points for "watchability", one for acting and one for plot... for a total of 4 out of ten. Really Good Movie!!!... Watch if you must...


                
It's well acted. I can see the absurdity in the comedy and so on. That's all good but I just found it really uninteresting. It's a bit like Dude where's my Rug but not as entertaining as Dude Where's My Car. It's certainly not that funny that I'd ever watch it again. I fell asleep watching it, that's not unusual however, when I rewound it I just said nah, this isn't worth watching and deleted it from the PVR. I'm not much of a fan of anyone named Bridges (except for Nash) so that didn't help. Anything they're in is usually abysmal. I really can't imagine why this is regarded as a classic cult comedy, or maybe it isn't and I just thought it was. I give it 4 stars, it's not a bad film, doesn't live up to the hype whatsoever and it's just a disappointment to have watched it.


                
Maybe I was expecting too much. I read the reviews and so many were glowing. I watched and waited and hardly any of it was funny. Some of the predicaments were humorous, but the characters just weren't likable. I love John Goodman but his character was a psycho that didn't have very many great lines. Buscemi's talent was just wasted. I found The Dude to be stupid and clueless and how he survives each day is mind boggling.I did enjoy some of the characters and they were funny, but nothing near what I read from reviews. I have seen all of the Coen films and this is the only one I did not thoroughly enjoy.
If The Big Lebowski is a comedy, then why did it fail to make me laugh out loud? Sure, I chuckled at one scene that I can recall, but on the whole, it didn't make me laugh and I didn't find it to be all that funny. While The Big Lebowski may be a big hit with some, it wasn't with me. Pass.


                
Heard so much about how great this movie is. I kept waiting for the movie to get great. Kept waiting...and waiting...then the movie ended. I'm into all kinds of cult movies, but not this one. It's not good enuf to be great, not weird enough to be great, not lousy enough to be great. What is so outstanding? A guy named "The Dude"???? Wow, brilliant. A guy drinking? Wowee. I simply failed to see the value of this film, cult or otherwise. It just bored me.


                
