Honestly a laugh-out-loud comedy that I agree with others, does not get old! The bowling scenes crack me up. Steve Buscemi is hilarious in this and of course Jeff Bridges. There are just moments of sheer comedic cringe-worthy moments that will have you in stitches. Check it out!


                
The funniest part of this, 'down and outers' comedy is, that I know several guys, that if you took and rolled them into one, they would equal the Dude, Jeffrey LeBowski. that's pretty scary. I don't even think that they have seen the movie, but who cares? Jeff Bridges is so stinking versatile I can't believe it from a reel-live slacker extraordinare to (The Big LeBowski 1998) a reel-President- (The Contender 2000) with out skipping a beat. For all intensive purposes this movie would be a real waste of time, but this was a side splitting whimsical good time!! From Julliane Moore as the egocentric, emotionally-sterile 'Maude' who was a suspicious investigator, to the best friend (Goodman) who's religious nationality 'changes' because of his 'Ex' who dumped him cold. But as long as he can 'bowl' with the Dude, all his other short-comings, just seem to go by the way-side. But through it all, he (Goodman's character) was a loyal buddy to Jeff and a decent friend, even if he could acquire 'fingers' by 3:00...with nail polish. In all fairness though, LeBowski as a 'private' investigator, reminds me of a quote from 'Dirty Harry' where Harry states (after the 'demise' of a man who is a victim of his own stupidity and greed) 'A man should know his own limitations.' and in this case, having Jeffrey investigate is just as swift as letting the 'fox' guard that Ole' hen house. This was a 'slackers delight' and watching someone who is as good a player as 'Bridges' play a tremendously convincing 'Loser' is just a rare treat. In the comedy section, this one is an ever so often player. Just one that you 'havfta see' every now and again. I don't know who he studied, but if I didn't know better I would swear that he got together with my two 'old school' buds. (****)


                
My Rating : 9/10You either hate it or love it. I am in love with 'The Big Lebowski'! I love most of the Coen Brothers' work and this one is right up there with Fargo and No Country For Old Men. It's super funny and can be watched again and again. I think I watch it once a year and always have a great time.One that I highly recommend. Go watch it! And then watch it again and again.AN AWESOME CULT FILM.


                
Spoilers herein.The Coens shine into one of the bright zones in my film universe. They are intelligent and fun.I believe that they first select some intellectual issue related to problems of narrative, here identity. Then they, independently, select a film style to exploit, here screwball through Busby (instead of the screwball through Capra of `Hudsucker'). Then they run wild with all sorts of cinematic devices, always cinematic narrative.Of the Coen films I know, this is the most fantastic in terms of shifting realities. Hudsucker shifted often, but only into the `newspaper' mode of `It Happened One Night.' Here we have an arbitrary number of realities and levels, all unstructured which is the point. It is also a favorite because it has Julianne doing what she (and very few others) does best: playing a character who is acting. She gives us herself as the actress, the character as the actress (here an abstract painter) and the quite different character the character plays (the femnist family anchor). She's a gift that the Coens know how to use.The narrative ground zero is supplied by the countertop Cowboy as chorus. The `play within' is the Berkeley dream sequence.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4: Worth watching.
Those wacky and weird Coen Bros have come up with another off the wall masterpiece, off-beat comedy, crime thriller! The Big Lebowski is a phony business magnate/benefactor, legless war hero, who hires the lesser, and seemingly loser Dude Lebowski to deliver the million dollar ransom for his kidnapped young wife, Bunny, Tara Reid. The turn over of the ransom goes wrong and the bigger Lebowski accuses Dude of stealing the million. The much underrated Jeff Bridges plays the part of Dude, a laid back junkie bowler, to a tee! His best friend, Walter Sobchack is played by John Goodman, in one of his best roles to date. In his quest to retain the ransom, Dude encounters a bunch of Nihilists,A ticked off and thoroughly nasty Malibu police officer, and the daughter of Lebowski, played by Julianne Moore. The well meaning Sobchack manages to vandalise a brand new sports car to the chagrin of the real owner. The third part of the three stooge type bowling trio is played by the ever fluent Steve Buscemi. Ben Gazzara is the smooth operator of a Playboy type mansion, and look out for the cameo role of Sam Elliott, as "The Stranger"!


                
The Big Lebowski is simply a joy to watch, and gets better with every viewing. There's simply so much to see, from the absurd musical sequences to the sociopathic behavior of John Goodman's character Walter Sobchak. Just trying to make sense of the convoluted and completely ridiculous plot is a game onto itself. The movie has an enormous amount of quotable lines and the dialogue is some of the Coen brothers' finest.The characters are all imaginative and memorable, with Jeff Bridges and John Goodman wrestling for the best part. Goodman's Walter Sobchak is easily one of the most unsympathetic and frankly crazy Vietnam-vet characters in cinema, what with him constantly referring to his battles in Vietnam or spouting obscenities at everyone in sight. But Bridges' the Dude is just as charming: writing a cheque of 0,69$, crashing his car after dropping a joint on his lap and constantly drinking white russians. Even the small characters like the side-splittingly hilarious Jesus Quintana, the police chief of Malibu or the black taxi driver you will laugh at time and time again. The amount of small but memorable characters is almost too much to count.The movie has some issues, though. Because of the narrative being so convoluted and not being the point anyway, the film feels at times like a series of isolated sketches than a consistent whole. It can also be very confusing for first time viewers who will try to follow the plot. To fully enjoy this movie one has to be in a certain mindset.Recommendation: Like all Coen brothers films, The Big Lebowski is not for everyone. But for those who enjoy this sort of comedy, finding a better film of this sort is hard.


                
I had been wanting to see "The Big Lebowski" for a long time, until I got a clean copy from it in the Blockbuster.Even though the film is superbly managed into the deep terrains of black comedy, satire and portraying the ultimate "exaggereta" model of the lazy American, slaking in his filthy environment; it's a repeated exercise in form, and it uses it's style too often to provoke a sense of depletion, excess and tiresomeness.Even that, Jeff Bridges does a brilliant performance (snubed by the Academy because of the fact of being a comedy role) and hilarious sidekicks like a temperamental John Goodman and a Latino stylish bowler like John Turturro."The Big Lebowski" is a good comedy, with a slick, smart script, recommended for the audiences that do not target comedies in a mass-like way and enjoy acid and dark moments and laughing out loud, man.


                
The Coen Brothers have a unique sense of humor which they incorporate in every one of their movies. The Big Lebowski features Jeff Bridges in the leading role of 'The Dude' or 'His Dudeness' or 'El Duderino', whatever you like better. Easily one of the coolest movie characters ever created, 'The Dude' is an unemployed guy who passes his time by playing bowling and does not give a damn about what others think of him. There happens to be another Lebowski who is a millionaire, so a couple of guys mistake the dude for him when they are looking for a payoff. Now, the eccentric plot revolves around how 'The Dude' manages to deliver a million dollars to the kidnappers of The Lebowski's wife, that is the millionaire Lebowski.The movie is filled with incredibly hilarious dialogues and some outrageous actions by the characters. The cinematography is fantastic and there are certain dream sequences which have been captured magnificently. The Big Lebowski has all the ingredients that are required for being a classic that will be remembered for decades to come. If you want a truly exhilarating cinematic experience, then go ahead and watch this movie now.


                
Recently given a one night cinematic return to mark 20 years since its initial release. "The Big Lebowski" remains on the highpoints of the Coen Brothers remarkable career of excellence. Their farcical homage to Raymond Chandler stars Jeff Bridges, as "The Dude" whose real name, Jeff Lebowski drags him into a plot to ransom the wife of his namesake, played by David Huddleston. Blackmailers come to the wrong address, rugs are pissed on and threats are made. Eventually the "Big" Lebowski chooses "The Dude" to be the bag man for the ransom drop off. A decision that all involved soon come to regret. Twenty years has allowed me to watch "The Big Lebowski" a few times, and to be fair it's a film that improves with each watch. The plot is nothing special, in fact it's almost non-existant. The character revolve around each other and at the end of it you're no wiser as to who, if anyone, actually kidnapped Bunny (Tara Reid) or what happened to the $1M dollars. . But you come to appreciate that the plot isn't as important as the characters and what characters they are. Jeff Bridges gives a career best performance as "The Dude".... Mumbling and "man-ing" his way through the film, which belies the wit that he sometimes allows a glimpse of. It is one of the funniest, most quotable movies of all time. Full of the Coen's regular acting troop, some of whom show up for just one or two scenes, make their memorable mark and then are never heard from again. It is a stone cold classic, and we'll still be watching it in another twenty years.


                
I will start reviewing every movie I see from now on - new to me or ones I choose to re-watch - with careful attention, and this is the first movie I will officially review. I chose this one since I have seen it most recently and it is a pretty simple film with a seemingly complex plot. This is one of the Coen Brothers' best films - not necessarily in the sense of great cinema, but rather in relation to the factor of entertaining the audience. I showed this film to my good friend Spencer just a few months ago and he wanted to watch it again tonight. It is easy to see why since I was quoting/enjoying a lot of the film for its great comedy, such as the many times Walter says "shut the f--- up, Donnie," how the Dude repeats things he hears from other people in order to get his point across, or how ridiculous the narrator's moustache is. I remember that on first viewing I did not appreciate this film since it is revealed by the Dude towards the conclusion that the MacGuffin of the film - the briefcase filled with a million dollars - was never really filled in the first place. Like Fargo, The Big Lebowski deals with the idea that most will go out of their habits or comfort zone in order to obtain an amount of money - however, it does so in a more ridiculous manner than Fargo. After a few re-watches I have found it important to appreciate this film's comedy rather than make sense of the almost non-existent plot in order to enjoy it. Does it matter that The Dude's journey turns into a dead end? No; his journey is still progressive as he goes from not giving a damn about anything to confronting people of the seemingly upper class about using him, and the journey has a great deal of laughs making this a great cinematic experience to enjoy and reflect on the importance of taking things easy in everyday life. 3.5/4.0
I just saw the Tennesse William's film Suddenly Last Summer the other night and I found there to be a distinct similarity between Katherine Hepburn's character Violet and Julianna Moore's Maude from The Big Lebowski.  Now I don't think that Maude is a copy of Violet but if you listen to the way she talks and the way she leads a conversation you can hear a distinct similarity between them.  The best part of the movie to make this comparison is when Hepburn is showing Montgomery Clift around her son's garden and the way she talks about flowers and her niece Catherine (Elizabeth Taylor) and then compare that to when Maude first meets The Dude and she is talking about art, the female form, sex, and her step mother Bunny.  I don't know, maybe it's just me.  For other Cohen Brother inspiration check out The Alan Ladd/Veronica Lake film "The Glass Key," as inspiration for "Miller's Crossing," and check out Akim Tamiroff as Uncle Joe Grande in "Touch of Evil" as a model for several characters that Jon Polito plays in a bunch of Cohen Brother's movies.


                
Exceptionally amusing picture with a splendid cast. The plot skillfully tangled and requires attentive monitoring. Jeff Bridges is outstanding in portraying a pitiful bum. John Goodman is tragicomical with his references to Vietnam. Supporting actors are equally impressive. Credit to the director for his imaginative touches. Highly recommended. Entertainment is guaranteed.


                
The Big Lebowski is a rare comedy in that it makes you laugh at the reasons for the Dude's behavior rather than at the absurdity of the situations he is in.  It's not a detective/comedy and it sure as hell isn't a bowling comedy; it's a lifestyle movie with wonderfully written characters.  Jesus is a perfect example of comedic genius with a flat character.  He's a pedophile bowler that has the ability to intimidate guys like the Dude, who probably doesn't really even care enough to be intimidated. But that's the type of conflict that this movie deals with.  The Dude and Walter never really learn any lesson or go through any major character changes.  You must keep in mind that this movie is just a crazy story whose main purpose is to express the comedic traits within the characters.  Fans of character conflict should love this aspect.  Those looking for a buildup and climax may not appreciate the story so much.  The whole detective story is given to the audience blatantly.  But, like the Dude, you become wrapped up in the craziness of all the distractions from the cast of characters such as Autobahn that are thrown into the mix.  So when the story ends, you feel like the Dude; someone who just drifted along as everything sort of passed right by you. But worrying about all of it would be very un-Dude.


                
I saw this movie for the first time about ten years ago and I guess I was too young to understand just how good it was because I have not seen it again since now. This movie is just perfect with outstanding writing from the cohen brothers who always find new ways to make interesting stories and quirky fun characters. With all the actors doing such a bang up belieavle job this movie does everything right.This movie is about jeffery lebowski (everyone calls the dude) (Bridges) an unemployed loser who does nothing pretty much other then bowl. One night two young thugs bust into his place thinking he was a million of the same name. After figuring out he wasn't they peed on his rug and took off. So the dude went to the million for compensation for his rug but when he gets there the old millionaire has a proposistion for him.This movie was just so good. It felt so real and believable mainly thanks to the awesome writing and acting. It is interesting and hilarious it really is a must see.


                
A typical Coen movie - plot intertwined with sub-plot intertwined with another sub-plot intertwined with seemingly genuine and lovable characters (as well as 'love-to-hate' characters). What's not to love about the Dude? I aspire to be more like him everyday, and even if that's the only thing you take away from this film, it would be well worth it. This guy introduced me to 'White Russian' ('Caucasian') cocktails - vodka, Kahlua and cream. Try to keep up with the plot, learn to love Donnie but overall, enjoy the laid back humour and classic 'one liners' that you'll be repeating over and over...and over..and over again!


                
The Big Lebowski is a brilliant comedy, but it also has a very unique plot. If you liked Fargo, you might also like this because it involves a simple plot, but involves several incidents that add to the story and make it funnier as it goes.There are several unique characters like the artist played by Julianne Moore, the Hispanic bowler named Jesus played by John Turturro, and one of my favorite characters is the boisterous bowler named Walter, who is played by John Goodman. The story is centered around a lowlife bowler named Jeff Lebowski, or 'the dude' as everyone calls him. One day his house is broken into and his beloved carpet is soiled, all because he was mistaken for a multimillionaire with the same last name as him. He tries to get help from the Big Lebowski, but doesn't get anything, until the big Lebowki needs help and the Dude and his bowling buddies decide to assist him. The result is an entertaining and wickedly hilarious trip to regaining the dude's prized possession.The plot is simple at first, until it gets more complex. The film requires more viewings to appreciate everything, but there is still plenty to like the first time you see it, such as the humor, the camera angle shown through the finger hole of a bowling ball, and the clever dream sequences. See this film once to be entertained, but see it several other times to realize the genius that was involved in it.


                
Sometimes there's a film... I won't say a masterpiece, 'cause, what's a masterpiece? But sometimes, there's a film. And I'm talking' about The Big Lebowski here. Sometimes, there's a film, well, it's the film for its time and place. It fits right in there. Hardcore film nerd or not, many of us probably have a go-to film that we've seen countless times and know the lines almost by heart, but still enjoy it as much every time. Well, to me, The Big Lebowski is that film.Trying to deconstruct what is so funny or brilliant about it is probably somewhat counterproductive, but I will say that it is one of the best scripts I have ever seen, and the characters as well as the cast behind them are nothing short of perfection. And most of all, it is so insanely entertaining and quotable."You know, he's got emotional problems, man." "You mean beyond pacifism?"


                
If you see any "greatest film lists" or if your looking for top award winners, you will never find The Big Lebowski. Film critics will not praise it, as it doesn't really have any underlying message on life, love or the dangers of drugs or whatever. They would feel ashamed to admit that this is one of the best films ever. Fortunately, thanks to the regular film viewers on IMDb, The Big Lebowski gets the praise it so rightfully deserves, and a cemented place in the top #250.It offers so many things. It has the usual brilliant Coen Bros script, with its twisting plot and humour. It has so many unusual and wonderful characters. It really is one of the funniest films ever. They could have easily taken the script and made it into a good thriller. But the Coens made it into so much more.The characters are just brilliant. Jeff Bridges is great as "The Dude", who never fails to have a drink in his hand, and ends each sentence with "man". John Goodman puts in a terrific performance, as a Vietnam veteran who turns into a raving lunatic at the drop of a hat, but "doesn't roll on Shabbah". My favourite performance comes from Steve Buscemi, despite only having a relatively small part. He maintains a rather puzzled expression throughout, only to interrupt conversations at random intervals. The Coens could have easily left Donnie out of the film, but it's little additions like him that make this film great.There's so many great quotes and scenes in the film, and showing the dreams in the weird mind of The Dude such as the scene with the flying carpet, just adds a bizarre yet wonderful quality that most comedies don't have.At the end of the film, after viewing all the wacky characters, danger and plot twists, The Dude brings to your attention that all he wanted was his rug! This just adds to the comic approach the Coens went for, and The Big Lebowski leaves you feeling happy and warm inside, as you have just witnessed such greatness on screen.When I look at the fact that The Big Lebowski won just 1 (minor) award, it just proves that there is no justice in the world of film, and I find it hard to swallow that such genius can go unrewarded.By my reckoning this is one of the Coen brothers finest achievements to date, up there with Fargo and Miller's Crossing, and believe me, that is some achievement. Their unique and clever scripts show they have so much more imagination than most screen writers, and despite the fact they haven't made a really great film for a few years, I hope they are just laying dormant and will give us another wonderful film such as The Big Lebowski.


                
I love this movie so much. Anybody who doesn't like it, must be name Donny. Why? Because he must be out of his element. So shut up, Donny. It felt like a live, free-flowing work of comedy, action, and mystery. The Big Lebowski is an American classic that defied initial critical and box office failure to become a treasure of a film. This is one of the Coen's brothers most cleverly devised and executed stories. The plot surrounds the story about 'the laziest man in Los Angeles County' unemployed loser Jeff "The Dude" Lebowski (Jeff Bridges) who get mistaken for philanthropic millionaire Jeffrey Lebowski (David Huddleston) by henchman hired by pornographer gangster Jackie Treehorn (Ben Gazzara). The Dude is a fairly good character, with White Russia in hand every time. You will hear that name a lot, about 161 times in the movie. They rough him up, and urine on his rug before last threaten to kill the millionaire's sexy young wife Bunny (Tara Reid) who the Dude has no clue of. With his bowling buddies, security-store owner and suppose Vietnam Vet Walter Sobchak (John Goodman) and mild-mannered ex-surfer Donny (Steve Buscemi) take a Raymond Chandler like journey into the world of crime, violence, sex, drugs, and rock 'n' roll to find another rug. This movie has a world of its own, there is nothing I can think of comparing it to and it was a great experience and I still enjoy watching it. Donnie, Walter and The Dude were made for Buscemi, Goodman and Bridges. The supporting cast is great as well. I like Julianne Moore as Maude Lebowski, Philip Seymour Hoffman as Brandt, Peter Stormare as Karl Hungus and last John Turturro as Jesus. They all had memorable scenes and many unforgettable quotes. The character Jesus' potential was totally wasted in my opinion as he didn't serve anything to the plot. Lots of profanity-laced, repetitive tirades masquerading as hilarious dialogue that was a hit or a miss for some viewers. I got the humor, but for some people, they might see this as dumb. The editing needs some work as there is a lot of continuity problems, some crew visible, and a few audio/visual unsynchronized. Talking about audio. There's a soundtrack worth checking out. I love the Spanish flamenco version of The Eagles's Hotel California. It was awesome. Another song worth checking is Just Dropped In by Kenny Rodgers drifts through an elaborate bowling fantasy sequence titled Gutterballs. Nearly all of the visible symbols in The Dude's second dream sequence are taken from earlier scenes. While it's pretty good scene, it was kinda out of place. It was pretty pointless. Was I the only one totally lost when this scene played the first time watching it? There's something incredibly philosophical about the appearances of Saddam Hussein and the Gulf War in this movie. They're like an antithesis to the Dude. While the dude signifies the spirit of peace and and calm in the movie, Saddam symbolizes violence and war by being one of the greatest villains of the second half of the 20th century. The movie is often use for use as social and political analysis of many topics such as carnivalesque of modern society, commodity fetishism, neoconservatism etc. etc. In my opinion, while it does talk about major topic, it never does finish or make sense in the end of the film. There isn't a complex climax to the film. Sam Elliot appears at the conclusion to spout some bewildering nonsense that's meant to tack an explanation onto the end. Deep, I guess. So that might disappoint some people. What is it all really about? Who knows, let's just go bowling. Time heals all critical misconceptions, I guess as the movie fail when it came out, but grew into a cult following. This movie is like a good rug. Really tied the room together when looking at it.
There never was before and there probably never will be a film quite like The Big Lebowski. It has a typical film noir story arc mixed with a couple of stoner characters and a hip setting in the early 1990s Los Angeles that creates a great atmosphere to watch the action unfold. This is Raymond Chandler on vacation; relaxed and willing to stretch out and let loose.When it first premiered, this was quite a misunderstood movie. People couldn't believe that this was written, produced and directed by the same team who made that brilliant crime thriller Fargo from two years before. Yet, this kind of movie shows how creative and daring the Coen brothers are. They don't try to make just one kind of film; they branch out and try different ideas until they hit upon one that works. And they had to know from the start that a character like the Dude would work. With the wonderfully laid back Jeff Bridges in the title role, the Dude abides as one of the greatest of all movie characters, perhaps the Coens have ever written and one that will be remembered for ages.Of course, where would the Dude be without his able partner, Walter Sobchak, that Vietnam-crazy, screaming Jew who takes his bowling almost as serious as his religion. John Goodman gives perhaps his most memorable performance and it is a great one; thoroughly entertaining as well as very funny. And then there is Donny, played with sweet naiveté by Steve Buscemi. Donny doesn't do or say much, but I think he represents the audience; just there for the ride and seeing the story unfold only because he enjoys the company of the Dude and Walter despite his constant yelling at him.This is a movie that could be discussed and analyzed forever in terms of its plot, dream sequences and ways it adheres to old-fashion storytelling with modern film making. But perhaps the Coens simply wanted it enjoyed on its most basic level; as the story of a man called Dude who had his rug peed on and sought destitute for it. And that is because that rug really tied the room together. This is a completely original and unforgettable movie that must be seen by any Coen brothers or modern movie fan.


                
The Big Lebowski is perhaps the most surreal film from the Coen brothers, who have made their careers on surreal, dark comedies. There are numerous diversions, but the main plot is a take on ransom films. The film would have been a massive failure if not for some key performances. Jeff Bridges is The Dude, a.k.a. Jeff Lebowski, who is mistaken for a millionaire of the same name whose wife owes money to a pornographer. The Dude is an unemployed layabout who bowls with his two friends Walter and Donny. Walter is played by John Goodman, who portrays the character as a short-tempered Vietnam vet who uses his military service to justify his behavior. He constantly yells at Donny (Steve Buscemi) for no real reason, and waves guns at minor bowling infractions. The Dude finds himself caught up in the Big Lebowski's ransom as the millionaire hires him to give the ransom to the kidnappers. The millionaire's aide is Phillip Seymour Hoffman, who plays a sycophantic named Brandt. Hoffman is the third most enjoyable character in the film, with his forced laugh and yes-man lines.The simple ransom goes horribly wrong and the plot gets ever more complex as more characters are added. This one of a few comedies that warrants multiple viewings just to understand it. There are enough quotable lines to be entertaining upon first watch but you have to see it again to discern the genius of the plot turns.The dream sequences take away from the film as they are too long and don't really move the movie forward or even introduce a side-plot. Still, the film is one of the best Coen films (not as great as Fargo, but what is?) and it remains a cult classic and one of the best comedies ever made.


                
This movie didn't interest me much the first time I watched, but I eventually purchased the movie on DVD. You have to really dissect this movie to understand how good it is.The characters seem random at first, but as you watch it a few times the way in which the dialogue flows becomes very funny. Credit to the writers, because the dialogue is really what makes this movie. Not much of a plot, no real ending, a silly premise - throw in a kidnapping, and that's the movie.If you're a type A personality, you might not like this movie much, but for the type B's, and further on down the alphabet, (the further the better) Great Movie!


                
This is nothing but a remake, or maybe the original (I would know if I had checked the dates: but you know, laziness, and it is funny to remain fuzzy, like the Coen Brothers themselves) of what we know under the title of "Pulp Fiction". The Coen Brothers get rid of the shuffling time line and have episodes and chapters in order, but it is just as intricate as the other, except that it is harmless, more or less, and funny in the punk beatnik post 1968 style if you like that and the unemployed who play the Greek philosophers.. It means that the mistake in "Pulp Fiction" becomes the rule here and everything is over-reacting and mis-targeting the true victim of the explosion, of temper of course, never of any fire-arms, though quite a few are moving and travelling around, just like bowling pins and bowling balls. That's a way of looking at suburban social sprawl that deserves some attention and time. The best debunking of pulp fiction is in the bar-diner scene. A lot of noise and ruckus for very little. I like the breaking in, out and through of all sorts of cars. The Coen Brothers don't seem to like cars probably because they are the best representation of American wastefulness and extreme vain arrogance. But "Pulp Fiction" seems to debunk cars too though in a different way.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines, CEGID
I've lost count of how many times I've seen this film and each time it seems to get better and better. Yet, the first time I saw this film I didn't think it was a great movie since I didn't realize the true greatness of it (in fact, I think no one did). This is because the movie is not about the plot or about the message. This movie is great because of its characters, dialogue and aesthetics, things that are most appreciated with successive viewings. It's the little details that will make this your favourite comedy of all time.Jeff Bridges, John Goodman and Steve Buscemi are outstanding as the three bowling buddies and excellently supported by Philip Seymour Hoffman and Julianne Moore. In fact I think most would agree that Jeff Bridges and especially John Goodman gave award-winning performances. The dialogue is truly amazing. I mean how many movies are bestowed with so many memorable lines as this one? It is also truly unique. For a good-hearted and laid-back sort of film, to contain that many and different subtle references to cultural idiosyncrasies really says something. Finally, and I think this is what gives the movie defining cult status, it's the aesthetics. You can tell the effort made by directors and actors alike in carefully constructing each character. Each character has been embedded with a particular style and ethos which explain their way of going about things. Each character is both cause and effect of different generational prototypes mingling with each other in that psychedelic fauna that is The Big Lebowski.


                
Simply the greatest slacker film ever made. The Coen bros. script is intelligently written, with characters which, although larger than life, are both believable and hysterically funny (particularly the vitriolic John Goodman). The plot centres around the theft of 'the Dude's' rug (Jeff Bridges), and his subsequent quest for its return, which takes in nihilists, modern, improv. dance and, of course, bowling. Steve Buscemi plays a timid 'Donnie', constantly under the thumb of the domineering, Vietnam obsessed 'Walter' (Goodman). Whilst it is hard to pick an outstanding performance...John Goodman is stellar, consistently funny...but watch out for Jesus. Also, Flea has a brief cameo. All in all, a fantastic film, one of my all time top ten...I guess that sometimes there's a film which, well, it's the film for it's time and place.


                
