After Jeremy, Hammond and May left (2015) Top Gear is a total disaster. None of the new hosts has any charisma or sense of humor. Does this review contain spoilers?! NO! No one expected something good to happen.


                
It was such a great show, and now it is going to suck. I will not watch "Top Gear" with new hosts. The previews are horrible enough to sit through while I'm watching old episodes with the REAL hosts. I will instead watch Clarkson, Hammond, and May's new show on amazon. I totally recommend watching if it is from before 2016. Why put an unfunny American on this show when there is already an unfunny American Top Gear, and still I, being American, choose to watch the much better Top Gear UK? Plus to replace 3 super attractive, hilarious men with 2 losers is a dumb idea if you want your show to be successful. Or at least remain on air. I hope this show tanks so I can watch reruns of the old Top Gear without having to change the channel when the new episodes are on. Or have them sneak into my recordings. New Top Gear, you suck.


                
When Clarkson May and Hammond left, the producers had a great format and blank canvas to build on.
I wont bore you but suffice to say instead of taking it an exciting new direction, the BBC have tried to keep it going by bringing in impersonators to take over their roles.
I mean Chris Harris et al pretending to be Jeremy Clarkson and spouting Clarksonesque one liners starting "It's a bit like..." fused with forced banter makes for awkward viewing.
The only person with any personality is Matt LeBlanc but he has no one to work with/bounce off.
It's clear even the BBC know that Top Gear is now called THE GRAND TOUR!


                
Matt Leblanc is OK, but you can tell he is reading from a teleprompter or that most of his dialogue is scripted. The show would be much better if he winged it.The British guy? What type of committee picked this dude? He is a total phony, and he screams instead of talking, like he is trying to build excitement all the time.The BBC and the idiot producers at Top Gear UK should stand in a circle, and then take turns punching themselves in the balls! Gorilla punch - hammer fist style, right in the balls you idiots.Of course the British guy would probably like that. That's probably why the committee selected him.


                
I had rated this show 10/10 when the original trio was around. I have stopped watching the show after the pathetic first episode of S23. Too bad the BBC thought the show was about cars. Such a fall from grace. This show is dead. From season 23 on, I would give it 0/10 if I could. Now I watch "The Grand Tour", which is like original Top Gear (i.e, S1-S22) only with a different name.


                
I was really hoping that this new top gear wouldn't be that bad as everybody is saying, but after I watched it the first episode of the new season. Everything is just so act, there is no normal real laugh, or talk. Everything is determinant what are they going to say or do. And the way they are destroying the car is just bad, when the old trio were destroying cars it was fun, but this, this is just painful to watch. Not to mention that their reviews of the car is much more bad then the old trio were doing it. You can clearly see that the Top Gear budget is much better than the Grand Tour, but all in all, I don't recommend it, stick to the old gang and watch The Grand Tour, you will have more fun and learn better about cars!


                
The fact that the motor cars take the back seat,as it were, to the presenters in BBC's "Top Gear" is accentuated by the fact that,next to Clare Balding,they are among those most relentlessly promoted by the corporation to spread their somewhat ephemeral talents into other formats. Mr Clarkson,self - appointed spokesman for the disenfranchised middle - class male,dripping with assumed venom against anything remotely popular,condescending to pleb and chav alike,no doubt would put himself forward as the voice of Middle England;arrogant and sarcastic,he cheerfully ignores the fact that the vast majority of his audience will never be able to aspire to the lifestyle his meagre abilities have so fortunately bought him. Mr Hammond with the small man's compulsion to be noisier and more pugnacious than his larger colleagues has been the main beneficiary of the BBC's largesse in giving him more airtime on TV and radio alike. I can only assume he appeals more to female viewers or ventriloquists who are missing their dummies Mr May,a shambling throwback to the 1970s(Oh if only someone would) is the least blatantly self - promoting of the trio.He alone seems to realise how lucky he is to have the gig. Whenever Mr Clarkson complains he can't get into his Lamborghini because the cabin is so small,his Bugatti Veyron might be a target for vandalism on the Fulham Road,or his Ferrari not as hot as Chris Evans'(another of BBC's favourite sons with no appreciable talents) I am not filled with the milk of human kindness. He should get a Ford Fiesta like the rest of us. Those wishing to study the Rise of the TV Presenter,the triumph of style over content,might well cite "Top Gear" as a prime example. If you want to find out anything about motor cars you're better off watching something else. If you want to watch three sartorially challenged rich boys having the time of their lives at our expense.....well,you've come to the right place.
I wish to balance the many positive reviews with a glaringly obvious and huge negative about this program. Namely that it is now widely believed to have become a platform for racist/xenophobic/homophobic/misogynistic and just generally small-minded and bigoted views. I WAS an avid viewer and supporter of the show until I noticed what I believed to be jokes of very poor taste begin to appear in its scripted "banter". I agree with almost all the positive points in the other reviews, and appreciate fully why people feel so much compassion for the show and its presenters....however would remind anyone that questions the validity of this review, or who may think that my aim is to somehow be defamatory that MY opinion is based on how the show made ME feel. I feel that any other people looking on IMDb for honest advice about a show should find honest and balanced advice. The thought that people may check on whether this show is appropriate viewing for them or their children on this site and hear nothing of the very widely publicised and varied examples of this alleged content is disturbing to me. I was heart-broken when I realised that in all good conscience I could no longer watch one of my favourite shows and support such alleged bigotry in mainstream media, however I feel that the needs of society as a whole outweigh my needs for entertainment. To round-up my review I would say this; if you care not that you may hear alleged bigoted jokes, and like a white British heterosexual "laddish" type atmosphere from your presenters then you will truly love this show, otherwise stay well away from this show, that has become in recent years an unfortunate end to a truly iconic franchise.


                
I know a lot of people like this show and i apologise to people who think this show is awesome but it is the worst show ever created. Sure i'm sure I would be a big fan of this show if Jeremy Clarkson wasn't on it. I mean I think that testing out cars and doing things like seeing whether a car can beat a aeroplane is awesome! But Jeremy Clarkson is just pathetic. Here are the reasons I hate this man: . He thinks it's cool to trick speed cameras that measure your average speed by taking measuring your distance and time by driving 200mph down the road and then resting for two hours. . He clearly thinks that he is better than Richard Hammond and James May. . He's got my best friend saying pathetic things. . He screams at kids just for taking a picture of him. I'm sorry top gear but Jeremy Clarkson is a freak.


                
