Yes, this show is about cars, but then again it isn't. Mostly it's about extremes of opinion, dreams and fantasies, dares, one-up-man-ship, and taking everything just a little bit further. And it's also entertaining - very entertaining, which is what television is meant to be, and so often is not. I'm not all that interested in cars, and my son doesn't even drive, but we both love the show, and watch it religiously.The balance of presenters: Jeremy, the loud-mouthed, cuttingly funny, over-bearing older guy; Richard, the young, cute, quirky, adolescent one; James, the sensitive, quiet, contemplative, intelligent one; is nothing short of genius!It seems that no expense is spared, either on the experiments and dares, or on filming, and this adds to the visual experience. This show is funny, even hilarious at times, classy, controversial, and hugely entertaining. Most people I know who watch this show know almost less than nothing about cars, and I think that says a lot about how successfully this program reaches beyond the expected demographic of young male petrol-heads.


                
As an American, your selection of automotive programming is quite limited. On one hand there is the SPEED Channel that is not available in every market, and on the other there is the "Powerblock" on Spike TV that offers little more than how to add a bit of power to your Grandmother's '81 Caprice.Even as an import, Top Gear simply blew my mind away during my first viewing of the show last year when The Discovery Channel ran a season of the show slightly altered for the US Market.For one, the personality of the show is unlike anything I have seen before. The show's lead host, Mr. Jeremy Clarkson is rather opinionated on everything, and although he will never hide the fact that he does not like something, he himself is quite likable as a person. On the opposite side of the spectrum, there is Mr. James May, quite possibly the most British man I have ever seen on television or in the movies. He isn't offensive in any way, and although he may be known as "captian slow," his presentations are quite enjoyable as they always seem to come from someone with a level head. Caught in the middle is Mr. Richard Hammond, a rather young Briton who embodies the current generation of automotive fandom. All together, the hosts balance each other out, and each offer their own perspective to the show, appealing to a wide range of people.Outside of the "acting," the cinematography of the show is breathtaking, given that it is a weekly event in the UK. Occasionally the segments rival that of some of the best television shows or movies that I have seen, and although they are primarily focused on the car and the hosts themselves, the surrounding environment often plays a large role in the different reviews....But then you add the great soundtracks of the reviews, the quirky setups to the different tests (such as a Bugatti Veyron racing a plane from Italy to England), and the great test laps done by the Stig... It all adds up to one of the greatest television programs, well, ever.It truly is a shame that the viewing of Top Gear is generally limited to the internet via You Tube or Google Video here in the US, but there was a pilot filmed for The Discovery Channel in the US for an American version of Top Gear, but thus far, nothing has happened.If you have the time, I highly suggest you take a look at the show, interested in automobiles or not.


                
While it can be argued that more substantial programmes exist, whether fictional or not, it is certain that Top Gear is an extraordinarily entertaining show with plenty to keep most on their bolsters. This is certainly due to the faithful backing of the BBC, but more importantly, to the three crazed bloody lunatics who host the series. Clarkson, May and Hammond share between each other many decades worth of experience in broadcasting, as well as motoring, and are impeccable contrasts well matched for their respective opinions 'n roles. The various features included in the shows and the involvement in these & all motoring matters, are exemplary, and quite frankly, unmatched by anything television has yet seen. I can safely assume that no better motoring show exists anywhere. I love it, so will you, guaranteed.


                
I don't care what anyone says - the British are the funniest of all. Jeremy, Richard and James are all so different - but this is what makes this show REALLY work. I have fallen off the couch so many times laughing that it is becoming a hazard! The show is entertaining, informative and hilarious - I would say the only drawback is after watching it you have to go and get in your own car and imagine what Jeremy would say about it. (I can assure you - his comments would not be good about mine!!)It also doesn't hurt that James May is the most delicious thing on two legs - I just love this British gentleman - he is what men ought to be!This one definitely goes all the way to 11!


                
I've been watching this show for over 7 years now and I have to say it just keeps getting better. Many people spit and shout about the show not being about cars and more of an entertainment show than a car show. Well firstly let me say that this show began in 1978and went on for 12 seasons and the one complaint about that show was that it was boring and Clarkson picked up on this and changed the show (in my view) for the better.What is it about the show that makes it so outrageously good? Well lets discuss the characters. Jeremy Clarkson - the man you wish was your friend. A sarcastic, cheeky and rude individual who is hilariously funny. His ideas are genius and he is not afraid to speak his mind - that is what i like most about him. He does not and will not lie and say a car is good and/or bad on bias alone in which many people think he does. Take Alfa's for instance, he loves them, but he will not sugar coat what he knows about the electrics in the car you just have to actually listen to what he says. Richard Hammond - The quirky one. Tends to be more positive about things but my god he is funny. His outrageous ideas and creations like his Narrow boat are fantastic. He is critical when reviewing, yet entertaining when necessary. James May (Captain Slow) - You have to love him really. He is a more precise critic on cars but tend to take, Unfortunately for him, more boring cars like 4 door saloons but in recent episodes we have seen him show his true colours and passion for cars by taking the Veyron up to top speed twice. You have to remember that this is no the reason why this show is still a highly rated show 8 years on is not just because of these 3 personalities. When Clarkson was asked why is this show so great he gave FULL responsibility to the camera crews (who do absolutely stunning wok and should set a benchmark for cameramen around the world), the producers (who supposedly stay in work until 2am working) and all the back-room staff that organise everything.You have to remember that these people have a passion for cars. Anyone who loves cars and has that inner child inside which allows for that bit of fun would realise that this truly is one of the best shows on modern TV and always will be. It is also every 10 year old dream job and also mine!


                
The 10 out of 10 was for when Jeremy Clarkson, Richard Hammond and James May. The best trio in the world were funny and just really enjoyable to watch but when Chris Evans took over it just went from 10/10 to 1/10 in just 1 episode. It has improved with Matt and the others bit not amazing like it was and it will never be the same


                
Until the new guy and Matt...I've tried... I've managed to watch the new episode of the new season... Number of laughs?.... 0.... (zero).... i'm shocked.... i'really don't know what to say... it's like i'm watching a bad episode of fifth gear... and they in their best are boring....a massive mistake by the BBC.... It's clear that the original squad of bandits could never be replaced. I'm sitting on the floor writing this and all i can get i my head is the memories of the great seasons, quests, reviews and laughs i've got from the Clarkson, Hammond and May....then...this...(five to fifteen minute brake in writing cause i really don't know how much it passed)....IMDb is not the place to speak whats really on my mind cause it may contain some swearing, but this new format of the show and the head presenter (the ginger one) are the downfall of the TOP GEAR.never gonna watch it again...this does not include walking on the memory lane...i can always make a few years pause and watch the old seasons... cant wait what the magnificent trio will do on the amazon...i'm sure it will be great!


                
Top Gear is the best show till date... why because it is informative, hilarious, crazy, mind blowing locations.. the hosts of the show are just amazing... the news section more hilarious then a whole comedy movie itself as well informative. The guest section of the show is also super.. The beauty of the show goes to its hosts the great clarkson, may, hammond as well strong show criteria ,,, where on earth u will get to see Michael Schumacher to drive from economy cars to fire breathing monsters.. and off course the life about legends like Aryton Senna... top gear is not about cars engineering it is more of complete pakkage, u just watch it first for five minutes and boom you are its fan... many love from Pakistan...
Basically the only TV show I can be bothered to stay in for! Top class reviews, features and news, all presented by people who actually seem to love what they do. They do tend to concentrate on the obscure and exotic, but who cares, I will probably find out what a mondeo is like to drive, but I will have to rely on them to tell me what the latest Ferrari is like. The star in a reasonably priced car is great, most of the celebs act like they don't care what time they got, but when they are told they are usually elated! It has also included some remarkable footage, including trying to destroy a Toyota Hilux, racing the train from Guildford to Monaco in an Aston DB9 and a Mitsubishi Evo rally car against a 4 man bobsleigh! Other motoring programs just simply don't compare, programmes such as 5th Gear erring more toward a review show, and being a lot less interesting for it! In a nutshell, fun, interesting and very definitely "water cooler discussion material"!


                
Even with an appreciation for cars, I routinely overlook automotive programming beyond racing due to their dry, technical nature. Recently- discovered Top Gear (UK) shatters the image, with hosts Jeremy Clarkson, Richard Hammond and James May providing narrative styles and tastes which contrast as much as their physical appearance. From their regular features such as their unsparing reviews of the top models (without commercial influence), "Stars in Sensibly Prices Cars" and the "Cool Wall" to their adventures and challenges, the boldness and originality of the endeavors and cheeky humor of the hosts is reminiscent of Python at its absurdist best. Thankfully, BBA America provides ample opportunity to catch up on this under-appreciated show.


                
"Top Gear" is definitely the best car show ever. It has been running since 1978 and is a show all about automobiles. This show is one of my favorite shows (not just about cars). It has the perfect mix of humor, stunts, races and general car information. This is what makes the show so good.This is the No 1. show for car fans. And even if you aren't a car fan - this show is still great to watch. You don't have to know everything about cars to be able to follow Top Gear. The way they talk isn't too technical and they will explain things that are complex.Each episode is usually made up of numerous different sections: they will test out a few cars, maybe have a few challenges, putting a guest star in a reasonably-priced car and interviewing the guest, and sometimes traveling to a different country. All of these different sections each episode make the show really interesting and not boring.I totally recommend this show to anyone who likes cars. Its a funny and interesting show.
Top Gear is the epitome of what T.V entertainment is all about. I have reacquainted myself with Top Gear after not watching it really since the early nineties and it certainly has come a very long way. Almost everything is executed brilliantly on this show and it makes everything work. For example, undoubtedly the presenters have enormous comedic value (especially Jeremy's dry humour) and chemistry, and they work well together and have as much fun as possible in the process. That is the underlying factor of this programme - pure unadulterated fun. The music, filming and editing is also superb. And this is all before the cars themselves.Another great aspect of the show I found is that although it's not hard to guess their target audience, as this does seem a predominantly male show, I found it is enjoyed by all ages and both genders alike. That is one of the amazing aspects of the show, its aptitude to extend beyond the target audience and having a broader appeal to even people who acknowledge cars in their lives to be simply nothing more than 'four wheels and an engine' to them.It does have its sensible practical side, but it is quickly overshadowed by then not taking itself an ounce seriously in the next review or discussion. There is no compromise sometimes, if a particular presenter dislikes a car, boy do they like to express it, but in a funny way.The show is a fantastic combination of elements that make it compulsive viewing. You have the varying and humorous personalities of the presenters, the controversial comments of Jeremy Clarkson (who tells it exactly how it is), the cars themselves, the music as mentioned before and its intelligent touch. It is not completely mindless even though it would appear so with some of the pointless but nevertheless hugely entertaining challenges.For me it is a dream job. They frequently jet to exotic locations to test the worlds most powerful and exotic cars. Take part in both ridiculous but ridiculously entertaining challenges that make no sense. Just about everything that entertaining T.V is, is incorporated into the show and becomes so much more than a magazine motoring show.


                
Top Gear is the most informative car show, but also the funniest. It surpasses all its rivals, and Jeremy Clarkson, James May, and Richard Hammond are the best trio of presenters currently on TV. From burning expensive rubber on expensive cars to destroying two caravans via a large scale game of conkers, this show is a classic. They have also created the magnificent spectacle of watching celebrities embarrass or cover themselves in glory inside a Reasonably Price Car. And of course, there's the Stig.Top Gear has the X factor that it looks for in its cars. It's factual, funny, and just downright brilliant.


                
I first started watching this show one Sunday night when there was nothing on TV and I was hooked from then on. This isn't a conventional car program for guys about engines and the like - this is an all round, informative, lively entertainment program that just happens to centre around cars. There is only one negative comment here and I think that shows a lot. I'm someone who isn't really into cars but I love this show. They make it interesting and thank goodness they don't talk about brakes and bodywork because what a boring, repetitive show we would have! The guys (and I really do feel like I know them) make the stuff about cars interesting and fill the gaps in between with fresh, uplifting comedy. They slag each other personally and professionally yet we know they are still great mates and we feel like one of the gang. I love everything about the show but one great perk is it's presented by a very cute presenter by the name of Richard Hammond.....11/10


                
Commenting on the Clarkson-Hammond-May trio only.These guys started out with a pretty good show and they just kept getting better. No other TV show ever lived this long and achieved the level of excellence of Top Gear. All three presenters have been really sharp, funny and dedicated to their job. Even if you don't give a toss about cars you've got to check out a few episodes of this show.A lot of people give the BBC a hard time for sacking Clarkson. I'm sure they knew it was going to be their loss, not Clarkson's. But as James May said they had no choice given the circumstances.But we got over 10 years worth of excellent TV from these guys already.If you're new to Top Gear maybe check out some of the road trip episodes, e.g., the relatively recent Burma one.


                
Fun! Fun! Fun! Three words to describe this show! Of course coming from the UK it does have a certain British charm about it.Jeremy, James and Richard not only test cars from all over the world but they embark on a series of 'challenges'. And they have the segment called "A star in a Reasonably Priced car" which is loads of fun. And let's not forget......THE STIG! These guys have way too much fun, and it rubs off on the audience. Unlike the abomination "Top Gear USA" this show is absolute magic for us gear heads but even if you are not into cars it is very fun and entertaining for the whole family.If you like to laugh, I highly recommend this!


                
about two years ago, I accidentally switched it on, and started laughing out loud at it while watching it, and all the time while watching it, I was thinking "what is the name of this programme, it's brilliant!" The banter between presenters Jeremy Clarckson, James May and Richard Hammond is excellent , and challenges are very funny and exciting. I found out that it was Top Gear, and now I never miss it. I love it for the excitement, the humour, everything. I started telling most of my mates (most of whom aren't all that interested in cars) about this amazingly funny exciting programme, and most of, them like me never miss it. Absolute brilliance.


                
Without a doubt the best programme on TV, it's about the only thing on the BBC that is worth the Licence Fee. I can't wait for the new series in the autumn, I have just been watching the Polar Special, where Jeremy and James in a pick up truck, race Hamster on a dog sled, (with his white teeth) to the North Pole. Brilliant viewing and how Jeremy or James didn't kill each other with an ice axe we will never know! This programme just keeps getting better, and the format shouldn't be changed in any shape or form, Lets hope they can keep those doom and gloom health and safety idiots at bay, otherwise it will be just like any other motoring programme. Rubbish!


                
This comment has no spoilers. You need to watch the episode.Being a fan of top gear for many years, it is nice to see it at the top of the car program tree.During the late 90's and early 2000's, it was a bit of a damp squid........to which the BBC stepped in a cancelled it. When it came back in 2002, what a difference. NEW set, location and new presenters and themes. A revelation. Something that top gear has continued with right up until the current series ended in the summer.All episodes have been beautifully shot, music is great and humour and fun factor as high as ever. There is one episode that will lodge in my mind forever........the Winter Olympics episode shown in Feb 06.I missed the original showing but had taped it on sky+. On hearing the lads at work go on about it on the Monday morning, i watched it that afternoon to find out what the big deal was.I was in stitches watching it, tears were coming from my eyes. Absolutely magic, the funniest thing i think I have seen this year so far.If you have not yet watched the winter Olympic episode, you must. It is the best top gear episode by far and one you will have a big smile about for ages.


                
Andy Wilman must be pleased. He managed to salvage Top Gear from the BBC's scrapheap back in 2002 and he is now producing one hell of a TV show. If you are anything of a car nut like me then you will know that Top Gear is simply brilliant. Its funny, even hilarious at times, and Jeremy Clarkson, James May and Richard Hammond are the shows three irreplaceable presenters. There is no aspect of the show that doesn't work or isn't very good. It's all brilliant. Amazing. So it's just a shame that the minority of the public don't like it and find it offensive. According to Ken Livingstone, Jeremy Clarkson and Top Gear are responsible for global warming and areas in London that are likely to flood have been named 'Clarkson Zones'. I don't think thats quite fair. Or how about the small group of people who complained after Clarkson said that a car 'looked a bit gay'. Health and Safety want Top Gear to be 'toned down' because it is too dangerous and caused Richard Hammond's crash. If you don't like it, then the solution is simple. Don't watch it and stop complaining. The show is a little bit dangerous and a little bit daring, but that's what makes it so good.
I love this show soooo much. I back when it was all on Netflix I would watch all 20-something seasons like 2-3 times a year. James, Richard, and Jeremy are one of the greatest television host trios of all time. As much as they seems to hate each other on screen they're that loyal off the screen as we found out about Jeremy loosing his job with BBC. They are really funny and I love this show alot


                
Believe it or not it is a bit informational but its not bland by any means they go on road trips with supercars but the funniest are the £1,500 and below cars my personal favourite is when the came here in America and bought car in Florida(as you know not the best place to buy a $1,000 car!). The episode is dramatic and funny it show the scare side of the states which if your a redneck you might get offended but get over it! The thing i don't like about Top Gear is the number of episodes per series or season which leaves you mad you watched the whole season in 6 weeks with 6 episodes! Top Gear really is the best show i don't find the Top Gear here that great its very stupid and boring so i wait for Top Gear UK to come on


                
This is the only TV series i ever follow, I eagerly wait for the new season to release.If you like cars then this is the ultimate show for you,the three presenters Jeremy,Hammond & Richard.These there anchors are brilliant even though the series is scripted they make it such fun to watch together.The show is about 60min and you will feel happy at all moment.There is "humour ,laugh , friendship,bulling" and of course lots of cars.They have an excellent driver "stig".They do one or more episodes of off track racing which are the best to watch.Well this is highly recommended for all fans of Cars.
top gear is viewed in over 100 countries around the world in more then 30 languages and is nothing short of the one of the best television shows of all time. i have fallowed the show since the first episodes before James may became one of the presenters and to say that the show continues to get better would be an understatement. with every passing season what ever my expectations were set by the previous seasons have always been blown out of the water with ease. from the first seasons were they showed the world grannies that could do donuts to the latest seasons were they have crossed entire continents with cars that could barely run all the while completing impossible challenges along the way. in the end i highly recommend this series to any one young, old, rich, pore, auto enthusiast or out in out tree huger because you would have to be mental not to like this show.


                
I start watching this show about 1 year ago and since than, I became a huge fan of it. This program have 3 awesome presenters and they make it so much fun to watch! The way that they review the cars, the tests they create, the races, everything it's an absolutely enjoy to watch! Every car lover wants to see drag races between powerful cars, track races with that same cars and challenges to test the car economy, comfort, reliability, space, etc... They doesn't miss a thing!!! It's a very complete show and that's why it is the best car show ever in my opinion...If you're a car lover and you haven't watch it yet, make yourself a favor and WATCH IT!!


                
