With Jeremy, Richard and Captain Slow the show was awesome. Part car reviews . . . part over-the-hill animal house . . . part stuntapalooza. Now that they are gone the show has gone downhill rapidly. The chemistry is gone. The wit is gone. The camaraderie is gone. The magic is gone.Go watch The Grand Tour and compare that show to the current Top Gear. There's a reason Top Gear is rated lower even though they have built in advantages.Is Jeremy a prima-donna and hard to manage? I bet the BBC would say yes. And maybe he is. But there is also no one more talented.


                
They laugh so hard at each other's jokes. They try so hard to be funny. So desperately hard. And a huge global audience buys it. I must be missing something, because I don't see what is even remotely entertaining about this show, and I am an avid motor sports fan. They have elaborate setups which appear designed to be spontaneous, carefully scripted "humorous" remarks which are supposed to come across as ad libs, and a huge "gee whiz isn't it amazing and exciting and funny" attitude to scenes which are none of these. Every episode is packed full of uninteresting and insipid stunts, failed jokes, endless helicopter/onboard shots of cars driving around, and an insufferable smugness. Trust me, if you wonder what possible appeal this show could ever have, you are not the only one. It is even more tedious than the programs spawned by the rapidly dwindling "reality show" fad, and that is saying something.


                
Several people believe "top gear" to be funny.But if it is,why does it need an audience which acts like a laughing track? Well,that's simply because "top gear"s humor isn't as funny at all as its fans talk themselves into believing.I would like to know,for example,what's so funny with James May saying "Hello,Herr Reichsmarschall Goering" always when Jeremy Clarkson pulls up with a Mercedes? Yes,there might be scenes with Goering sitting in a Mercedes-so,what? But the worst of "top gear" was the India special.The "top gear" team really tried hard to ridicule India,its customs,its traditions etc. as much as possible.This India special helps you understand why Britons nearly everywhere they ruled formed a society strongly based on racial hierarchy (with Britons on the top,of course)I wonder why so many people in the Anglo-Saxon hemisphere (especially in England) seem to believe they are allowed to ridicule and even offend all other nationalities on earth,while at the same time believing people of other nationalities ridiculing or even only criticizing them to commit lese-majesty.Remember the reaction in Britain to the Russian who recently allegedly called Britain a "small Island nobody cares about"? By the way,why are even "movies' like "Birth of a nation" or "Jew Suess" listed in IMDb,but not the movie "Titanic" from 1943? Maybe because the last one commits the worst crime against humanity you can imagine,portraying Britons very negatively?Jeremy Clarkson is clearly the worst character in "top gear",constantly ridiculing and sometimes offending others,at the same time constantly becoming richer (strange coincidence,isn't it?) It's,by the way,rather boring hearing him complain how "great" Britain once was.Obviously it's quite a hard blow for this jingoistic "patriot" that Britain doesn't have an own automobile production anymore. How else can you explain that he once showed the Hitler salute to a (empty!)German car?By the way,Jeremy Clarkson can be "funny" outside "top gear" too.For example when he calls people who commit suicide by throwing themselves under a train as "selfish" because that would lead to delays.Or when he "joked" that "strikink public service workers should be shot in front of their families" Isn't that funny? hahahahahaWell,I think instead all "top gear" viewers should be shot in front of their families.That would make the world at least a less dumb one.Anyone thinking that's not funny? Well,I'm like the "top gear" gang-I (and nobody else) decide whether my jokes are funny.By the way,for a long time I believed Richard Hammond to be the "good guy" in "top gear"-until I came to know that he described the Mexican national character as "lazy,feckless and flatulent"I give "top gear" 2 out of 10 only because 1 is reserved for blood-thirsty pieces of crap like "Rambo II".If anybody wonders why I know about "top gear": My son unfortunately liked to watch it.At that time he was too young to realize the (sometimes rather subtle) offences in "top gear"
When they discuss cars, it is interesting. That is however 10% of the time, and the rest of the time, they endorse gender stereotypes and leave racist and sexist remarks. one questions whenever this is made in present or in the 19th century.


                
