(Old crew 9 Stars)The dearly departed trio had chemistry in spades, and sadly the new guys can't even begin to compete. Granted they try hard, but it would have been better to completely revamp the show rather than try to resurrect the old. Watching these otherwise talented actors is like watching someone try to light soggy newspaper with wet matches.Hang up the driving gloves boys and find something to make your own rather than living in the shadow of giants. The real Top Gear has gone to a better place, and lo its name is Amazon.


                
Kicking Clarkson out was the biggest mistake BBC could have made. I do not know is he a racist or just a giant douche, and I don't want to know! I want a good show, and boy did he provide. Top gear was the number one show in the world! It was all based on chemistry between this 3 guys. Their love for cars, their sense of humor. You can not replicate that or fake it! After guys are gone all they have left with is the celebrity in RPC. Are you kidding me? That was the weakest part of the old show, and now they are trying to build on it? Well Good Luck! I would not mind if they did totally new show and it was different but good. Instead we were presented with a very weak fake. You just feel fooled and angry! Clarkson got 4 times bigger budget from Amazon, and BBC got nothing now.


                
Now I'm not sure who Chris Evans was before this show or why he is on it but he was the wrong choice! He is a very annoying knock off of Jeremy Clarkson and he makes the show hard to watch. I thought it was kind of bad when American top gear just does a low budget rip off of an old UK episode but Chris Evans is trying to rip off a personality. Hopefully the top gear producers get their heads clear and sort the show out and get it back to its former glory. Side note, I think matt Leblanc is perfect for top gear but put him on American top gear with Foust and anyone other than Rutledge wood and that would be a great show!


                
Top gear seems to be struggling. Season 21, was the most boring season, I've ever seen. In an average TG show, there are up's and down's. Somethings you like, some you just plain skip. I for one always skip, the semi-celebrity part, but I am in generel always entertained, when I see the show.But this season was abysmal. I honestly could not see, an entire episode to the finish, I was bored. It seems like they run out of ideas, and start repeating themselves, either that or they just don't bother any longer.The show does not seem to focus on cars anymore, rather than the hosts and their goofs, but this is not paradise hotel. It's a car show, of premium cars, and I think there was way to little focus on this, this year.I can only hope they improve, otherwise Im gussing, we will see other hosts, within a few years and that would be a shame, since they have a good thing going, but they need to refocus on cars and not showmanship, especially Hammond, does this way to much, it's almost embarrassing sometimes.


                
