OK apparently you can't use "trigger" words for a review. This show had 22 consecutive seasons with high review, then one of the actors had an altercation with what must have been upper management. They fired the actor, his fellow actors stood by the original. They got rid of the original three and instead decided to have a boring show where tractor equipment is discussed regularly. It's boring, less creative, less fun and frankly just worst. Every season before the switch I give a 10/10. The new.... Gotta be a 4. While it has entertaining bits it's just lacking. The fact that BBC will decide to lose the key components to a show that generated over 20 seasons because some higher up guy got his feelings hurt is observed. To that guy I say man up, so you got hit, big whoop, throwing away what has to be one of the most successful shows for it, is just frankly stupid. Congrats.


                
I've loved Top Gear since the beginning. Not because I'm a car buff but because of the originality of the show. It was so much more than reviewing the newest supercar. When the original hosts left the show, I was eager to give the new presenters a fair chance and boy, did they mess up the first time around. Season 24 was better and so is season 25 so far. The presenters try really hard and I'm sure they know tons about cars but they're missing the fun factor. Seeing somebody having the time of his life in his car doesn't necessarily make the viewer happy. Although still beautifully made, It's just a car show now, nothing more. If you ache for what Top Gear used to be, turn to The Grand Tour. It has its flaws also but I does make you smile


                
I never watched Top Gear in its most famous incarnation, largely because I couldn't stand the antics of Clarkson, Hammond and May. But at the start of the new revival with Chris Evans and Matt Le Blanc at the helm I thought I'd give it a go.And oh dear, Chris Evans. Yes, it's great that he's having a good time, but his antics are painful to watch. He's so over the top he can't see the top, and seems to think that shouting with make everyone have a much better time. I think he's a talented host, but maybe this isn't the format for him.Matt Le Blanc on the other hand is a delight. Knowledgeable, down to earth. I know nothing about cars but at least with him it's being presented in an engaging way.The banter between Evans and Le Blanc is so forced though, and surely it's that aspect that will see one of them leave before too long.


                
