INTRO: I think it's fair to say that Top Gear has not suffered from the prototypical decline in quality over the years like most TV Programmes, instead they have substituted what once was a dream for petrol heads around the world into a 'questionably informative' hour long banter session. Now granted the show is still called 'Top Gear' rather than 'Top Banter' they maintain a high level of automotive content albeit not aimed at consumers for the most part, due to the fact that most of the cars they review cost more than Simon Cowell's hair products for a full calendar year. Despite this the reviews are informative and sprinkled with jokes throughout. Now and again you will get a challenge or review based around much more affordable cars which are usually conducted by 'Mr Sensible' James May.CHALLENGES: One trademark of the show is the 'Challenges' if you're looking to see how fast a Nissan Micra reaches 60 mph while carrying a week's worth of shopping then think again. The boys are given a set budget usually around the £2000 mark to buy a car which is specific to the challenge set, for example the episode in which they prove that British Leyland made a good car. The challenges start of simple, i.e who's the fastest around the Top Gear track. Then filling up the car with water and attempting to do a lap of the track, while this may seem pointless and stupid, the idea is to see who's car leaks the most which tests for build quality. The Challenges may be goofy but for the most part have an underlying purpose.THE BOYS: All 3 presenters whom share different views and different opinions ultimately gel to perfection due to there un-dying love for cars.Jeremy Clarkson for me is one of the funniest men in the country, he's not afraid of a controversial statement or joke, he speaks his mind which as a result leads to some hilarious lines and actions from him. He is considered the leader of the group, the glue that holds everything together and rightfully so. He might not be everyone's cup of tea but for me he's one of the best out there.Richard Hammond is considered to be the most relatable man in the group his personality and actions are pretty standard with the occasional childish moment thrown in, he's arguably the most boring of the 3. But ultimately he's the most level headed and that's why we like him.James May is the intelligent one, he's not bothered about appearance or relevance, he's pretty much the bread and butter of the cast, simplistic in everything he does. However he has two characteristics that make him so hilarious. 1. His OCD, he's obsessed with doing everything correctly and keeping clean, as a result he clashes with the messy and unpractical Clarkson, some of there arguments have me holding my gut with laughter. 2. His internal compass is ultimately broken, he never has a clue where he is going and often get's lost or left behind during challenges.CONCLUSION: I can't name a single person I know who dislikes Top Gear, which is a true testament to how wide of an audience the show can bring in. Whether you have an interest in cars, comedy, or culture you are sure to the enjoy the show just as much as anyone else. You might be asking, based on this review. Why has he not given it a 10? Ultimately the show still has potential to get even better and thus I want to leave the rating open for debate in the future.Thanks for reading!


                
10 stars when JC, RH and JM were the presenters. 5 stars with the new crew.Other reviews has clarified why it went downhill so will not bore you but I have to say that LeBlanc is primarily an actor, an average one at that. I like him as Joey but he is merely an attractive, mildly charming man you meet at the bar - he is no Marlon Brando or Daniel Day-Lewis.It seems to me that on Top Gear he is only acting when presenting the show. However, there is no script, so there are no lines to memorise and that is where you can see he lacks: 1- extensive car knowledge like the old crew and Harris, 2- any show-hosting abilities like the old crew and Rory, 3- any personality.I'm afraid LeBlanc is failing when trying too hard to be funny without a script, or he is just dull as a presenter. Sorry mate. He is dragging the show down. The producers should not be focusing on him only. Give the others (or better yet, someone else) a chance.


                
Once upon a time there was a show called Top Gear. In this show three men test drove cars and rated their MPG and 0-60 times. This show was for people who care about cars. After some time off the air the BBC launched the new Top Gear. Jeremy Clarkson returned from the first show and two new presenters were added. Although the show began with a much more light-hearted approach to the platform, this quickly descended into a show about three middle-aged men dicking about, getting drunk and sabotaging each other. They travel around the world in million dollar super-cars and they challenge each other to utterly pointless tasks.The cars really don't matter; it's a show about three men and what they get up to when their wives (and the producers) aren't around.Great fun.


                
Top Gear started as a regional show in 1977, under Angela Rippon who now host rip off Britain for the BBC it been a show about torque more than cars.Top Gear version 2.0 took that to the limit, under Jeremy Clarkson leadership it was more about torque than cars as it was a challenge based show.that why Top Gear version 2 worked, it had enough car content in it to be car show but was entertainment based and that why it was a global smash hit version 3.0 was a disappointment in my view.the torque come from the script, that written by clarkson after his co writer Richard porter set the challenge and studio links simple format. Andy wilman producing got him a well earn international Emmy and other awards a talented TV producer in my view.


                
