Top Gear is classic.Top Gear is best car / vehicle show ever made and it is a diamond.Top Gear is funny, interesting and packs a punch of information about cars.Well it was until 2016 came along and they changed the cast.Top Gear 2016 is very bad for newcomers. We all got used to the Clarkson, the small guy and the old guy. Old Top Gear had soul and all around was just a pleasure to watch. The new show is just like a copycat you see in other countries that try to make their own show with similar people but they fail and will fail always.R.I.P TOP GEAR 2015


                
if u love cars u're definitely going to fall in love with show from the very first season. i can still remember vividly when there was Jason Dawes instead of James may now.. i fell in love with this from the very beginning..i mean i had to download the whole seasons. i watched each and every episodes. watched it for long 6 years.. i taught me more about cars and motoring than i would ever learn..specially from Jeremy, Richard and James...loved their friendship, their jokes, their nasty little laughs, their explanation or should i say exploration of cars. their reviews about the cars are still the best than any other top gears. i m sure there are plenty of top gears now...starting from Australia to Zimbabwe. it rips my heart to see my favorite show ends in this way..such a tiny little matter turned into a big fuss..it wasn't necessary..but we know all good things should come to an end so thats it i guess.but top gear will be missed!! I'm sure as hell going to miss it...


                
This has to be one of TV's funniest shows... It is the highlight of my evening watching Jeremy Clarkson, Richard Hammond and James May - 3 middle aged men, sit there, and argue over who's car is the best. Jeremy Clarkson's consistent moaning is the main reason i love to watch it, be it about a car, caravans or speed cameras - i love when Clarkson begins to moan. The races are some of the funniest things I've ever seen on television, Clarkson from Italy to the UK in a Bugatti and Hammond and May in a 'flying washing machine' (thats a cessna to me and you) is hilarious as they try and see which is faster. The way Clarkson isn't afraid to laugh at people in the audience makes me chuckle too, so does the star in a reasonably priced car (Trinny and Susannah is my favourite), everything on this TV is genius.Quite possibly the best thing on any BBC channel, anywhere in the world...
It was my Mum and brother that introduced me to this show, I avoided it for a while because I wasn't really interested in a motoring show, as I don't know enough cars, but Series 5 came on and I gave it a chance, and I'm really glad I did. Basically this show takes the original concept from when it was on in the 70's and 80's looking at the latest cars, but fun elements have been added in, so it is a documentary style but quite often it feels like an adventure. Presented by BAFTA and National Television Award nominated Jeremy Clarkson, Richard Hammond and James May, and appearances by the unknown tamed racing driver The Stig, they look at cars, drive cars, test cars, race cars, report amusing and interesting car and motoring news, have challenges, have adventures, invite special guests to go on leader board, and much more besides. Guests have included Jonathan Ross, Sir Michael Gambon (they have the final corner named after him), Richard Whiteley, Neil Morrissey, Simon Cowell, Sanjeev Baskar, Johnny Vegas, Carol Vorderman, Jordan (Katie Price), Jimmy Carr, Christopher Eccleston, Justin Hawkins, Chris Evans, Davina McCall, Timothy Spall, Trevor Eve, Ian Wright, Ellen MacArthur, David Walliams, Alan Davies, Justin Hawkins (from The Darkness), Gordon Ramsay, Ewan McGregor, Brian Cox, Steve Coogan, Ray Winstone, Jamie Oliver, Hugh Grant and many others. Specials have included the Winter Olympics, the American road trip, the Polar Special, Botswana, Vietnam, Bolivia, Romania with Boneville Salt Flats, Middle East, Top Gear of the Pops, Top Ground Gear Force and many more. It won the BAFTA for Best Features (also nominated twice), it won the Emmy for Non-Scripted Entertainment, and it was nominated the National Television Awards for Most Popular Factual Programme (twice). Jeremy Clarkson was number 66 on The 100 Worst Britons (I like him), and he was number 19 on TV's 50 Greatest Stars. Very good!
I think Top Gear is a good fun programme. If you are a car nut then you love it, but even if you don't it works as a comedy. As a car programme it does review cars, mostly sport and luxury cars, but do review normal cars as well, such as Fords and Vaxuhalls. Because of the programmes like of Vaxuhalls it one of the reasons my dad has brought a new Vectra, the Nürburgring special edition. The show also tests them and show what cars has the best time.Top Gear is also a talk show and Jermery Clarkson is a good host, nothing taking himself too seriously. He is light-hearted and the guests like it. The guests also have fun doing their lab around the Top Gear track.The hosts of the show, Clarkson, Richard Hammond and James May have good chemistry and comedic timing. They work well together and again don't take themselves too seriously. They however do have good opinions about cars.The aspect of the show I like the most is the challenges that they do, either a race where Clarkson is a sports car and the other two in a mode of public transports such as trains and buses. These challenges are done abroad, such as Central Europe or Japan. I also like it when they have a challenge like buy a car for under £1000 pounds. This is normally don't in Britain, but sometimes in America.Finally, the Stig is a great creation by the show. He has turned into a cult figure. I would like to know who his really is, but I know when people find out that it will ruin it for the fans. He is a good racing driver and a great comedic character.I would have given the show 10 out of 10, but I do not like Clarkson's political views and goes against my environmental ideals.


                
I've learnt everything I know about cars from Top Gear. In a way, I suppose my love for cars keeps growing as I keep watching this show. Which means this show would be perfect for petrol-heads. Normally, in a motor show, you would probably get bored after hearing the presenters blabber on about specifications of different cars. But with Top Gear, this wouldn't be so.Top Gear keeps the excitement alive, they do the craziest things possible. You never know what may come next. In one episode they'll be trying to build a space rocket out of a car and in the next they'll be trying to play darts with caravans.I have to say though, the cool wall is so one-sided. If a car is in subzero, it means that it's astonishing from Jeremy's point of view. But why should it matter if a great car is driven by a bunch of dweebs? Cars should be judged based on their looks!Another great comical factor about Top Gear, is obviously, the Stig. The secretiveness towards his character, the jokes they make about him, and the way he acts is sublime.In comparison, I once tried to watch the U.S version of Top Gear. And quite frankly, it was a bore. Sure, they drove fast cars which were fun to watch at first, but later on, the show gets rather boring.This then, is the ultimate in motoring shows. I've been watching top gear ever since I was about twelve, and I can't suggest any reason as to why you may not want to watch it.


                
Some hate it. Lots more love it. The truth is, is that you don't have to be a petrol head to love this show. I myself couldn't care less about cars, but I tune in to every new episode. The presenters make the show what it is - Clarkson is extremely opinionated, not everybody's cup of tea but he is extremely funny at times and I enjoy watching him. May and Hammond both contrast nicely - the laddish banter makes the show extremely watchable. While the main series are very good - the segments beautifully filmed and composed - I really would encourage watching the specials as well. Overall, a thoroughly entertaining, funny and engaging show.


                
the new hosts in this Epic car show makes me Extremely angry .. they are stupid as .... and dumb as .... and the channel BBC can go and F... them self .. i LOVED this TV show when the 3 funny ones was hosting this show.. so this makes me... wanna get on a plane and go to england ... go into the bbc head office and kill everyone that works there .... they basically destroyd the best car show ever made .. and all because of stupid things .. well now they can go and ... them self


                
Why not have Jeremy come to America to comment on cars? I would like to see that. Have the Top Gear team ever met the Texas gas monkeys from the American show "Fast and Loud? For that matter have they met the "American Top Gear" guys aside from Tanner Faust? If he is fired from BBC. Is he also fired from American Top Gear on BBC America? There have to be lots of American networks who want to do shows with him. Who needs BBC anyway? There is no honest commentary on new cars anywhere, i even suspect top gear had to say nice things about the Golf if they wanted to drive the veyron again. hmmm. Maybe he should go see Jay Lenno. There is someone who knows both cars and American TV. Maybe they could do a Show together. The sponsor could be "Car and Driver". Magazine. Jeremy could be bigger here than he ever was in Britan.


                
What can I Say, its simply the best Automobile show ever. Period. I am finding myself unable to sleep till 5am morning, and binge watching this amazing show backwards. Its like going back in history of cars. The humour all there host brings is just out of the world. After FRIENDS this is like my most favourite Comedy TV show. This show not only provide good insight about top notch Sports and high end luxury cars but also gives useful info about whats good and bad. The reviews are 100% unbiased and sounds legit. The British Canning style of humour is amazing. I find myself laughing so hard at times that i wonder how can a car show be so funny yet gripping. The Special episodes are my favourite.
As long as it's Clarkson, Hammond and May, it the best show on television. Ever. Cinematography wise, soundtrack, scripts and most importantly, the great contrast of perfectly and hilariously balanced characters! English humor at its best!


                
