((((SPOILERS))))) I can think of nothing kind or good or positive to say about this truly repulsive motion picture. It is, quite simply, cruel. Quentin Tarantino's badly written script focuses on the events leading up to and the aftermath of a botched jewelry store heist. The heist itself is largely inconsequential to the story, as Tarantino's intent was apparently to create a character study of the participants. Yet, he has failed to give any of his characters anything resembling human personalities beyond phony macho posturing. The cast does little to add depth to the characters beyond the routine tough guy gambit of shouting their obscenity-laden dialogue at the top of their lungs. As such, they never raise their one-note performances above the level of brain dead savagery. But good, bad or indifferent, the actors have little to work with in the first place. Tarantino's much deified dialogue is insultingly dull-witted -- banal pop references peppered generously with tiresome profanity. The kindest thing to be said for Tarantino's ability to direct action is that it, at least, distracts from the emptiness of his written words. But, it is the violence that pushes the film into the realm of the utterly contemptible. There have been films with more violence and with more explicit violence, but few revel in its violence to the extent of RESERVOIR DOGS. The film doesn't use violence to show cause and effect, or to make a social statement, or to reflect reality, or even for cheap shock effect. It is violence for the sake of violence. The violence in DOGS is purely sadistic; a sleazy, pornographic celebration of inhuman cruelty.
Here and in his other violence-obsessed films, Tarantino embraces the infliction of pain as not just an act of power, but of an almost orgasmic display of gratification. Add to this the fact that the victims of the violence are usually bound, helpless, terrified, tortured, randomly selected and undeserving of such cruelty and the violence clearly becomes symbolic of rape. Worse, such savagery encourages the audience to identify with the perpetrator, not the victim, and Tarantino (all too effectively, I'm afraid) tries to make the viewer complicit in his sadism.  Okay, if Tarantino wants to indulge in his little S&M fantasies, that is his business. What is disheartening is the way people -- filmgoers and professional critics alike -- have been seduced into not just tolerating Tarantino's sadism, but to applaud it as well? DOGS centerpiece is the totally unnecessary and illogical kidnapping of a young policeman who is subsequently beaten, tortured and mutilated, for no apparent reason other than because it amuses one of the psychotic characters -- and, one can presume, Tarantino himself. The director stages the torture sequence like a comic musical number, complete with rock background music and choreography; casually topping it all off with the young officer's murder being the punchline of a joke. "That's entertainment!" seems to be Tarantino's pathetically cruel message. This killing should inspire anger or, at the very least, pity for the innocent man. Instead, it elicited raves by film viewers who see the scene as stylish, or worse, cool. What does it say about our society that not only do we condone the glorification of senseless violence as entertainment, but applaud it as art? Why have we become so obsessed with the matter of "style" that we can't see that beneath Tarantino's superficial technique there is sadism? RESERVOIR DOGS represents some sort of low point in the history of cinema. That it helped propel Tarantino to be considered one of the most influential directors of our time represents some sort of low point for society.
When critics say that some films are pornographic because of the way they depict violence, they are referring to the type of violence that appears in "Reservoir Dogs." The film maker's artistic judgment seems to be clouded by a bloodthirsty hatred of police officers. I am thinking particularly of a scene in which a captive police officer is mutilated by his criminal captors. The feeling conveyed to me was one of sadistic joy in the victim's suffering, a sense that he deserved to be mutilated simply because he was a cop. I am sure that some misguided admirers of this film applauded the scene precisely for that reason. Unfortunately, a lot of people hate the police, and for them such a film functions as escapist "entertainment," but "Reservoir Dogs" seems to lack any redeeming value of another kind, like a snuff movie. The only other time I've seen such poor artistic and ethical judgment in a film was in "Caligula," by the producer Bob Guccione, where in one scene a Roman aristocrat forces a soldier to drink a gallon of wine and then cuts his belly open for the fun of seeing the liquid spill out of it. Some gullible members of the audience actually cheered when they saw that. Like Guccione, Tarantino, director of "Reservoir Dogs" may be a big fan of pornography and possibly he doesn't make the distinction between sex and violence. Certainly everything of his I've seen looks like a porno film stylistically, but he focuses mainly on bloodshed and torture instead of lust and love. Unless you're in the mood for a tasteless exercise in violence, you would do much better to rent John Huston's "Asphalt Jungle," one of the best and most intelligently made caper gone wrong movies ever made.


                
I remember watching this movie when it first came out and I did not know what to think. I mean, it was different. I could not remember seeing dialog like this before or a scene where a guy cuts another guy's ear off. It was unique in that regard. Mind you, it was different, but not really special. Moreover, some parts were very boring. Other parts were so "talky" and somewhat over the top, that they strained credibility. However, there were some funny lines as well. After having watched this again, some ten years later, I can say with all honesty, this film has not aged well. On second look, you see what looks like a first year film student project. It still has funny lines, but the story is paper thin. The actors tend to over act and the dialog is so full of Clint Eastwood wannabe one-liners, that you just roll your eyes. Michael Madsen cannot act, sorry. He is cool, but he cannot act. Tim Roth's attempt at an American accent makes him sound like Ralph Cramden from the HoneyMooners. I was just amazed at how bad this film really looked to a more mature person. The funny lines just don't cover that constant posturing of characters that have no real depth. The movie is cotton candy, it looks filling, but is far from it. Perhaps there will always be 14 year old boys around to give this "cool film" high marks, but I fear it will grow more ridiculous the older I get. However, Tarantino has this cult of personality going and I am sure the 10s will continue coming in for this film and a 10 might mean perfect in here, but that don't make it so.


                
To quote the great Terry Rossio:"There are many films with the goal 'to find your way home.' But there's only one film where a girl clicks together a pair of ruby slippers."What that basically means is that the goal of many stories is essentially the same. The 'find your way home' example is used in films such as E.T., The Wizard of Oz, and Back To The Future, just to name a few. Only one of those has ruby slippers. Only one has a bicycle fly past the moon. Only one has a time-traveling Delorean.The goal of 'criminals getting together to pull off the perfect heist' has been used is such films as The Killing, The Taking of Pelham One Two Three, and City on Fire...just to name a few. Only one had an un-chronological order to the events. Until Reservoir Dogs. Only one had the criminals use color-coded names to keep their identities anonymous. Until Reservoir Dogs. Only one had an undercover cop infiltrate a gang of crooks and befriend another crook, only to get shot during the process of the robbery, until he confesses the truth to his new friend. Until Reservoir Dogs.If you cannot see that this entire film is just a cut and paste job, then you have to be mentally impaired. And that is not an insult.As far as originality goes, Tarantino hasn't got to that point yet. The point where he creates something on his own. This is just a second hand, second rate cut and paste job that is only mildly entertaining on first viewing. Upon seeing the film subsequent times, it only gets worse, and it's (very many) flaws only stand out to an even more obvious extent. This is a bad movie even for someone who has never directed anything before in his life.The film starts with a discussion that might as well be about Jesus, pancake syrup, or the duties of the school crossing guard. None of these have anything to do with the story...much like the conversation we see before the opening credits roll. Which brings me to another discussion that takes place later on in the film...something about Lady E and a superglue incident. How is this any of our business? How does it advance the story? What do we get out of it besides a possible forced laugh of pity? It's not our business, it does not advance the story, and we get nothing out of that scene at all. You can literally remove it and be left with the same exact film, just without that scene. From the point before that scene started to after it finished, NOTHING HAS CHANGED AT ALL. It's complete filler. A total waste of time.This movie would have been pretty good without extraneous scenes floating around, popping up at random, and taking entirely too long to finish. The best example of this is the whole Tim Roth segment. It interrupts the flow of the story and it simply not fun to watch. It's a huge dead moment right before the climax of the movie and it's very easy to simply lose interest at that point. When the finale does come, it's more of a "good, it's over" point rather than any kind of realization. Tarantino couldn't even create a good third act when he literally just copied the third act from City on Fire, and in some cases...shot for shot! Resertvoir Dogs showed us nothing that we have not seen before...literally. The only positive thing about it is the cast, and that's even not so great. Most of the dialogue is just screaming and f-words being used like it's going out of style (and it has, thanks to films like this), and the "infamous" and "extreme" violence is about on par with The Lion King. So if you're thinking about watching this movie...just watch a good heist movie instead. I suggest:The Killing The Asphalt Jungle The Taking of Pelham One Two Three


                
This movie just bored me no end. It was so painful to watch. The direction by Quentin Tarintino was terrible and the actors were very miscasted. I watched this with my friend and he also thought it was terrible. Nothing to admire, no action, just cussing. There's no point going to the message boards saying that you don't like it, because if you do people at the message board will use anything as an excuse for you to love it. "If you don't like it you don't get or you're an idiot. It was Quentin Tarintino's first film, go easy on him." Don't let tall this get in the way of your opinion, because this movie was stupid and pointless. Very predictable too. So I wont even say anymore.I recommend it to anyone who loves Quentin Tarintino. By the way, I find Quentin Tarintino overrated, everything he does people think it's great, but it's not.


                
What to say.. a cliche story, badly told, with non believable characters 1/4" deep.  I rented this movie because a friend told me it was the best movie ever, unfortunately it was pretty much the opposite, especially the whole setup. I saw Saturday morning cartoons that were more interesting.


                
I can only imagine that those who like this film find appeal in the violence.  It certainly isn't in the direction or story-telling.  It's an incredibly badly-written and episodic piece, full of irrelevant scenes without which it would only be an hour long.  What is relevant makes no use of the medium.  Characters are not introduced through telling actions, but by introducing themselves in some kind of criminal job-interview. Tarantino's 'genius' seems to be a habit of having the lowest sort of people engaged in violent pursuits converse as casually as ladies at tea.  It's a trick he uses and re-uses in all his films.  Maybe Reservoir Dogs was meant to have deconstructionist elements a la From Dusk Till Dawn, but I think it's just what it appears to be:  a really bad film.William Bell


                
I first saw this film when I was 15. I thought it was brilliant, really original and generally great. However, now (3 Years later) I realise it is nothing more than a pretentious piece of garbage.Sure, it looks good, but when you really get down to it it's not doing anything. It doesn't have any real substance, it's not commenting on anything, it's just a totally throwaway product. Tarantino is talking loudly and saying nothing. And THAT narrative structure - it looks and feels original, but independent and foreign movies have been doing it, better, for years and years.A truly trashy piece of postmodernism at it's worst.


                
Everybody knows that criminals are big losers but still there is a strong tradition in American cinema especially in Hollywood of making films which glorify criminals.Everybody knows that Godfather,a film about a mafia family is hailed as a classic film.People know well as to what kind of things mafia do and how harmful they are to human society in general.Reservoir Dogs is one such dumb film which through its antics champions the cause of crooks without morals.Tarantino is believed to be a humorist however his humor is undoubtedly bland and mainly consists of filthy abuses.A word about the violence in the film: by showing macabre scenes of senseless violence Tarantino has shown that in the name of creative freedom and in order to gain easy publicity all rules can be broken and more the violence the more controversial the film is going to be.Good that this film has not been emulated by other film makers. It is a good development that till now no studio has come forward with the idea of making a sequel of this film.God save America who has Quentino.


                
Vintage Tarantino. Totally boorish, tasteless, boring, repetitious, tedious & moronic. Everything his loving audiences deserve.


                
First, I love Tarantino, because he is able (as a director) to follow his own unique style and made a very good movie like Pulp Fiction. But when making Reservoir Dogs, he was (in my opinion) maybe just searching for the borders of what other directors did not dare to do. A movie as RD with (just) a strong focus on violence is not enough for me to give it a high rating. Of course the acting and directing was very good, but I was missing a real strong script. And thats why I could not enjoy this movie and was just very disappointed because my expectations were very high (also based on the high rating on IMDB). So, when you not only like violence, but also care about a good script (story) than you also want to watch the Mob-movies of Martin Scorsese like Good fellas and Casino.


                
People were forcing me to get this movie, so I eventually got it. I watched it waiting for the action and waiting for them to show us the robbery. How can this be called a gangster movie if they don't even show you a robbery? It said everywhere that this movie is a classic. What's classic about it? Robbers who cuss and act childish all the time waffling on about a robbery? All they do is talk and swear for 94 minutes, that's all they do. And it was very predictable who the cop was. There was no surprise. The reason I knew it was Mr. Orange was because Mr. White was treating him like a little 5 year old and he still treated the others like they were a piece of garbage. The direction was poor. The pacing was off. The humor with them discussing body functions and people's religion, etc was way off. They tried too hard to be funny when it came to he humor. There are 2 great songs in this movie, but that's it. The only thing that's original about this movie is the color names. The movie just seemed pointless, especially after the ending. They all shoot each other. What was the point in that? Them waffling on about a robbery, then nd up killing each other? What sense is that? I guess people love Quentin Tarintino so much that they'll accept anything he gives you. The dialog wasn't even good. Gangsters talking about their life and trying to be humorous, BORING! A lot of people will probably abuse me for this review, but i'm sorry, this is what the film is about and you fall for such poor movies like this. The reason I type this is to also warn others to let them know that you'll be expecting nothing more from this film than gangsters (Who they don't even act like) waffling on about a failed robbery that they don't even show you. 1/10
It also has no entertainment value - it was a chore to watch.It's all about stupid people killing each other. The senseless violence is extremely offensive and although I could see the language being typical of the type of person, I found that offensive too.I could have spent my time better lying on my bed watching the ceiling for 99 minutes.


                
Unlike most of Tarantino's films this one I would not give a negative rating to. It shares all of the things that I hate about his other films (bouncing around in time & sequence, unnecessary blood & violence, no plot and no resolution) with the rest of his films, but for some reason this one does not make me want to sort my socks instead. I would still say that you should not waste your time watching this movie unless you really just want to waste time. The only redeeming quality of this film is that you can watch this one film and and you will have just seen every Quentin Tarantino movie ever made, because they are all the same. Just be sure that you can handle the violence and the blood because that is about all you are going to get from this film.


                
What is wrong with Quentin Tarantino? The guy thinks of nothing but vile, despicable violence. His worst piece of trash is Natural Born Killers, but piece of crap..Reservoir Dogs is really disgusting. But what is more disturbing than the film is how so many people revere it. What have we come to? This film made me gag and want to throw up. What possible message comes from a film such as this? All I can say is God help us!


                
I don't know what kind of drugs you have to take to make this movie seem good, but it's one of the most overwrought, pretentious pieces of crap I've ever seen. All the characters sound like a bunch of Gen-X hipsters sitting around on a second-hand couch smoking bongs. If I wanted to hear a bunch of doofuses deconstructing Madonna lyrics, I'd hang out at the local coffee shop. Or I'd stick my head in the oven. Or something. But if I want to see a good crime movie I'll stick with The Maltese Falcon, The Grifters, Miller's Crossing; hell, even 101 Dalmatians is a better "film noir" than this overrated stinker.


                
This movie is just nonsense. It goes nowhere, it's incredibly boring and the best thing that can happen to you is that you pray it's over. I just don't get why this is on the IMDb top! Seriously, if you like movies as much as I do, you shouldn't waste your time with this. Not even the 'best' parts are worth it.If you don't trust me yet, watch the first five minutes of the movie and when you start asking yourself "When is this going to start?" maybe you'll get it. That's how the entire movie is. Completely BORING.Some people say that one good thing about it is that it focuses on the story behind everything. Don't believe that! You'll find that there are 10-20 minutes scenes that are completely unnecessary (oh sorry... just like the entire film...).I've seen lots of movies, and maybe I didn't like the 10% of them, because I usually try to see what's behind it, and if there's something, I appreciate it, but this is definitely the worse thing I've come upon.


                
This repulsive, reprehensible trash for Quentin Tarantino has to rank as one of the worst movies ever made.  When I wasn't bored to tears by interminable dialogue, I was repulsed by the glorification of sadism as an alternative life-style.  The Marquis De Sade would have been proud.  Tarantino should put his talents to suitable use and just make a real 'snuff' film.  See 'Clockwork Orange' instead.  That is a work of real genius.


                
Easily one of the worst films I have ever seen. I don't know how some people love it. Seriously overrated. Basically set in the one scene. One scene of gory violence which is hard to watch. A few pathetic attempts at humor. People who say its one of the best films of all time probably haven't watched much films. I don't think it's a proper gangster film like good fellas or Casino Which are classics. I also don't like how some characters try to come across as tough. Complete Waste Of Time ... Watch a real film like casino Twasnt worth the money I paid to watch it . I have to stretch this out to fill in ten lines of text
First off... it is clear that this movie is a rip-off. I couldn't believe when i first saw this movie what i was watching. It is a complete word for word Verbatim of Lung F fong wan ( city on fire ) , hong kong action movie starring Chow Yun Fat.. i don't know how he got away with remaking this movie which came out in 1987 by the way, and all the fame he has accumulated since , How Tarantino got any credit for this movie is unbelievable. watch City on Fire first before you start discrediting me please, they are all in it Mr. Blonde,pink,brown,white etc etc ... SHOCKED is what i was when i saw it and look at him now


                
Is there money in crime, sure, Hollywood(why not holy wood?), show! us the way and nontheleast Q.Tarantino in this dispiccable nonstory that is best left unmentioned, and not ironized like Oliver Stone tried with Natural Born Killers.


                
This movie is beyond terrible. I must say, I found it quite disappointing. I watched it with a (kinda) friend of mine, whom said that this was by far his favorite movie. Of course, I was interested, and asked why, and he responded that I just HAVE TO watch it. Well I must say, the story line was absolutely atrochious. The conversations were indeed hilarious, but yet very random. The openining scene talks about the various women that the men have been with, and what they have done. The first 5 minutes, I thought this would be a great movie. But then from then on, I just got bored. Too much repeated conversation. Then one of the heist members tortures a cop, which I found quite disturbing, watching the cops ear get hacked off, and then almost having a flame lit on him whilst there was gasoline doused all over him. Yes, I must say, this movie was boring... no significant characters, and just way too random. And, as I said before, I must say, this movie was by far below par, and competes for my worst movie ever, compariing with "Spirit" (G movie) From Walt Disney. Don't spend $5 to rent this, or $15 to buy it. This sucks.


                
I had heard "this movie is awesome, the best made!" so i watched it, and it was THE WORST movie i have ever seen! If you want a similar movie, go to blockbuster and rent Boondock Saints! STAY AWAY FROM THIS FILM!


                
The diner scene is the best part of this movie. The next 80 minutes is just a bunch of insecure nutjobs yelling at each other. Totally unbelievable characters. You can guess who the undercover officer is after about ten minutes. Incredibly boring and over-rated garbage.


                
So highly hyped yet totally fails to live up to any of it this debut film is remembered for all the wrong reasons: that L.A gangsters are cool, "That" scene and Mr T's inability to write a script that conveys anger, emotion or suspense without resorting to F words. Only the score can save it from the dustbin but the worst crime is that anyone now wearing black suits and shades is confused with this junk instead of The Blues Bros. In a word; A**e!


                
