I watched Ringo Lam's city on fire and I was upset to see how Quentin stole everything from it to make Reservoir Dogs, Yes I like the way he combines different movies to make one but reservoir dogs was like an American Version of city on fire with white actors (not in a bad way).I know it has been said before, but I recommend you to watch City on fire, things that didn't make sens or if you don't want to waste your time listening to those tough guys talking about what they did, City on fire will just show you what happened in a small box of time.But anyway, I think Mr Blond and Pink made it look pretty though.I am sorry, just in case he paid for the rights.


                
I heard so many good things about this movie before I finally saw it, and I was misled. With a shorter running time, it seemed like there was an attempt to pack in a vast amount of plot, but it ended up seeming like more time was wasted because of it.With such a fine cast, I was expecting some fine performances. I wasn't disappointed as far as that goes. I'll admit the variety of characters was interesting and fun to watch at times, most notably during the first scene. That's about all it has to offer though.The basic concept of strangers getting together for a crime isn't a bad idea on paper, it just didn't work out at all for this script. I kept hoping the writing would get better as the movie went on, but after about a third of the way through, I knew what I was in for.I really don't think there's anything groundbreaking here, even for 1992. Crime movies have been done, and been done better. This seemed more like a fantasy crime movie that would only be interesting to the person thinking about it in their own unique way.There's also some torture scene put in, which I really thought didn't need to be. It didn't seem like it fit in, at least to the extent of what happened. So what's the bottom line here? Well, it's crime movie with a semi interesting plot, a lot of tough guy talk, and an overall letdown of what could have been. 4/10


                
There is nothing special about this film, worth watching but not a master piece.


                
Don't get why this movie is so highly regarded. It's mostly plain boring. There's little to none development of the plot, and it's easy to see what's going to happen miles ahead. Waste of time really.Maybe it's just not my taste, but I found very little pleasure in watching this. Best moment was the humor surrounding the assignment of names their names. Maybe it was better in '92 as I imagined it had more shock effect. It seems though as the violence is only there for the shock effect alone, and the plot itself is unbelievably thin for a movie with such high rating. Unless you are a Tarantino fan you should avoid this. Won't be worth your time.


                
I've been wanting to see this movie since it came out. This was *the* movie to see as a college student (along with "Swingers" and "Pulp Fiction"), but I was deeply disappointed by it. For the first 30 minutes, I was just hoping the trademark Tarentino "dialogue" would end!!! I know Tarentino is very good at dialogue, but sometimes he overdoes it (also in "Grindhouse: Death Proof") and he definitely does so in this movie. The plot is intricate, the acting is well done, but the plot is at a full stop due to the endless drone of talk talk talk that I really don't care about. The ending was surprising and did save the movie from a lower score, but I guess I will never understand why people think this is one of Tarentino's best movies and one of the better movies of all time.


                
*Spoiler* Quentin Tarentino has the habit of using an uneven timeline for his movies. While I thought his subsequent movie, "Pulp Fiction" was quite good, I wish he followed the timeline as the events occurred.  Sometimes it is necessary to jump around in time from scene to scene.  In this movie, it was unnecessary.  He could have easily started from the beginning and shown the movie in the order the events occurred.  The average moviegoer would not like this movie and would be more appealing to the avante garde film buff. While this movie is certainly original, that does not make it good.  The plot was difficult to follow and had minimal enjoyable moments.  While some of the scenes were intense, it is definitely not a feel good movie.
Quentin Taratino is really over-rated and this film is just one example of why.  Pointless bloodbaths, violence and annoying flashbacks detract from an otherwise interesting tale of deceit and mistrust.I found the characters unrealistic and somewhat shallow.I believe one should seek entertainment that makes a positive impact or at least makes you feel something mostly positive after the viewing.  This is just not my cup of tea (or blood as it were.) 5/10


                
Before the brilliant "Pulp Fiction" and the epic "Jackie Brown," writer-director Quentin Tarantino burst onto the independent films scene with this morbid little piece of filmmaking called "Reservoir Dogs." It tells the terribly unpleasant story of a few chatty thugs, with color-coded names, who assemble in an abandoned warehouse after a jewel heist goes terribly wrong. Loud arguments, gun-fights, and a nasty little torture scene ensue. Still, Tarantino had a few good ideas, and I'll give him that. Narrative through flashback was done with a clever flair and I did like the way Tarantino chose to have all his characters lacking morals (even the "blue rat"), so we wouldn't be forced to sympathize with any one of them. That's all that "Reservoir Dogs" really is though, a few good ideas but a genuinely unpleasant moviegoing experience. Rated R. 99 minutes. 4 out of 10.


                
Here's the story in a nutshell, a group of 6 <U+0091>gangsters' perform a robbery (which is never shown).  Those that survived the robbery are shown debating which one is a cop.  There is a lot of blood and some shootings.  And there is also one torture scene that is hard to watch. Quentin Tarintino has always been a master of dialogue I will give this movie that.  I just found this movie too long in spots.  Sometimes the characters tend to go on and on. It's one gangster talking to another.  One says `I think this @#$@%! guy is the cop' and than another gangster says `I think this guy is the ^$#&@ cop'.  That's the story. I was a little disappointed that most of the movie takes place in a garage with occasional flashbacks.  But what really disappointed me was with all the flashbacks how come they could not flash back and show the actual robbery?  I gave it 4 out of 10 stars.  Definitely not a movie for women - it is one for guys only.


                
Ohh, I think this is the worst Quentin Tarantino film. The action is chaotic and lot of dialogues are meaningless and way too long. Watch Pulp Fiction instead. Damn, I need one more line, else this review will be not posted. But what else can I write about so bad movie? A very, very big disappointment for me.


                
I've watched this movie twice, the second time to make sure I didn't miss anything. I didn't.The stunted, pointless dialog in the beginning of the movie made it pretentious. Tarantino refined his trademark of making ordinary, everyday speech extraordinary in Pulp Fiction. In Resevoir Dogs, it remained ordinary; painfully so.The only real trick in this movie is how Steve Buschemi didn't die from loss of blood. This was simply rediculous. He seemed to try too hard with this one. PF was simply a better movie..


                
Reservoir Dogs (1992) is a crime suspense movie about six criminals trying to find out who was a snitch after their botched robbery. The characters had alias named after colors. Mr. White played by Harvey Keitel, Mr. Blonde played by Michael Madsen, Mr. Pink played by Steve Buscemi, Mr. Blue played by Eddie Bunker, Mr. Orange by Tim Roth, and Mr. Brown by the director Quentin Tarantino.The movie doesn't have a lot of shooting scenes like many other action movies, yet featured a lot of scenes with plenty of blood, enough to donate for a leukemia patient. The gore and killings were accompanied by very slowly progressing scenes of flashbacks accompanied by hip music. Overall, the theme is slowly but violent meltdown of a band of thieves.From the opening of the movie, the gang of six were introduced as stingy, bad mouthing, degenerates who picked on each other for small bones. The lack of any dramatic action would soon be set upon by plenty of blood in the car with Mr. White and Mr. Orange. The style of loud hip music from the cast introduction would be kept for the rest of the movie, as that was the only type of music in the movie. The rest of the scenes had mostly dialogues by characters and occasional soundtrack of gun fire and blood splatter.The gang's member's flashbacks revealed the main plot of the movie as they bring the characters into view. The viewers get to see who is bad, who is ugly, and who is worse. There were hints of someone who might be an undercover agent working against the gang, but that would not come clear into the view until later on the movie as all hell breaks loose between them. That was pretty much the main plot twist to keep the viewers interested.Compared to The Usual Suspects (1995), between all the yelling and cursing of the gang of six, Reservoir Dogs lacked suspense between the criminals. The warehouse scenes were too bland in setting as well as editing. The flashbacks had plenty of blood and action but not enough excitement as the viewer is not attached to the characters well enough in the earlier scenes. The flashbacks also didn't bring enough surprises to expect more from the unfolding of plot in the warehouse.If The Usual Suspects was a hit pop-corn movie to watch with others, Reservoir Dogs is a movie that shows up on the list when there's no more re-runs of cop thriller Starsky and Hutch.


                
I honestly don't see why people consider this one of the greatest movies of all time. After having just watched it, the gritty violence is still fresh in my mind, and I can appreciate how well the actors played their parts, but in the end I'm left quite unsatisfied.I came into the movie thinking that there would be some sort of resolution, or actual focused conflict; what I got was a disappointing ending, weak dialogue, poorly-organized meandering flashbacks, and a struggle so scattered throughout all the characters that I stopped caring altogether about their concerns.Odd thing about my disliking Reservoir Dogs, though, is that I normally love blood and gore in cinema! However, if this movie's taught me anything, it's that there needs to be context behind it.


                
Non-spoiler section....I recently viewed this movie and I'm rather surprised at its high rating on IMDb. Many IMDb users voted this movie a "10", and for the life of me, I cannot see how this film remotely compares to any of the three "Godfather" movies (among my favorites), "Gone With the Wind", "Platoon", or even "Scarface". If not presented in the broken, nearly reversed chronological order, there would be virtually no plot, and very thin character development.WARNING - Spoiler section....I'm not one adversely affected by violence in films, but the torture scene in "Reservoir Dogs" really put me off. It seemed realistic and sadistic, but I can't say that I was entertained. (I know, I probably wasn't supposed to be entertained at that point.)I had issues with a couple of the plot developments, and believe me, there were very few plot developments. First, I was rather dismayed at the idea that Harvey Keitel's character could stand against his long-time friends, Joe and Eddie Cabot, to the point of gunning them down, all while trying to protect someone he virtually did not know, and who could easily (and did) turn out to be the informer/cop. Then, if that weren't silly enough, the undercover cop (Tim Roth's character, Mr. Orange, I believe) tells Harvey Keitel (Mr. White) that he's a cop. What could have motivated such a move? Did he want to make Mr. White feel bad for saving his life? Did he have a death wish? I think my mouth fell open trying to figure that one out. In the end, I just lumped it into the category of "no plot" and moved on.My last negative comment relates to the lengthy, meaningless, inane banter between the thugs around the breakfast table and in the car. It may reflect real life, but so does mowing the lawn. Neither situation is terribly fun to watch for several minutes on film.On the positive side, I thought the movie was well acted, especially by Steve Buscemi. It was certainly realistic, and the chopped, reverse chronology turned a nearly non-existent plot into a bit of a mystery. Overall, I'd rate this movie a 4 out of 10.
*1/2 out of **** Let's talk about music. I am a true heavy metal fan and my favorite bands are Iron Maiden, Stratovarius and Iced Earth. I also like other bands and even I like jazz and blues. My cousin likes blues a lot. Sometimes we listen to blues together when we go out, when we drink. I went to a musical concert in 2003 of a death metal band called Krisiun. I can tell you that since that day, my life has completely changed. My left earring is not the same anymore as it was before, but still I can listen pretty well and this is truly cruel. Cruel to know that my earring is not the same anymore. Now, if going to a musical concert and not listening the same way I did before is already cruel, can you imagine what would it be if I had my earring cut? This isn't cruelty anymore, it's madness in colors, physical. When Quentin Tarantino directed Reservoir Dogs, I really do believe he was trying to show how mad he could get. But I mean, mad. To the limit. As we see Michael Madsen slash the earring of a cop off, and then we see that big red whole in the face of the poor man, we see how Tarantino turned to be a monster director in this movie. That scene is way too violent, too extra-terrestrial mad and insane, not only I felt completely beaten in my chair, I wanted to throw up. After the end of that scene, I was so shocked, I couldn't almost keep my head holden up to watch this insanity to the end. After the movie was over, I wanted to take a look at the deleted scenes. And what do I find? Not only that scene was way too cruel, but there's another scene, another version of the scene, where the titles on the screen appears: "Warning! This is a very violent scene, not suitable for some viewers" or something like that. Do you know what I did? I turned the DVD player and TV off. If the scene that got inside the movie was already the way it was, how would it be as a deleted scene? Reservoir Dogs (1992), insanely directed by Quentin Tarantino, is a movie for people who have guts and stomach to watch. It's a movie for those who can have launch while watching Steve-O throw up in Jackass - The Movie (2002). I understand that this is a debut movie and I even dare congratulate Mr. Q. for having directed this movie as a debut. But it's not because it's a debut, I should give credits because we must be professional writers. I don't consider myself as a professional writer, but I try to be, at least. This was just one scene, but if we discuss the rest of the movie, we're going to find out that it's about a group of men who must do a dirty job. They must go on a mission where they must steal some diamonds and leave. But everything goes wrong, because the alarm gets triggered (it was shame that this hasn't been filmed, but it's OK), Mr.Blonde (Michael Madsen, more hateful than ever before) starts firing people, almost killing Mr. White (Harvey Keitel) and Mr.Orange (Tim Roth) gets shot in the stomach. Everything went wrong because the alarm got triggered, policemen arrived at the crime scene and there's a traitor! The plot is incredibly good as it always was in the Tarantino movies. But Tarantino is a man who as he likes to show violence, he shows it as a masterpiece. Pulp Fiction (1994) and Kill Bill Vol.1 (2003) and Vol.2 (2004) are all great, because Tarantino knows how to use violence. The eye scene at Kill Bill Vol.2 is quite shocking too, but when I went to Krisiun concert, I didn't leave having eyes trauma. God, I'm even shaking as I'm writing this down! I'm totally dizzy.Well, to conclude this review, I must say that if you like violence and/or have an iron stomach, you might have fun while watching this piece of insanity and may like the movie. But I don't think that if a director likes violence, he has to show it the way he wants. OK, Reservoir Dogs has its characters, plot, good songs (as always in Tarantino movies), greatly great performances (as the actors really showed they're actually dogs) but also violence. And a lot. If you, like me have watched this movie and hated Tarantino, but haven't seen his other movies, let me say something to you. Watch the other movies! They're much greater as evolution took place. I might even watch that deleted scene of the different version of the earring cutting, but only if I'm really way too drunk!
I really don't get all of the hype around this movie. Everyone always talks about how its such a classic, and how "Tarantino is the voice of our generation". The plot is about a bunch of thieves with code names who are trying to rob a bank, and one of the crew happens to be a cop. In usual Tarantino fashion, he dices the film up into different parts - first is the end, and so on. He cuts it up so you don't actually see the robbery. Really annoying. The script is constant swearing. Really nothing more. The cast leaves some to be desired. Michael Madsen makes me want to hit myself in the face constantly. The ear cutting scene was a letdown. Tarantino can't act, he should of stayed behind the camera. Pulp fiction had a slightly better cast (Willis, Jackson, Travolta), but an equally horrible script. This movie looks like it was made on virtually no money. There are only 3 major sets, and a few other places on the movie. A giant warehouse were a good chunk of the movie is spent, along with the diner, and a car. In the end, I was not impressed. With all the hype and hoopla around this movie, one would think it would be better. This is not the case. Avoid this movie at all costs.
RELEASED IN 1992 and written/directed by Quentin Tarantino, "Reservoir Dogs" is a crime drama/thriller about a diamond heist gone disastrously wrong in Los Angeles wherein the surviving thugs bicker back-and-forth in a warehouse about which of their members is a police informant. The main thieves are played by Harvey Keitel, Tim Roth, Steve Buscemi, Michael Madsen and Chris Penn while Lawrence Tierney appears as the old salt mastermind.This was Tarantino's first feature film, costing only $1,200,000, and it has quirky glimmerings of future greatness, as seen in "Pulp Fiction" (1994), "Jackie Brown" (1997), "Kill Bill" (2003/2004), "Inglourious Basterds" (2009) and "Django Unchained" (2012), but "Reservoir" didn't work for me. It's hampered by a low-budget vibe, which I can handle, but not the uninteresting lowlife characters, their self-made conundrum, their interminably dull dialogue and the one-dimensional setting where about 80% of the story takes place in an old warehouse, not to mention no females in the main cast.Still, it's interesting to observe Tarantino's first serious stab at filmmaking and it has its moments of genuine entertainment. It's a lesson on humble beginnings, which shows potential while not being up to snuff.THE FILM RUNS 1 hour, 39 minutes and was shot in Los Angeles & Burbank.GRADE: C-


                
Reservoir Dogs was OK but unfortunately I don't have the desire to write much about the movie because I was distracted by something else. I was distracted by Quentin Tarantino's infatuation with the N-word. I've now seen Pulp Fiction, Django Unchained, The Hateful 8 and Reservoir Dogs and there was abundant usage of the N-word in all of these movies. I guess you could give Django Unchained and The Hateful 8 a pass because they were period pieces. Tarantino can claim he was going for authenticity in those two. That leaves Pulp Fiction and Reservoir Dogs. In Pulp Fiction--however unnecessary--Jimmy was referring directly to a black man right there in the flesh (with the "dead n***** storage" line). In Reservoir Dogs, however, there was copious usage when there wasn't a black person around, nor were they even referencing a specific black person--it seemed wholly unnecessary and just a means to throw the word in there.I have no clue what Tarantino's deal is. Does he hate black people? Does he love black people and this is some peculiar artistic way of showing it? Or maybe his perception of white people is that they use the N-word whenever they have the opportunity to get away with it? I don't know, but because this was at least the fourth Tarantino movie with a superfluous usage of the N-word I couldn't ignore it.As I said about the actual movie; it was OK. It seemed more like a school project. The cinematography wasn't the best and the script was a bit too basic. Even if Tarantino didn't go HAM with the N-word I would've given this movie a 5/10 rating.


                
I went into this film expecting a heart-warming tale about a group of dogs, much like Air Bud, or others like it. When I put the film on, I was disappointed to see just a group of men in suits at a restaurant. I assumed this was just the intro to the film, before the dogs were introduced, but suddenly it becomes a movie filled with violence and swearing. The title is very misleading, as the film itself was enjoyable, just unexpected, mainly the reason for this low rating. If this film is ever re-released under a different name, it would definitely receive a higher rating from me, but as it stands, it will only get from me a 4.
Judging by how entertained I was and how interested I was in the story, this film just ranks in between bad to mediocre. Great camera-work and scene transitions, like a work of art, and hey the film's high ratings may entirely be based on that so maybe I'm wrong with my negative review. However, the positives don't change the fact that the plot doesn't progress farther nor show more intelligence than a comic strip. The acting is great, but the plot just isn't there to hold it all together.By the end I know almost nothing about the characters, don't care to know, and have no interest in knowing any of their stories. Everything is just a big pile of "meh". The violence just seems abrupt and needless, which is I suppose an intentional metaphor, I get that. Still, the violence is kind of overdone. I really did try to like this film. I was expecting a great movie since it's rated so highly with so many votes, but I was disappointed. Some great dialogue in there, but it's a film I don't want to watch twice. This ain't no Pulp Fiction, folks. Pulp Fiction draws you in and holds on tight, Reservoir Dogs just beats the snot out of you and leaves you on the floor a bloody mess. By the end you feel the meaninglessness of violence, true, but also the meaninglessness of the film, equally.


                
When Pulp Fiction (1994) came out the aficionados explained how it was too commercial and that in Reservoir Dogs one could experience "the true Tarantino". They were right, although a lot of viewers felt cheated.It turned out that Tarantino used a model he would repeat to this day: Employ a strong crew, offer a story with some extreme violence and wrap it up with a great soundtrack. But there was one more thing. He had the ability to compile the scenes from his favorite movies and spice them with well-written dialogs. You may like his movies or not, yet they are entertaining to watch.The rest is history, as people like to say. Tarantino succeeded in introducing violence to mainstream audiences on unprecedented scale.


                
I was pretty disappointed here. I had to watch this movie for a film class and I was not impressed in the slightest. I felt as if I were warped into a fake Al Capone universe. For the most part, I felt that the production team, in all, tried too hard. What I mean is that instead of following their gut and making what could have been an amazing movie, they doubted themselves and aimed for what they felt a focus group would contend to. I honestly feel that this movie would have been so much better if they had merely gone with the impulse. The cinematography is over dramatic, which is something you don't want to do too much in suspense films, it makes them seem fake and cheesy. I felt the action scenes were trying to be entertaining versus plot tools. I applaud Tim Roth, he was a convincing injured soldier, not too stereotypical. I know this would have been a good movie, but it just didn't quite turn out that way.
i don't know why the i didn't liked the movie at all,but what is irritating me that except me the whole world became a die hard fan of Quentin because of this movie. even i admire Tarantino's work of Inglorious bastards kill bill vol 1 & vol 2,but its not as good as it is popular. One must say it is extraordinarily overrated. A bunch of criminals robs a bank,one them is under cover cop...who tells everyone that he is a cop....there is no action in the movie,suspense which can hardly last for 13min or a little bit more,runtime is hardly an hour and half,did not needed but still showed enough bloodbath,the whole time i was waiting for the robbery scene but the didn't showed it,the main cause of the movie is not in the film. i mean what the hell. except a few dialogs and Tim Roth's acting there was nothing in this movie. so i can give it 4/10.
