A gang of thieves carry out an armed robbery on a Diamond warehouse. The police are after them so quickly that they suspect they have a rat in their company. This film starts right after the robbery, with flashbacks to before the robbery, and to the planning of the crime.After reading this plot, you know this is not your average crime film. In fact, I thought this film was about the whole diamond heist and that there will be a twist ending on who's the rat. It's absolutely nothing like that.Although an original way to make this film, this film is mostly boring, with an exception on the prologue of the film which I found entertaining for some reason. This film is very violent and bloody with shooting here and there and yelling about this and that. That's about it with the film.There's nothing interesting with the "boring" characters and "bad" story. The actings were relatively decent and this film is nowhere near one of the best films ever, although many people said it was, which lead me to buy the film on DVD, which I found a complete waste of money. One good thing about this film is that it's unpredictable and has funny jokes, which in real life would be just the opposite.This film is decent but not a very good film. It has some originality and clever humor but all squished with a boring plot and uninteresting characters. This is just my opinion but I should say for those who want to see this film should rent it first before buying.


                
When a diamond heist goes badly wrong, the gang meet back at a warehouse and try to figure out what happened. Is there a traitor in their midst ?Reservoir Dogs is one of those truly great debut movies, like Citizen Kane or A Bout De Soufflé or The Evil Dead. Tarantino was just twenty-eight when he made it and his talent shines out, not just in his razor-sharp script and stylish touches, but also in his production smarts. He uses suspense and shocks expertly to keep us riveted despite the fact that the whole movie pretty much plays in one room. He cleverly alludes to events that we don't see, thereby keeping costs and down and retaining the creative control so crucial to his vision. What I love most about the movie though is its originality. It may pay homage to earlier heist flicks (notably The Killing and The Taking Of Pelham 123) but it's like no other crime film before or since. Characters argue about whether or not Pam Grier was on a TV show. The time line shoots all over the shop but we never feel wrong-footed. A droll DJ (the noted comic Steven Wright) plays catchy music by bands you've never heard of with names like George Baker Selection, Stealers Wheel and Blue Swede. There's more blood than a Herschell Gordon Lewis film. Everyone wears suits, except for the late great Chris Penn (his best performance in an amazing career), who wears a blue tracksuit that must be seen to be believed. The finale is about the most ambiguous in all cinema. It's great. Everybody is terrific in it, as is the delineation of the characters. Mr White is the straight-ahead tough guy, Mr Pink is the only one with any brains, Mr Blonde is the psycho and Mr Orange is the fink. Tierney - the star of 1945's Dillinger - has a wonderful turn as Joe the kingpin. Tarantino winds them up and then lets them go, slicing into each other with fizzing little soliloquies that are still buzzing in our heads when we're onto the next one. It's also highly funny in spite of the grim nature of the story; in a weird way it reminds of the Black Knight sequence in Monty Python And The Holy Grail - characters arguing with each other about details whilst they bleed to death. It's hard to believe this movie is now twenty years old, since it still seems as fresh and gripping as the day it was made. It's a modern crime classic, a bravura piece of ensemble macho man acting, and a stunningly brilliant first film from a director in full command of cinematic form.
** / **** Reservoir Dogs is an interesting beginning to one of America's finest filmmakers careers. I loved Pulp Fiction in so many ways but most of which came from the last 15 minutes of the film in which we understand Samuel L. Jackson's journey in the film. It is that quality that is missing in Reservoir Dogs that, in my opinion, is the film's failing. The film is nothing but graphic pain and violence. There is nothing to endear any of the characters to us (unless you are endeared to people that like to mutilate people to hip 70's tunes). The characters have no real journey. The dialog is inventive (as we expect from Tarantino) but the plot is not. It's about violence for the sake of shocking the audience. It's disturbing in the ways that a horror film is disturbing without the payoff in the end. The film is extremely popular and that disturbs me more than the film itself.


                
"Reservoir Dogs" is a great film with a couple flaws that I wasn't too interested in. I've seen too many mob movies, so in some way it got a little boring. But I did enjoy this movie. The acting was fantastic and the plot was also very cool. The torture scene with the cop was very disturbing. Not to sound sick, but I do like these kind of movies. I loved how all the actors portrayed their roles. It just got too predictable for me. I knew who the rat was before he squealed. But I won't spoil. Like I said, it's a great film. I just need to jump into a new genre. But for a director's debut, I stand and applaud Quentin. The man knows his work.7/10


                
Suspicion and paranoia overwhelm a band of criminals after a tightly plotted heist goes sour in this feature film debut from Quentin Tarantino. The film is built on an interesting dynamic with none of the robbers actually knowing one another since they were all hired by a third party, given code names and were told to not tell each other their true identity. How much can they really trust each other's word and could one of them be a police informant? Intriguing as all this might sound, one's mileage with the movie is almost certain to vary depending on one's tolerance of the dialogue-heavy script. While some of the violence is quite brutal, there is precious little of it as the film mostly consists of the characters bantering back and forth, which unfortunately has a tendency to feel repetitive. The imbalanced time spent on each criminal's background feels a little odd too with some of them far more developed than others. All that said and done, the revelation of the police informant's identity is very well done and the second half of the film has many intense moments. The final few scenes are especially memorable with an outcome that resonates in the mind long after the film is over.


                
I clicked the play button with huge expectations for this movie, alas 'Reservoir Dogs' did not show any evidence of being a classic one admired by most of the critics. The much-loved Quentin Tarantino impressed with his first work, which definitely shouldn't be considered as one of the best crime thrillers of all time. It would be a big mistake to think of it as one.'Reservoir Dogs' follows the story of a newly formed crew that has the simple, yet dangerous job, which eventually would go terribly wrong - a diamond robbery. The intriguing thing is that the 6 members (1 of them is an undercover cop) of the crew do not know anything about each other, and are given new names by the guy who hired them - Joe Cabot (Lawrence Tierney). The movie starts with a conversation between the members of the crew that of course has nothing to do with the film plot itself, reminiscent of a conversation between Samuel L. Jackson and John Travolta in 'Pulp Fiction'. During the robbery (which is just described), when the alarm goes off, Mr. Blonde (Michael Madsen) starts shooting at everyone like a psycho. That's the moment when the police officers arrive and things go nasty very quickly. The criminals should gather in a barn after the jewelry heist. Unfortunately there's only 5 left of them, the other 2 are shot dead.The best thing of this movie was definitely the acting of Steve Buscemi. In the role of Mr. Pink. Steve shows that he has the ability to give the needed color to a movie with his unique acting.


                
A great creative insight is to take things that we think of as separate and contained (like 'art', 'genius', or 'ideas') and realize how they are fluid and inter-dependent, conditioned by factors. This is not to expose anything as little, deconstruction for its sake; it's to show them to be doable, that a road leads up to them. (It's also one of the three main areas of Buddhist practice)One obvious way to do this would be to take this and note the many influences. This has been done to death already, every bit that Tarantino hoped to keep packed or wanted us to find out has been laid out in the open. But this just gives us someone, genius or not, who stole from the right places.Another way would be to see that it doesn't work the same way as it did when new because it has all been made ordinary by slavish followers, gobbled up by familiarity. The moments of simple banter away from plot, the fooling round with edges of story without showing the main center-piece, bleeding on a floor, following Mr. Blonde outside to pick up a can of gasoline; Tarantino was probably proud that he was being "real", making a radical break from Bruckheimer's Hollywood. It's bits and pieces of Godard, Cassavetes, Altman, and others. To see it now shows how theatric it is, not "real" at all. (The least theatric acting is by the bound cop. Roth is just woeful.) It's The Killers, with the violence and gum pop visuals as typical to see as The Killers was typical without them in its own time.Me, I'd like to settle for something else that brings us to real influence of a more elusive kind.Everything you see here is coming from a young guy who was at the best possible time in his life, lifted from obscurity and everything was beginning to click into place beyond expectation. Can you imagine how giddy he must have been to hear yes from Keitel and here's a check?It's Tarantino coming in from the outside as someone young and eager to make a dream come true; it's bursting with energy but disciplined, kept in check by not having everything at your disposal, being the new kid on set. It would be nothing without this energy.And it's Tarantino being rooted in his own world as he brings the dream alive, suburban LA. None of the story has any outlet into real lives, it's all bounced around movie cutouts. Gangsters showing up before a heist for breakfast in tuxedos? But it's the video clerk's imagination cruising through his own world. He has guys exchange banter about a stripper from Palos Verdes, Roth improvise a story about buying weed the summer of '86. So this is the most vibrant sense I get; someone making it, not having to prove himself because he's there, making a movie with name actors around town, relaxed and fired up at the same time. See if you can feel this off his screen presence (and what a stark difference from his surly presence now).His next one would be the apogee of this path. It can also be traced to the 30 year old who had flown himself to Amsterdam to write away from home like a Hemingway, living the dream.


                
Director Quentin Tarantino has an exceptional ability to create action films like this one called "Reservoir Dogs." It is sure to rank among his very best. The script and it's dramatic storyline throughout the entire movie is a visual compendium of 'Waiting for Godot' meets 'Slaughter on Tenth Avenue.' Anyone seeing it for the first time is in for a real treat. The story is of an experienced gangster who attempts to create the perfect crime. Its simple enough, collect seven of the most professional and trustworthy men in the business, assign them code names, tell them just enough about the crime to do their part, snatch the haul, then rendezvous in a warehouse after the job and split the take. The men selected are top of the line actors like Lawrence Tierney as the Boss Joe Cabot, Harvey Keitel, Michael Madsen, Steve Buscemi and Chris Penn. Like the best laid plans, the unexpected was not included and therefor becomes the focus of a violent shouting match with guns. Between themselves, the heist should have worked, why it didn't has much to do with the body in the trunk (Kirk Baltz) and will have them at each other's throats trying to fathom the reason. The final segment of the film makes it the most exciting climax since the shootout of the Wild Bunch. With dramatic flair and an excellent, but violent dialog, this incredible film will become a Classic. ****


                
"Pulp Fiction" had the shot in the car, and the "Kill Bill" movies had, well, various death scenes. But "Reservoir Dogs"...ah, now this one will make your skin crawl. It focuses on a heist gone wrong. That's the most minimal description of the plot. Most of the movie has the various characters trying to figure out who did what. And then, there's the...well, let's just call it the ear scene. You will very likely squirm during that scene.If nothing else, we can say that Quentin Tarantino gave us a preview of his later films. Maybe his later films don't make your skin crawl, but but they all deal with lowlife culture. And you'd better believe that the characters in this movie are lowlifes. If absolutely nothing else, "Reservoir Dogs" shows us that violent, gross movies can be masterpieces.


                
stars:Tim Roth, Harvey Keitel, Lawerence Tierney, Steve Buscemi, Michael Madsen, Chris Penn, Eddie Bunker, Kirk Baltz, Randy Brooks, Quentin Tarantino and the voice of Steven Wright.plot: 6 strangers, a boss and his son make a plan to rob a museum, but the robbery doesn't go as planned when the copes come. Someone set them up, but who was it?review: This movie really has a good feel to it and has the usual good acting and cast that you'd expect from Quentin Tarantino, but maybe the dialogue goes way too far. This film starts out where Tim Roth(the undercover cop that they think is a thief) is shot and dying, and instead of being in extreme pain, he talks. I love this movie and could watch it over and over again and I do recommend it, but this is a movie that's trying to be more realistic. The way they just jibber-jabber on is stupid. On the brighter side, Harvey Keitel and Steve Buscemi are great, and Lawerence Tierney is perfect.my rating-B(85%). rated R for some scenes of strong violence, language and some brief sexual discussions. 97 minutes.


                
We should have known there was something about this guy from Tennesse named Quentin Tarantino when we saw his first solo effort, Reservoir Dogs. While not as total an effort as his later movies, Reservoir Dogs does have some revolutionary value to it. Written mostly by Taratino, Reservoir Dogs is a crime movie where the crime failed. A group of 6 anonymous men, each with a different code name, come together under crime boss Joe Cabot (Lawrence Tierney) to steal a diamond shipment from a Los Angeles diamond store. The first scene gives us a sense of who these men are and what makes them tick as they are finishing up their breakfast before the heist. The next thing we see is afterward, 2 of the men are dead and the other 4 are trying to figure out what happened. There is the usual Tarantino dialog, featuring lots of cursing, lots of pop-culture, but also unexpected humor, and also boasts Tarantino musical selections that fit the scenes well, most people think of Reservoir Dogs now when hearing the song "Stuck In the Middle With You." The film overall is good, Tarantion takes the crime caper movie and spins it around, what would it be like if a movie heist actually failed, but that is about as far as it goes. There is a lot of talking, I had wished a little more actually happened, and the ending is just that, an ending, nothing more. There's lots of blood and people shooting at each other, and is interesting. Tarantino would prove later that he is capable of completing what he started, just not quite with Reservoir Dogs.
Typical Tarantino flick - loud, vulgar, lots of posturing over substance and quite compellingly viewable. Talky (and shouty), the film goes back and forth between time frames to depict a heist gone bad. A good cast and good acting override the B-grade tackiness and overall shallowness of the film, rendering this offbeat curiosity of blood and designer suits worth the view. Good for a particular place and time.


                
The structure of this story is just great. It establishes the main question right in the beggining (who betrayed them?), right after showing us the great relationship of 'friendship' the group has. It keeps you wondering until the third act and, in the mean time, conflicts between the group arise. Just as any Tarantino film, this is a blood fest, non-linear story. The characters feel authentic. They're scared, confused and angry at their situation. They're not clichés. My only concern was how the backstory was intertwined with the main plot. I feel the pace was slowed down every time there was an expositional backstory. Particularly in Mr. Blonde's case, I felt it wasn't necessary for it to be as long (around 8 full minutes to tell us how his relationship with Nice Guy Eddie and Joe Cabot. Aside from that, the movie keeps you wanting to know what happens next every second.
Quentin Tarantino's first film of consequence and the film that introduced him to the masses, "Reservoir Dogs" bears all the hallmarks of what we have come to expect in Tarantino films.Pop music plays a role, sometimes as background music, sometimes voiced by characters. Violence is a central theme, often gratuitous and gory, like a Peckinpah film. Vulgarity is common, though this can be attributed to accurate character writing. His characters like to tell stories, allowing Tarantino the writer to express his enjoyment of a well-told tale.But what makes this film a significant contribution to cinema canon is its style, particularly the way Tarantino frames scenes. It also includes interesting, quirky characters that engage the viewer and keep him guessing.That said, this film is not for everyone. Particularly those who abhor cinematic violence. The dialogue is also heavily sexist, racist and anti-gay (in accordance with the nature of the central characters).Viwers might ask themselves if Tarantino, as writer and director, is trying to deliver a message or a moral, or if he is merely including all of the film elements that he personally enjoys? Viewing his later films suggests that the latter is true.


                
My Personal Rating 7.4/10 - You Love Pulp Fiction? Yes? Then go watch this right now!. it's just like it. like what you will expect it to be!. an interesting movie with good acting but weird cinematography. not that much but near as that. maybe not a movie for everyone though. same as pulp fiction.


                
The first film by Quentin to hit the big screen in 92.I got to see the film in 2007 and it was groundbreaking and possibly my favorite film of the 90's.The plot is a gang of robbers steal a diamond but every changes when one of the men is a police informer and everyone else questions each's other story until the police comes into play.This was the first Tarantino it was popular in the 90's until Pulp Fiction came in 94 still its one of the best of his films through out his films.This Film has a star studded cast with Tarantino,Keitel,Roth,Madsen,Buscemi,Penn,Bunker as the main group in the film


                
It certainly took me long enough to catch Tarantino's debut feature. I've grown to like him less with time. I still absolutely love Inglourious Basterds, and to a lesser extent, Death Proof and kIll Bill, but his others leave me cold. Yes, that includes Pulp Fiction. This is sort of like that. I admire it more than I enjoyed it, and I'm less attuned to his style of filmmaking now than I used to be. The turns in the story are refreshing and it was good that I was still able to be surprised at times. Overall, not a film I loved and not one I totally embrace, but one that I think is more than fine with some great performances (especially Tim Roth).


                
Since it is a Quentin Tarantino movie, I had watch this film with great expectations.May be, this is the reason that I disappointed. Truly, I always thought that "how can I not watch this movie" it is a shameful thing to do for a film fan=) In many terms this movie is beyond its time. Different shot techniques, involvement of the story, dialogs, the beginning of the movie, everything was really different and good about this movie. Especially for a crime movie. But (a big one) the "Reservoir Dogs" is not a fluent movie. Except the scenes that Mr. Orange tells about the "joke", dialogs were boring, so that i wanted to skip some scenes for a several times, but i didn't. In many terms you should see it but, first you should prepare yourselves if you have high expectations.


                
Six criminals with no connection to one another botch a jewel heist only to begin to question whether one of them is a police informant.A cult classic with wonderful acting, wonderful pacing and a gripping story. Tarantino makes his big screen debut with this film one in which holds true to his eventual style. Violent, gritty and raw, with a blend of humor as well as a touch of drama. The humor of aspect and the chemistry between the character is part of the undeniable charm of this film. This film in this viewers opinions one of Tarantino's best films and matches the wit and charm of his later films. The music of this film follows suit with its intended emotions. Not specifically an art house film but with an art house feel to it. Wonderful acting by all its principal actors, the viewer will feel as though the walls are closing in around them, with each passing moment. Some detractors of the film may disagree with its glorified violence but it truly is a part of this film that doesn't detract from the overall plot or pacing of the film. Overall any fan of film noir or of a good crime/caper film will find themselves hard pressed to find one that delivers with the overall same feel and approach as this film


                
Reservoir Dogs is the debut film from Quentin Tarantino and I can definitely say that he is definitely a dime a dozen. Tarantino was bold with making his debut film so unique from the it's competitors at the time.Reservoir Dogs is written by Tarantino and Roger Avary contributing some dialogue for the film. What Tarantino has written is a twist of a staple story in the crime genre, where the events of the actual robbery is not seen but rather shine a light the events after the robbery. Tarantino could have kept it with that road but instead the film flips back and forth between origin/specific robbery stories and the post-robbery events. The film is driven by dialogue, which is now considered a principle in his films, and the dialogue is definitely different from crime films that preceded this film. Instead of physical actions and deep insight of the character's emotional core, characters are instead shaped by Tarantino's dialogue with characters speaking about themselves or others which in turn shapes our perception of these characters, which I think is important in order to view the plot objectively and not gain a deep attachment to these characters. The issues I had with his script is the underwhelming origin stories that doesn't really show off the wildness and absurdity that is found with many of his future films. The screenplay also felt a little held back on pushing the boundaries of the dialogue when compared to his succeeding films. The dialogue also from time to time jump from being a natural and organic conversation, regardless if they are in a crisis situation, to basic plot driving dialogue.Quentin Tarantino is an amazing director and even though all of his films are not always in excellent condition, though his worst are miles better than most films it competes with, he still brings a sense of style that defines the film and it's fresh unique take allows us to be curious on what could come on the next scene. Reservoir Dogs is his first film which is the main reason why this film felt a bit rushed or amateurish, not in a bad way but rather in an inexperienced way. The film definitely is limited by a budget and that in a way restricted Tarantino, as he seems to show more crazy and fun sequences when he has the budget for it. The film for the most part keeps me interested with it's great pace and it's characters play with his dialogue, though Mr Orange's backstory did feel tiresome and did feel like walking through a mountain after the swift two thirds of the film. The film's non-linear approach does kind of play off the style that Kubrick applied for The Killing.Andrzej Sekula is the cinematographer for this film and he returns again in Tarantino's sophomore film. Sekula and Tarantino felt like they were held back in this film due to the budget therefore the film felt like it has this rushed hand held style that a lot of the moments of the film contains but this film does show hints of the photography style that Tarantino employs in his future films, with crooked angles, long takes and long shots of dialogue-full moments allowing the film to feel like a play, which is obvious in this film due to it's budget and boxed story.This film doesn't include a score and this does in a way allow the film to suffer with moments that felt overstretched and needed that cinematic flair. Pulp Fiction also has these features but it makes up for it by having a sufficient amount of musical nuggets throughout the film that keep it from being stale. Though the musical moments that do cameo in this film are top notch with moments that actually feel more gruesome and horrific than what it already is.Reservoir Dogs' cast is confined to 10 people and they are given the majority of the screen time, and it most cases it is shared. The actors do play off well with each other and along with the strong dialogue it makes the film entertaining. The standout actors in this film is Harvey Keitel, Steve Buscemi, and Michael Madsen, when they are bantering they all just bring the intensity that the scene required and are able to stay strong and fresh in long takes that includes monologues and subtle physical acting. Tim Roth was a bit of a distraction though, his American accent and the slight over the top acting did have me cringing.Tarantino's debut does bring something unique and fresh to the crime genre but with an underwhelming screenplay and the inexperience and budget constriction does bring the film down.


                
Reservoir Dogs is a classic Quentino Tarantino film: tough characters, non-linear storyline, lots of action, shootouts and no unnecessary shots. So that means everything is very precisely thought through.I found one theme very interesting for me in this movie and that is the alienation between the criminal team who is doing a diamond heist.Sure, criminals usually don't trust each other, but usually you have to trust a person very much if you are attempting to do a heist together. So it is quite interesting that the members of this team are deprived of their names, personality - they all are assigned names and they are all wearing the same outfit as if to say that in this heist they leave their personal lives and identities behind them and they are different people here. Although in the beginning there are many close shots as if trying to get into the personalities, trying to make you acquainted with them.Actually there is distance even between the people who have the same profession - I'm talking about the two policemen. The wide space between them suggests that even though they are in the same boat working for the same cause they are so different. One of them got in that place by mistake: he was captured and tortured. The other one got accepted to the team after he pretended that he is a criminal.Another thing which just deepens the alienation is what you can see from MR. White's example. If you get attached to someone you get punished. He trusted his hurt partner Mr Orange who apparently was a policeman and he defended him he killed his partners and then got shot himself by the police.Another great thing in this movie is the music: it is used just a few times, in the intro, credits and in the torture scene. Now in the torture scene the music is used to show distance from human emotion. The lack of music elsewhere adds the realistic sense to the movie.So this movie for me really shows how people are just working for one goal, not caring about each other, alienating each other from themselves.
Splashes of brilliance and reinvention highlight this debut from Director QT. It is a candy-shop of self indulgence and the Movie languishes at times with over written Scenes that are full of themselves, not quite sharpened, and need some restraint.Character studies to the extreme, most participants are back-grounded with detail but not much depth. The appeal here is that this was made by an obvious lover of Pop Culture and its cribbing of other Movies is painfully evident. Overall it is quite an accomplished "Film-School" like abandonment of conventions and style. It is unabashedly and with a heavy hand proclaiming that things need a new direction and Tarantino is at the (Stealers) Wheel. This one was impossible to ignore arriving with trumpets blaring announcing a New Kid in Town. With its unfiltered bravery and a keen eye, this Movie was a make it or break it effort. The result has since been solidified. As a bonus, for the Fans of the Writer/Director and Movie Lovers in general, everything that came after this was a more rich and rewarding improvement.


                
As someone who has only seen Pulp Fiction and loved it - I was put off Reservoir Dogs/Kill Bill by the supposed tales of extreme violence.What violence? It's almost all off camera and left to the imagination - its not even much of the plot. Compared to Django Unchained - it's barely worth mentioning.I wish I'd watched it years ago - its a very solid *story* about the fall-out from a heist that went horribly wrong, not the usual action movie about the robbery itself.The cast are super - and golly do they look young - whilst the tension between the characters as they argue amongst themselves about professionalism is visceral.I found RDogs a bit short on the humour front as its almost played entirely straight and I didn't feel I got to know the characters well enough before the film was over.It isn't often that I'd like a film that's already 2hrs to be longer, but this was one that could've easily been 2.5hrs without me noticing. That said - would I watch it again - probably yes.Mr Tarantino pulled off a remarkable debut with RDogs - and if you've enjoyed his later works - don't miss this one. I'm off to watch Kill Bill.


                
Reservoir DogsDirected by: Quentin Tarantino Written by: Quentin Tarantino & Roger Avary (background radio dialogs)Quentin Tarantino's debut film Reservoir Dogs, released in 1992, marked the entry of one the most gifted writer-directors of our time. A project that took off with Tarantino's lucky break with Harvey Kietel. The result was a film, which despite a lukewarm response at the BO has gone on to become one of the classics of the 90's. It's better regarded today than when it was released, I suspect because people watched it with more intent later, recognizing a Tarantino film for what it is; thereby reading between the lines and appreciating the genius in the film-maker's first. Tarantino's first film serves as a blueprint for the rest of his films. He touches up on all things Tarantin-ian, tension, violence, jumping narrative, brilliant dialogs and most of all his unique (or not so unique) style of storytelling. Reservoir Dogs is about 7 'professional' criminals on a mid day heist in LA. It takes us from a comical coffee shop scene, where the characters are introduced, to the opening credits followed by a drive to a warehouse, where most of the real action takes place. The robbery takes place in the time span of the opening credits and while we see nothing, Tarantino makes you think you've seen more than he's shown. Most of the film deals with the jovial before and the bloody aftermath of the heist. To make a good film you have to make it personal but Quentin tends more towards self obsessed. It's an ever-present factor in all his films. He creates characters who are an extension of his personality, uses banter that's probably pulled out from his life and works his entire film around an idea which is far from the conventional yet inspired from other films. But that's absolutely fine, Tarantino is smart with his use of homages, their timing is perfect and although not completely necessary, seem like the best fit for the situation. After all good artists copy, great artists steal. Tarantino gets one thing bang on, the dimensions of male camaraderie, especially when the men in question have no knowledge of each others' identity. Each of them has a phony name given to them by the big fish, Joe Cabot (Lawrence Tierney) and his son, Nice Guy Eddie (Chris Penn) as a safety measure. There's Mr. White (Harvey Kietel), Mr. Blonde (Michael Madsen), Mr. Orange (Tim Roth), Mr. Pink (Steve Buschemi), Mr. Brown (Quentin Tarantino) and Mr. Blue (Edward Bunker). When things are going well everyone's getting along, cracking jokes and sharing stories, all the while trying to get the last word in. With no set hierarchy everyone's out to prove they've got the biggest dick in the room but with more bite than bark. It's all casual and positive when there's a promise of a big loot hanging in their future. However, when things don't go according to plan, panic sets in and the half-good criminals lose the plot, they stop thinking straight and personal matters come in the way of professional calls. There's the magic in the film, when the characters with fake names are put in a situation that slowly brings forth their true identities.It seems as though apart from Joe and Mr. Blonde, the only two to have served time, none of the others have the mettle to keep their wits about in high pressure situations. In the end its Mr. Whites judgment that moves him to play the role of a guardian to the dying Mr. Orange. Tempers flare, voices are raised and the guns are readied. In a situation that resembles an old western the film draws the curtains on a note of twisted poetic justice. Tarantino's screenplay works on the prowess of its cast and their interactions. In a colorful cast it's hard to separate some from the rest but Tim Roth and Michael Madsen do a little more than the others. Tim Roth shows good range as he shifts between characters. For the most part he's delivering all his lines while bleeding out and in constant pain, its odd, but he's convincing enough. Madsen, follows James Cagney's principle –When playing a mean character, find a lighter side. It works well and Madsen plays the vicious Vic Vega to great effect. Steven Buschemi as Mr. Pink does a good job as well. Its difficult to put Reservoir Dogs in a genre, while there is a lot of action and violence, it's not really an action film. There are elements of mystery but it's not really a whodunit. It's got shades of a thriller and black comedy but it can't be classified as either one. It's all about the there and now and there's no telling what's going to happen. One critic said; it's an action movie that works entirely on words. Words are Tarantino's biggest strength and he sticks to it all the way and makes for a commendable first outing. Reservoir Dogs is a highly enjoyable ride that promises to thrill, shock and entertain any audience able to listen, pay attention and stomach its brutality. Moral of the story – Be professional.


                
As the story goes, Tarrentino showed the script to Harvey Kietel and Kietel said that he liked the script so arranged the film to be made. This was Tarrentino's first film and it was the script that sold him more than anything else. The movie has reached almost cult status, as have most of his other movies. I personally think that it is quite good, but not worth all of the rave that is connected with it.Basically this movie is about a gang who go on a robbery and it is botched. They then all filter back to a warehouse where the tension as to who the informer is fills the screen. Characters file through this onc place, all trying to come to terms with what happened, and trying to sort out for themselves a solution. The movie has some shocking scenes, and it attaches importance to some characters only to turn everything around to show us that the character wasn't all that important after all.I will not go into details as there are a lot of subtle twists designed to shock us. This movie is violent but the violence isn't there for us to revel in but for us to be shocked by it and realise how nasty it is. In the scene immediately after the credits, we have one of the main characters in the back of the car screaming in agony as he tries to come to terms with a bullet wound in the gut. We are constantly being told that he is not going to die, but we soon learn that this is not the case, and that it is a slow and painful way to die.I think that there is talent behind this movie, and from seeing it from the point of one of Tarrentino's first movies, we can see a director that is not glorifying violence and taking a style that heads away from that of mainstream cinema. Even though Tarrentino seems to be more mainstream than other movies, and does seem to attract a mainstream crowd. Even then, he has become a cult icon, and some people watch his movies just because. Still, whatever people say about him, there is one undeniable fact - Tarrentino has been an immense influence on cinema of the 90's.
