Reservoir Dogs is the debut of director and writer Quentin Tarantino. It stars Harvey Keitel, Steve Buscemi, Tim Roth, Michael Madsen, Chris Penn, and Lawrence Tierney. Tarantino has a minor role, as does criminal-turned-author Eddie Bunker.It feels a bit silly to write it now, but there was a time when Reservoir Dogs barely made a ripple in the cinema loving world; in America that is. Upon its release in the States it was moderately successful and comfortably made back its $1.2 million budget. However, upon hitting the British shores it was a big hit and grossed nearly £6.5 million and then Pulp Fiction exploded on the world in 94 and Reservoir Dogs got reappraised in its home country. The rest as they say is history.Tarantino, the most enthusiastic of film fans, was once a video store clerk in Redondo Beach. There he dreamed of making his own movies and planned to make Reservoir Dogs with his friends on a relatively small budget. As luck would have it, Keitel got hold of the script and wanted in. With his name attached, and using his contacts, a serious budget was raised and so the Dogs were set loose. At the time of its popularity, Tarantino had to guardedly fend off accusations of plagiarism and a charge of just hacking from older classic heist movies. His argument was that he was making his own homage to the heist caper, but even so, the fact remains that Reservoir Dogs is spliced from The Killing, Kansas City Confidential, The Big Combo, The Taking Of Pelham One Two Three and we can definitely throw in The Asphalt Jungle as well.Yet Reservoir Dogs is still extraordinarily fresh and vibrant, raising the bar for crime movies in the modern era. Tarantino of course has since gone on to prove his worth with other projects, so in truth his homage movie was merely the foot in the door for the talented son of Knoxville, Tennessee. In terms of its dialogue, tho, and its gleeful use of "ultra-violence," it has few peers. From any decade. It also helps considerably that Tarantino has assembled a quality cast to make his non-linear classic shine. Keitel is a given, but Roth is exceptional, as too is Buscemi, while Madsen is frighteningly convincing as psycho for hire Mr. Blonde. Then there's the 70s soundtrack, a vital part of the narrative as we hear the dulcet tones of Steven Wright Djing on K-Billy's Super Sounds of the Seventies. If you have not seen the film yet? Then I promise you will remember Stealers Wheel-Stuck in the Middle for the rest of your cinema loving days.And that's the thing with Reservoir Dogs, it's crammed packed full of memorable things. A quip, a bang, a song or the WTF ending, as homages go; it's one of the very best. 9/10


                
Reservior Dogs is a classic film and Quentin Tarantino is just an absolute genius.I really liked this film, it was gripping and suspenseful. Straight to the point and extremely well acted. A few of the scenes were very gruesome but they needed to be. Michael Madsen as Mr. Blonde was just crazy but my personal favourite in this film was Chris Penn who played Nice Guy Eddie Cabot, I found him to be hilarious. The story developed at a good pace even though it was mostly set in one place with just a few flashbacks.Overall this is well deserving of its place in the IMDb top 250 list, a classic film that everyone just has to see.9/10.


                
It seems that it was only yesterday when in 1992 the then unknown director Quentin Tarantino screened his debut film, "Reservoir Dogs", at Sundance with great success suddenly becoming the new star of independent cinema and an the most promising director of that "class of 1992". Of course, later came "Pulp Fiction" and what started as a phenomenon within the indie scene became a worldwide success starting a trend of imitators and making Tarantino a powerful figure in Hollywood. But despite the rights and wrongs of Tarantino's career, the groundbreaking "Reservoir Dogs" is a fine example of excellent cinema and a classic of the 90s on its own right.The plot begins with two criminals, codenamed Mr. White (Harvey Keitel) and Mr. Orange (Tim Roth), arriving to an abandoned mortuary. Orange is badly hurt, and soon we discover that they are members of a group of criminals hired to make a robbery, and that the crime went wrong when the police showed up ending in a shootout where the two of them barely escaped alive. After another survivor, Mr. Pink (Steve Buscemi), arrives, the group realizes that they were set up by an infiltrated agent, but since only their boss knows the details about them (including the real names), anybody in the room could be the traitor. Finally, the arrival of another member, Mr. Blonde (Michael Madsen), complicates the plot, as the other three are sure that he is the one who betrayed them.Without a doubt, "Reservoir Dogs"' greatest strength is in the remarkably well-written script by Tarantino himself. The four main characters are fleshed out in a way that makes them very real, very human; each of them with a distinct series of personal traits that one can't help to feel that you know really them (something ironic, considering they are supposed not to know each other). The whole situation, built as a heist film where the heist is never seen (only told via flashbacks), makes these four personalities collide and actually the relationships between them become the point of the film itself. It's not about the crime itself, but about the criminals who committed it.Tarantino's skill as a director is nowhere near his skill as a writer, but still he creates a very stylish film letting all his influences flourish, particularly the french new wave and classic noir heist films. Although it's safe to say that here they don't become as blatant as in this later "genre tribute" movies "Jackie Brown" and "Kill Bill". With very simple, but effective camera-work and a great use of incidental music as a soundtrack, Tarantino crafts a superb film despite its budgetary limitations shows a very promising talent with huge potential as a filmmaker.The four main characters are wonderfully played by a very effective cast of actors. Harvey Keitel (who also produced the film) shows off his talent as the experienced Mr. White, who becomes some kind of paternal figure to the newbie Mr. Orange, in another of Tim Roth's excellent performances. Steve Buscemi gives his usual high quality work and the cast is completed by a Michael Madsen with tremendous presence and total control of the screen. Supporting characters are played by the very effective Chris Penn and Lawrence Tierney. Convict-turned-author Eddie Bunker and Tarantino himself appear in small roles with mixed-up results (Tarantino is not really a good actor).The film is remarkably well-done for its budget, and despite being set almost entirely in a single room, it never feels tiresome or boring. Tarantino's violent crime drama has hold up well and personally, it rivals his follow-up, "Pulp Fiction", and at times it surpasses it. Some minor flaws include Tarantino's own lack of acting skills and an use of violence (not graphic, but somehow disturbing) that may be excessive to some people (although it fits perfectly within the movie's theme and atmosphere). Almost a flawless film.Wheter one loves or hates Tarantino becomes meaningless at judging this film, its qualities makes it speak for itself as one of the best movies about crime ever made. It's hard to dismiss its raw power and creative craftsmanship. Maybe not a perfect film, but definitely the closest Tarantino has been to make one. 9/10


                
Reservoir Dogs is one of the greatest films to come out of the nineties. Quentin Taratino made a spalsh in Hollywood with this film about finding out who's a rat. Taratino effievtely used the Rashmon cinematic device and filled with violence, profanity and humor. All the lead actors give great performances. But the real Amercian bad ass is Micheal Madsen as Mr.Blonde. I love this movie.


                
Quentin Tarantino was prepared to shoot his film with some of his friends for a decent sized budget, when Harvey Keitel got hold of him in hopes of producing "Reservoir Dogs". Tarantino agreed, and he still got to direct the film too. Even before the movie, hit film festivals, Tarantino's name was echoed all over town. This film represents the birth of a new genre; The Tarantino. The movie incorporates many different genres into one, complete with Tarantino's own style of film-making with a very unique way of story telling. It is true, as Tarantino admitted, that this film did indeed "rip-off" older films, but the director did not just simply plagiarize, he improved what he took and made it his own (You could say he simply borrowed but did not have time and the rights to explain why he needed to borrow). The final result, however, marks a new trend in cinema; one that many filmmakers have tried to rip-off themselves.The film is basically about a group of thugs hired by a man named Joe, who commissions them to rob a Jewelery Store. Using aliases (which are associated with colours), the men plan the heist but something goes very wrong during the robbery. The difference between this film and most crime films that came out before, is that this film does not show the actual crime that one is expecting to occur and see, but it is only talked about, before and after it happens. Tarantino allows you to hang out with his characters and lets you either sympathize or hate these guys. You could argue that the film is indeed a character study of all the reservoir dogs. The story is told in a non-linear time-line, which was uncommon back in the day.Overall, the film has a good story, well written characters, great dialogue (which is usually the most talked about in Tarantino's films) very well acted (Tim Roth could have been a potential Oscar nominee for this film in my opinion) and, of course, pure fun. This isn't Tarantino's best film in my opinion (his second one is though) but it is definitely his second best. One can definitely learn a thing or two from this film and it's filmmaker.
I had started and stopped this film many times before actually sitting down and watching it all the way through. After sitting through it, I can't stop thinking about it.The film was composed beautifully. Instead of a simple plot line, it was broken up and rearranged making the audience work until the end. The music and character transitions were perfect.Tarantino did a great job making the characters true to the people portraying them. Mr. Pink, Mr. Blonde, and Mr. White could have not been more perfect to their characters. The sheer fact that I hated and loved the various characters almost to a point of them being real is a feat in it of itself.I felt that the profanity was a bit much and it may be necessary to the plot and emotions, but at times it was a bit overbearing.Overall though, I was very impressed by the rawness of the story and how developed all of the characters were. Amazing!


                
The plot of this movie just blew me away...It was just awesome. Then the acting was great for a non-all star cast, and Tarantino executed it very well. My impression on the movie changed, because I heard it had banned in other countries for violence, but there wasn't that much. I thought it was going to have a ton of action and stuff, but it was really just a cool movie with some pretty awesome scenes in it. I thought some parts were funny, some parts were smart, some parts were sad, and some parts were just cool. That's why I like Tarantino, most of his films blend so much stuff into them, this is one of those. Also, the ending of Reservoir Dogs has to be one of the best endings to a movie I have ever seen. Overall, great movie.9/10.
Reservoir dogs is a movie about organized crime. Well, it's really about a couple of hired guns who start to lose their cool when a diamond heist goes FUBAR. Everybody is fast to point fingers. "Someone must be a rat!", they proclaim as they try to make sense of what just happened. It's fast paced and has a lot of action to go along with. The cast was really strong and so were the performances. When you watch a movie with well-known actors and you start to forget or should I rather say disassociate their real identity with the characters that they're portraying<U+0085> that's when you know that something magical is happening. This movie has all of the above.Some might criticize the sporadic use of racial slurs in dialogues but truth be told; this is how mobsters back in the days used to talk. It adds an extra layer of realism to the movie.The opening scene of the movie is easily one of the most memorable movie scenes and sets the right mood for what's about to happen (in a a way). A bunch of guys sitting in a diner; jerking around and talking about ridiculous stuff. It gives you a good idea about the group dynamics.  Who gets along with who? What kind of people are they really?  Once the diamond heist fails we get to see each character from a different perspective; under extreme circumstances. That's when you realize that all of these guys are real criminals and things start to spiral out of control as suspicions arise as to who the rat is.While the movie is ultimately serious and sometimes brutal there are a lot of really funny scenes to contrast this reality with. Like e.g. the scene where all of them get code names assigned to them.  Let's just say that Mr. Pink didn't like his code name. I personally think that this scene was one of the funniest movie scenes I've ever seen. Took me totally by surprise because I wasn't expecting this type of witty and hilarious writing.Reservoir Dogs is still one of my favorite Quentin Tarantino movies of all time. As a matter of fact one might even argue that this is the movie that kick-started his career as we now know it. It has all the Tarantino signature elements. It's super-realistic due to the frequent use of profanity and the setting. A true masterpiece.


                
The inspiring rise of a great and unique director, Quentin Tarantino.If you have or have not seen this amazing film, look for a segment in the trivia on how this was supposed to be a very low budget film, using the video store Quentin Tarantino used to work at as a set, until it got picked up by Harvey Keitel and then moved into a professional production. That alone is an aspiring true story in itself. The rest, is history!Starring Harvey Keitel, Tim Roth, Michael Madsen and Chris Penn, this movie set a new standard for film-making.Certainly belongs in everyone's DVD collection.It's a 9/10 from me.


                
There are two ways one can view a film like Reservoir Dogs (and, indeed, much of Quentin Tarantino's work): a) as an uninspired hodge-podge of ideas blatantly lifted from countless other movies (in this case, a large helping of '80s Hong Kong action thriller City On Fire with countless 'nods' to other crime classics along the way), or b) as an exciting, stylish and highly entertaining exercise in revisionist film-making that sees a bold director mining the work of others to forge a classic of his own.Even though I find description a) applicable to a fair number of QT's films, I cannot help but fall in the latter camp with his debut offering, finding it to be a testament to his deep understanding and appreciation of his medium and his remarkable acuity as both writer and director (he acts in the film too, but two out of three ain't bad, I suppose). In the hands of a lesser film-maker, such an 'homage' would simply be deemed a lazy and unethical exercise in plagiarism, but with Quentin at the helm, infusing proceedings with his unique sense of cool, the whole affair becomes a mesmerising melange of movie-making techniques, a patchwork of pulp excellence that bristles with pithy dialogue and contains many a memorable moment.I can't say the same about Jackie Brown, Kill Bill Vol.2, Death Proof or even Django Unchained.


                
I've been trying to see a lot of seminal films when possible. This is one that had me turning my head from time to time because of all the gore and disregard for human life. It starts with this great restaurant scene, Diner on steroids, where Steve Buscemi proves to be the selfish, cheap SOB that he plays throughout the film. I could watch this guy and his neurotic tics forever. I love films that put us at a point in time and then reconstruct the events leading up to it. Add to this, career criminals, some of whom are totally lacking in conscience. We have Harvey Keitel who is one of our greatest actors playing character with a little moral sense. He wants to find a little good. The characters all go by colors so they won't be able to identify each other if they are captured. Again, Buscemi gets into one of his gratuitous discussions when it is decided that he will be Mr. Pink. There is so much violence here, but the movie is at times funny and outrageous in a really insane way. Each guy is a powder keg and they maneuver for position. And, of course, there is "the scene." I really like the taut nature of this film, a mere 100 minutes. It moves neatly to its conclusion (well, perhaps, "neatly" isn't the best word), and things are tied up well in the end. Despite the huge amount of violence, I can see why people gravitate toward this film.


                
I revisited this film a couple of days ago and a couple of things struck me about it. This is one hell of a film to have as a calling card. For one, the cast that this movie has is enough to inspire serious jealousy. Harvey Keitel, Michael Madsen, Steve Buscemi, Tim Roth, Laurence Tierney, Eddie Bunker, Chris Penn... hot damn! You really see just why everyone wanted to make a film just like this one after it was released. It's funny but the film is so derivative of other crime films that it becomes an entirely new animal. Tarantino delivers a film that is completely sure of itself and what it wants to be. Yeah, some people complain that it's a ripoff of other films that preceded it, namely Ringo Lam's "City on Fire" but still, the film has so many memorable moments and gobs of instantly quotable dialogue that it is undoubtedly a classic of independent cinema. Tarantino's acting in this film is thankfully subdued. Violence comes in sudden jolts and reminds you of what kind of people it is you are dealing with within the film. The music selection is inspired and he does a great job of establishing these characters through their words and actions, which is why this film is so great. You have to love the characters, even in the case of Mr. Blue (Eddie Bunker) who gets much less screen time than anyone else in the film.I would like to at least give a nod of special attention to all of the actors in this film. Every single one is a crucial piece to this puzzle and are all very believable in their roles. If I had to pick one scene that was my favorite, it'd be very difficult. Whether it's an outburst of sudden violence or a conversation across a coffee table, this film delivers in almost all aspects.There really isn't much more that I can say about the film that hasn't already been said. The film is a bit rough around the edges technically speaking but hey, it was the guy's first film and it was filmed on a pretty shoestring budget. Regardless, this is simply the kind of film that one wishes they'd have as a debut film.RATING: ****1/2 out of *****.


                
Five Strangers are brought together, to pull off the perfect crime. When everything goes wrong and the crime becomes a bloodbath they realise that one of their numbers is cop, but which one.Tarantino's first Feature film, introduces us to his style, in style. With Great characters and Dialogue, and of course, his now well known characteristic direction, reservoir dogs is a very memorable movie.With plenty of quite disturbing violence, and really solid character building scenes, this is quite simply an unbelievably good debut movie.Check out his other work, Pulp Fiction, Kill Bill 1&2 and Jackie Brown, and his writing prowess is on show in True Romance, Natural Born Killers and From Dusk till Dawn.9/10


                
Tarantino has an almost impenitent appetite for blood-spattered barbarism, we all know that. But in his gritty, brutal crime-caper Reservoir Dogs – a tantalizing debut feature that put the name Quentin Tarantino into the cinematic spotlight - his testosterone level is off every chart, as he happily wallows in his own adolescent love of criminals, violence, and vulgarity. So much so that, the movie appears to be set in a theme park called 'Testosterone-land', where nature isn't only red in tooth and claw, it's black as the heart of man and dank as any rag and bone shop of the human spirit.Tarantino gets things off to a spectacularly engrossing start, as Reservoir Dogs begins with the iconic sequence involving the coffee- shop banter of six morally ambiguous outlaws. Yes, they are meant to be an urban wild-bunch, but damn, if they aren't charming and charismatic! Decked out in matching black suits and thin black ties, they've been brought together by a mob kingpin specifically to pull off a heist, and they've been kept deliberately ignorant of one another's identities, knowing each other only by their color coded pseudonyms. The heist is to be a one-shot deal - one job and they scatter to the winds. Soon after masterful opening gabfest, when you start settling in with the idea that Tarantino has made a heist movie, he pulls a coup by skipping right over the robbery itself. Instead, it cuts straight to the aftermath, as we find our wolf-pack hole up in a warehouse after the heist goes belly up, each trying to figure out which one of them squawked to the police. Dissension and suspicion run high and soon, it becomes clear to the audience that at least one of these guys is a snitch, but which one?Tarantino's glitziest stroke in his heist drama is never to show the main event: the film's 'action' occurs after the heist. Tarantino expertly builds tension, interweaving scenes of the aftermath of the thieves' foiled heist with scenes depicting them getting ready for the heist, backtracking in time and point of view half a dozen times. Each flashback reveals just enough information to fill in a piece of the puzzle. His palpable enthusiasm, his unapologetic passion for what he's created reinvigorates this venerable plot and, mayhem aside, makes it involving for longer than you might suspect. His trademarks of amplified violence and vulgar dialogue are in full force, as are the flurry of obscure to not-so-obscure pop culture references woven into the dialogue. Part of the appeal of Reservoir Dogs is the way it makes all of it feel terribly authentic, a veracity that is a tribute to the skill of its actors, particularly Michael Madsen who is awesome as the sadistic yet painfully cool Mr. Blonde and Steve Buscemi who is deadpan funny as the always-on-the- edge Mr. Pink.Reservoir Dogs grabs you by the throat and digs its claws in deep. It may seem hideously ugly on paper, but in the sure way it's made, it's inconveniently dazzling - driven, beautifully made and completely wacko at once. It's pure outlaw art!


                
The master piece that is "Reservoir Dogs" is hands down one of the most underrated movies in history. The independent film was directed by Quentin Tarantino, the genius behind "Pulp Fiction", the "Kill Bill" series, and "Django Unchained". Running at an hour and a half, every minute is filled with blood, violence, and foul language. Three factors that would go on to define Tarantino as a director. The movie revolves around six strangers who come together to perform a heist on a diamond store. Unfortunately the heist goes bad and leads the six men to figure out who among them is an undercover police officer. The film has received many great reviews (IMDB=8.4 / Rotten Tomatoes=8.8) such as Empire magazine calling it the "Greatest Independent Film ever made". Since it was an independent movie it only managed to produce $2,812,029 in box office sales. This falls way below the amounts seen on the All-time Box office earnings list. This statistic is not surprising but it does prove that independent movies should be taken seriously and that box office revenue is not a suitable way to measure a films quality.


                
Tarantino's movies never goes as it was planned, as usually accidental moment engineers the hole film. At this time everything changed the woman, who accidentally had a pistol in her car, so she shot a policeman and everything started. As we know this film is one of the first movies of Quentin Tarantino's work and i think he said a new word in the history of cinematography, because this movie is about spoliation and there is no scene of spoliation, movie is a crime and was filmed in one room, characters are gangsters and their names are Mr. pink, Mr. White, Mr. orange, Mr. Brown and Mr. Brown. For these innovations i think this movie deserves 9 from 10.
This was and is, by far, Quentin Tarantino's best work ever. I could care less about Pulp Fiction, that was a decent movie that did well commercially but this one is his crowning achievement.This movie is well arranged. The Dialogue IS the movie. You can sit and turn the picture off on this one and the audio itself tells the story. The Music is absolutely great and well chosen. The acting was not extremely great, but that itself was also a masterstroke. The budget was small, the sets almost non existent, yet Tarantino created a wonderful piece of film making art, and assembled a cast worth watching. There was plenty of dark comedy mixed with the signature violence and blood that always accompanies Tarantino. The Characters have no names and are introduced only as colors, and that is one of the best scenes of this movie. It is a perfect blend of comedy, violence, crime, character development, plot, all told in a unique and intriguing way.Tarantino will probably never make a movie as well as this one again. He now basks in his own cult following and his love of bad B horror of the 1970's, and seems content in giving us horrible movies, bringing back a genre that nobody ever wanted to see (except really crazy people that rarely get out of their own basements) and there was a reason Hollywood stopped making.I say celebrate this one outstanding movie and remember Quentin when he used to be a decent film maker.


                
Quentin Tarantino's first movie before he gained fame with pulp fiction, reservoir dogs is about a gang of criminals hired to do a simple robbery.The story is told in out of order scenes that show the events leading up to the heist and the things that happen after. The characters use colours instead of names so no one can rat them to the cops, and the entire cast give career-top performances. Harvey Keitel takes the lead as Mr.White and is in my opinion the best performance of his career, Tim Roth plays Mr.Orange in one of his earliest roles, playing the young member of the crew doing one of his first jobs. While Micheal Madsen plays the psycho Mr.Blonde in another top role. Other performances include Chris Penn and Tarantino himself. The story moves a lot quicker than other Tarantino work, while keeping all of his trademarks like a great 70s inspired soundtrack and chunky well written dialogue that moves the plot along. Overall Reservoir dogs isn't QT's best movie but is still a brilliantly fun crime movie that has became one of the most iconic and quotable films of the 90s. Its features tons of famous scenes that became huge in pop culture including Micheal Madsen's controversial scene with a policeman.I'd definitely recommend.


                
A group of criminals are assembled to pull off a diamond heist, but something goes wrong and all heck breaks loose. To top it off, the ones who escape must face the facts: someone in the team was a rat. But who was it? And what do they do with the cop in the trunk?I think many people consider "Pulp Fiction" Tarantino's best film, and I would agree that it's a fine film. But "Reservoir Dogs" uses the same formula even earlier, with a tighter script and solid actors (without relying on heavyweights like Bruce Willis). And, I think it's safe to say, this one has created more of a cult following and generates more homages (the walking in unison scene, the cop torture scene, etc.).We definitely get Michael Madsen's best performance here, and a strong Steve Buscemi. Was Madsen good in "Free Willy"? Sure, but this is his defining role that kept him popular for the next decade. Buscemi always shines, but again he stands out here like he's not allowed to do anywhere else (with the possible exception of "Ghost World"). Chris Penn (science bless him) and Tim Roth also are wonderful.Tarantino knows how to incorporate music into his movies -- you have to give him that. Taking lost or forgotten songs and making them sound fresh and new. Stealers Wheel was already known for "Stuck in the Middle With You" long before Tarantino put it in his movie, but how many of us can now never hear it the same way again? Radio play of the song likely increased, and we're all picturing the same thing...We also see his strong dialog writing skills. This is Tarantino's best skill: dialog. Sometimes this hinders him (some think it dragged down the pace of "Kill Bill Volume 2", almost all agree that "Death Proof" was too dialog-heavy). But other times it's the driving force. "Reservoir Dogs" is largely memorable for it's conversations, such as the Madonna conversation and the tipping conversation. Madsen and Buscemi are very quotable ("Are you gonna bark all day little doggie, or are you gonna bite?"). "Pulp Fiction" steps this up a notch (the watch story, Royale with Cheese, Big Kahuna burger), but the foundation really rests on this movie.If you haven't seen this one, see it. As of this review, it is sitting at the 65th best movie of all time according to Internet Movie Database. I have no reason to deny it that ranking. It might be better, it might be worse -- but it's clearly a strong movie.


                
"Reservoir Dogs" is a blast and a half. Quentin Tarantino's non linear method of telling a story keeps one viscerally engaged, almost as if you were really there like a fly on the wall with a direct view of the proceedings. It's a style that works without being confusing, even if you have some misgivings about following the story; and even if you do, a second viewing clears that up completely. Nor is Tarantino concerned about disposing of characters off screen, as he did with Brown (Tarantino himself) and Blue (Eddie Bunker). The technique tends to put even more focus on the surviving characters attempting to come to grips with their situation. As far as that goes, don't even concern yourself with following the Colors, it doesn't make much difference who's Brown, Blue, or Blonde, the players are so fully convincing you'll get wrapped up in their narratives as each contributes to the total package. Then as the pot simmers and comes to a boil, the result is a new kind of gangster film that Bogart and Cagney couldn't even imagine.I wasn't aware of how much a comic book fan Tarantino must be, he helped guest direct 2005's "Sin City" of course, but here he peppers his film with Marvel Comic references to the Fantastic Four and The Thing, and a Silver Surfer poster pops up from time to time. It's interesting to see how a pop culture fan integrates his favorites back into the genre, completing a cycle of sorts. As a fan of both mediums, the combination adds another layer of enjoyment to the experience.With a film like this, I can understand that there's really very little ground in the middle for viewers, you're probably either going to love it or hate it. For someone like me who's actually rather conservative, I find that anything Tarantino is involved with to be a unique and action packed joy ride. For a directorial first effort, "Reservoir Dogs" is an amazing piece of work, lulling you into a comfort zone with the opening diner scene, and then hammering away at your senses until that last fateful gunshot. No need to fill in any blanks here.
Before watching this film i had no previous expectation on the genre nor the plot of the film. People occasionally spoke comments about it, mostly praising it, but other than that i was in the dark.My first reaction seeing the cover was that it would be another action movie. However, when i began to watch the film i was very interested as it began to hook me. The dialogue is brilliant. Simply superb. The only other film that matches this sort of witty, catchy and super cool dialogue is pulp fiction.The whole film is brilliant from start to finish, showing that multi million dollar explosions and car chases are no match for dynamic acting and excellent writing.As for the story, well, i wont ruin it, but it is simply brilliant.Tarintino shows off all the skills and tricks he wanted to show off all the years he dreamed of becoming an director.If you are passionate about films, you Must see this.The actors in this film do not get enough credit, nor does the genius behind the film, the director.


                
Reservoir Dogs is Quentin Tarantino's first movie, and it's pretty bloody good. I was cautious of this one because I had read mixed reviews of this. But I eventually decided to rent this, it was a great choice.Reservoir Dogs is about a diamond heist gone wrong. They all meet up at a warehouse. This is where we enter a series of flashbacks and confrontations leading up to a huge finale.Sound familiar, OF COURSE. This is a typical Tarantino way of homaging movies he loved as a video store clerk. He really does a brilliant job with this movie. Even thought nothing will top Pulp Fiction this is his second best. This movie has a great cast. Harvey Keitel, Steve Buscemi, Tim Roth, Michael Madsen and Tarantino himself.This violent masterpiece has earned it's way into many fans and made Tarantino a legend in film-making.4½/5.


                
This is Quentin Tarantino's most uncompromising and most powerful film. Pulp Fiction has a gloss that this did not.Having watched this again on the afternoon of November 19, this film still never fails to grab the view and not let go.Reseviour Dogs is an uncompromisng piece of cinema and is not for those who won't be able to stomach, this as it is pure crime drama. It is still one of the best examples of it's genre.


                
Quentin Tarantino's love affair with cinema is clearly visible with this debut film of his, RESERVOIR DOGS (1992), a film which belongs to one of the most memorable and important American films of the 1990's. Tarantino wrote and directed this film and the result is great. This is the kind of film that doesn't require millions of dollars from some major studio and it's (of course) ten times better and noteworthy film than many of those which require.The story is taken from Hong Kong film maker Ringo Lam's masterpiece City on Fire (1986) which is one of Tarantino's favorite movies which I understand. A bunch of criminals unknown to each other and following a plan which was meant to be flawless and water proof rob a diamond store. Something went wrong and a violent gun battle and quest for life and freedom took place and it was obvious there was a "rat" among them who informed the force about the details of the robbery. The film is told as a flashback as some of the gangsters, Mr. White (Harvey Keitel), Mr. Pink (Steve Buscemi) and Mr. Orange (Tim Roth), arrive to their meeting place in an abandoned storehouse waiting for the others, Mr. Orange very severely injured as a result of a gun shot wound. Other cast includes Tarantino himself, Eddie Bunker, Lawrence Tierney, Michael Madsen and Chris Penn and they're all as great and interesting as the story and its many sides.The film is a homage to masters like Martin Scorsese and several Hong Kong directors like John Woo and of course Ringo Lam. Their films usually depict honor and loyalty between men and criminals and how they are ready to risk their lives for a friend and the one they love. RESERVOIR DOGS has these same themes and they are as soulful and believable here as in GoodFellas or A Better Tomorrow, to name just a few films. Also the statement about tipping and the position of many "uneducated females in America" at the beginning is definitely an important one and despite the scene being pretty funny, it is also serious and important.The characters are great and speak much, but not in vain. They are interesting and real and the dialogue just secures this by forcing the viewer to go with the verbal flow inside the characters' soul. The dialogue is often very clever and also very funny and witty without being stupid. Tarantino is great screenwriter and story teller, too, and the flashback structure of RESERVOIR DOGS proved this for the first time. The soundtrack is again very nostalgic with many seventies classics which Tarantino grew up with so it is another homage this film maker wanted to make with this first film of his. The film is occasionally pretty violent but the violence is never glorified or made look good and entertaining. It is raw and painful and never without its results. Mr. Blonde (Madsen) is one of the most sadistic screen psychos of the nineties and he is definitely willing to use violence "just for the fun of it" but it doesn't pay in this film any more than in real life, either, and the gangsters learn it the hard way during the film and their fateful 2 minutes robbery.RESERVOIR DOGS is personal and intelligent film and began the film career its director had dreamt about during the years he worked at the video store, and this film once again proves what can be done when there are talented makers and ideas which don't require major studios and huge amount of money. It is great Harvey understood the talent of Tarantino and wanted to help him begin his life as a film maker.9/10


                
This is a good movie. I like Tarantino, and this might be my favourite of his movies I've seen. Stylish, tense, and very well acted.


                
