This hilarious show is created and written by comedic genius Larry David (co creator of Seinfeld)who stars as a fictionalized version of himself and follows the daily life of the wealthy millionaire. The story often revolves around the socially awkward positions Larry gets himself into due to his problems, expectations and annoyances of other people and his difficulty letting these slide unexpressed.The witty, very well structured show is improvised offering something fresh to the genre, the cast do a brilliant job and there's a great understanding between them. I've seen a lot of comedy programs over the years and I have to say that this show which has me laughing to the point where my stomach hurts is the greatest I've ever seen. I'm just praying it returns for a ninth season.


                
There are few men working on television today that rival the wit, the insight, or the genius of Larry David. To compare "Curb Your Enthusiasm" to "Seinfeld" is preposterous. With "Curb Your Enthusiasm", Larry David has created one of the greatest comedic series one have ever seen on American television. Fortunately for us, we got hooked right away from his first year and we sadly miss a new installment, which we thought would be forthcoming in the 2004-2005 season.Most of the episodes have been directed by Robert Weide, who seems to be attuned to Mr. David's kind of comedy. The episodes directed by the other guest directors are fine as well, but it seems that Mr. Weide gets the best out of all performers in the ones he is at the helm.The cast is flawless. Larry David is always enjoyable playing himself, something that is no small accomplishment. He is just a natural. Cheryl Hinds plays Larry's wife with a lot of style. Jeff Garlin, as Larry's manager, is good. Many talented performers are seen in different episodes among them, Sisie Essman, Wanda Sykes, Richard Lewis, and Ted Danson."Curb Your Enthusiasm" has a quality that most other sitcoms don't have and it is the ability to amuse us even in reruns! This happens because of Larry David's tremendous intelligent approach to comedy.


                
I may be a little biased because I enjoy laughing. In addition to that I genuinely enjoy quality comedy in any medium. Despite those two factors, I think the lowest anyone with a could rate this show is a 6, which would be terribly wrong, but everyone is entitled to have wrong opinions here and there (although my opinion on this show is right). Reviewers giving it a 1 are just being contrarian and I have not read any legitimate criticism in those reviews. Whoever rates 'Curb Your Enthusiasm' lower than a 6 is not to be trusted nor given any credibility, their sense of humor is broken and is unfixable.


                
Larry David features as himself in this curious, vicious and truly excellent comedy from The States.Larry is a very interesting creature, full of cast in stone beliefs about how the world should be, how people should behave, and standards of behaviour both in society in general and between individuals. His fervent belief system constantly sees him landing himself in hot water as he derides and/or becomes upset by people who don't understand his unique set of rules.Ball tighteningly embarrassing situations present themselves as Larry stumbles from one disaster to another, and his long suffering wife Cheryl tries her best to explain to him just why it is that he always seems to get things wrong.From an individual standpoint, I find the show very interesting as it seems clear that the viewer is meant to consider his beliefs a little over-zealous, but I for one whole-heartedly agree with him the majority of the time. People should be nicer towards one another, people should be more considerate, and those that aren't are deserving of his wrath.Great performances from Jeff Garlin as his agent and Richard Lewis, playing himself, as one of his closest friends gives this show a real edge.Massively recommended to all, but be prepared to squirm almost as much as you laugh. Simply brilliant.
Normally, I don't go for the type of sitcom made in the United States. As I'm English, the usual classics like "Friends" and "Seinfield" don't tend to match out against things like "The Office" and "Peep Show". Now, it's probably because I'm British that I've developed these comedy tastes, but I am in no way against the sort of stuff the USA turn out. "Scrubs", "Home Improvement" and "South Park" are some of my favourite shows of all time, all funny in their own ways. Recently I invested in series one of a very different show, something that I thought I'd buy after seeing a few clips on a TV special. "Curb Your Enthusiasm" is the king of sitcoms - and here's why.The idea is simple. Larry David (writer and co-creator of Seinfield) plays himself as he goes from place-to-place on life's adventures with a great supporting cast, including his wife Cheryl and best friend Jeff. As he goes, realistic situations develop, and here lies the comedy; Larry says and does the exact opposite to what a normal person would do - in essence, he says what you'd be thinking instead of pretending to be humble, polite or well-mannered. Of course, Larry can be humble, polite and well-mannered, but only to those who treat him the same way.First off, the tagline "deep down you know you're him" is totally spot-on. The character of Larry is (secretly) somebody you know you are, it's just Larry tends to voice his opinion, state what's true and stand up for himself when things aren't his fault. Isn't this somebody we all wish we could be? I sure do, but it's Larry's lack of feelings for anybody but himself that sets him apart. Sure, he's a nice guy too - I'd be pals with him, and even more so for speaking his mind.Of course, the comedy develops from a variety of other areas too. Our poor protagonist is normally punished in some way for speaking his mind, as it seems you can't get through life by simply saying what's right. Take the first episode for instance, Larry jokingly refers to his wife as "Hitler" whilst on the phone to his friend Jeff - little did he know, he was on speaker phone and Jeff's parents have heard. They're outraged, and why? ...they've got a cousin who was a gay holocaust survivor. Geesh! That's just one example however, and as the series develops, the plots and little stories tend to get better and better. The characters are very, very well done - and you have to remember, a lot of the show is improvised from a simple script outline. The actors were auditioned with Larry David himself and it shows that he's put time and effort into getting the show perfect - it really does.In a nutshell, "Curb Your Enthusiasm" is as realistic as "The Office", and in the same way, a very similar show. Where "The Office" used cringe-comedy to get us laughing, "Curb Your Enthusiasm" gets us laughing at what we know is true. It's a look at a character who we can love and adore, and yet still distance ourselves from because deep down, we know we're him... we just don't want to admit it.
Larry David co-created one of the greatest sitcoms of all time, Seinfeld, with fellow comedian Jerry Seinfeld. Following the end of Seinfeld, David was inactive for a brief period of time. That is until 2000, when Larry was back with his new show Curb Your Enthusiasm, which stars Larry as himself. Something about this show just works, their isn't a definite script of dialog, it is an outline with a lot of improvising. This show is honestly one of those shows that you have to catch on a weekly basis. For some reason the Larry David character has become just one of those characters that you have to tune in for each week to see what trouble he is getting himself into.10/10


                
CYE is definitely not for everyone, you either get it or you don't. I personally think it is true comedic genius, just terrific writing and delivery. I have never laughed so hard at a small screen comedy as I have with this, even if it's just because HBO allows LD a wider latitude than broadcast networks could, or would. While CYE can be bizarre and ironic, you still feel like it could all really happen just the way it's written. I give it a 9 only because I can't give it a 9.9 (nothing is perfect so 10 is out). If you haven't seen it, you should, and I hope you laugh out loud as much as I do while watching it. If not, then just don't bother watching it anymore because you'll never like it more than you do with the first one you see. If you like it, then you're in for a treat, because there are no "bad" episodes; in a comforting way, they are all the same but still very different and hilarious.


                
This is one of my favorite shows-great cast and -pure comedy! I highly recommend it.


                
One never gets enough of this show. Larry David has created an authentically cynical, witty, spontaneous and idiosyncratic misanthropic character. One may either hate him or adore him, but it is almost impossible to remain indifferent. While many compare this show to Seinfeld, I never thought of these two shows as being similar. As a sitcom, Seinfeld is much closer to Friends (except it has wittier humor). Curb your enthusiasm is much more comparable to Louie and Woody Allen's work. The ninth season of CYE was definitely worth the wait!


                
Extremely funny show about nothing but Larry David who plays a fictional Larry David based on the real Larry David.Storyline follows the everyday annoyances of Larry David (played by Larry David) in Los Angeles. He has a wife (Cheryl Hines), a manager (Jeff Garlin), his wife (Susie Essman) and a circle of friends, acquaintances, and guest stars.The stories are brilliant and usually contain an ironic ending. No detail of life is too small to be obsessed over, as Larry (who hardly ever works) fills his life with friends and errands, grievances and bickering, and lots of apologies.All the main characters can be annoying as hell and just plain hilarious.The arc with the Blacks was probably way too long and more annoying than funny. And Hines' wife character is very annoying. She basically does nothing but arrange flower and furniture and does nothing useful.Semi-regulars and guest stars over the years have included Richard Lewis, Jerry Seinfeld, Jason Alexander, Julia Louis-Dreyfus, Michael Richards, Wanda Sykes, Ted Danson, Mary Steenburgen, Shelley Berman, Paul Dooley, Julie Payne, Bob Einstein, Mel Brooks, David Schwimmer, Ben Stiller, Beatrice Arthur, Michael York, Rob Coddry, Cady Huffman, Dustin Hoffman, Sacha Baron Cohen, Kym Whitley, Vivica A. Fox, J.B. Smoove, Catherine O'Hara, Gina Gershon, Cheri Oteri, Philip Baker Hall, Lucy Lawless, Kathy Griffin, Edward Asner, Rita Wilson, Rob Reiner, Joan Rivers, Paul Sand, Anne Bancroft, Nathan Lane, Richard Kind, Jo Anne Worley, Kevin Nealon, June Squib, Steve Coogan, Michael McKean, Rosie O'Donnell, Wayne Knight, Estelle Harris, Ricky Gervais, and Stephen Colbert.The show is a gem.


                
In the past decade, television viewers have been forced to sit through a slew of bad attempts at comedy programming. Since the year 2000, however, one show has really solidified its place in the barrage of bad sitcoms and contrived comedy: Curb Your Enthusiasm. The genius behind Curb Your Enthusiasm is Larry David, the creator and star of the show. David is no stranger to comedy television, however. Before Curb, David was most well known for co-creating and writing for the phenomenon known as Seinfeld. While these two shows are similar in some ways, they are also completely different. The premise of Curb focuses on Larry David's life after Seinfeld and the social predicaments he gets himself into. While the premise alone seems somewhat plain, there is so much more to the show that sets it apart from everything else on television.One of the strongest points of Curb Your Enthusiasm has to be the subject matter itself. The focus of each episode is usually some sort of awkward predicament that Larry David gets himself into. While these predicaments may seem fairly common to most people, David's use of exaggeration and overreaction is what makes Curb so hilarious. David is a master at recognizing the silly social "rules" that we all have to follow and expresses his frustration about them in his story lines: "..we do have these ridiculous social conventions that we all have to abide by all the time and they do get on my nerves" (David). A common example of this in Curb is Larry David's hatred of "stop and chats," where he is forced to make pointless small talk with his acquaintances. Realistically, these kind of encounters are something that most people have to deal with at some point. As well as the more complex social discrepancies, David takes time to acknowledge simpler pet peeves including a car seat belt jamming, someone taking too many free samples, and not wanting to shake someone's hand after they had sneezed. No matter how big or small the idea is, Larry David can turn it into comedy gold and effectively connect to his audience in the process.However, not everyone appreciates the genius of Larry David. A common complaint about the show is that David's overreactions are somewhat irritating and seem unrealistic. Well, of course no one would really act like Larry David does when placed in these situations, but that is what makes the series funny and unique. In an interview, Larry David was asked if his character in the show is anything like himself in real life. Larry responded, "That's the guy that I wish I was. I love that guy<U+0085>He behaves the way I want to behave" (David). The whole purpose of the show is to recognize how David, or anyone, would like to behave in these frustrating situations.Another aspect of Curb that sets it apart from other shows is its unique format. While it is technically considered a sitcom, it really doesn't follow the same rules. Unlike a typical sitcom, all the scenes of Curb Your Enthusiasm are filmed on location in Los Angeles with no use of sets or sound stages. Also, there is no studio audience or laugh track to provide comic relief; this aspect adds to the awkward humor style of the show. Finally, the biggest difference between Curb Your Enthusiasm and other sitcoms is the writing, or lack thereof. The plot line is mapped out by Larry David, and the actors are required to improvise all of their lines. Curb Your Enthusiasm doesn't need to depend on punch line style writing to be funny, it is all about the actors and the performances. Complete improvisation is very hard to pull off, and Curb Your Enthusiasm does it extremely well.However, no matter what Larry David does, people always seem to compare it to his predecessor series Seinfeld. Since both shows come from the mind of Larry David, the humor is very similar; the difference between the two shows is the delivery. Seinfeld depends more on a punch line to convey humor, whereas Curb is more subtle and realistic in its delivery. Neither one is necessarily "good" or "bad," it is just a matter of preference. Personally, I prefer the style of Curb Your Enthusiasm over its predecessor Seinfeld. As far as the acting goes in Curb, I believe it feels more organic and personal than sitcom style acting. Larry David has said that "It's not the way actors act. It's not. Because it's doing stuff that really anyone can do" (David). Also, the lack of a laugh track is something I appreciate about Curb; you laugh because it is actually funny, not because there is something there reminding you to.While Larry David had a good run with Seinfeld, he knew it was time to move on and create something more straightforward. Curb is exactly what was needed to break the monotony and begin a new movement in comedy television. Larry David took a big chance with this show, bending the rules of format and ignoring all the standards. I understand that Curb is not going to appeal to everyone; it is the kind of show you either love or hate. I must admit that I was even hesitant at first to begin watching the series. After one episode, however, I was completely hooked. Curb just seems to have this charm that no other show has. The chemistry of the cast is great, the improvisation is second to none, and of course the ideas of Larry David are comedy gold. As Curb Your Enthusiasm approaches an eighth season, it seems that this series is definitely a force to be reckoned with.
Although I haven't had the opportunity to watch this series in its entirety I would like to comment on the quality of this man's comedic writing style (yes I read the script!). He is one of the best comedic writers of my lifetime that I have become familiar with. No need for me to kiss up anymore than that. I'm sure your fans are as vast as the sand particles on your private beach and you've earned em. I have to write Ten lines or it Won't accept My review. Umm.. Ya... About the Episode with the doll... I'm surprised how long it took me to read the Script. I'm 87% sure it had nothing to do with me... But on the crazy Outside 13% chance it may have... I've never felt more honored and Humbled at the same time. And if there is any truth to that rumor, I'm rightfully ashamed it took me so long to acknowledge it and respond.Respectfully, Jobo


                
You know how you still quote and remember episodes of Seinfeld ten years later? This is that kind of show - I can think of so many hilarious episodes of Curb Your Enthusiasm that I can't help sitting here smiling to myself. The one where Larry accidentally gets Jeff's 7 year old daughter drunk on wine, the episode where Larry won't take off his shoes at the porn party, or when he accidentally gets an erotic massage. This is one of the very few non-animated shows that makes me laugh out loud. Larry David is so neurotic but normal at the same time and Jeff's wife is such a funny secondary character. If you haven't watched this show, you're missing one of the few smart comedies on TV - get it on DVD and watch it from the beginning like a marathon.


                
I love the 9th season so much. Season 8 wasn't my favorite. Season 9 is a total return to form and everything that makes the show great! Leon is just fantastic and really I can't get enough of his interactions with Larry. He's never offended and just gets Larry. One of the best shows of all time.


                
Being part Irish part Jew, (which is somewhat interesting for some...) go and figure it out why?..I can only say this: Beautiful Creation- One word; Brilliant! It's a Timeless story/ in various episodes that depict ideologies and situations to the core, which many of us or better said the majority of of us avoid on a daily basis. I was taken by the simplicity of the production yet the amount of detail invested in every scene, yet it is really satisfying, Larry David a true genius brings us a comedy that will last for many generations and more to come-


                
I started to watch Curb your Enthusiasm after watching the first three seasons of Seinfeld (great, aged well but not unforgettable) and there's no doubt : Larry David is a genius. Curb your Enthusiasm is, hands down, the greatest comedy on television in my opinion (with The Office).LD's writing is sharp, his humor is clever (and that cannot be said for all the comedy on air currently, even the best of those) and the brilliant way Larry manages to match every tiny detail is quite impressive (all the story lines usually mix up in the end). Most of the time, LD's making himself look like a misunderstood and really unfortunate hero^^. All the predictable comedies should inspire themselves from Curb, a model of writing, really.Some jokes are employed over and over, after seven outstanding seasons the pattern of an episode is well-known, but yet it manages to be always fun. And some running gag are hilarious at every time (the look LD expresses when he suspects someone in front of him to be a liar (and then the suspicious "...ok" after staring at the guy), it's just cult).I cannot decide which season is the best, they're all wonderful, I can't think of a single episode that bored or annoyed me, actually. I hope Larry will decide to do an 8th season.


                
This is the best sitcom ever created. Such a simple idea: Larry David's life post-Seinfeld. The situations on the show are hilarious and, for some reason, believable. The improv acting makes this show more real and adds a bit more believability to it.The best part of the show, in my opinion, is that Larry sometimes is the architect of his own demise, but other times its the over-senisitivy of others that brings him down. The way in which every situation is turned on Larry and made to be seen as his fault is utterly brilliant and hilarious.Each character is great, but my favorite is Marty Funkhouser. He's entirely dead pan and the delivery of his lines are awesome. Jeff, Richard, Susie, Cheryl, Ted, Mary, etc etc the list goes on and on. Even characters who have minute appearances in one episode do their bits to perfection.The show intertwines between 3 and 4 subplots in an episodes, which includes, for seasons 2 through 6, a story arch for that season. Larry David is unrivaled when it comes to making these plots come together in a humorous and clever way.This show deserves 10 more stars than 10, its utterly hilarious, brilliant, and I can't wait for the 7th season.


                
I've started to watch Curb Your Enthusiasm after I've seen it on a local tvchannel in my region and man I love it. I must say I wasn't this excited seeing it in the beginning. During the show you really grow into it though. You really start to like the main character, Larry David, you have sympathie for the guy. He has those typical "I'm not like all the rest" characteristics which I really like. He feels misunderstood and most of the time it's like the whole world is against him. Sometimes it's his own fault, mostly it's the crowd that's the problem.I can say without a doubt this is my alltime favorite comedy show. Watch this!!!!!!! You won't regret it!!


                
My husband and I recently discovered Larry David and we're having a blast getting caught up. This guy is hysterical. His show is often subtle ~ it's like British comedy in that regard (except it's funny). I can just look at him and crack up; he's masterful at what he does. He's obnoxious and yet he always seems to invoke so much more than he dishes out ~ that's one of the many things that makes it work. Seinfeld would have never run out of mundane adventures with this guy behind the scenes. This layperson would highly recommend this series to anyone who likes to laugh. Okay, I just tried to send this through but IMDb says I'm supposed to have ten lines of text but I already said it in nine.


                
I had heard many good things about this show so I got a hold of the first season not knowing what to expect. I am a die hard Seinfeld fan so I went in hoping that it would have some sort of Seinfeld resemblance. While it's significantly different from Seinfeld, it still maintains that very dry, simple, situational kind of humor. The show doesn't have a laugh track so that in it self makes it very awkward and uncomfortable but many people (including myself) love that kind of stuff. The show is pretty much based around Larry David and numerous crazy situations that he gets himself caught up in. It's a very easy show to relate to just like Seinfeld was. Pretty much any awkward situation that you've encountered in your life is most likely going to be on this show. It's definitely an acquired taste and I can understand why many people dislike this show. This show isn't for everyone. I however, love this kind of humor and can confidently say that this would be in my top 3 funniest shows of all time. I would highly recommend checking this show out. If you're into this kind of humor, you will not be disappointed.


                
In all honesty, a 10/10 does not do this show justice. It is comedy genius and like another person I saw in the review section has said, I use this show as an indicator to how much I will like a person. The situations in the show are hilarious, it seems like everything that could go wrong does and everything that shouldn't be said is said, and his reaction and the way he plays it off just tops everything off. I feel like a lot of these reviews are from years gone by and so the newer seasons aren't really brought up, but I honestly feel as though the show got better and better. It never got dry, it never got old, and the show is most definitely one that can be re ran over and over without losing its comedic value. I live in England and it's a real shame, because the show hasn't been given the light of day. I know very few people who have seen the show and anyone I recommend it too would have to go out and buy the whole box set which in this day and age seems to be something that is very rarely done. There isn't enough positive words to say about Curb Your Enthusiasm, and similarly for Larry David and the entire cast. There is no script... Yes that's right, the show is not scripted, and I feel like telling people this only makes them sceptical of how good it truly is, but if you were not told and you had watched the show, you would not know any different. The cast are amazing, and because the show is largely trying to replicate the real life of a person (Larry David) post success (Seinfeld), and all the situations he gets into, the fact that there is no script plays right into the shows hands, because the reactions are real and the dialogue is not fixed. Each episode has a story board, so the setting is very much fixed, but the conversations, how long they last, who has the last word, who comes off worse is all decided in the heat of the moment and that's why I love the show. All in all I would recommend this to everyone because I can guarantee one of Larry's situations will relate to you in someway, and one of Larry's reactions will relate to you in some way, because hate it or love it, there is a piece of Larry in all of us, and god damn...it would be an amazing place if we all let it out once in a while. Those who struggle to find the humour in this show need taking out back and well... You know the rest.


                
In the same spirit as Seinfeld that is about ´Nothing´, this show is about absolutely everything. it explores the details of everyday life in a very ironic way. 
Although it is said that there is no script and that the actors are asked to improvise, it never seems so as all seems so natural. The camera that is filiming each instant is revealing of the good chemistry in all the actors. 
If you liked Seinfeld, this is for you. if you like this and miss it, watch Seinfeld. If you have already watched both, well, curb your enthousiasm!


                
This show will make you laugh, shows are better when it's tv-ma


                
I was not a "Seinfeld" fan - to be honest, I didn't get a good look at the program until it was in syndication and even then, I found only a few episodes that were drop dead funny. But Larry David... I knew his work from back in the "Fridays" days. Even back then, you knew anything he touched would have that realistic sharp wit of comedy. 'Curb Your Enthusiasm' is the definitive proof.Again, I caught this show a few years in (a season or two ago)-- and I did not expect to laugh at folks problems...but I found myself laughing like crazy with this crew.Larry and his situations are every day - and flow as if you are just waling into his life "that day" and experiencing it first hand. In what I have seen, there were MANY instances where Larry did what I thought but don't have the guts to say out loud! Larry is like a child - he speaks before he thinks, he doesn't care what he says to family, friends, associates because he is - who he is. He's not malicious, he's just Larry - take him for what he is - and he is hilarious.The friends and associates around Larry are just as funny - Jeff Garlin is one the best and the two of them have great chemistry. Cheryl Hines as Larry's wife is one fine actress that has to rise to the comedy occasion with Larry and his situations and she does so overwhelmingly. She is just a joy to watch.One thing I do remember hearing about this program was hearing that it is not "totally" scripted, which keeps the spontaneity of the program going. I can see that as I watch, and that is one of the key factors that hooks me in. Everyone interested in comedy should try to catch this show, you'll be glad you did and find a gem to become a classic in TV series comedy.
I absolutely love this show, it's so funny with really clever scenarios and well performed. Some moments will make you laugh, some will make you cringe, mostly both at the same time. The series started off strong and the quality has never wavered which is rare for a long running series. Hopefully there will be more to come!


                
