This is a very funny, well-written sitcom. It's about a well-off, middle-aged Jewish man who lives in Los Angeles with his younger wife. His interactions with people often cause humorous bad reactions. Sometimes things go wrong due to his bad luck, sometimes due to his over-zealous efforts to right perceived wrongs and sometimes due to his poor judgement.


                
People who appreciate good comedy will love this. By good comedy, I mean: Chris Morris, Seinfeld, Coogan, Iannucci, Stanhope, Gervais etc.We experience the satisfaction of Larry (we all have one in our lives) just saying it how it is (or should be) and, despite getting himself in so much trouble, he is actually 90% correct and you're really on his side, throughout.
It's laugh out loud hilarious watching Larry float through life, upsetting everyone in his path. The improv arguments with Suzie are great and the banter with J.B Smoov, Jeff, Lewis etc is flawless, the guest actors are brilliantly cast and the '..are you sure?' stare-out moments are unforgettable.Oh and it's very very very Jewish to the point where I'd actually categorise it as, literally, a Jewish comedy program about very rich Jews... "Not that there's anything wrong with that".Gripe: Unfortunately Cheryl is just the biggest glaring miscast I've ever seen. None of her lines add anything and unfortunately I found her holding back every scene she appeared in due to her noticeable and often irritating blankness. It's crying out for a talented artist to accompany/match the skills of this cast.
That's my only complaint about Curb, albeit a big one.


                
In one way, it's easy to explain the chicanery that goes on during "Curb Your Enthusiasm" by stating that the model for Larry David on his creation, "Seinfeld" was George Costanza. The other thing is that during a documentary about "Seinfeld," David said when the show got an order for 14 shows after its original four, he went home and cried in his bed. He didn't know how he was going to write 14 shows; he had so much difficulty with the first four.So out of this crazy comic mind comes "Curb Your Enthusiasm," a heavily improvisational show starring David as himself, Cheryl Hines as his lovely wife Cheryl, Jeff Garlin as his manager Jeff, Susie Essman as Jeff's wife Susie, who is always fighting with Larry, and Richard Lewis. Ted Danson, Julia Louis-Dreyfuss and many others as Larry's friends.Larry is usually in trouble over something due to the fact that he's massively inappropriate and doesn't understand boundaries. He invites a sex offender to his house for Seder with other neighbors; when Jeff's dog gets lost, Larry breaks up a wedding reception when he thinks the Korean florist has prepared the dog for reception food; he tries to weasel out of giving Richard Lewis his kidney; he accuses a doctor of stealing his newspaper. In short, the situations on this show are hilariously funny, sometimes sexual in nature, with lots of salty language. It's often adult humor, made even funnier by Larry's complete guilelessness over what he's done.In season 4, Larry is cast as Max Bialystock in "The Producers," and the season ends with his opening night and features the LA cast of The Producers as well as Anne Bancroft and Mel Brooks. David Schwimmer plays Blume. Inspired.What I love is that on the face of it, this seems to be a show about a successful writer living in a beautiful house with a beautiful wife but instead, complete insanity prevails.Very enjoyable, and it's no wonder David finished the series and was begged to come back for more seasons.


                
Curb Your Enthusiam is Seinfeld uncensored. Free from the restraints and prohibitions of network television, creator Larry David makes the most of mocking such politically correct untouchables as Blacks, Jews, Asians, lesbians and the handicapped. David's scripts leave no one (especially himself) unscathed. He mocks and ridicules with equal opportunity and it makes for a comic goldmine.Seinfeld co-creator, David plays himself living out the success and pitfalls of celebrity in LA. A thinner and older version of George Costanza, the obnoxious Larry's irritating personality gets him into one uncomfortable situation after another. The roster of people he annoys is endless and includes real life celebrity friends (Richard Lewis, Ted Danson, Wanda Sykes, Mary Steenburgen) and guest stars playing themselves (Ben Stiller, David Schwimmer) who fall victim to his phobias.Each episode is outrageously (in the true sense of the word) hilarious as it both shocks and amuses with its daringly funny takes on such sober subjects as anti-semitism, terrorism, child abuse, serial murder, racism, pornography and hamsters.Cheryl Hines suffers nobly as his wife while co-producer Jeff Garlin plays his manager with a bemused understanding. Many of their scenes together have an ad lib freshness and inside humor that you almost feel privy to. Susie Essman as Jeff's wife proves to be more than Larry's match as she shreds him on a regular basis with profanity laced precision. Larry also gets as good as he gives with casual acquaintances and strangers acting just as petty and disingenuous as he can be.David's humor has a fierce bite that some may find distasteful and offensive. For those who do, safe canned laughter sitcoms reheating and repackaging decades old scenarios will always be around. Those looking for something with spark and audacity will do no better than the provocative humor of Curb Your Enthusiasm. It's the funniest show on the plug in drug since, well, Seinfeld.


                
Let's be honest, one of the big attractions of this show is Susie Greene. We all wait for her to be standing out in the driveway with her arms folded, dark glasses on, then hearing that showdown theme. We all know this means that Larry and Jeff are in for it because of their misdeeds. While we know the profanity-laced tirade is coming, Susie always exceeds our expectations with the creativity she puts into it. I start laughing before she starts yelling. Her scene from The Doll episode is classic. Also the scene after she came home to find her daughter drunk and Oscar the dog missing was so over the top that if you try saying these lines out loud, you will bust out laughing. When I first watched the show, I thought Susie was just an angry bitch with a New York attitude, but like everybody else, I keep wanting more.


                
I have a love-hate relationship with this show. This Larry David guy is brilliant, no questions about it. I love Seinfeld and I adore the awesome things he comes up with, but situations in this show are often ridiculous and not funny. He has a few hundred million bucks in his bank account, but often ends up arguing about a couple of bucks all the time? What's up with that? Is this a joke? I mean he has money coming out of his ears and we have to believe that he got in trouble when he forgot his wallet or credit card? This is ridiculous beyond comprehension. Other than that the show is very good. It is very unusual in it's unconventional style and delivery. Of course the guy is very unlikable selfish jerk, but his reaction and observations are spot on. I often wished I was more like the guy in the show and Larry David said himself that he also wished he was more like the guy in the show, but let's be fair, he is not a victim of circumstance, he is a victim of being jerk all the time. But that's what is funny about this show. Except about the petty money problems I already mention. I wish that they continue with this show and I continue with my love-hate relationship with it.


                
Since i don't get HBO on cable, I finally got to see Curb Your Enthusiasm when it entered into syndicated reruns. Even though the episodes are edited for language, due to broadcast standards, I found the show a lot more cohesive than another show co-created by Larry David, Seinfeld. Whereas Seinfeld meanders around without a plot, Curb Your Enthusiasm sticks to the storyline. But the one thing I like about the show is that it's improvised. I read in one source that David constructs a outline for each of the 10 episodes that are shot each season and then the cast improvises the dialog. The cast, anchored by David is outstanding, including Cheryl Hines as his wife, Jeff Garlin as his manager and Susie Essman (whose profane rants are edited out of the reruns) as Jeff's wife Susie. There are also guest appearances by celebrities such as Richard Lewis, Ted Danson, Mary Steenburgen and Shaquille O'Neal. In the few episodes I saw, i found the show to be very funny. If you don't have HBO and have never seen the episodes in syndication or on the TV Guide Channel, watch them. It's one of the best sitcoms on either broadcast or cable TV.


                
This used to be my favorite show. I still love it, even though its seasons on HBO are sporadic at best. I understand that people will automatically compare this show to Seinfield because of the inherent links, but as someone who never "got" Seinfield, I think those comparisons are off. Curb is genius. Pure genius. At its core it is a social experiment we get to witness and with which most of us can identify. It is a misanthrope's dream show, but the writing and natural flow of the show makes it such quality material that even the most gregarious among us will fall in love with it.Bottom line, given the lack of watchable sitcoms over the past few years, it is enjoyable to just watch a quality sitcom. It's a joy to be a viewer a know you are in the hands of someone who knows what he is doing and who won't dumb down his humor or insult your intelligence. For that fact alone, this is a show for the ages.The only thing I will point out as a negative is the addition of the Black character. I do not like the stereotypes through which he is presented. There is a tinge of racism there, and I thought Larry David was kind-of above that. I would suggest David write that character off, and thus restore my respect for him. I know he is above that kind of base humor.8.5/10


                
Well I have never seen an episode of Seinfeld in my life, because I am not much of a fan of American sitcoms (with the exceptions of Home Improvement, Friends and Scrubs). However, Curb Your Enthusiasm is totally different - it's like watching The Office when all you've ever seen is Only Fools and Horses (UK sitcoms references).To begin with, you may find this show really annoying, because some of the characters react in a totally unreasonable way to Larry. Correspondingly, Larry himself is quite unreasonable in his situations, although we as viewers empathise with him quite easily (since he is the obvious protagonist). Furthermore, there is no canned laughter like there is in more "traditional" sitcoms, and the whole thing feels much more real.This is worth a look for at least a good episode or two. There will definitely be faces that you will recognise from other shows (the janitor from Friends, Dr. Cox's sister from Scrubs, etc.), and each episode is a cringe-inducingly funny story that unfolds over thirty minutes.In short, great stuff! If you like Seinfeld then you might not like this, but if you are like me then you will be the other way around. One or the other will tempt you, so give it a go!


                
I don't like Wanda Sykes in any dose, but she is used entirely too much. Not funny, annoying with an irritating voice; at least she isn't hard to look at... Oh wait...


                
Curb comes of as lazy, pointless, unenthusiastic, and dumb... so why am I enjoying every minute of it? Maybe because I'm all of that...


                
