I know I'm severely in the minority here, but I just feel the need to say this because it completely shocks me that this film is even in the top 250 at all. I mean, I love Clint Eastwood, but this film disappoints me every time I see it. It's not bad--it's abysmal (and don't worry, I'm backing this up--read on).I'm not saying the film didn't have potential. The idea was solid, and the themes Eastwood was dealing with are excellent. This had the makings of a fantastic film. The thing is, so much about it is done so poorly that it simply doesn't match up.For starters, "Gran Torino" has some of the absolute worst acting I have ever seen--save for Dane Cook in "Simon Sez." The performance of Bee Vang (Toad) stands out in particular--watching him over-emote, while retaining a certain amount of entertainment value simply for his amateur-istic facial expressions and dialog, brought to mind a middle- school talent show. The role of the priest, played by an uninspired Christopher Carley, is bland enough to fit into an actual sermon. In fact, not one acting performance stood out from the entire cast--even Eastwood's. He did a fine job of presenting himself as the racist war veteran, but there was a complete lack of emotion and human interest from his character.My biggest problem, however, was with the screenplay itself. The fact is that none of the characters are at all believable because they are written to be that way. Quite literally every character in the script seems to be based entirely on stereotypes (which, in a sense, is fitting, considering that--despite its romanticized ending--the entire film is essentially one long racist tirade. The gang members, for example, seem almost so pitifully inept that it is hard to feel intimidated by them. Walt Kowalski's (Eastwood) family is so painfully over-demonetized that they are drained of any human component whatsoever. The list goes on and on.Furthermore, the dialog is absolutely painful from beginning to end. The humor of the film is entirely derived from racist comments directed from Eastwood's character. The script is repetitive (yes, we get it, you only eat cats. Ha, ha.) and messy--all of the lines seemed as if they were either trying too hard to be profound or simply seemed completely improvised. Worst of all, the audience can predict literally every twist and turn in the script miles ahead. I'll give it this--the next-to-last scene where Eastwood's character fights the gang is both one of the most bad-ass and well-done scenes I've seen, and it may well be worth seeing the movie for that alone. Still, I'd recommend avoiding sitting through the rest of it if you can. "Gran Torino" tries to be a plot-driven film with a message, but without the characters and dialog to back it up, it is difficult to suspend disbelief enough to absorb the message.In short, if you can forgive horrible acting, don't much care for snappy dialog or interesting cinematography, are very racist yourself, or just really, really like Clint Eastwood then this film might be for you. If not, skip it, because unless you are expecting a contrived and largely unbelievable mess, you are sure to be disappointed.
"Relax zipperhead, I'm not going to shoot you", grumped Harry the Ole Fart to Billy the karate Kid. "I may not be the most pleasant man that walks the Earth, you zip face, fish head, you gook...grunthhhhggghhh....."Enough already!Seriously, this film's so bad it's not even funny. Here's the whole ordeal in a nutshell:Over the top racist old war vet is grumpy. Over the top racist old war vet is slightly less grumpy. Over the top racist old war vet develops a heart. Some injustice, unfathomable plot twist. To everyone's ill concealed embarrassment, Clint barks a tune during the credits -The end-Mix in some truly pathetic acting by a cast clearly let in on a sympathy vote, the worst clichés gathered from Alan Smithee's collective works, The Ultimate Anthology of Prosthetic Plot Points, and you get this yard sale of banality which is Gran Torino.If you like your drama spoon fed to you with a predictability factor that would even make a soap screenwriter blush and if you can stand Eastwood doing poor grizzly imitation while impersonating a fossilized plank of pre-Cambrian wood throughout an entire film, I guess this movie is for you.But if you're still going for something slightly original, convincing or otherwise entertaining , I can only recommend a dozen of other films that are actually worth their viewing. Go see 'The Usual Suspects' if you never got around to see it. 'Big Fish', 'Lost in Translation', 'Funny Games', 'Ground Hog Day', 'Michael Clayton' or 'The Escapist'. And bloody shame on all those professional movie critics. I mean, surely they must have HBO so they can compare this shameful dross to for instance 'The Wire' and conclude that which was actually really made for TV, is light years ahead of this straight- to-DVD clunker.Gran Torino, a score of 8.4 and a #85 place in the IMDb top 250 list.What a joke!4.5/10


                
If there's a handbook out there on how to make an award worthy movie, Eastwood not only has it, but lives by it. For most people Gran Torino will be on their top list of the year, but Gran Torino is chalked full of content that screams "award worthy" that it has the opposite effect. And the mistakes in this film are too obvious to ignore. At least for me they are.Despite the praise this movie is getting, this is nowhere near the best of the year, or any best list altogether. This is a 2 hour instructional on how to make a movie with little to no budget that gets people talking about awards for it. So let me prove why that is.Cookie cutter characters, and Grand Torino is full of them. From Walt ( Eastwood ), to Thao, Thao's sister, the entire Hmong family next door, the gangsta cousin, and the Priest. When you start with generic characters you're going to have a generic story. But wait, if it's generic ( AND IT IS ) why are people talking awards? Why was the screenplay so honored? Simple, you add in the "choker scene".Despite being a generic story with generic characters there is one scene in the movie people will get choked up on. And I'm going to spoil that. Thao's sister gets raped. OMG HOW POWERFUL WAS THAT!! There I just listed what everyone talking about how they felt when they saw her. At this point in the movie the story already changed gears twice. Now this is the third change and its the gripper. Its the one that makes people say how powerful this movie is ( it isn't ) If anything it was a joke, when she came walking through the door I laughed cause I thought " OH here's the award moment right here." But people eat this stuff up and Eastwood knows it. Cause they did.With the rape scene being the third story change I want to recap what happened before it. At first you see Walt hates his family, his neighborhood, the priest, and his neighbors. This goes on for a while. THEN SOMETHING HAPPENS!! Walt is liked by his neighbors, and in standard Hollywood fashion he learns more about the Hmong's which is basically a homage to any movie made where a foreigner is taught the customs and heritage of another race through an intelligent interpreter. That intelligent interpreter being Thao's sister ( SEE SO THE RAPE SCENE IS MORE POWERFUL LATER ) Add in something Walt does to SHOCK THE HMONG FAMILY, a mysterious Hmong shaman reads his fortune, Walt having a good time, and a conversation with Thao and end scene. Good to go to the next story change.From that point on the movie is Walt warming up to Thao and the rest of the Hmongs. Now these guys are good pals. But there's a lot missing in this I feel. Thao goes from Forrest Gump quiet to "won't shut the hell up" in the course of a montage of him doing yard work in the neighborhood. I liked quiet Thao. But no-so-quiet Thao was annoying. From this point on I had a hard time figuring out what the point of this movie was.And the lack of any really message left me thinking this movie served only one purpose. To win awards. And the screenplay did win one. And I think Clint won one as well. So as far as that end goes the movie was a success.But for me its more than just about the awards. I've watched a lot of critically acclaimed and award winning movies over the years and for the majority of them they suck. They suck cause they all follow the same sort of pattern. They go to the play book on how to put scenes together and what to do in them that make it predictable. And your award winning moment is always something that shocks people. So Thao's sister being raped is that scene, how it played out was predictable, and what happened after it was uneventful. And in the end your left with a movie that doesn't change anything that you perceive or thought before you saw it.There's no real emotion being had in this movie. Mostly cause the characters aren't likable. Thao's sister, annoying. Thao, interesting, then became annoying. Walt, funny, but too predictable to even care about. Walt could've have been likable but I had a problem when it was over. He liked the Hmongs who he befriended that summer more than his own family of 50 years. What a dork. I mean he couldn't even open up to them. But Thao was like the son he never had. But the catch is Thao wasn't any better a person than Walt's sons. Thao was better than his grand-kids, but the sons weren't worthy of so much hatred from the old man, at least not from what I saw.Overall this movie is a disaster. Sure you get wisecracking Eastwood, but you also get feed a lot mixed messages and movie cliché's that make your eyes roll. And to top it off you get Eastwood singing at the end while the credits roll.
That's it. I give up. Clint Eastwood's films have lost it for me. After the predictable, boring, clichéd tripe that was Million Dollar Baby I risked seeing this as again I was taken in by all the good reviews... never again. Come on, when are people going to stop humouring this boring old fart? Drag his character over from MDB, make him a hate-filled racist as well as a scowling misogynist, and you have this guy. Don't you just want to see the angry, growling old git inevitably get reformed in the most painfully predictable, clichéd way by the most painfully predictable, clichéd characters imaginable, yet again? Please say no.At least MDB had people that could act, can't say the same for this. Watch the kid screaming to get out of the basement after the dirty old man's locked him in there, you'll see what I mean. I also would've gladly punched the girl in the face as well, to the point of being envious of the people that eventually got to do it in the film.What I hated about this... I don't even know where to begin. Started off boring, like MDB. Got even more tedious through the middle, most of the scenes being obvious set ups for all the 'emotional, hard-hitting' stuff later on, like MDB. The utterly inane and predictable build-up and ending fell jarringly flat, like MDB. By the end I was as angry as Eastwood himself. The film did reach a high point for me then, I had a LOL moment as Eastwood started singing (yes, singing) some puke-inducing crap song about his car through the closing credits, which I guess was supposed to be sad and emotional. The funniest comedies don't make me laugh that hard, the goriest horror films don't make me feel as sick. Thanks Clint. Now go back to bed and stop bothering people old man, don't get up again. You're just embarrassing yourself.Seriously, I'm lost for words as to why this is so highly rated. I can't understand why people insist on eating up this one-dimensional crap. Are they scared to say they don't like it? I'm not. I hated this film. Worst one I've had to sit through in a long time.
Dumb, dumb, DUMB! I WANT to like Clint Eastwood, I really do. He is one of the few remaining true film stars and seems like a nice enough guy. The premise of this story was promising: a bigoted, crusty old Korean War vet with a chip on his shoulder forms an unlikely friendship with his Hmong neighbors. It COULD have been a great movie, and it started out well enough. But the acting was SO overdone, the script was SO cliché, and the characters were WAY too caricaturized, that the story soon lost all credibility. I was hoping that the film would portray a lesson about not giving up on people, even when they put up walls to keep people away. But Walt Kowalski was just plain mean. I found nothing likable about him. Part way through the movie, I thought, "Maybe this is supposed to be a comedy?" But if it is, I just don't think racial jokes and put-downs are funny. Sorry, Mr. Eastwood. This movie was a stinker.


                
I am absolutely blown away that this movie is #84 on the IMDb top movies of all time list. This movie is in my bottom 5 for worst movies of all time. I couldn't wait for it to end. It displays how out of touch Clint Eastwood is with reality, because this story (although it could've been great) missed the point by a long shot. Ultimately a failure of Eastwood to cap off what has been an already overrated career.If you read this please save 2 hours of your life and don't see this movie. I am still in shock that there are enough people out there to give this movie such a high rating? What are you guys thinking? Im not sure if we sat through the same movie.


                
Clint should never have gotten behind the camera for this one, much less back in front of it. It's been stated over and over about how clichéd this movie is, and that's probably its strongest point. It's downhill after that. The acting-- Clint's in particular-- is dreadful. I applaud the use of Hmong character's, but they should also be able to perform. Nope. The worst part of this film, for me, is that it is supposed to be "courageous"-- so white-boy Clint spews as many slurs as he can, scattergunning epithets for every ethnic group he can come up with-- but dare not whisper the "N" word--even in a potentially "appropriate" scene-- which makes him totally unbelievable. If he was at all true to his character it would have popped out of his mouth smoother than "zipperhead", as living in Detroit would've afforded ample opportunity to hone that facet of his racism. His disdain for Asians had over 50 years to get rusty before the new neighbors showed up.Beyond overrated. Had anyone besides our beloved Clint-- and I mean that!-- been involved in this we're talking' straight to DVD, because it's STILL not too lousy a movie for Hollywood to make.


                
Its either me out of touch here or everybody else who wrote those high praising comments and all...I felt, all the way through, that this movie was over rehearsed, over done in every single aspect you can think off. Almost every single character in this movie was pushed to the extremes of stereotypes that it just didn't feel right. Walt was over angry, over lonely, over stubborn and you can probably put "over" in front of any describing adjective of that character. The opposite of Walt, the Chinese guy, was over "the mentioned adjectives" in exactly the opposite direction, and this is the theme that runs through the entire movie and all characters involved. Very disappointed with this movie...I am sure many other Clint Eastwood fans will be too


                
I am appalled at the positive reception this film has received on this site. This movie was easily the worst Clint Eastwood film I have ever seen, and it is competing for a top spot in the worst generally.Please note that the following criticisms might contain some small spoilers.The dialogue for the film breaks down fairly simply: Mr. Eastwood grunts, coughs up blood, utters a racial slur, or asks for beer, for at least, and this is not an exaggeration, 50% of his screen time.No, it is not a deep illustration of a man torn apart by war experience and racial hate; it is very, very, extraordinarily bad writing.None of the characters in Gran Torino even hint at having a 3rd dimension. The movie proceeds as though Mr. Eastwood wrote the script at 3 AM in the backseat of his car. It is impossible to recall one moment of this film that was not clichéd, preachy, or so comically simplistic as to leave the viewer struggling to appreciate Gran Torino on even an ironic level.One even gets the feeling that the producers, and even Mr. Eastwood himself, were aware that the movie amounts to little more than an expensive mistake. SPOILER At the very end, when the posthumous voice of the protagonist (for whose death I was beyond grateful) pipes in singing 'Gran Torino,' I entered a fit of laughing that held me and my companions for at least 10 minutes after the credits had finished.Watching this film is a lot like having your angry, old, war-veteran great uncle beat you over the head with a piece of raw meat. There is a slight chance you could find it sort of funny, but in all likelihood, the emotional scarring will be permanent.
Look, I have absolutely no idea why this movie got such amazing reviews and why it has been the pleasure of viewers to make this THE HIGHEST GROSSING MOVIE OF CLINT EASTWOOD'S CAREER, but let me tell you right now that it was absolutely HORRIBLE. The acting is abysmal and even though Eastwood is usually great or at the very least watchable, his crucial acting choice concerning the tortured nature of his character was to speak for the entire movie through his teeth. I'm pretty sure he didn't unclench his teeth even once. Moreover, the script was just disgusting and the dialogue was stiff and stilted. Finally, the ultimate message of the movie seemed to be that this immigrant community was only able to save itself because the white man was willing to die for them. HE ACTUALLY DIES WITH HIS ARMS SPREAD OUT IN THE SHAPE OF A CROSS. YES, YES, AS IN Jesus. Christ, THAT IS. Let's not even get into the fact that Clint Eastwood's character never actually stops being racist and so his redemption is contained in this totally contrived death, despite the fact that he, as a person, never really undergoes any substantial or worthwhile change.All in all...this might be the worst movie that I've seen in a really long time.
I've scored this movie as a 1 to help remove it from the top 250 as well as decrease its average. This decision is based upon the quality of the movie, which is mediocre at best. If you've seen this movie and enjoyed it, the only way I can offer a bit of enlightenment is to encourage you to listen to any real-life conversation that is taking place between any two people at any time anywhere in the world, and then compare it to the dialogue in Gran Torino. I think you will find in hindsight that word choice, the pacing, and the delivery come off as stilted, over-played, and clichéd in a manner which would make "Crash" blush. As seems to be true of contemporary society, this script is out of touch with its characters' voices and makes up for this absence of authenticity by exaggerating obvious stereotypes, such as the brooding vet, the snarky girl, etc. Clint would do well to relax a bit and let the voices of these characters evolve a bit more, rather than relying on these rather easy character devices.Additionally--and I'll be brief here, because other users have covered this more thoroughly than I--the mere identification of racism is not in itself a commentary on racism; it is an opportunity to construct a story around racial themes which will illuminate different modes of thinking or behaving. In Gran Torino, Clint's overuse of racial slurs--from beginning to end--left little opportunity for racism to operate as a critical or thoughtful theme. In the end, as in the case of Crash, the racism theme was overplayed--obvious to the point of obnoxiousness, and reflective of an industry whose conception of human interactions is not evidenced by reality.


                
My first ever post on this site has been kept for the biggest waste of time of my life...ever! How it is in the the top 250 i have no idea. For the people who have given this 10 / 10 I'm not sure you were in the right screen. The acting in this film was horrible...the story line wasn't even paper thin and the moral of the story was become friends with old people and get their cars.I was expecting Clint to do a big build up to a full all out war on gangs...but no...just growled and drank beer.It has one star because negative numbers are not an option Just avoid this film and save yourself time, effort and money.
To avoid over-analyzing this film, a job that was quite adequately done by many one-star raters, I simply would like to make several, hopefully original, comments and also to lower rating a bit - to me this film is obscenely overrated. Perhaps seventy eight years old Eastwood started seriously contemplating mortality and what would be a good way to go with a bang, one can entertain such thoughts, even when not in a hurry to die. Self-sacrifice always sells - how anyone can object? And how such a gun-man as Eastwood can go, other than by a gun? You just can't teach old dog new tricks. I think it is too late for him to start making new kind of film, he already have said all he could say and now just cuts and pastes from his earlier work. Yes, he was great in his genre, (spaghetti) westerns. He was the best in Sergio Leone films and very good as Dirty Harry. But how good is he now? With almost limitless film media released every year and systemic lack of time to view it, when planing to invest some of this precious time to see a film, of a good quality, I dare to say something new, it should be a lesson to all of us not to expect anything new from a person with fifty-year career behind him, who amply demonstrated what he's capable of, and not to waste our precious time in vain hope to find something new in his work. That is if you, as I, wish to see something new - is it not one of the top requirements for a work of art? However, should you just wish again hear: "Go ahead, make my day ...", then by all means, help yourself.


                
with all the positive reviews and massive gross income this movie received at the box office, i thought this movie was going to be good... i would have settled for decent. but this movie is straight-out bad. fans who responded well to this film must be major Eastwood fans because i seriously cannot believe anyone would rate this movie so high.let me just say that this movie didn't get nominated for any academy awards for a reason. looking at its award accomplishments, this film did not garner much attention, only being nominated for small categories. the only one notable was the national board of review, and to think it honored Clint Eastwood as best actor and Nick Schenk for best screenplay is beyond my comprehension.what truly ruined this movie was the horrible acting! i truly cannot believe that Clint as a director could allow such amateurs to star in his movie that had so much potential. i'm pretty sure if you read others' comments, you would get a feel of how bad i'm talking about. but for an Eastwood movie? WHY CLINT, WHY? i mean even Clint himself was forced and stiff, trying way too hard to be a tough and macho racist that it didn't work at times. THE worst actors to me are the two main Hmong characters, Thao and his sister. oh my goodness. what happened to them? as an Asian-American watching this movie, i was truly shocked at their utterly poor acting skills, as if Clint picked them at random off the street or as if they were part of his family or something. i know for a fact that i would have done a better job playing these characters, and i'm not joking either. in a nutshell, the acting was so unbelievable.... the way they delivered their lines and their lack of facial expression.another horrible factor to this film is the awful screen writing. Nick Schenk tries way too hard to make this movie bad-ass that every single line from a character contains some derogatory name-calling. honestly, people don't call each other names as often as this. and to have Eastwood's character sacrifice his life at the end all because the Hmong family didn't want to tell the police that Thao's sister got raped is just plain dumb. what made it worse was that supposedly, Hmong keep things very private but yet witnesses who saw the murder blabbed to the police faster than the speed of light. and you would think those gangsters who shot him would run away or try to hide his body but instead they stay there at the scene of the crime, pretty much waiting to be arrested by the police. let's get real here people.all in all, lack of character development from 99% of the characters and crappy screen writing made this film clearly Eastwood's worst and most forgettable movie, period.
I normally like Clint Eastwood and was looking forward to seeing what I thought was going to be a good movie, but sadly Gran Torino turned out to be a piece of total nonsense. Like some other reviewers. I feel compelled to give a review and 1 point, just to decrease its average. I just cannot see how any intelligent moviegoer could possibly give this 9/10. The acting is horrendous and the plot is so contrived as to be laughable. Three quarters of the way through, I was getting so bored I was just willing it to end. Honestly, if this is the best Clint can now come up with, then he really would be better off retiring. Why is he such a one-dimensional and predictable character in everything that he does?


                
This movie sucks balls. Directing is really boring, and it shows in the actors that hurry their lines. It's like the actors ignored each other when they weren't filming, like they never discussed the script or anything. Then I guess the director didn't care, or just wanted to hurry production along. What's the deal with the priest? He's utterly useless, and the guy playing him is very monotone, doesn't deliver any lines with emotion, and his character doesn't affect Walt in the slightest. Walt gains a little respect for the priest, but that matters little, the priest is still useless.The cinematography is nice, so I give another point. I liked the stories' direction, kind of another Karate Kid, only without the Karate. But it takes too long to get to the core action of the story. Why the f#%^ would I want to see Clint Eastwood in a bathtub for? Then there's another scene where Walt (Clint Eastwood) finally has confession with the priest. And its the most piece of s**t garbage boring a$$ scene that I have ever sat through. Then I couldn't stand it anymore, an hour and 38 minutes in, I got up to go to the bathroom. Wandered around the snack bar for a while. Came back six minutes later, hoping for a gun fight.I wont say what happened, but it was okay. Not enough for the torture of the whole film though. Then the priest goes to get up and talk in front of everyone, and thats it I walked out. There was probably only a few minutes left, but I just couldn't stand it anymore.


                
OK. I wasn't expecting a lot from this film. I think that when a film is directed and starred in by the same man things can get a bit pretentious. this was certainly no exception. the acting was terrible, from the supporting cast to Eastwood himself, characters utterly two dimensional, the plot was simplistic and predictable and the constant comparisons made between Clint Eastwood and Jesus Christ was cringe worthy. I would not suggest anyone who has not see this film to watch it. the final scene, Eastwood sacrificing himself for his one friend, was topped off by the song playing through the credits. Clint Eastwood is certainly no singer!!Please don't watch this film!
This movie is simply plastic, thin and irrelevant. It felt like pieces from 12 other movies patched together. Everything about the film is painfully predictable...there's nothing original about this. It felt like The Karate Kid meets My Bodyguard. Clint's racism and bigot-ism is SO one dimensional and over the top that it feels completely phony. His character arc(the transition from racist to racist with a heart) also feels quite forced. The acting was literally embarrassing for just about every character but Clint. No one could deliver a darn line in this movie. They all felt like first time actors!(their ethnic backgrounds weren't the reason...the Father and Clints son's were the same way and they were white.) The humor was so generic, completely dependent on the impact of one liners....situations quite void of laughs. The antagonists were only in the film just enough to know who Clint is going to have to face at the end of the movie, but nothing more than that to make any kind of impact in the film. How about giving them some personality and a reason to be the baddies they are? How about maybe attempting to make them come off 3 dimensional? They were terribly constructed and their overall impact was null because of it.At the end of the day this is simply a fish out of water movie, like thousands of others, where an outsider gets to learn a new culture and try to save the day for them, the only difference it's being made and led by a legendary movie God who seemingly has finally gotten to the point in his career where he IS willing to make films WELL below his abilities if he has nothing else to work on. I used to think Clint was one of the few unwilling to sacrifice quality for screen time, but this movie has shown me even Clint is human. I can't emphasize enough how much I respect/love his work.....but this movie was awful...Im CONVINCED his worst. My buddy and I spent half the time cringing from how embarrassed we were for him, and the rest of the time making fun of it. It was that hollow and pointless. For people making it out to be like it's the next great cinematic piece of history....I have to ask if this was the first movie you've ever seen. I see about 100 films a year and I can say with confidence that this film had the most on the nose dialog, the most exposition, the most generic and predictable storyline, the worst acting.....all of the above. It all stemmed with the script. This was an awful script from beginning to end and even the great Clint Eastwood and his multiple talents couldn't save it. Why he chose to make this we'll never know. But please do not read these glowing reviews and get your hopes up when going to see it. I'm astonished by how people are gushing over this. I walked out in disbelief. THE MOVIE OF THE YEAR IS FROST/NIXON.


                
In real life, I give this movie a six out of ten, but as mentioned in the title, I want it off the Top 250. Was this film good? Yeah, it was, in a made-for-TV-movie-unleashed sort of way. Was it nearly as deep as it tries to pass off as? Hell, no. Before everyone goes off on this movie being all deep and meaningful, let me remind you it has all been done before, and it has been done better. Better movie exploring racism and the banding together of races in poor neighborhoods? How about Spike Lee's "Do The Right Thing"? Better movie about old men teaching a boy about how to become a man? Does "Secondhand Lions" ring a bell? My main problem with the film is this--no one is surprised by the turn of events. No one is surprised by the grumpy old racist man. From the very beginning of the film it is one long string of predictable events. Oh, there's a racist old man who fought in Korea. Hey look! There's a family of Asians living right next door! Hmmm, the kids cousin is in a really funny looking Asian-wanna-be-tough gang. I bet that will be trouble. Oh, the boy has to go work for the old man? They will probably become best buds and when the old man drops dead, as they always do in movies, he will leave him the car. Let's see...thirty minutes in, and I know the whole movie. The true irony is that in the movie Tao asks Walt if he should watch paint dry, which for a large part is what this movie was like (did that stop me from crying? Of course not.) How about that?And on the note of symbolism--stigmata is not original. If anything it is overused and used improperly. *Cough, cough* Sorry old man, but you are most certainly not Christ. On the note of Top 250--It's embarrassing. The fact this movie is outranking truly amazing films such as: Mr. Smith Goes to Washington, On The Waterfront, High Noon, The Green Mile, Donnie Darko, The Deer Hunter, Snatch, The Graduate, V for Vendeta, Harvey, The African Queen (the fact it ranks above ANYTHING with Katherine Hepburn should be evidence enough), Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels, Bonnie and Clyde, Little Miss Sunshine (better old man movie), and The Philadelphia Story, is a blatant embarrassment to American taste in film. HAVE RESPECT FOR THE CLASSICS, PLEASE! Are these films all great movies that will withstand the test of time for ages? YES!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Will Gran Torino last through the week? I SURE HOPE NOT!
It is hard to imagine a duller and more boring film than this one. The number of gross inconsistencies in character development, and highly improbable scenes are enough to make one wonder why time and money were spent making this film. Clint Eastwood's performance was a reprise of his earliest western films in which the tough guy staggers through the inane script. The appearance of weapons in unlikely situations can not be explained, and were obviously used to show how tough the main character was supposed to be. Apparently, his death at the end of the film was a vague metaphor for an even more illusory cleansing, but who knows what was meant? The entire film was so improbable that it seemed interminable. Fortunately, a "The End" message finally appeared.


                
How can an awful movie like this one get so many good votes? Now that i think about it, there was nothing i could appreciate about this movie. Not only it was boring as hell but also quite cliché. The horrible acting of those teenagers made it rather hard to watch sometimes, so i just had to look away from the screen. The young boy who plays Thao really needs to learn to act and speak better (i couldn't understand most of the things he'd say). Also Mr. Eastwood's attempt at trying to be funny was pathetic i thought. The scene at the barber shop where Mr. Kowalski (Eastwood) is trying to man up Thao was supposed to be funny or at least make me smile but instead it was really lame and it failed to do any of that. This movie could have been a bit better if Eastwood had picked a better cast of actors and not just some kids who know nothing about acting. On some scenes, like the one where Thao's cousin and his gang beat up Thao or the scene where Mr. Kowalski beats up the fat guy from the gang, the violence looks completely fake. Overall the movie was very amateurish and a waste of time and money. I didn't expect much from it but I'm still surprised of how bad it was.
This is one of the lamest movies I've seen in awhile. The writing and the acting were trite, shallow and just plain old silly. It is better suited to the dreck that is on the Lifetime channel. Reading some of the viewer comments from the poor souls who loved this was almost as bad as sitting through the actual movie. Good grief. Clint Eastwood has to be the most overrated actor. Gee, how about them growls. Wasn't that just the most clever thing? We could have seen the dog movie and had more depth. Even the big ending was comically bad and again, just plain silly. It's sad when the big dramatic death scene just makes you laugh. I'm surprised they didn't show it in slow motion to enhance the drama of the scene. Save your money and your time.I wish we did.
Honestly, this movie deserves more than one star but I need to neutralize all these nine and ten stars that I can't understand. I like Clint Eastwood's movies as much as anyone else, and I know it might be the last one in which he shows up on the screen, but it's not even close to being one of his best movie. Even that one good thing that some reviewers mentioned, and that is Clint Eastwood's acting, looks good only in comparison to the very bad job the rest of the cast does. I mean, what's with that growl? Didn't we have a multiple other hints, none of them subtle, that Mr. Kowalski is an embittered old man? Somewhere in the middle, I hoped that would be a movie about what a parent or a friend could or should do when a kid is bothered by a local gang. But, there is no any effort to think about that problem any deeper. Too bad!


                
in short. woeful acting from everyone, its really, really bad, clint's never been a great actor in the true sense of the word, but he always had a huge presence which is still here somewhat but his lazy delivery is just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to the stilted performances here. this leads us to the next stages, script and characters, neither of which help the actors performances. the dialogue is awful, stilted and wooden and the characters are so stereotypical its unreal and make the whole thing almost laughable if it wasn't so insulting to any viewer who doesn't keep their brain in a jar. i said in short so id best just leave off with the plot, predictable, predictable and, yes, very, very predictable. clint is a screen legend but im sure if he made a documentary on paint drying itd be nominated for an Oscaror two, i genuinely wish more effort had been put in and some enjoyment could be had. watch harry brown instead.


                
I'll be honest, I slightly enjoyed this movie as it was playing. And I was touched by the ending. But thats it.This movie is another in a long line of Clint Eastwood directed/acted movies where it is just another opportunity to further Eastwood's narcissism. I don't have a problem with redemption stories or flawed main characters, but its the fact that his movies are always about Eastwood. This is why a director who is acting in his own movies is no good. Its just no good at all.I thought back to the other Eastwood movies. Million Dollar Baby is about Eastwood as the trainer, not the boxer. This movie is about an old war vet, not the community he lives in. On surface you would probably tell me that this is fine, but I think its very degrading. Eastwood had a family's house shot up, a young girl raped, another burned with a cigarette and almost killed JUST so he could go out and save the day. Million Dollar Baby is the same way where the movie is about the decision of a trainer, not the heartbreaking story of the boxer.Now, a one off isn't bad. Even a two off. But every movie that Eastwood acts/directs, you end up with everyone falling into the background while Eastwood's ugly mug comes to the foreground.Now I completely understand why the acting community loves him. Not only is he an actor turned director, but he has developed a manner to take an actor's ego to a new level. With this backing, the public supports him no matter what. I wish Eastwood would pick one or the other as I really enjoyed mystic river. But skip any movie that is the Eastwood combo.
