With his performance Eastwood shows you why people like himself, Jack Nicholson, or Paul Newman only come around once in a lifetime. Though Eastwood would rather focus on directing, he can still carry a movie with his on screen presence, and he's pure dynamite in "Gran Torino". Perhaps the poor box office results of "hollywoody" movies like Absolute Power, True Crime, Space Cowboys, and Blood Work, caused Eastwood to shy away from acting, but given cutting edge material to work with as "Million Dollar Baby" and "Gran Torino", he's as good as ever. His character as the racist and salty war vet makes you think of that old guy we've all had on our blocks with the garbage door open, the million tools hanging everywhere, and always fixing or building something. I found myself not wanting the movie to end because the scenes between himself and the various Hmong characters where priceless. There may be complaints over the racist remarks and scenes, but Eastwood pulls it off in a way a real person like that would talk or act to a point where it ends up being lighthearted. I'm not going to give the plot away, but if you like your Clint Eastwood as a hard-nosed tough guy with foul language alla Dirty Harry or Heartbreak Ridge, you'll love this movie!!


                
I saw the film and it was unbelievable. Clint Eastwood will have you laughing so hard you almost pee yourself while at the same time breaking your heart and making you want to cry. The movie takes you on a roller-coaster ride and the entire theater stood up in applause afterward. I highly recommend this film and if Eastwood doesn't get nominated for an Oscar something is truly wrong!!! The screening I saw was held at the Writer's Guild, so the room was filled with SAG, WGA, DGA, and other industry related people who I would wage know their movies. At points the entire room was laughing so loud I couldn't hear, and then minutes later all you could hear were the sniffles from people crying. The film has drama, comedy, and action and Clint Eastwood really creates a character that you care about and cheer for...again!


                
As Clint Eastwood reaches the end of his life, he presents us with yet another performance which is nothing short of legendary. Wishing to preserve the element of surprise, I will not reveal anything by trying to analyse this great work of art. I will say this. There are similar qualities to his previous work, but I would say that both his directing and acting have reached a level of maturity comparable to that of an excellent wine. The story was compelling and, mixed with the drama was a refined touch of humour; the perfect combination for a pleasant evening. I would like to finish by thanking Mr. Eastwood for sharing this touching moment with his audience at a time when most of the cinematic "art" produced in Hollywood consists of stunts and bad jokes.


                
Manohla Dargis writes in the New York Times: "Dirty Harry is back, in a way, in "Gran Torino," not as a character but as a ghostly presence. He hovers in the film, in its themes and high-caliber imagery, and of course most obviously in Mr. Eastwood's face. It is a monumental face now, so puckered and pleated that it no longer looks merely weathered, as it has for decades, but seems closer to petrified wood. Words like flinty and steely come to mind, adjectives that Mr. Eastwood ... expressively embodies with his usual lack of fuss and a number of growls." More praise for Eastwood comes from Joe Morgenstern in the Wall Street Journal, who comments: "No one makes movies like Gran Torino any more, and more's the pity. This one, with Clint Eastwood as director and star, is concerned with honor and atonement, with rough justice and the family of man. It raises irascibility to the level of folk art, takes unapologetic time-outs for unfashionable moral debates, revives acting conventions that haven't been in fashion for half a century and keeps you watching every frame as Mr. Eastwood snarls, glowers, mutters, growls and grins his way through the performance of a lifetime." Elizabeth Weitzman in the New York Daily News remarks that "it's clearly a career-capping work." Kenneth Turan in The Los Angeles Times writes that the movie "is impossible to imagine without the actor in the title role. The notion of a 78-year-old action hero may sound like a contradiction in terms, but Eastwood brings it off, even if his toughness is as much verbal as physical. Even at 78, Eastwood can make 'Get off my lawn' sound as menacing as 'Make my day,' and when he says 'I blow a hole in your face and sleep like a baby,' he sounds as if he means it."There are at least four reason why I like this film: 1. Clint Eastwood shows that the character he is playing is willing to serve in a war-- and die if necessary--to preserve freedom (and he has a medal to prove it), 2. he has grown old and the whole world has changed (and everyone around him seems to indicate--in one way or another--that he is no appreciated or needed), 3. even with a transformation, he demonstrates that people tend to be reactive--rather than responsive--and are slow to change (this is particularly true with bias, discrimination, and prejudice), and 4. that tolerance can lead to understanding (he tries to give tough love, but he becomes softer in his response--instead of his reaction--after giving and receiving genuine love). It seems that everyone around him wants his Gran Torino and everything else he owns, before he even has died, instead of being interested in him. He lives in a community that is transformation, and he knows absolutely nothing about culture, diversity, ethnicity, race, or sexual orientation. He does know about aging, however (if nowhere else, he learns about it from people's adverse and negative reactions, everywhere around him). He isn't exactly treated with dignity and respect, so why should he treat anyone else with dignity and respect? And, trust must be earned.If this is Clint Eastwood's last film, I can only say that that his performance, in this stunning film, is what legends are made of. There are some wonderful performances in "Milk" (Sean Penn), "Australia" (Hugh Jackman and Nicole Kidman), "Changeling" (Angelina Jolie and director Clint Eastwood), and "The Dark Knight" (a riveting performance by "Brokeback Mountain's" Heath Ledger). In viewing all of these films, there are performances that are not only superb, but they evoke every one of the emotions and carry the intellect and intelligence of human cognitions to the highest pinnacle of excellence. As a gay person, I must say that I am moved by Sean Penn's portrayal of Harvey Milk, I am moved by the romantic chemistry between Hugh Jackman and Nicole Kidman, and I would be remiss if I did not mention Angelina Jolie's flawless and moving performance. But, I give the top honor to Clint Eastwood for giving us films that educate and entertain. And, "Gran Torino" (2008) is no exception. One cannot walk away from a Clint Eastwood film, without saying that they haven't learned something, or without saying (just like the legendary Ethel Merman used to sing) 'there's no business (quite) like show business'. I rank "Gran Torino" (2008) a 10 out of 10. Clint Eastwood's performance is more than another version of 'Dirty Harry'. In fact, his portrayal is reminiscent of the Paul Newman character in "Nobody's Perfect".


                
This is a poignant, beautiful movie, maybe the best film Eastwood has ever done. The characters are fully drawn, believable, and resonate true human emotion. I at first was put off by the idea of seeing a movie about an old racist, but when I saw the numbers of people attending the screenings, I thought there must be something there, so I went to the Arclight in Hollywood, where the theater was packed. Crusty old Kowalski, a Korean war veteran, now living in run down Detroit, hates the Vietnamese immigrants that have moved next door to him. As time goes on, he gets to know them, and the bond that forms is wonderful, and spiritual. There was not a dry eye in the house when the movie ended. I won't give the ending away, but suffice it to say this is a truly wonderful story, one that you will love and tell your friends to see. If you're looking for one of those great movie experiences that so rarely comes along, you'll not find a better film to see than this.


                
Now I understand why Clint Eastwood took over the directorial reins for Changeling from Ron Howard. (Howard dropped Changeling in order to make Frost/Nixon, instead.) Eastwood did an excellent job on Changeling, with a genuine feel for the dark subject matter, and guided Angelina Jolie to one of the best performances of her career, to date, significantly expanding her dramatic range. The film that Eastwood really wanted to make this year, GRAN TORINO, was greenlit by that other deal. This is crucial, since all of the Hmong cast are first-time actors, who were hand picked by Eastwood from cold auditions. Any film with a cast of unknowns can be a tough sell in Hollywood, even with Eastwood helming and starring. (The list of award winning Eastwood films that almost didn't get made is long and very distinguished.) In casting, Eastwood didn't want "thespians." He wanted an honest exactness of performance. While I really like and respect Changeling, I found GT to be far more satisfying. GT is probably *not* the best film of this year, but it is one damn fine entertainment and it fully holds its own in this rich season of films that are up for awards contention. GT is an humorous and compelling meditation on the themes of ubiquitous bigotry, culture clash, political refugee immigration/resettlement (and, by way of that, US foreign policy) and Old School, Doing the Right Thing (vs today's more commonplace "situational" ethics). All of this rolled into two, parallel, coming of age stories, served on platters heaping with very real slices of life. The messages crack like jabs, with the sting of truth, and are never too preachy. (Eastwood is one of the few directors who respects the intelligence of his audience. He surprises film goers, always, without ever talking down.) One coming of age story involves a neighbor kid, Tao Vang Lor (played by Bee Vang), a dirt-poor son of divorced Hmong immigrants (Vietnam war political refugees). Tao lives with his mother, sister and grandmother, next door to Walt Kowalski (Eastwood). Walt insists upon calling Tao, "Toad" (initially, with some good reason). Tao's sister, Sue, (a scene stealing Ahney Her), is spontaneously outgoing and engaging with Walt, and confides to Walt that Tao is growing up without any proper male role models in his life. In fact, Tao is in the midst of confronting the grim prospects of either being recruited into his bad-seed cousin's gang or becoming a permanent victim of said 'bangers. The less obvious coming of age story revolves around Walt Kowalski, a recently widowed Korean War veteran. Walt's Polish ancestry seems to serve no purpose other than to establish him as "ethnic" white, living in a dog-eared neighborhood of ongoing immigration stories. Walt is a curmudgeon, who lacks basic "people skills" with even his own family, let alone the world around him. But he has managed his way though life, fine enough, up to the opening of the film's story. Just about every review I've read about GT describes Eastwood's Kowalski as a "racist Korean War veteran," which misses one of the major points raised in the film -- that bigotry in the US is deeply ingrained in every niche of society. None of us is innocent or absolved of anything in this regard and the film is very frank about this point. Initially, this serves as nothing more than a source for shock humor, but Eastwood finds a way to subvert this into a message of tough-love hope. The gang life incursions into the story are very true to life. Gangs are always either recruiting new cannon fodder or marking new victims. If parents seeing this film had no clue about this, they ought to start finding ways to open up ongoing lines of discussion with their kids about what's really happening, day-to-day, at school, in the playground and elsewhere. Most of the time, kids like Tao, just internalize all of these pressures, hoping that they won't be picked on, and otherwise feeling powerless. None of us should ever kid ourselves about *all* kids, not just some kids, being "at risk." (As for the non-white, poly-ethnicity of Kowalski's part of town, the disbelievers of the authenticity of that have only been exposed to the rarefied 'hoods of mainstream Hollywood. I can name any number of mid-to-small cities/towns where the exact mix and flavors in GT are very real. You don't have to live in a 'hood to pass through and/or stake out an occasional corner on which to hang. The Latino and black "presence" in the film never implied that they lived in that neighborhood, although they were obviously trolling for victims. Perps who don't intend to be caught *rarely* hunt in their own backyards.) Walt knows that he's dead set in his ways, not all of them "bad," but not most of them "good." Beyond the confines of his own property line, Walt may be a little more effective than Tao, out in the real world, but, he too is, in many ways, powerless to change the way most things are. Nevertheless, in getting to know Tao, Sue and the extended Hmong community to which the Lors belong, Walt discovers that his Fort Apache ways don't work anymore. Walt realizes that he has yet to finally come of age, too. (Some will call this "atonement." I call it "growing up, again, at 78." Both are spot on.) This film will make you laugh. It may even make you cry. But it might also make you think about some stuff you thought you were long ago done with thinking about. People at the screening I attended were so startled at the end that there was a significant moment of silence before applause finally broke out. GT is another lovely present from Clint Eastwood. Don't miss it.
Thats unquestionably the best word to describe Clint Eastwood. If this is indeed Clint's last hurrah, then its the way to go. Films don't often get to me like this did, but i had something in my eye at numerous points in the proceedings. Seeing Clint taking care of business one last time was just superb and although the ending may be jarring to long time Clint fans, with a bit of thought it all makes sense.Clint's character is an unapologetic racist and thats that, i fully understand that some people just cannot accept this, but the film doesn't apologise for it and neither should it. You either accept this aspect of the character and in doing so accept that he's not supposed to be a hero, so why is he talking like that ?Or realise that in real life people like this exist, who can be good and bad in the same day, but are not solely defined by either behaviour.There is plenty of warmth in this film and humour, but at its centre is an actor and director who has enjoyed critical and commercial success for nearly 40 years, has redefined genres and broken new ground and has brought me more pleasure than i could have ever thought possible.


                
As the movie opens, Walt stands at his wife's funeral, snarling and grimacing at his pathetic family. His anger, and his refusal to accept, comes from deep guilt that he has buried deep in his soul his entire life. Nothing is right. He lost his wife, "the best woman on earth", he despises his family, and a new family of Hmongs moves next door to him.Clint Eastwood has come such a long way from his earlier vengeance films. His reprisal for wrongdoings turns to acceptance, his coldness turns into true emotion. This is a fantastic Eastwood movie. It's also one of the most mature. Critics and casual movie goers will find something to like. Perfect symmetry in this film, from beginning to end. A perfect ending, in my opinion, not only to the film but maybe to an unmatchable career. If this is in fact his send off, I can't possibly think of a better film to end it with. Mr. Eastwood deserves an Oscar Nomination for Best Actor.I don't want to spend any time with the story, because I would probably reveal too much. This is a movie to experience first hand. I am also impressed that the trailers don't give away too much as you would expect them to. Pretty good supporting performances, although you could tell some were first time actors. This doesn't really hinder the film, however.It's a movie that shows self redemption is just as important as vengeance. It's a movie to be discussed and enjoyed. It's a movie of friendship in the most unlikely places. It's a movie that shows a coming of age, even in the later stages of life. Dirty Harry was just a little late to realize all of that.


                
Others have commented about most aspects of this movie and I won't try to repeat what others have said well both here and in the professional reviews. Instead, let me focus on one narrow aspect of this movie which I found refreshing.One of the main characters in this movie is a Catholic priest. In every movie of recent vintage, this means a person of overwhelming evil, creepy, and probably a child molester. Here the priest is well spoken, intelligent and adds to the evolution of the main character while the main character adds dimension to the priest.As a personal note, I'm not only an atheist, but have a shade of anti-Catholicism in me too. Yet not in my worst thoughts of religion or the church do I believe that all priests or other Christian clergy are evilly motivated sexual perverts which is what Hollywood of today would have us believe. I'm tired of the same old same old finding this, like so many Eastwood films, thinking its own thoughts rather than following the rutted path of those who (mostly) run the movie industry.Probably a solid 8 or 9 star movie on its own, this one gets a boost from me for being such a relief in its portrayal of the religious.


                
In today's world of cheesy action movies (Transporter ??) and pathetic attempts at bathroom humor (Meet the Spartans, Disaster Movie) i find it very hard to find a movie that i am willing to go pay 12 dollars at the theater to go watch.Gran Torino is one of those rare gems that both lures me to theater and has me leaving satisfied. Clint Eastwood delivers another brilliant performance as grizzled Korean War veteran Walt Kowalski. A true fish out of water, and anti-hero of sorts. A man obsessed with the notions of honor and respect thrust into a neighborhood that seems to know very little of those two concepts. And Eastwood portrays this character so well he could easily be anyone's old school war veteran relative.On that note, i found the acting to be perfect for the movie. Everyone who says the Hmong family was horribly acted has surely been spoiled by too many glitzy Hollywood blockbuster that will cast Brad Pitt for a one line role. The Hmong family were just that, a family of people, and that is how they behaved. The actors cast did their job and portrayed what they supposed to - a decent family in an indecent neighborhood. I found it MUCH easier to relate to a bunch of unknowns who exhibited real human emotion than a cast of over pampered celebrities who i figure have little or no attachment to the role they are playing. BOTTOM LINE: you care about the characters, you smile when they succeed, and you cry when they do.The story itself was a true roller coaster ride in every sense of the term. The scenes switched from comedic to tragic at a drop of a hat and it worked so well. The theater seemed to move in the direction the film did and several times during the film there was barely a dry eye in the theater.This film DEFINITELY deserves an Oscar look. And in a year where The Dark Knight has received so much award hype Gran Torino may certainly prove to be a dark horse and steal a few awards. 10/10


                
From its technical side, the film is remarkable, here is Eastwood's experience most valuable. Scenes at Volt's home were extremely complex. The viewer needs to feel the lack of space but, on the other hand, should not be visually limited. His belongings, tools, weapons and even the cars, Eastwood and director of photography Tom Stern have incorporated in the image of Volt's everyday life. Locations are authentic; we got the feeling of a small community that lives its life. "Gran Torino" is well filmed, the coordination of the staff and space is at a high level. I will always remember Clint Eastwood as the western hero, someone who has defined an entire genre. As for "Gran Torino," I think it's still on a great high level, with the story, acting and directing.


                
Clint Eastwood does it again. not only does he do a good job acting as a Korean war vet, and a grumpy old man. but he also does a fantastic job directing this movie. Gran Torino, is one of my favorite movies iv'e ever seen. warning, this movie has extreme graphic, and offensive language, and some scenes of violence. beginning to end i was at the very edge of my seat watching this movie. it had some funny scenes as well as some serious and definitely sad scenes. there is good character development. Pros: gripping story, and has good/funny dialogue at some parts. unfortunately it does have a disappointing ending which i wont spoil for you. Cons: i tried hard to find something wrong with this film. and i cant seem to find one besides the racial slurs towards Chinese people. Even then, that didn't bother me. a definite 10/10


                
Clint Eastwood has certainly turned out to the best "double-threat" actor/director in Hollywood. As he has so often, here he once again portrays a very conflicted man. To complicate things as the story begins we see him at the funeral for his wife. The movie wastes no time in our realization that Walt Kowalski has been an volatile island his entire adult life who likely was reined in by the balance his better half just barely was able to provide. Without her it seems he just may veer into the abyss as everything around him seems to be in some state of decay.Walt has stubbornly chosen to remain in a way past its prime area of Detroit now inhabited by more Asians than Americans. He has a problem with Asians quite naturally acquired in America's forgotten war, The Korean War. That horrendous war has scarred him and he just is not the kind of guy to reach out. It's his racism that ultimately leads him to finally extend himself to his neighbors as well as his priest. He realizes, you will sense, that even a man's man cannot find peace through violence. His solution is very unlike the other famous characters he has etched into our celluloid consciousness as he chooses a very different way to end the vicious circle of hate.First, and foremost, this movie entertains. It does so with a sly undercurrent of humor mostly from the crusty Walt. The other characters are rich and well portrayed also. Key to the story is the developing father/son relationship Walt grudgingly initiates with his teenage next door neighbor Thao. I will not spoil that as its pure golden. Walt Kolwalski is a real curmudgeon that, while vile, is so funny you gotta love him. Though we never meet his wife we know she was the absolute love of his life. He's old too and perhaps is facing an eminent decline, possibly soon as we are led to believe. Against this backdrop he faces head-on his mortality and his wishes to have done things differently...Not the least of which are his regret of not being a good father to his sons and, even more importantly, not seeking God's forgiveness. When he decides the situation he and his Asian neighbors are caught in must end he seeks a resolution within which he constructs his own brand of redemption.Once again Clint Eastwood has brought to life a variation of the character he plays so well. This movie is full of humanity - much like Million Dollar Baby. Thanks Clint for this great movie. If you see it you will be richer for it.
Just by looking the story of the film it is quite clear that the viewer in evidencing the last acting appearance in the prolific career of a big macho icon, and considering that Clint Eastwood is one of the few actors and directors at the same time, generally an author who never make mistakes in his plan, this, his swan song is a praiseworthy move. Gran Torino makes a tribute to all Clint's characters in his career. The protagonist Walt Kowalski, who is a rigid and quiet individual - an aging veteran of the Korean War, represents actually a combination of several characters, such as Inspector Harry Callahan, retired journalist Robert Kincaid (from Bridges of Madison County), Frankie Dunn (from million Dollar Baby) etc. The story is simple but the fact that the main character is in his golden years really makes it big and ambiguous. Sentimentality, nostalgia, coping with the new times, the loss of loved ones, discord with close ones, the relationship with the children.., all these are motives that Clint dealt with in his previous movies, and although are not mentioned here, they can be felt. As a personal project Gran Torino is a masterpiece.


                
People raved about this movie, but for a long time I had never seen it. Judging by the title I thought it was a movie about a race car contest and wasn't interested. I read the full synopsis eventually though and finally gave the movie a watch.And wow, it was fantastic. The script is an intelligent commentary about generational and cultural differences, and the dialogue is some of the most quotable I've ever heard. The directing is subtle, but essentially very effective, and helps strengthen the power of the story. I love the score by Kyle Eastwood and Michael Stevens, which far too often goes unmentioned. The plot revolves around a man (played by Clint) who is very bitter and mostly just keeps to himself. His grand kids are selfish and uncaring, not to mention he went through a horrible war. Hell, his granddaughter literally just waits for him to die so she can inherit the car, a Gran Torino. But when the Hmongs move in next door, his life starts to change...Seeing Walt Kowalski rant about all kinds of things and talk with people in the most disjointed of ways is not only incredibly entertaining, but also makes for an eminent character study. We might not side with him at first, but as the movie goes on and we learn more about him, he becomes easier to root for thanks to Eastwood's three- dimensional performance. His friendship with Sue is great, and don't you just love it when he mouths off to the street gang by blurting out "What are you spooks up to?". Comedy is something this movie does well too, and it definitely shows through Walt's golden platinum one-liners. I could mention my favorites all day.The one thing holding this back from a full 10 is one of the actors. I mean, not all of them are great, but I really like Ahney Her and Bee Vang is not as bad as people say. But Christopher Carley on the other hand (who played Father Janovich) was just godawful. That guy should never have made it into the movie. Even a tomato could act more believably than him. So due to Carley's acting, the movie dropped to a 9.5/10. Don't let that stop you though.You see a little bit of Dirty Harry here, but you also see a shattered, lonely old man in a growing world. Clint has still got it!


                
This movie was fabulous! Clint Eastwood was perfect as the racist old man who makes the whole theater laugh regardless of the comment. The development of relationships between himself and a large number of cast members is very well rounded. The ending was fabulous and is definitely not what is expected, though it definitely made me cry. The actors for Tau and Sue were very good too. Though you could see inadequacies with their acting, they still held their own against Clint Eastwood's character. The transformation, especially of Tau, throughout the movie is great to watch as he comes under the guidance of Walt (Clint Eastwood).


                
"Gran Torino" is director Clint Eastwood's prosaic and compelling essay that we are, in fact, a country for "Old Men". Though the film's trailer seems to suggest revenge flick, those seeking their solace in the salacious will not only be disappointed, but will even get schooled.If "No Country For Old Men" is the apotheosis of random Fate, then "Gran Torino" is the apotheosis of humanity and Free Will. One flips a coin and people die. Another reads his horoscope and . . . did I mention that I liked this movie? I don't know how Eastwood could ever top the sheer transformational power this film. I experienced my second viewing of the film accompanied by my teenage son, and found him speechless in it's wake. Thank you, Mr. Eastwood. I couldn't have said it any better . . .


                
Clint Eastwood Rocks.By not letting his 78 years get the best out of him he still delivers a killer punch on the big screen.Gran Torino, is a poignant story about love, life, friendships and above all decisions/choices: how our decisions affect us and others, and how choices others make affect and perhaps even change us.What also is great about this film, is that though it keeps the audience engaged from the very start is does so as a comedy/satire whilst the drama builds up as the story unfolds all the way to its tragic climax.Keep them coming Clint
Clint Eastwood has done it yet again. A moving, touching movie with an excellent double role as director and actor from Mr. Eastwood.Gran Torino is a movie about life, death and friendship. The opening sequence is from Mr. Eastwood's characters late wives funeral. His character seems to be an old man who has lost all ties with his family with very few friends. Almost as he has no reason to continue with his life after the passing of his wife.Unsuspected things happen after that, but for those you really need to see this masterpiece.The directing was top notch. Acting was excellent from Mr. Eastwood and I liked the role played by Christopher Carley. There was a few scenes where the young actors showed some inexperience, but overall I liked both the young Asian actor's roles.A truly great movie.


                
Old Clint showed us again how u make a movie. Absolutely fabulous he's amazing. It remembers Spielberg when he was at his best. I don't care this movie didn't shattered the box-office cause it wasn't supposed to do that instead it reached the hearts and souls off those who can understand a ma like Walt Kowalsky. Clint produced a double magic act both performing an directing at 78 years of age now that i call somethin special. And also th end and the soundtrack astonishing; i really shared a tear when Thao and Daisy passes by in the Gran Torino and the song started; U can't dream of somethin greater this absolutely PERFECT. For me it's there in top3 off all time alongside SE7EN and The Shawshank Redemption.
Eastwood proves himself as Hollywood royalty once again in a film which excels in telling a very touching and unique story about an unlikely friendship between a Korean War veteran and a Hmong teenager.


                
A masterful unsentimental tale of an emotionally wounded, war-traumatized veterans quest for redemption. Eastwood's character is a richly complex and haunted man. Equal parts blue-collar working class bigot, defender of the weak and marginalized, and seeker of justice on his terms. Decidely pre- and anti- political correctness, the 
barbershop banter scene is hilariously reminiscent of days when humor was non-ideological. He is at one old school and yet ultimately and sacrificially protective of those whom he allows into his heart and soul. This is one of Eastwood's finest and most spiritually mature films.


                
I'm not going into a sophisticated review of this film, there are plenty of those already here. I'd rather just talk about what I felt. This film moved me. I have seen this movie before, and I think it is a movie where you don't really 'get it' the first time you see it. Sure, I wanted another installment of Harry Callahan, just as we all did. This film is different. 
I think that many of Eastwood's films are too sophisticated for the reviewers. There, I said it. I've seen this in Pale Rider, and many of his films. I think we all need to grow up a little when seeing an Eastwood film. In so doing, I think we wake up a little bit, and learn something from them.
I'm going to re-watch some of his other films now; enough of me blabbing here.


                
This is more like it. Clint Eastwood is clearly in his element here, playing a crotchety old man who literally says "get off my lawn" and points guns at people. He's a stereotype but one we come to love. The crowd at my screening was clearly into it and nobody plays characters like this better than Clint. Judging from his bizarre public appearances, he's barely acting anymore. This just is who he is and that's pretty special.


                
I felt myself being gripped watching this movie from beginning to end. Clint always seems to make "un Hollywood" movies, by this I mean it's not a love story with a cheesy ending, or an action movie with a hero like Tom Cruise in it.I liken him to Woody Allen. They both make movies that are just a little different to the norm. I really like that sortof movie, I thrive to watch movies like this.Of course we need the fun movies and of course we like to get lost in a good ole romance, but once in awhile I like to see something with an unusual script.Saying this the script for Torino was not earth shattering different to anything else I've seen. You've seen grumpy in grumpy old men (there is a bit of humour in this movie too), but it's the simplicity of the whole movie that brings it to life.A man (Clint) who is a nasty guy, befriends a boy brings who brings out the good in him. The acting is superb and the movie moves at a good pace, never boring us with Clint'c characters constant nastiness.I will say this without giving anything away - it is worth watching just for the ending.


                
