It seems that Clint has embraced his old age rather gracefully. He's grumpier and creepier than ever. But still has that wonderful edgy flair that keeps us coming. His performance was wonderful and no one could have possibly played a racist Korean war vet quite like him. That aside the movie was terrible. Not because of writing flaws or cheesy one liners, like I expected, but because besides good old Clint, no one in this movie bothered to act. It was bazaar. Clint was spectacular, but everyone else looked like they were just reciting words on a page. I've seen better performances at middles school Shakespeare shows. The preacher had only one emotion, and it was so vague and useless that I couldn't actually understand anything he did. The bad guys were comical at best and the loyal friend, Toad, or what ever, was so unconvincingly angry that I just wanted Clint to let him out of the cage and get killed so I wouldn't have to watch him pretend he was enraged. Apparently, in his old age, Clint has forgotten how to direct actors.
clint eastwood... we get it... you're a bad ass. sadly it couldn't save this ubelievably predictable movie. all the characters were totally fake. it was like watching a high school PSA commercial from the 1980s. I can't for the life of me understand why anyone liked this. they could have just called this million dollar baby 2. clint eastwood has a cold heart and it thaws, sort of, in the end to reveal a real person in the end. all the points this movie tried to make were painfully obvious and clichéd. I have never taken the time to write anything like this in my life, but it was so bad i couldn't believe it. you could predict every single thing that would happen just from watching the previews. i'm sorry to all the clint eastwood fans out there, but, damn.... maybe i'm not sorry. he should stick to acting... in westerns...


                
One could very well compare Gran Torino with a steaming pile of sheep excrement.Basically, I do not need to say more, as this really sums up how I feel about this film, but alas, I will need to comment, don't I? Oh well, here goes nothing: the acting is horrible, in fact, horrible doesn't even come close to it, its cringe-worthy, especially in the scene where Toad is locked in Clints Basement.The story is cliché, uninteresting, cheesy and predictable. And I found this movie to be plain boring at many times.I did however give it two stars, because in every turd there is something to appreciate, in this one, it's the acting of Clint Eastwood, which is -stil- excellent, as always, and the second star is there purely because I WAS wondering how this piece of crap would end.overall, I loved The Changeling, and perhaps with a better script, better directing, better acting, (or, in fact, a complete re-casting) and at least half an hour cut off of the movie, this could be almost as good as The Changeling.....Sadly, its not. Its Crap.
It shouldn't be an easy feat to enter the IMDb top 250 films and I have to ask how this movie is currently there. I found it unbearably difficult to watch due to ridiculous acting, rotten script and all over dumbed down scenes. I don't think I have seen many 8.2 rated movies that I disliked so much that it has begged the question- who is voting on this? How many of the votes are the opinions of real people watching movies and not some guy working for the movie company with hundreds of fake user names voting to boost the ratings of this garbage.Paranoid? Maybe.I've seen comments here that Eastwood should get an Oscar for this. I'm no big fan generally of the types of Hollywood films that go up for awards but if he wins anything from this film I'll be shocked.


                
Has Clint gone senile? This shonky piece of melodrama should have been canned after the first pitch. It's shockingly written: his most obvious thoughts are uttered, for the sake of the mentally-challenged in the audience.The morals are worthy, but the execution is tragic. The ending was visible within the first 15 minutes; the characterisations were pathetic (literally: "worthy of pity").I feel sorry for everyone who got roped into this pile of fetid mush. Especially everyone who paid to see it in the cinema.Really, truly, horribly awful.


                
When I first looked up this movie on IMDb, and saw the nominations along with the user rating; I thought this movie was going to be a blast. I started to watch it, with great expectations. But as the movie went on, with Mr. Eastwood constantly making inhuman noises, launching non-funny - but "all-american; I'm-a-RAW-son-of-a-b****, the world has hurt me, and left me to rot" jokes, and "mingleing" with the horrible cast - I just wasn't entertained. I'm still getting goosebumps of humiliation on behalf of Bee Vang (The actor who plays Thao), in the scene where he is locked in Walt's cellar; once again, horrible, horrible. At the end, I was just really disappointed in the movie. It could have been a great accomplishment - but it didn't, at all, rip itself off the Hollywood wallpaper. We have seen this movie a thousand times before, and will most likely see a thousand more of them (perhaps a few this Summer already).So WHY this movie is rated 8,5 here, and has been nominated for a golden globe, is a mystery to me.Footnote - Clint proves, that just because you have done a curtain thing for many, many years - it doesn't mean that you have gotten better and better.


                
There are a large number of gushing reviews on here and it was enough to fool me into watching this film. I think they're written largely by Eastwood's many fans, in honour of his remarkable career, and not really for this film. This review is to plead with you not to watch it.The plot is implausible. The characters are one dimensional, silly stereotypes. The dialogue is lame - no-one talks like that! - some hilarious one-liners but this was because the language was so poorly researched and unlikely. Oh, here's satirical character Ali G - oh no I'm sorry, that's supposed to be a serious character. The racial stereotyping is so superficial I felt like I was watching a script written by a nine-year-old. The continuity gaffs are relentless, blatant, almost wilful. The whole thing looked like a children's made-for-TV adventure, of the sort they show around 4pm on a weekday, but pepped-up with graphic violence and lots of blood.Then there's the actors. We all love Eastwood and you have hundreds of reviews of just him, he's OK in this. But the rest - I think they happened to be hanging around in Burger King one day and got swept up in a big Eastwood fun bus to go in his movie. That priest - no Catholic or any other priest can be as dumb as that. He's a lost character from Father Ted, and I felt an overwhelming urge to punch him every time he came on screen. Everyone else mumbles through their lines as if in a school play, particularly Thao. Sue is the exception, a giddy fairy-girl fresh from Disneyland, gabbling over her long words, as if reading a card in a call-centre, attempting to sound sophisticated.But by far the most painful was the indulgence in Themes. Like a particularly dire concept album, Gran Torino takes on every big theme going and blunders around loudly in it. Catholicism, forgiveness, sacrifice, confession? Yeah we can take that, simples! Racism, social division, cultural alienation, yeah we can handle that. Coming of age? No-one's ever made a film about that, let's do it! Isolation of the elderly and infirm, terminal illness? Overseas wars and the burden felt by veterans? Revenge? Death? None of these profound facets of life are too tough, or warrant more than the most superficial thought before Eastwood wades in and sorts it with some guns.Oddly, the one topic the makers may have been able to handle, and which I was naively quite looking forward to - classic American cars - was left untouched. I learnt nothing about the GT, what it stands for, its cultural significance or even why they bothered to include it. The Fast and The Furious, for example, is intellectual by comparison. And 8 Mile taught me more about Detroit.Also, not that this matters, but the DVD extras were really dumb. Some flimsy interviews with the cast and crew on the topic "aren't cars great?". *Two separate films* with the same people saying the same stuff. No thought whatsoever went into this. And the closing credits - Jamie Cullum co-writing with Eastwood - caps it all. Just don't do it. Go watch "Unforgiven" again, really, you should do that instead.Maybe this film works if you're American - all I can tell is that I'm British, and it didn't work for me. I think you'd have to be a real die-hard Eastwood fan to enjoy it.


                
1. Contrary to Walt's simple-minded claim, blue-collar men are capable of the occasional sentence that doesn't use words like dick, ofay, guinea, and spook. Peppering dialog with racist insults wasn't insightful when Archie Bunker did it in the 1970s, and it isn't now.2. The hero is contrived. Over the course of one summer, Eastwood's Walt builds affection and the utmost loyalty toward the "gooks" next door, but he couldn't do the same with his own sons over decades? He's alternately soft- or hard-hearted depending on the needs of the plot.3. A few of the Hmongs have distinct characters, but Walt's family are little more than clichés-- resentful sons, greedy daughter-in-law, shallow granddaughter. His children are a disappointment to him and his ego, and he treats them as such. No wonder his sons are resentful.4. Further to that, the sons are presented negatively, as opportunists, but the only time Walt calls one of them is when he's in difficulty (and even then he doesn't have the courage to actually speak up), so is he really any better? 5. The inexplicable stalking of mild-mannered Thao by his cousin's Hmong gang, in spite of the fact that "all Hmong boys go to jail"—so clearly there's no shortage of recruits. Presumably it's out of family loyalty? I don't think so, because...6. When the gang retaliates against Walt for having kicked the crap out of one of them, they open fire — on their own cousins' house instead of Walt's next door! 7. The ending is entirely predictable, even before Walt starts getting all shaven and shorn for his coffin.8. Using the dog as a device to steal audience affection for Walt rather than making him someone genuinely likable and worthy of respect.9 etc. Bad lighting, sluggish direction, and, worst of all, transparent plot manipulation to keep the police out of the picture until the final scenes. (Okay, I know that's more than 10, but it could easily have been a Top 20.)
Films about racism are often unpopular to criticise because of the good message they put out, but more often than not, aside from the warm fuzziness of knowing you're better than those nasty racists, there's little more to them than that message. "Racism is bad", Gran Torino says. "I know". "Racism is bad". "I know". "Racism is bad". "I know". "All criminals are non-white". "What?" "Racism is bad".American History X suffered from similar issues, although there was enough about the plot to make it watchable, whereas This is England actually humanised the racists, getting the same message across but in a way that isn't just back-slapping over how we, the creators and audience, know racism is bad. While Walt is just a nasty old man stuck in his ways and American History X's Derek Vinyard was just getting back at non-whites for killing his father, This is England's Combo was a borderline mentally ill man looking to shift blame for his own emasculation onto an easy target in Thatcher's bleak Britain as Shaun desperately seeked a father figure, with Shaun not getting a happy ending, forced into learning he can't just take the easy way out. If anything both Walt and Derek appear somewhat justified in their racist actions, as those criminals that are causing the problems are all non-white, while This is England manages to both portray racism as bad and remain empathetic rather than simply demonising them, which would only entrench the views further.Gran Torino is much closer to Harry Brown than it is to This is England - a conservative wet dream about an old man who gets justice on the horrible, ungrateful younger generation. The film is meant to be about how Walt changes his racist views, but the character is a bitter, stubborn old man who remains dislikeable throughout the film, refusing to admit his faults. At the end of the film, the eulogising by those around him hold him up to be a shining light of humanity for making the ultimate sacrifice to save his Asian neighbours, but, within the context of his character, his martyrdom is self-congratulatory - a final stubbornness that puts a conservative view of honour above Walt's own survival, showing he would rather die than truly change the way he lives.On top of the mixed messages the film gives out, the film is objectively bad. Not a great deal happens, the characters are one-dimensional (bitter old man, pathetic teenage boy, know-it-all teenage girl, villainous gangsters) and the acting, Eastwood aside, is cringeworthy.
What reason did Clint Eastwood make this movie? What purpose did it serve? This movie was not realistic. It was insulting and quite ridiculous. It took the Vietnam War and brought it to Detroit. The scenes of violence were quite disturbing and were shown to play on the continuous need for violence as entertainment. There are such disturbing scenes of Hmong people being abused both physically and mentally. This character in the movie was far from a hero. He was cynical, bitter, and racist. His death at the end did not move me in the least. I was just glad to see the ending credits. It is time for old Clint Eastwood to find another hobby.


                
It is amazing the comments written about this film, it is rather poor & at times unbelievable. Sometimes it looks like a gust of wind would blow clint over. He is just not convincing as this character. This film doesn't hang together very well. The ending isn't bad, but clint doesn't have the acting credentials to portray this character. I think a lot of clints fans are blind to its shortcomings. It is a rather poor film that certainly doesn't warrant anything near an 8 rating. I think as more & more non-clint fans see the film, its rating will drop. Clints spitting and character portrayal at times seems to be a parody of his previous roles in other films. Clints mumbling dialogue is painful at times. Come on clint you can & have done better than this.


                
If you want to see a really good example of very bad acting go to this movie. I can't believe my wife and I wasted $25 on this movie. My best friend told me it was not worth going to see but I thought it can't be that bad. Well it is. The Hmong actors were generally very bad. It was uncomfortable to watch. Clint had the growl down but not much else. The movie was fairly predictable, exactly what you would expect from a movie of this sort. Although the ending was unexpected the torture of watching the entire movie just to see the ending certainly was not worth it. Why this movie has such a high rating is beyond me. I give it a 2 for effort and nothing more.


                
I am utterly astonished at the general acclaim this movie has received. It is written with no complexity, no depth, and no nuance. The acting, particularly from the preacher character, is poor at best. I make Clint Eastwood the exception. He is always entertaining, but his broad characterization resides in a completely different film than the simple deliveries of all the other characters. Where all the other characters are underplayed, Eastwood is completely over the top, which is actually a good thing most of the time, since it makes the movie hilarious to watch, but made me never able to take it seriously as a drama.As a comedy it was occasionally successful, but I found myself laughing at the movie more than with it. The times it was being intentionally funny generally involved Clint Eastwood using creative and old-fashioned racial slurs; funny the first 50 times, but the next 50 wore a bit thin.This seems to be the kind of movie that you either love or hate. All the people I saw it with were astounded at the ballsiness of the choices, and yet how poorly-conceived most of them were.


                
Instead on an old Asian man (Mr. Miyagi) teaching a white kid how to be more Asian (ie. karate) in order to defend himself against a white gang (the Cobra Kai), you have: an old white man (Eastwood) teaching an Asian kid(Tao) how to be more American (ie. car talk, man talk, construction job) in order to get him away from an Asian gang.The Asian boy and "Daniel-son" are made to do unnecessary house chores for the old men teaching them, including washing a cool old car...which both end up getting.The similarities go on and on.Watch it again, you'll see.
Wow Clint must have a very large family to get all these great reviews from a film that is so predictable and so lame in its presentation , or maybe its pity .Using the well known ''Walker technique '' where bad guys are badder than bad , and victims are pure as the driven snow Eastwood churns out yet another no surprise gem more entertaining as a good/bad film than anything else .These are not so different than his hey/day films except that back in the day he was cool enough to pull it off .As the man with no name or Dirty Harry you knew what was going to happen but it was fun to watch because he is so right type wise for those roles .This Charles Bronson vigilante routine just doesn't work for him , add to that the horrible acting by the rest of the cast and your below even Walker .And thats saying something , it has a chance as a cult film but thats it . At 3 am maybe , for 12 bucks ? No way .All you family members may vote and disagree now , an indication of what I've saying .But everybody should state their own opinion .
I watched this film with 36 other people scattered throughout the (mostly empty) theater. Six loudspeakers were mounted on the side walls, three on the rear wall. There were six stage lights (dimmed) in front of the screen. I know this, because I was forced to entertain myself in some fashion during this film's painful two hour duration.There are absolutely no redeeming features to this film. Poor acting, directing, screen writing, producing, and probably gaffing, key gripping, and makeup too. Everyone involved in this effort should be ashamed of themselves. The only thing that makes this better than a one-star affair is the likely existence of even worse movies, that I have not and hopefully will never see.


                
Clint Eastwood should ride into the sunset while he's aheadI have been excited to see this movie since before it was even announced. However my enthusiasm was quickly suppressed, and I realized early on that the movie might actually turn out to be like so many other, forgettable, overly sentimental and almost pointless movies that Hollywood are also famous for producing. If you are in the mood for a good drama see "Head-on" by Faith Akin and for something more romantic "In July" by the same directorOr Kontroll by Nimrod AntalHollywood is just like Ford and GM....old and out of new ideas


                
This review contains spoilers: I am kind of amazed at the good reviews for this film however I am not surprised. This film is so full of right wing white supremacist pro patriarchy, pro America, pro military propaganda that it makes my blood curdle. The film is about a lone white ex Korean military man who saves a Hmong immigrant family from a terrible Hmong gang and terrible African American hoods. The allusions to Christ are obvious but I won't elaborate so as not to spoil the ending for any readers still with me. The message embedded in this film, I believe, is that American militaristic male white-hood is there to save everyone else from themselves so you all can rest easy. Quite the task however it would appear Clint Eastwood believes America and Christ are up to it. The acting is not that great and seems forced. Eastwood playing a curmudgeon who swears a lot and believes that male bonding is all about exchanging insults with other men who insult him right back. There is a scene where he and his barber are trying to teach a Hmong teenager how to do this and naturally all is right with the world once said Hmong teenager has mastered the technique and thrown some zingers himself which immensely impress the two white men. White male America teaching the world how to be manly it would appear and so the film.
A surprisingly shallow way for Clint Eastwood's cinematic career to draw to a close, Gran Torino may have been better served with a more thick-witted title, something along the lines of "Bitter Old Man Points Guns at Minorities." Not that there isn't fertile ground for exploration along these lines; Eastwood's isolated, closed-minded widower could have been an excellent vehicle for prodding a number of inherent stereotypes present in modern American suburbia. Instead of meeting those issues head-on, though, it spends most of its time walking up and down the sidelines and, often, reinforcing the kind of bull-headed resistance to different cultures that, at the outset, it seemed ready to confront. I had a hard time accepting any of this film's main players as anything more than thin caricatures, especially considering the bland, straightforward dialog they're given to work with, and that resulted in a major emotional disconnect during the climax. Eastwood's jaded war veteran never seems to move completely beyond his biases and, shamefully, the film's resolution only serves to prove him right. A plodding, incomplete picture that will only be remembered for the single quotable line heard in its trailer.


                
In summary, the film is about a racist war veteran (Walt) who is somehow also the moral compass of the film, despite being a racist. We are ostensibly to accept that this is okay and that he's great because he is old, a war vet, and played by Clint Eastwood. Okay. The film also attempts (clumsily) to make Eastwood's horrible character more sympathetic by making the primary Vietnamese character a thief. I don't find any of this to be particularly great--or realistic--storytelling as others have said. I will say that I like the destination/message of the film--which I do think was well-intentioned--but I hated the path it took to get there. A more realistic story about these themes would have been, "the world becomes a better place because racist Walt died in Korea."
