This movie has so many problems that I'm not sure where to begin. So i'll simply mention things as they come to be, rather than in chronological order. The first thing that has to go from this film is the awful scene at the barbershop where Clint is trying to teach Thao how to interact with people. Awful, awful, awful, and it goes on and on, and then it ends with the lamest joke about anal sex with some carpenters. Actually, all the barbershop scenes can go, because the only thing they accomplish is to show that Clint's character makes racist remarks even with his friends. But we get that from the scene with the Irish foreman. The priest should have been recast. That said, the scene near the end when the priest just walks right into Clint's house is terrible. The whole movie the priest has been calling Clint's character by his first name, and Clint keeps correcting him, asking to be called Mr. Kowalski, and then predictably in this late scene the priest calls him Mr. Kowalski, and Clint says, "Call me Walt." Awful. And nothing is accomplished in the scene anyway. The editing is poor also. Scenes that have ended continue for a few more moments. For example, the scene where Sue is being hassled by three black guys is over once Clint gets her into his truck and they drive away. But the scene continues with a crane shot of the three guys walking away and talking about Clint. What do we care what these guys think of him? The scene is over, move on. Okay, now for some real spoilers... The end is completely retarded. Clint's character should not die that way. After all, his standing up to the gang earlier should have empowered the neighborhood to take a stand. They should have reported the names of the guys who raped and beat Sue. Instead, Clint goes on a suicide mission, somehow knowing that only then would people tell the police what's been going on. Someone says, "This time there were witnesses." Well, hell, there were witnesses every time, but no one was willing to speak up. Why should they now? It's ridiculous. And then of course the kid inherits the stupid car. Who cares? What he should have inherited was the tools. The tools are what really brought those two characters together; the tools are what will be useful to him in allowing him to get on with his life. The movie is plagued by some of the worst acting i've ever seen in a film. The bit where Thao is locked in Clint's basement and he's demanding to be let out had the whole audience laughing, and it was supposed to be a serious moment. I don't understand why people love this film. My only guess is that the vast majority of film-goers are morons. Oh well.
Eastwood has shown us many times before he understands the art of movie-making. That's why it's so confusing to see he was able to make such an embarrassing, almost amateuristic movie. Yes, in the beginning of the movie some of the over the top grumpy, racist, cynical one-liners are quite amusing, but then it just turns into an embarrassing spectacle of bad acting, bad writing, bad editing, just bad movie-making. The acting of the girl, and especially the boy next door are just gutwrenching to watch. My head was spinning by such a display of amateurism. I try to understand how on earth they could have ended up in an Eastwood movie. Are they his adopted children or children of friends or something? For sure he's doing somebody a huge favor to include them in the movie. Some of the scenes are really beyond bad. What's up with him connecting with the Asian kids by fixing the washing machine in the basement? The whole idea of the scene is stupid and embarrassing, let alone the execution of it. And than the scene when they are waiting for the girl, not sure what happened to her. Eastwood stares at his hand saying (something like) "at least in Korea we were expecting to loose one of us".... Can it get more cheesy than that? I didn't know whether I should laugh or cry. And than the scenes with the barber. The initial idea works out well and amusing - the barber and Eastwood doing their grumpy routine. But than they try and milk the idea and even introduce the boy (deprived of all acting skills) into their 'domain of real men' to teach him the way of Men (to curse). It just gets so embarrassing, you just want to leave the theater and get drunk to simply destroy the brain cells that stored the whole thing, to save you from uncomfortable flashbacks for the rest of your life. Let's just hope mr. Eastwood had a blackout, let's just hope his sense of quality returns and let's hope the majority of IMDb-ers grow a sense of quality so 'movies' like this don't end up in the top 100 of all time again.
I can't understand WHY so many reviews on here are just kissing Clint Eastwoods ass. There's no question Clint Eastwood is a brilliant actor and director. I went into this film expecting nothing less quality than "Million Dollar Baby", "Mystic River" and "Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil". But this movie did NOT live up to any of those for a number of reasons. I'll keep my review short but anyone with an objective mind has to be able to agree that many scenes and lines in this script were laughable. It says a lot when more than 1/2 the movie theater was laughing throughout the movie. Casting choices were no better. The priest was AWFUL. i appreciate Eastwood wanting to cast no names, and in the case of the the two Hmong children, locals as well who were starring in their first feature film. Unfortunately this backfired big time. They were not believable and their acting in many scenes was downright awful. I appreciate the story they were trying to tell and I have no problem with the language but we all need to admit when a great filmmaker makes a poor film.


                
Decent 80 minute movie compressed into 120 minutes. I don't care if it's Spielberg, Eastwood or Ed Wood, a movie produced and directed by the star is not going to be a good movie due to scene bloat.Awful acting (or was it just growling) by Eastwood also. Pat Morita would have done (and did) better. This really is a weak Karate Kid knock-off, had they acknowledged this by putting in at least one "wax on wax off" line, it would have been marginally amusing. As it stands, it's just marginal.I wonder what people who rate this way up in "Godfather" land charge studio hired marketing firms to do that. Is overhyping films on IMDb the "$80 an hour miracle job" they advertise on Facebook that is taking the country by storm these days?
When i first started watching the movie, my expectations were low.. at the beginning i thought, well this might be one of the movies where good acting compensates for the lack of a good plot. I was wrong, the movie has a sweet storyline but fails to deliver a proper climax, and on top of that you have to listen to Clint Eastwood talking to himself throughout the movie, which was a bit to bad ass for my taste. the Vietnamese actors in the movie are clearly inexperienced, i was at one point during the movie comparing their performance to my own fifth grade school play performance(very very poor).I like Clint Eastwood and the charisma he brings to the big screen but that alone didn't make this movie worth the watch, and it ends up being one of those movies you can go see if there is absolutely nothing else to watch.Mediocre overall, but if you are a Clint Eastwood fan it might be worth the watch anyways.


                
Don't get me wrong! I like Eastwood, I really do. He's a fine if limited actor and he's a solid handyman director whose movies often touch on interesting topics. There's just one teenie-weenie problem: many of his movies, both as actor and director, simply aren't very good. I think there's one main reason for his directorial failures: Most issues Eastwood chooses to build his films around need a director with a more intellectual, a more imaginative approach than he is able to achieve. He's a mainstream-thinker trying to do art-house cinema. Sometimes, he gets away with it through pure craftsmanship. But not in this instance.This basically old-hat plot of the old curmudgeon mellowed by his adolescent Hmong neighbours into grandfatherly feelings and, of course(!), revenge and vigilantism is stock-full of amateurish acting, hoary plot machinations, lame culture-clash jokes and cardboard characters. Not to mention that solemn showdown.Technically, the pic's well accomplished, but who cares after two long hours.3 out of 10 geriatric action moves


                
I have always liked Clints work and after seeing this movie I was sadly disappointed. I thought his character was well played and more or less well developed, however everything after the initial 10 minutes or so was just awful. The Asian actors were absolutely horrible not to mention completely unbelievable...there was a glimmer there with the young girl who first approached Clints character, but she was quickly lost in a bad script and the audience was left wanting to care about her but there just wasn't enough screen time to allow us to. I won't go into plot..it wasn't a complete bunch of garbage...but the second rate acting made this movie a huge disappointment. I hope Clint makes something else soon because I would hate to think of this as his last work to remember him by. Save yourself the price of admission and if you're a real fan of Clints work...rent it...don't buy it!
I guess I'm the only one who thinks Eastwood stinks as a director. Angelina Jolie is one of my favorite actresses and her performance in Changeling was just pathetic - you can't have a character keep expressing the same one-dimensional emotional response without it becoming flat and meaningless. Eastwood directing himself has the same problem. In Million Dollar Baby the performances were boring and pointless - and in Gran Torino they are just sad. Poor crazy old man yelling for the neighbor kids to keep off the lawn - wow - time to think about the Home pops - and I mean Eastwood should stay home and not embarrass himself.


                
Let me preface my review by saying I love Clint Eastwood. Although I think this year he was a little shaky, 3 of his last 4 movies have been absolutely terrific: Mystic River, Million Dollar Baby, and Letters from Iwo Jima.However, I'm appalled that this film, Gran Torino, is viewed in the same echelon as those titles (at least by the public). For a film that is so contradictory, so didactic, so obvious, and ultimately so mediocre, I would think that Letters from Iwo Jima would replace Citizen Kane as the greatest movie of all time.Gran Torino is a simple enough story: a racist man who confronts his bigotry when Hmong refugees move in next door. He then begins a highly unlikely transformation from an ignorant man to Christ figure (don't worry, you can't miss it).I'll begin with some praise for the film: being directed by Eastwood himself, Gran Torino is very well made. It was nice to see that Clint only somewhat features his famous harsh lighting. Eastwood also gives a pretty good performance to boot (just pretty good, considering it's the same role he's always played, this time it's a little better).Now the problems. First, Eastwood decided to cast mostly amateur (in both senses of the word) actors for the Hmong roles. As good an acting director as Eastwood is, the acting is abysmal, especially Thao. As I'm sure it's mentioned elsewhere, there is a particular scene where Thao freaks out when locked in the basement. I laughed hysterically in the worst possible way.Additionally, the film is so didactic and obvious in its message: racism is bad. I like to think of Gran Torino as the Crash of 2009: a highly overrated film (by critics and the public alike) that deals with racism, features a plethora of contradictions and plot holes, and ultimately stinks as it repeatedly pounds its message into the viewer's head.If you'd like to hear some contradictions, here are a few: the girl Sue tells Walt (Eastwood) she wished he were her father. This touching line comes after Walt calls Sue a racial epithet. It's shocking how nice Sue and Thao are to Walt despite his crankiness and very open bigotry.Also, I found it hard to believe that after 80 years of absolutely hating Asians and other minorities, Walt would suddenly be so open to change. People who are stuck in their ways for that long typically stay stuck. They also aren't looked at as a potentially great fathers.I also find it disturbing how Eastwood employs racism as a means of humor. Does anyone else find this wrong? The old-grandpa-stuck-in-his-racist-"get-off-my-lawn"-ways role should be one you feel sorry for, not what you laugh at.Well, that's my two cents. If you want to go check out a good movie that deals with racism properly go see American History X or Do The Right Thing, not Crash or this failed Eastwood experiment.


                
This is yet again a pretty typical Clint Eastwood film. I'd say the only redeeming points were: some of the humour which poked fun at Eastwood's age and the acting of Ashney Her as the young Korean neighbour. Eastwood himself was fine but nothing special as an old angry curmudgeon (it's really not much of a stretch is it?). The problem I have with his films is that they lack any logical conclusion based in reality (particularly true of Million Dollar Baby). Same thing is true here. In the end of course Eastwood sacrifices himself for his new friends. It's completely illogical and is only used as a method for the audience to feel some sympathy for this "hero" who lets himself get killed to save his friends. Was this the only real solution besides using violence and killing a bunch of people? Yes, the point is that he suffered for the violence he committed years earlier (that point was not lost on me) but it felt heavy-handed and manipulative for Eastwood to have to die in the end.The movie had a very mixed message about race as well. It seems that the message is that the only way an Asian family in America can thrive and survive in modern America is with the assistance and sacrifice of an old white male war veteran. There's so self-empowerment message here. It's all about relying on 'whitey' to survive in America. Eastwood's Libertarian/conservative views are obvious here. I really can't say much more about what a bad movie this is. One of the most overrated movies of 2008. Very badly acted. Very bad script. How many times must we see a white patriarch sacrifice himself at the end for the benefit of everyone. How utterly crass.
This film is just too much all around: Too much bad acting - serious bad acting.Too much redemption - I was repeated beaten over the head with this theme... I GET IT ALREADY!!! Too much racism every other line. It made those not laughing uncomfortable.Too much of Clint grimacing into camera.Too much of Clint singing (!!!!!) Too much WASHING of the Gran Torino and not enough DRIVING of the Gran Torino Too much of the "God is dead" nonsense. Once or twice is enough to get your point across.Too much of everything. Is it a comedy? A drama? A zombie flick? Too much hype. "Gran Torino" is bad news.


                
The acting was TERRIBLE!!!!! The ending was terrible!!!! LMAO. And you even get to hear Clint singing at the end.....I died laughing at how pathetic it was.And his car was NEVER stolen......This was like watching a bad version of the Karate Kid, only Clint didn't teach the kid anything but how to do a bit of work and how to get your sister raped.Seriously, I reckon the whole movie was about that Asian kid getting Clint involved in the gang crap just so he could get his car in the end. It was a calculated ploy. And it worked!!!! I'm writing this review weeks after I saw the movie so I've forgotten most of it, but I remember it being really $hit.Honestly, the ending is pure comedy gold. Was there supposed to be some irony to it? I.e he regrettably killed some Koreans in the war so its only fitting that he gets blown away by younger Korean kids at the end to make things even? LMAO. The movie was lame.
Judging from the high ratings this movie gets on IMDb, you would expect it to be great. Or at the least a bit entertaining and well thought out. Gran Torino is none of the above. It is incredibly cheesy, poorly acted (Clint does deliver, all the other actors unfortunately do not) and quite patronizing in its 'teaching' of morals. This is probably the biggest problem with the movie: many scenes are devoted to showing how Clint comes to appreciate his Korean neighbors and how Tao learns 'hard working values', but the movie shows it in such a completely expected manner that I could have predicted the end (won't spoil) after the first half hour. The thing is: I get it OK? Old grumpy man appreciates Korean culture after having fought in (ohw what a surprise) the Korean War. Just please don't take two hours of god-awful scenes to tell this. And on top of that, don't keep spelling out the meaning of every individual scene or event that takes place; I GET IT!I am willing to put all the bad acting (mainly the Korean actors) aside, but the patronizing messages that are explicitly iterated over and over again left me wanting to hurl.
OK. Clint's pushing close to 100 or so....While he was great as a cowboy and as a overdone cop and in other roles, he sucks in this one.As a performer I think he is just awesome...but this movie stinks.I was really looking forward to this for some reason - but when I got to the end, I was disappointed again by Hollywood.Though it's not a blockbuster, action or drama - it also doesn't have the strength to be really compelling either.Story kind of sucks and well...really what does the Torino have to do with it at all? So misleading and dreary - hopefully the old folk will like it after watching Matlock and Murder She Wrote.I'm really looking forward to a Golden Girls action move...maybe Clint could do one in the near future.


                
Clint Eastwood, you're done! No more! I'm sure you thought that your rough n tough character Walt was all you needed to reprise your self as an actor, but sadly, your character lacked real depth. Oh no, I said it! Real depth, not character depth, but human depth. You have a name, which is good, character's should have a name, but you forgot the rest, and I don't think you left it at home. Somehow though, people liked your movie, but instead of picking out their reasons and systematically breaking them down, I'd rather just write, quite simply, why I thought this was a bad movie. If your going to post "Genius" or "Masterpiece", you better have a lengthy explanation as to why you used such over-used and overly mundane descriptors for your heading. This movie is far from "masterpiece", and closer to "I don't care if it's on HBO, I'm not watching it." So here it goes...Firstly, the screenplay is filled with first time screenplay clichés, which seems to act accordingly, seeing as Eastwood chose a fairly non-established writer. I'm cool with that, in fact, that is awesome. However, you can't just do that and assume because it is a young script, that you can ignore what's wrong with it. Simply said, beginner screenwriters make beginner mistakes. Character connection is huge, which is why dialogue is in turn huge. When a character makes a decision, you, as the writer, have to ask, why are they doing this? Or would they do this? When you start making decisions that result in, what some writers refer to as, stretching, you have the makings of a loosely organized film. So here are some questions...Are there people who are so racists and so outspoken, that even in the house of someone who they deem beneath them, they would consistently call them by racial slurs? Or continue to eat and drink their food, while they do so? Or even be in their house? No.Now, would that same person, in the same scene, change from an elderly racists with war time experience that further enhances his bigotry, change his ways by the end of the scene and be merry? No.Are Blacks welcoming to White supremacists? No. So why is that the Hmongs are? Is it because, racism wise, being a racists against Asians is not as bad as being racists against Blacks? No. Living literally 5 minutes from the scene where the White guy and female lead were harassed, I tried to pay close attention to the acting, just to make sure it was fitting. It looked like they plucked a white guy from Grosse Pointe, put him in a FUBU jump suit and Perry Ellis jacket and told him, "try and act ghetto." With that simple statement came the simple acting by none other than the son of Clint Eastwood, Scotty. Stick to clinging onto your dad's coat tale to attend premiers, and leave the acting to those not trying to prove something. As for the other actors, several, or a majority of their lines, had little or no emotion, connection to character in the scene, believability, and finesse. Now some will say, "hey, they were first time actors, give them a break." No, I won't. There are thousands of better actors out there, with experience, and ability to really connect to their characters emotions. It was like watching a middle school TV Lab project. Clint stuck out as a sore thumb, on a hand with broken fingers. Wow he growled, my God, let us hoist him in the air! My god, he growled again, this guy is really onto something...wait...wait...no, no this isn't right. There is a reason why Clint Eastwood never received and acting Academy Award, he is not that good of an actor. He is one dimensional, mono-thematic, and down right tiresome to watch. Although his experience definitely showed amongst the virgin gang of actors, he "hand plucked" out of thousands of teens, it still was not even par worthy. This movie has beginner written all over it, and it's not opinion. The beginner Hmong actors, no actual recognition, whether it be awards or praise from worthy critics. The beginner screenwriter, no actual recognition. Clint Eastwood, nice Golden Globe nomination, I'm sure you would have really cherished that award, too bad.Lastly, I will explain the heading..."Surprise, Surprise..."Surprise, Surprise to all those who thought this movie was going to sweep at the Oscars, to all those who thought this movie would get some Oscars, to all those who thought it would even get A Oscar, to all those who thought this movie presented something noteworthy.That this movie is in the TOP 250 is a disgrace, and proves that IMDb, despite however useful it is, is only a website, and doesn't make any BIG decision, because, quite simply, it can't.
I couldn't believe it when I saw this on the IMDb top 250. Seeing one trailer gives away the whole movie. There is nothing interesting, challenging, or though provoking in this movie. The story is the same "learning the error of racism" we've seen a hundred times, with nothing good to make up for it. I don't get it. Poor acting. Cut / Paste story. No distinguishing style or photography. An affront to film as an art form. I'm not a big Clint Eastwood fan to begin with, and I don't think I'm the target audience of this, but I much prefer him as an actor than director. At least his effort of Invictus had some good acting and historical significance to back it up, but even that was not an 8.3. This score makes me question the universe.
Saw this film based on recommendations from friends and the internet and i don't understand what all the fuss is about. The performance by Eastwood is not bad, but the rest of the entire cast is lacking. I mean really, there only are about three main actors and two of them sounded emotionless, even in scenes of distress. Bad to mediocre acting and uninspired dialogue left me with a dull scene to scene story, that unwinds predictably. Some useless scenes feel like they missed the cut in post and the very last part - where Walt leaves for the gang house - even has some dodgy time-of-day issues. It's not rocket science to get the details right in a low-budget, simple film like this and these kinds of mistakes don't give me the impression of strong quality control.I wish i could say more positive things as i was really expecting more from this film but all in all, the two hour experience was not a particular entertaining one and didn't leave me satisfied.


                
Alright, well I don't usually write reviews for movies, but after watching 'Gran Torino' I felt compelled to run to the roof tops and tell the world about the bullshit that I had just witnessed.So there I was, flicking through cable TV, I had just finished watching Futurama and was in a pretty good mood. You know those moods where you think nothing can bring you down, because you're having a hell of a day? Yeah well I was in one of those moods. I clicked on the 'movies' option and quickly went through three pages with nothing good on, when suddenly there it was, 'Gran Torino'.I had heard of this movie, I had no idea what it was about though, but I was pretty sure it was a gangster/mafia type thing, the thought alone of watching a 'Godfather' type movie rocked my socks off and I quickly pressed 'select' without hesitation, (see I don't like reading the information section of the movie, it usually ruins it for me, so I just went right ahead hoping, no, expecting the best).First thing I saw as soon as I selected the channel was a grumpy, old Clint Eastwood at a funeral, my first reaction was "YES! Clint Eastwood! This is going to be AWESOME!". Oh how wrong I was... As time went by (painfully slowly) I realised this wasn't a gangster movie, my hopes went up a bit when some Mexican and Asian gangs almost had a show down, but that quickly passed, shooting down my hopes and dreams.Next thing I new I was watching some crap about racism... Yuck... I could already sense that this movie had a moral to it. I hate movies with morals to them.Anyway for about an hour or so this douchey Asian kid kept doing douchey things and Eastwood kept talking about the war in Korea. Which I do believe was a POLICE ACTION, so get off your high horse man, it's not like you were in Vietnam or any REAL WAR.And the camera would zoom up into Eastwoods sagging, wrinkly face every 5 minutes whilst he made a growling sound. That's right, he actually made growling sounds... I think that is actually what ruined it for me, the growling noises! Who the hell actually growls when they're angry? that's some of the worst acting I have EVER seen, I really wasn't expecting this from Clint Eastwood... I may as well have been watching 'Neighbours' or 'The Bold and the Beautiful' if I wanted to see acting of similar quality.So yeah, I got bored, changed the channel and watched 'The Life Aquatic' to try and cheer me up after this horrible movie. I didn't even have to watch the rest to guess that the old grumpy asshole would realize that everybodys equal.So yeah, all in all, don't bother. Diarreah is more fun than this movie.
Total groaner. As noted in subject line, full of empty, easy characters. Dialogue was rarely better than stilted, and often not even that. Acting was mostly atrocious. A wan, sickly, etiolated cousin of Unforgiven, which was a fantastic, fantastic, fantastic movie, and which, I don't know, Eastwood must have wanted to remake with some kind of Catholic and/or redemptive (ethnically speaking) theme. (Is this what happens when you get old? You start to wrap things up and think about redemptive things? God, Clint, just write a memoir.)Eesh; stay away if you care about Clint Eastwood's legacy.


                
In acting anyways. Clint Eastwood's directing on the other hand has become something to be desired in his latest effort. Gran Torino has all the qualities of a great film but honestly, horribly marketed as a drama which nearly is slim to none until the finale. Up until that time, its a near comedy. His performance is as rough and raspy as he can ever be.The supporting cast is great especially coming from the young Bee Vang and Ahney Her who completely hold their own against the veteran actor.His touch of blue camera work is there as his signature but his near ridiculous song at the end is poorly done and seemed like more of a gimmick than a piece of musical work.The film as a whole is nothing great, nothing terrible, just incredibly flat.**1/2/****


                
