Gran Torino is a rather one dimensional vehicle for Clint Eastwood, who has been one of my favorite actors since Rawhide. I freely admit I was disappointed by it and I don't share the general adulation of other reviewers, amateur and professional.My viewing experience was also rather strange. At 53 I'm well used to being a very unimportant part of the demographic - I 'get' that I'm not supposed to be a movie fan. That important role is left to the 18 to 30 age group. (We'll ignore that I have 2 kids in that age category who go to the movies one tenth as often as I do<U+0085>) So finding myself in a movie theatre full of people far older than me was a slightly unnerving experience. And I haven't shared a movie viewing with such a vocal audience since Brokeback Mountain, and, just like BBM, the audience laughed heartily. I'm still digesting quite why. Gran Torino is mildly amusing in places but really, it's not that funny. It's tragic. The genuinely hearty laughter from the 'mature' audience at all the racist jokes left me mildly bemused.Eastwood plays embittered Korean War vet, and ex Ford car plant worker Walt, who has been recently widowed. He's being patronized by a wet-behind-the-ears young priest who promised his late wife that he'd keep an eye on Walt for her. He's hung on in the old neighborhood even as it's got rougher and tougher as various migrant groups have moved in, his family are pretty much waiting for him to die so they can inherit whatever goodies there are, and, the final insult for our politically incorrect hero, a family of Asians (Hmoung) live next door. And they are not heavily into lawn care. Walt pretty much thinks an Asian is an Asian and they're all equally undesirable as neighbours, after all he fought them in a war. He's an old school racist.When the son Thao (Bee Vang) attempts <U+0096> very ineptly <U+0096> to steal Walt's muscle car, a '72 Ford Gran Torino, as part of a gang initiation he doesn't want to do, Walt gives him a series of chores as retribution, and a tentative father-son relationship ensues. Thao's brighter and westernised sister Sue (Ahney Her) becomes the conduit via which Walt and the neighbours start to interact. The point is somewhat labored that Walt lives alone, alternately ignored or patronized by his family who clearly find him tedious, while the Hmoung all seem to live in one big happy extended family with granny cheerfully spitting on the front porch. Walt digs out his old war weapon and chases off the gang when they harass Thao, thus becoming an unlikely neighbourhood hero. Grateful, they smother him with food and hospitality whether he wants it or not, but trouble is brewing that will eventually lead to tragedy. Alongside the story of Walt, the gang and his neighbours is the coming of age tale of the eager young priest (Christopher Carley), and Walt's failing health.So far so good. The movie isn't too badly written and its heart is in the right place. It seems a little out of date now <U+0096> with the economy in freefall and construction jobs being shed faster than a Labrador's hair, I doubt Walt could really get a totally inexperienced kid a job on a building site no matter how well he knew the Irish foreman <U+0096> and I found Walt's attempt to teach Thao 'manly' interaction at the barber's shop fairly excruciating <U+0096> wherever these guys live it's apparently still 1957. Walt hates everyone including his own sons and grandchildren but the thought that they might have gained their family values from him never seems to occur to him.The cinematography is good with the house interiors, the neighbourhood, the yards and the church all looking genuinely authentic. But the movie sags in the middle and feels very contrived, all the characters are one dimensional and the acting is best described as adequate. If this were not Eastwood, and he were not 78, I doubt this would be scoring 8.5 out of 10 (as it is at the time of writing) on IMDb. In fact, I doubt it would have gotten made. It lacks any real bite, and is fairly predictable. It's not actively bad, but it's simply not as good as it could be or as many IMDb reviewers seem to think it is, and Eastwood is in danger of becoming a parody of himself. There is a level on which I think it appeals to the audience's basest instincts, and I'm still disquieted by all that hearty laughter from my cinema companions. But maybe it's me.
Gran Torino {dir. Clint Eastwood, 2008}*1/2/****Let me preface my comments by saying, I am not here to rally against this film nor am I someone who detests the work of Clint Eastwood (I count both Million Dollar Baby and Unforgiven as two masterpieces of cinema). I was expecting to love Gran Torino, due to its impressive rating here on IMDb and its fairly positive critical notices, however, I found this film quite clumsy in its execution. Most of this is a direct result of an shoddy, inept script. This is not a situation of bad dialog (to the contrary, Eastwood gets the occasional stinging one- liner) but rather, of senseless construction and little care in story arcs and plotting. The film seems unsure if it wants to be a coming of age drama, wherein the crusty, set in his ways Eastwood learns a life changing lesson or if it wants to be Dirty Harry 6. In the end, the film is neither and is instead a jumble of both, and while there are some interesting moments within the two stories, every time the audience settles into the film's rhythm, the focus shifts top the other story. The film eschews character motivation in favor of crass sentimentality, and suffers from split personality in the closing moments. At his directorial best, Eastwood can bring subtle and delicate nuance to rather stereotypical situations, here his work seems shoddy and just plain lazy. Revelations are rendered unrevealing and due to the lack of care taken in characterization, the ending has little cumulative impact. Were it not for Eastwood's sheer magnetism as an actor, the entire thing would be a disaster. As it stands, this film is a wholly minor work in Eastwood's filmography and a completely unsatisfying experience.


                
I am a Clint Eastwood fan, but not lately.He has decided to reveal a human side of himself - went to the Wizard and acquired a heart. He also revealed he is a wooden actor and a plodding, predictable director. Gran Torino is uninteresting at best and tedious at worst,worse even than Million Dollar Baby,and contains some of the worst actors ever subjected to the silver screen. I did enjoy the Christ-image at the end as he is sprawled on the lawn,which was an unintentional touch of humor. He says he is going to continue directing pictures and maybe next time he could hire a professional screenwriter.Speaking of directing, the Directors of the IMDb website should monitor entries more carefully.Currently, Gran Torino has an 8.5 ranking, which is a travesty.Since this puts it in with some mighty good movies,modern filmgoers obviously haven't a clue regarding what makes a good picture.Perhaps a separate category could be designated for films made after,say,1980.That might separate the film lovers from the dilettantes.
The 4 stars are solely for Eastwood's performance, which was top notch as usual. He is like a fine wine, he only gets better.... As for the rest of the movie, a couple of other reviewers have nailed it, but the multitude of people that gave it anywhere from 9 to 10 stars saw a different movie from me. The rest of the acting in the movie is honestly the worst I can remember seeing in a movie. There are times when there is maybe one actor in a movie who is not very polished, but in this movie, there are actor after actor, scene after scene, where aside, from Clint, I thought I was watching a middle school production. And it wasn't ONLY the acting. The dialogue for a large part of the movie was also very forced, unrealistic, and staged. Not great writing here folks. There are a few rewarding moments, and again, Clint's acting and character are superb, but that is not enough to recommend this amateurish, predictable, and pretty unrealistic movie.


                
Now, I really do like the American people....but i'm sorry some of the crap that comes out of Hollywood. How can this mediocre film get a full point higher than the similarly themed 'Harry Brown' (which is not without it's bad points,namely you feel like finishing it all when you get up and leave the cinema!)but is jaw droppingly visceral and has considerable realism and cinematic power.There were moments watching this when I cringed in my seat in Embarrassment. The treatment of the gang members was so one dimensional and clearly no research had been made into gang culture. I can see that and i'm an ancient 37 yr old!! Clint Eastwood's character was dull and devoid of any apparent wisdom or subtlety.I would advise him to sell his lousy car and get a bird. It reminded me oddly of THE KARATE KID!!! At least that had MR MIAGI, he was wise and humorous.


                
Eastwood's movies have to have a "message", that is nothing new. Over the years, however, it seems that the message has become increasingly predictable, more boring, and its delivery hasn't improved either.The story itself is very ordinary: old man with several regrets and a few serious chips on his shoulder makes up with life, which in this case comes to him in the form of Asian neighbors. Confrontation gives way to friendship, which sets the stage for tragedy and a poetic resolution. Tons of clichés and no surprises are the hallmark of this film. At the very end it apparently intends to surprise the audience, but anybody who has paid the slightest bit of attention to the character arc of the protagonist can see that there is only one resolution left.To be sure, there are good moments. Eastwoods character is hilariously politically incorrect, casually filling his speech with racial epithets, and getting a number of funny lines out of it (obviously, folks who are easily offended will find it difficult to summon the required humor). Then there is a hilarious scene that Eastwood has with his barber, expertly played by the otherwise underused Lynch. It turns out to be the highlight of this movie.Much of the movie is sanctimonious and preachy; it obviously wants to tell us something about ethnic prejudice, and even inserts some expose about the Hmong people, for no apparent reason, as whatever would follow from it does not matter to the narrative. The transformation of Eastwoods character from bitter old man who despises everything foreign (including the foreign cars sold by his son) to cheerful participant at Hmong barbecues and confidant of and matchmaker for Hmong teenagers is ludicrous, and neither the script nor Eastwoods acting can make this believable. That is too bad, as it is the anchor for the rest of the story.Sanctimony is personified in the character of the preacher, whose offers of "spiritual" support are originally rejected by Eastwoods character, but then gradually accepted, for no apparent reason other than that this guy just won't take no for an answer and even stalks the old man to his social gatherings. The protagonist, who otherwise has no problem defending his privacy (and his lawn) by pointing a loaded rifle at an offender, reacts to this outrageous behavior by inviting the "padre" to a drink and shooting the breeze about life and death, revealing that neither of them had much to say about either of those two things, and resulting in one of the lamest simulations of "philosophical depth" on screen in recent memory.But slushy messaging, sanctimony, and superficial dialog aren't even the worst offenders in this stinker. That distinction goes to the two key supporting acts, Vang and Her. Neither of them has the slightest clue about acting, remaining uninvolved throughout as in a middle school play rehearsal. That is bad for Eastwood, since their characters are supposedly what is melting the stony heart of his character, but it is really difficult to see how these two dull teenagers could possibly accomplish this. One of the reasons for Eastwood's lack of believability is the emptiness of their performances, particularly that of Her.And so the story moves to its predictable finish. We even get to see a "resolution scene" showing how the old man deals with his greedy granddaughter in his testament, which feels like the closing scene in a 70s/80s TV series, when everybody gets together to share a good laugh about the final resolution.At the time of this writing, the movie's 8.5 rating has propelled it into Top 100 territory, so obviously people like it. To me, it wasn't the worst movie I have ever seen by a long shot, although it certainly is among the worst Eastwood films.
If you were to put Charles Bronson, Mel Gibson and Clint Eastwood all in a blender, this is what you'd get. Everything about this movie, from the story and the characters, down to the art work for the poster, has been half-heartedly plagiarized from either one of Eastwood's own films, or from the other above mentioned maestros of the feel-good revenge flick. Bitter old man who has seen too much of life? Check. Formerly nice, middle-class neighborhood being overrun by generically ethnic hell-raising teenagers? Check. Hard-working and helpless women, children and old people who need some strong-arm style protection? Check. Creepy neighbor with lots of guns and a cool car? Nothing new there. And then the script writes itself - although judging by the dialog of the younger characters, I'd guess that someone even older that Clint Eastwood wrote this thing. As far as Eastwood's age goes...well, his reaction shots, the ones that are supposed to show us what a rugged and tough old dude he is (including growling), consistently look like he's just having a particularly rugged and tough bowel movement (including growling). But what's really painful here is that Eastwood, who has made at least one masterpiece, is the one who called these shots, directing the cheap dialog and flat acting. Laziness? Senility? Either way, it's not a happy result.


                
Whilst I understand why this movie gets good reviews, one thing is missing from a lot of the reviews that is or should be blindingly obvious to anybody who is a movie fan... Which is, its not a very well made movie. The story is top notch, acting from everybody is on the whole adequate but its clear that something drastic went wrong behind the camera. Im of the 'opinion' that eastwood might have been overworked during the making of this film and it shows clearly, poor camera-work throughout, scenes that seem rushed, I know that no two production teams are the same but compared to eastwood's earlier directorial efforts this movie looks like its been made by amateurs.. camerawise anyway. Am I on my own here because no-one else seems to bring up these obvious faults in what would have been a classic movie!


                
Obviously you'll want to see this movie because of the hype around it, but be ready for disappointment. I thought the story was interesting enough, but that it was poorly delivered. All the actors, and yes, I'm surprised to say, that includes Mr. Eastwood, over-acted their parts. It got to be annoying to say the least. As Eastwood's character changes, it does get easier to watch, but constant poor performances from his co-stars (except Ahney Her) reduce the enjoyability of the film.My fault is probably that I expected it to live up to its rating. A strong 6/10, far from a masterpiece.


                
Well I must say I did not appreciate this movie very much. It was very strange, because I think it started very good and funny, but ended up awful and as a cliché. Clint Eastwood is very good of course, but that is pretty much all there is. As the film goes on is loses it touch and drifts away from being a comedy, to end up very cliché-like as I already mentioned. The film is way too long and had it just stayed as a comedy I would rank it higher than 4 of 10.The acting by the young "Hmong-kid" is just awful... especially when it heats up in the end, no one can say anything else.So in the end, even though Eastwoods great acting skills this film says nothing to me. Very easy to say what's going to happen.


                
This had the makings of a great film - the storyline was solid. You have a old, racist, Korean War veteran struggling to adjust to a neighborhood that has, over time, come to be filled with foreigners. And its not just any old man, either... Its Clint Eastwood.You know what your getting with Eastwood as an actor at this stage of his career - a tired old man with a grizzly voice to match those gritted teeth. The 4 time Oscar winner fit the role perfectly - despite this fact however, the question is "why did he even take on this project?" The cringingly bad script should have been enough for Eastwood to pass this one up.First of all, this was Nick Schneck's first attempt at anything big. I love to see a young writer emerge on the scene with a genius screenplay, but this guy just plain failed. I'm not sure if he was trying to be "real", but the result was a movie full of sloppy, heavy-handed lines. Add a weak supporting cast to the mix, and you've got a complete dud that revolves around the big-named Eastwood.Regardless of any storyline or actors involved in a film, you generally expect Eastwood to put together, at the very least, a good, solid movie. This is not the case with Gran Torino. While Eastwood did turn in a solid performance, his direction of this movie, plague from the start with bad lines, was uncharacteristically shoddy. Watching the movie, I had a hard time believing this is the same director that gave us Mystic River, and Unforgiven. I guess even the best directors make a clunker every now and then. Having watched movies such as this one, Changeling, and Flags of Our Fathers, I have also come to realize that Mr. Eastwood just can't resist a good cliché now and then. Watching Changeling, I just put my hand over my face when Angelina Jolie says "hope" at the ending. If you saw Changeling you know what I mean.I was disappointed with Gran Torino. I have been relatively let-down by both of his efforts this years. That being said, I'll be happy to hear about, and eventually see, his next movie.


                
I have always liked Clint and I grew up in the Detroit area so I had high hopes for this film. Unfortunately, the movie did not deliver. It's biggest weakness (and there are many) is its dated story. The 'angry white guy struggles to come to terms with racial diversity' theme was interesting and relevant in the early 1970s (e.g, All in the Family) but it's very tired and predictable now. Within the first few minutes of the film, you just know that Eastwood's character is going to end up being friends with the Asian family next door. The setting of the film also seemed strangely dated to me. The film showed Eastwood's character all resentful and nostalgic for the time when his neighborhood was all white. However most of those old Detroit neighborhoods began changing 40-50 years ago. The attitudes and reactions of the Eastwood character seemed to belong to someone who was just beginning to experience this change and not someone who had been living with it for 50 years. I think the film would have made more sense if it had been set in the 1960s when these changes were underway rather than today. Clint does have an aura of timelessness about him and he stills look damn good for a guy his age. However, the math in this movie doesn't work. Clint was just too old for the part which of course should not have been written as a Korean War Vet. Korean war vets are now well into their 70s and 80s. I have a hard time imagining guys this age driving around gang infested neighborhoods in Detroit with a pistol. It's even more implausible to think of such a person leaping out of a truck to face down three thugs on a street corner. But there was Clint doing the 'Dirty Harry' shtick well into his 70s. I found myself cringing in these scenes and wishing that Clint would have had a bit more dignity. Clint has had an amazing career but this movie clearly shows that he should retire as both an actor and director.
This film could have been fantastic, yet in my opinion it ended up as a complete joke. The plot was actually the best thing about this movie, however what could have been a great and inspirational story was ruined by shocking dialogue, horrendous acting (both by the often reliable Clint and the younger stars of the film), and some of the most twee and obvious motifs i have ever seen, take the way Clint falls in the Jesus position in the major last scene as an example of this.I found myself sitting in the cinema and laughing out loud at how ridiculous some of the dialogue was, the blatant overuse of derogatory terms for Asian people was unbelievable. Don't get me wrong, i understand the need to portray the war vet Walt as a man who has some serious issues with his past and the way his neighbourhood has been over-run by south-east Asian families, however the never-ending stream of abuse got old after around twenty minutes of watching.Walts character was so overplayed by Eastwood, i honestly thought i was sitting in a slap-stick comedy and had somehow missed that fact in the trailers and marketing for the film. The two back-to-back scenes two thirds of the way through the film firstly the one in which Walt goes to the construction site to sort out a job for "Slug" followed by the visit to the barbers shop where Walt attempts to teach him how to "talk like a man" have got to be two of the worst scenes i have ever sat through, and again i found myself laughing out loud at how ridiculous the whole thing was. Even down to the fact that Walts young mentor, when being burned on the face with a cigarette, screams as though he's been shot, it was just so over the top.As i left the cinema, rushing to get out as the first credits rolled up, as i felt i could no longer contain myself to be serious and suitably moved, i heard a man say, "oh my god, that has got to be one of the best films i have ever seen". Now perhaps i'm missing something here, but i'm pretty positive that the best part about Gran Torino is the Gran Torino.
After watching flags of our fathers and the million dollar baby, i though i am going to watch another solidly made movie by Clint Eastwood, but boy was i wrong. What was going through my mind most of the time during this movie was that how can this be? how can this movie be so bad? You could imagine how astonished i was when i came to vote for it here and saw that it has a 8.4 and is already in top 250!?! and I can not begin to understand why!?The acting is down right bad, even Clint himself is far away from what you expect him to be. Dialogues are unimaginative, repetitive and plain corny and full of mostly unnecessary racial slurs, the characters are completely stereotypical and don't get much depth, many plots seem just pointless and don't lead to anywhere... and finally the directions is terrible. You see people waiting for their turns to say their lines, you see people looking into the camera and you see that the movie is seriously low budget, for example where presence of police is kept to the minimum necessary and the characters have to explain that police has already left... the whole thing looks and feels very cheap and amateurish.I seriously hope that Clint did this just as a favor to someone (or lost a bet?)or for quick money, otherwise we might be losing a good director.


                
I'm sorry if this sounds politically incorrect, but I cannot get on the merry-go-round and give this movie the acclamation it has received. If this was a made-for-TV movie then I'd give this a higher rating. And I'm not giving this a low rating because of Clint's talking chair rant at the 2012 GOP Convention that nominated Mitt Romney.I can think of numerous Eastwood movies that contained more insight but Gran Torino was pretty much by the numbers, and rather grossly stereotypical. Walt was stereotypical, the Hmong community stereotypical. I even read that the Hmong cast weren't even invited to a cast and crew baseball match, because it was assumed they wouldn't be interested in baseball even though all were born in the USA to paraphrase Bruce Springsteen. Really, does Walt hate all Asians because of his Korean War experience? Following that chilling line of thought, if Walt had fought the Germans in World War 2, he'd end up hating every European person he came across!!!!
I had very high hopes before I saw this film, I thought the plot sounded very unique and interesting and dealt with race and other diversities.However I got around about 5 minutes into this film and I had already been bombarded with stereotypes, the old man hating the younger generation, the Koreans and the supposed hatred of them by the neighbourhood, the young white boy wanting to fit in, the young teenagers bored of their grandparents and 'hating' life, them showing other races as being violent, the nagging and over caring priest and finally the young Korean children getting in trouble to fit in. These are too many stereotypes to be thrown in my face by one film.But the worst thing about this film is the horrible acting by every single cast member, especially the Korean family and there over annoying children who cannot act one bit. The only cast member I thought was average was Clint Eastwood himself, and that's saying something. His character annoyed me, but I somehow felt sympathy for him at the end when he met his death, and this is why I have given it a 4.This film could of been amazing and could of been worthy of the 8.2 is has on IMDb, but yet it has not even closely resembled that or lived up to it. The script could of been Oscar worthy but what let it down was the acting and the constant stereotypes.
Overall, This movie was bad in my opinion. I'm not sure why so many people gave it high ratings and seemingly overlooked all of its flaws. I'm assuming Clint Eastwood fans got caught up in his acting performance.The movie begins and ends with Clint Eastwood's character while almost every other character is uni-dimensional with little or no depth at all. The kids from the local gangs might as well be witches from your typical fairytale. They are just about as mean and despicable as the storyline needs them to be with no context behind their actions. There's a random scene where (one of the key characters) a Hmong-American girl walks with her white boyfriend, and encounters a group of 3 African American kids who appear to be some sort of gang. The incredibly predictable interaction is just a bunch of awkward cliché lines thrown back and forth between the white guy and the gang. But of course, Clint Eastwood magically appears at the right time to save the girl from the evil gang. That scene came out of nowhere and completely threw me off balance. Sadly, it wasn't just a bad scene, it pretty much set the tone for the rest of the movie. The best way to describe this film would be something stuck between a heavy drama and a feel good story. Every time the story threatens to get too dramatic, you suddenly get pulled back into the "feel good" setting and vice versa. It goes head on on heavy subjects like racism, gangs, life and death, hatred, and war, yet it doesn't fully develop on any of them. One thing that really bothered me was: Why would Thao's cousin (the main "antagonist") attempt to murder members of his own family following Clint's assault. He basically sprayed his auntie's house with bullets, and raped or ordered the rape and/or assault of Taoh's sister (his own cousin!?). and we know nothing about who he is or his true motivations.
Like most others, I like Clint Eastwood as both an actor and a director (at least from around the year 2000 onwards). "Million dollar baby" and "Changeling" were two quite lovely films to give just two examples of him as a director. "Gran Torino" definitely had its strong points, and I enjoyed the themes of misplaced racism, and how it sucks the joy out of life, the unsolvable problem with gangs, and the need to get your problems off your chest instead of keeping them inside. I also liked the pale colours of this film (just like in Changeling), which was perfect for this bleak environment. But the problem for me with this film was simply that it wasn't very credible.The main character Walt (Eastwood himself) used a lot of foul language, but as he did so in almost every sentence and so overtly, it simply ended up becoming a caricature. At one point his son and daughter in law came to Walt's birthday and suggested that he moved into a nursing home. The camera then filmed a close-up of Eastwood, whose mouth opened and turned downwards more and more in a fit of rage. It just seemed like something from a comic book. Eastwood is one of the archetypical tough guys, but here he simply seemed like a parody of himself. Later, Eastwood dropped a glass of alcohol as he was shocked. It just fell to the ground all too late for it to seem like a believable reaction and not one done by an actor in a poor film (it will make sense if you watch the scene). This is of course a minor detail, but it honestly seemed to suggest that there hadn't been paid enough attention to the editing and the artistic effects used in creating a story that would seem real rather than just a story. This surprised me a bit, as I didn't notice anything like this in the two other Eastwood film mentioned above.One of the other actors, Bee Vang playing Thao, was even worse. He simply didn't give a very good performance. Especially when he was locked into the basement, his hammering on the door simply didn't seem real.Lastly, I didn't find it believable that Walt warmed to the Hmong people because of the reasons shown in the film. It seemed credible that he would help the neighbouring girl when she was in trouble with a gang on the street, but he still a bit too easily went from banning all Hmong people from his property to accepting the neighbouring girl's dinner invitation with her entire family simply because they had beer and because the girl was "alright" as he said. Nevertheless, this was something that I could easily have overlooked if the rest of the film had been better – they are after all trying to tell a story, and there has to be some progress.With better dialogue, better acting and a slightly better script, this film could have made me feel something real rather than make me cringe – which is what it too often did.Judging from the average rating here on IMDb most people love this film, but I've also seen several people here on IMDb say exactly the same things as I have done in this review (acting, dialogue, etc.), so it seems to be a film that splits the viewers in two camps. I find that if I don't like an otherwise celebrated film it's simply because I didn't become engaged in the story or the characters. But usually I just find films like that mediocre and I can see why other people might like them, and usually I can see that they are well-made and well-acted. Two examples could be Crash or Magnolia. They simply didn't do anything for me. They were well-made, well-acted, and I understand why people like them. But calling them poor films or even poorly made? Certainly not! It's rare that I find an otherwise celebrated film poor, but Gran Torino seems to be a film that people either find excellent or poor. I'm standing on the edge of saying poor (which is 3/10 for me), but due to it's good points I will give it 4/10.
I went to see the film on the whim of a friend's invite. I found the film's pacing ponderous, the plot contrived, and the characters portrayed as caricatures or stereotypes. I don't know if Eastwood's acting or his directing was worse, but his 'old man' character didn't begin to approach the depth, complexity, and compassion of Richard's Farnsworth's crusty portrayal of Alvin Straight in David Lynch's The Straight Story 10 years earlier. Eastwood constantly seemed to be trying to conjure up a geriatric "Dirty Harry' with his facial contortions and guttural growl. The film, and especially the ending, was such a superficial swipe at serious issues that it came across as a farcical litany of racist slurs and jingoisms. The only thing that seemed genuine in this film was, what else?...the Gran Torino. Shame on you, Mr. Eastwood, you can do better than this. Your engine done blowed up on this undertaking. Time to stick with golf carts and retirement communities. Ben aka Undertoad and toadrunner. "The Road is life." -Jack Kerouac


                
Being from the Suburbs of Detroit. I was really looking forward to this movie.....However.... Not what I expected. Very Disappointing. Not sure what the point of the movie then best I got out of it is Walt ( Clint Eastwood) was feeling quilty after his wife passed, that he was in Korean war and killed a bunch of gooks and now living next door to a very thoughtful family and in a neighborhood full of what he killed in Korea. The best part of the moving in my opinion was the 1972 Gran Tourino Yes he worked for Ford Motor Company all his life. And the Car was Very SWEET. there is a moral to the story for those who feel you need to make amends for your actions before your day comes to pass and that is what this movie is about. It is slow. with little action. a Lesson to learn if you care to pay attention and hear the message that is being said here.


                
I saw this film when it came out and I thought it was garbage. 10 years later (today), I gave it another shot. I found it just as cringy embarrassing as I did when I saw it the first time. I don't know who did the casting, but almost everyone is miscast. Look at those asian actors today. They are nobodys - poof; gone! Yet somehow they were supposed to be one of the main anchors of this film. And whoever wrote the script; terrible. The lines the actors have to say sound like a 9th grade A/V student wrote them. They are embarrassing & awkward. Lots of times after they say something I'd say to myself "What? Who says that?". And even though I love Mr. Eastwood - he went too over the top by trying to play the hardass old man with his overdone scowl on his face and gruff voice. I still didn't get the entire pulling his finger out of his pocket like a gun routine. And I totally forgot how the film ended but when I saw it again today I was just SMH. This is one of his most terrible films in my opinion. How anybody can rally behind this lame flick is beyond me - but to each his own I guess, right?


                
Despite the good direction and genuinely great performance from Clint Eastwood, the movie gets bogged down by a bad supporting cast, poor pacing, and a weak script. The Hmong actors are come off as untrained and the priest came off as unexperienced. However, this didn't bother me as much because Clint Eastwood did such a good job. I think it's message of anybody (even salty old curmudgeons like Clint Eastwood's character) can change for the better. I'd say give it a watch if you're a sucker for this kind of thing. Otherwise, I'd give this one a skip.


                
