Although I am a big fan of Eastwood and have enjoyed most of his films, I found Gran Torino to be overly sentimental and I'm confused by the high IMDb rating. The plot thread is almost banal - why would the tough Asian gang devote so much effort in pursuit of the teenage boy who did not want to be a member? and lacked credibility - the sick old man was able to intimidate these gang members? and is too familiar - hardened racist comes around, honorable man sacrifices his life for justice and absolves himself of past sins through his last actions on earth, etc., etc. And I disagree with the comment that viewers were permitted to 'make up our own minds'. In this film, the moral of the story was in the viewer's face and an emotional response was overtly solicited. Compared to Unforgiven, a film that was both powerful and subtle, and avoided obvious moral judgments, Gran Torino is an amateurish piece.
Clint Eastwood is one of my all time heroes both as an actor and as a director so I was really looking forward to watching this film in which he does both jobs. He also has a knack for depicting the crack in the American dream as illustrated by Million Dollar Baby, Mystic River, The Unforgiven, and so forth -- but this time the whole thing appeared to be more about racist Paleface Clint becoming a better person than anything else, so I came away somewhat disappointed. In what might well be Clint's final acting performance (he is beginning to look old and creaky) I witnessed a rehash of all the Dirty Harry and man with no name stuff under the guise of an old man who seemingly cares for no one and is tough as nails but underneath is a real softy. He retains all his well established celluloid courage as an old dog of war that keeps the young and fit criminals in their place.The way he wins over the Asian neighbors that he keeps insulting and turning away really stretches your imagination. But at least the intention is good and it is refreshing to see his exchanges with the untiring Catholic priest who does his utmost to get him to confess and save his soul.In a finale reminiscent of John Wayne in "The Shootist," Clint commits public suicide and apparently places his faith with a number of witnesses that had up to that point been very wary to report anything on the criminal gangs for fear of retribution. Personally, I thought it a pointless suicide. I'd much rather have seen Clint go out blasting away and taking with him a few bad eggs. But that is my obviously very subjective viewpoint.I am giving this film a 7 but 6.5 would be closer to the mark. May Clint live many more years and direct many more great films. This one and The Changeling have provided blips on the lower side of the quality graph but they are still well worth admission price.And - I'm sure Clint will bounce back with more quality films in the near future!
This is a magnificent film played , produced and directed by Clint Eastwood . It deal with elderly Walt Kowalski (Clint Eastwood), he is a disgruntled Korean war veteran , a retired man of a Ford car factory where designed his lush vehicle . He is recently widowed and has only a great passion that results to be his most precious treasure : a "Gran Torino" 1972 . His relationship to his two sons (Brian Howe , Brian Haley )and grandchildren is very troubled , and the circumstances will be forced , against his neighbors Asian immigrants, to confront his old prejudices of when he was in the Korean war. Not wishing the advice of the priest ( Christopher Carley ) , Walt is a grumpy man who has not friends with exception of the barber ( John Carroll Lynch ). He lives a solitary existence with the only company his dog called Daisy in the same house he has lived in for years, which is placed in a working class Highland Park, Michigan neighborhood . Recently, the neighborhood has gone through changes where it is now racially mingled . The next door family, of ethnic Hmong descent includes two foreigner teenagers, lively Sue ( Her ) and timid Thao ( Bee Vang ). Initially Walt wants nothing to deal with his new Oriental neighbors . Slowly, Walt does get involved in Sue and Thao's existences . As his adolescent neighbors' unofficial protector, Walt has to resolve how best to restore his sense of justice in the neighborhood .We are watching a sensational film in which its message shows us a broody story of friendship , faith, redemption, suffering , pain , memories and feelings ; a right allegation and relentless denounce against racism and the complex relation between cultures . Here the maestro Clint Eastwood gives us a film-making lesson from the simplicity of a thought-provoking screenplay . The performance of Eastwood as gruff retired worker is awesome , he does not disappoint, his presence at the scene is extraordinary. The support cast is also magnificent with special mention the two teenager brothers played by Her and Bee . This film along with the filmed in the 2000s as ¨Invictus ¨ , " Changeling" , ¨ Million dollars baby ¨ ¨Mystic river ¨ make that the dramatic force of this great director turns outs to be breathtaking and impressive . In addition Clint Eastwood surprise us in this film with his facet of singer in the final song. Rating : Above average , worthwhile seeing .


                
The first thing that struck me when I started watching Gran Torino was the remarkable shape this guy is in at 78. He is simply amazing. The other characters in the movie are pretty insignificant and Clint Eastwood character Walter, as he is supposed to, is the only person who stands out. This is a Clint Eastwood movie, and has his name written on it all over.Living in a Hmong community, Walter has a disdain for almost everything except his dead wife and his 1972 Gran Torino. His wife, he says to Toad (the neighborhood Hmong boy), was the best woman to have lived on the planet. As Korean War veteran who is an Atheist, he thwarts all attempts made by a young priest to make him confess until towards the end of the movie, he tells him about things that make him feel guilty. Though this happens at a church, it's not exactly by way of a confession, but much like opening up to a friend. His grunt is a familiar feature throughout the movie, and it is the grunt of an old man flustered by what he sees around him and is wondering what the hell it has all come down to. But he doesn't bore us with clichés of how good the old times were, instead settles for the grunt which does bring up a smile.There are things that Clint shows us other than the main plot of the movie, which is a gang of no-good nearby rowdies are trying to force a young Hmong boy ('Toad') into horrible ways like their own. He shows us how his sons and grandsons fake their affection and love for him to get something out of him. They have their eyes on his house and his car and what not.Toad is forced to steal the Gran Torino as an initiation into the gang and is caught by Walter. He escapes but Walter starts hating him and the likes of him. 'Get off my lawn', he warns the gang one night when they are forcing the boy to go with them again, and in the process, shoos them off. Then gradually the neighborhood and the community start warming up to Walter and we see him sipping beer at a Hmong party. He even becomes good friends with Toad whom he used to hate and finds him a job. Everything is going on well till the gang folks assault Toad again. This time Walter beats one of them up as a warning and makes it clear that he doesn't want them hanging around anywhere near Toad. And that's when all hell breaks loose.Toad's house is fired upon and his sister is brutally raped and beaten. Walter is shocked and furious and we see him planning the vengeance with Toad. Toad wants to go right-away and shoot the bastards but Walter has other plans. What those plans are, I won't reveal now and believe me, it something that you might not be able to guess till the very last minute. And then it will all fall in place.Friendship, salvation and the meaning of life and death, all are answered for Walter in one way or the other. Set in Detroit, as can be seen from one of the signboards somewhere in the movie and also made evident by the dead streets, the movie also tries to bring back the lost glory of the Great American Auto Revolution with its focus on the Gran Torino.Eastwood in snubbed by many in Hollywood as a stone faced actor; and he corks their mouths shut every time he makes a movie. At 78, he is capable of things that I can only hope to do at 60, and his drive as an actor and a director is unmatched. He is, in my opinion, easily one of the living legends of Hollywood. You might not find the movie outstanding, neither did I, but not for a moment will you be let down in this gritty drama of a war veteran trying to retain his self amidst the diversities and perils of the modern world we live in.I have deliberately omitted key important facts from the movie plot, and as in any good movie, getting to know them won't give it away, but would just make the experience of watching it more interesting for the viewer.Gran Torino is Clint Eastwood from start to finish and trust me; you don't want to miss it.


                
Gran Torino is a film with a lot of problems, which ultimately packs an emotional punch which will affect most audiences..Part of the problem here is that the subject matter feels like a well worn path - mined in so many previous films - gang violence, racism etc..All treated with equal measures of serious drama and humor.The script is also very clunky, and some of the scenes seem woven together just that little bit too perfunctorily..It's somewhat surprising that Clint, who i rate as a cinema legend (actor and director) couldn't beat this into a tighter, leaner film...The performances are all fine, the racial slurs appropriately confronting in the script..but there is a definite lack of style and the deft touch required to make this kind of subject go from over-earnest preaching to greatness However flawed, by the time you hear Clint refrain the theme in his gruff voice as the credits roll the powerful message of this film should have had its impact.


                
My favorite Clint Eastwood movie...and I honestly can't really describe why. I just absolutely love this film and it was an instant masterpiece after I saw it for the first (of many) time. It's a drama that at it's core is simply about an individual grumpy man's version of 'family' evolving and changing. But it masterfully mixes family relations, race relations, intense drama with some well placed humor. I just hope that as both an actor and a director that this priceless film doesn't get lost in the vast shuffle of Mr. Eastwood's filmography


                
When I heard a movie was named after a call I thought, "How good can it be?" Of course I am talking about Grand Torino. Grand Torino is about an old man named Walt, Clint Eastwood, and he befriends his Asian neighbor named Thao after he tries to steal Walt's Grand Torino as an initiation to join his cousin's gang. He didn't want to steal the car but he has to work to pay off the debt and Walt teaches him how to be a man and Thao also teaches Walt how to coexist. Walt gets mixed up in gang warfare and has to make difficult decisions along the way. Clint Eastwood's racism and devotion towards his Asian neighbors makes this movie mix well. The story itself was greatly written but there were no surprises or unexpected turns. The story was very basic but it worked. If something happened terrible happened to a character, which it does, you feel sorry and mad even. People care about these characters and by the end you see how each and every single character developed and changed. Not all movies have that affect and this movie did it differently. Thao became a man, Walt learned to care and be a different man, and the priest learned life lessons. Clint Eastwood is certainly getting old and can't do much of what he used to do in Dirty Harry or his other classics. He plays an old man who just lost his wife, he is a Korean war veteran, which he struggles with, he barely knows or gets along with his two sons and their families. The war really damaged this man. He could not get attached to his kids or relate to them. He developed a racist attitude towards every race and color. At the party that man reads into his whole life and that scene basically sums up the struggles in his life. He also confesses to the priest but it isn't as strong. The only thing he ever loved was his 1972 Grand Torino. Eastwood was a perfect pick for the part but wouldn't win any award for his acting. At his age what can you expect? He did his best and he did pretty damn good.Stereotypes are used in everyday life but this movie crosses some lines, but necessary line crossing. This movie may be offensive but it offends everybody. Mainly Asians but it also touches on blacks, Mexicans, and even white people. Clint Eastwood makes a remark towards Asians intelligence. People who get offended towards movies and remarks made in movies are just stupid. It's a movie and that is how parts of the world really work. Sometimes in the movie, and for comic relief and there is nothing wrong with it.Problems with the movie are that it can get boring. For a long time nothing really happens and it's more talking and character development. Character development and relationships between characters is very important but it has to be done correctly. There were also loose ends. Walt's kids weren't really important. One tries to move Walt to a retirement home and he tries to get along with him it just doesn't work. The kids could have had potential for a bigger part in the story but it failed. Walt's illness or disease was a big deal but it didn't really matter. It could have been why he made his decision in the end, or so I think. Thao likes that girl but we never see what happens. A big part of the movie was him becoming a man and his own person and a working relationship and showing the success would really express that. Maybe it would be a little cliché but it's a risk that could have been taken. Culture, I haven't seen a movie that shows so much culture. The Hmong culture is so complex and this movie does a great job of showing it. Not touching the head, don't look in the eye, smile when yelled at, the food, the music, the rituals, all important examples that gave the movie a unique edge. It also touches on black culture and gang culture. Life in the gang is terrible but that is how it works. This movie was accurate and precise with the aspect of culture.Overall this movie was a little boring at times but the story was still fantastic. It was very close but Gran Torino does get the WillyT seal of approval. It's a movie that should probably be seen alone but can be seen with friends and have a good time. It's a good movie, I've seen better, I've seen worse, but still a movie I can easily watch and will watch again. If you haven't seen Gran Torino it's a movie you can buy without seeing, you won't be disappointed.
Packing an old-school toughness beneath its contemporary setting, Gran Torino is another sleek, sound & sophisticated work from Clint Eastwood who this time not only impresses as a director but also leads the show from the front with a sturdy input that towers above all else.The story of Gran Torino follows a recently widowed Korean war veteran who has trouble getting along with everyone. When one of his neighbours tries to steal his car for his initiation into a gang, the grumpy old man sets out to reform him, and ends up doing more than he intended to.Directed by Clint Eastwood (best known for Unforgiven & Million Dollar Baby), the film finds the veteran actor exhibiting no loss in form, and still more than capable of carrying the entire film on his shoulders. His work behind the camera is just as polished though the story doesn't pack a strong emotional punch.Eastwood's old-school attitude & badass charisma is on full display here but it's delightful to watch him play a role he does better than anyone else. Though the rest of the cast play their part rather well, not one of them commands the screen like Eastwood does. As for the present Hmong culture, it is treated with respect.On an overall scale, Gran Torino is a small-scale production of a small-scale story that's skilfully crafted & steadily paced, and finds Eastwood in control of his craft, both in front & behind the camera. The story isn't memorable by any means nor does it deviate from the archetypical white saviour trope but the cinematic ride it offers is interesting, engaging & mostly satisfying. Watch it for Clint Eastwood.


                
Seeing Clint Eastwood now is like looking at a face weathered away on a mountain ridge. The crevices go so deep on his face that one has to put that right alongside the voice, which is now so growl-like (indeed Eastwood's Walt Kowalski does growl in some scenes) that he would be a dead-ringer to play Batman if Frank Miller's Dark Knight Returns ever got adapted (yeah, he's in his 50s in the comic book, it's not a stretch really for Clint when you think about it). At 78, you wouldn't want to cross his path down a dark alley, or even just in a diner, without paying some proper respects. It's his presence, if nothing else, that makes Gran Torino compulsively watchable. It may be flawed with some of its dialog and plotting, as well as some key performances. But it's Clint Eastwood directing and Clint Eastwood the star acting in a near perfect two-dimensional performance (it works best as that, anything too much explained actually defeats the strengths of Kowalski for the audience), which makes it a minor must-see.But there's more. Gran Torino showcases, in some scenes that have blistering comic effect, a rarity in movies: a drama about racism that focuses on a main character who is a kind of dying breed of pre-Baby-Boomer era racist blue-collar white workers who love drinking their beer, cursing out minorities (sometimes just kidding around or what amounts to kidding around, sometimes definitely not). It is in that sense kind of like a Dirty Harry picture, in that Eastwood's character is an equal opportunity offender. But he also is wearing a similar hat to his Million Dollar Baby persona, complete with a pestering Priest and a protégé in Thao (Bee Vang). He's a curmudgeon, and the kind that audience's eat up. At first, indeed, it's instantly comical, like a more parody-like take on the old-man Eastwood persona, grumbling around during his deceased wife's after-funeral dinner and while, well, sitting on his porch chugging Pabst Blue Ribbon and getting his shotgun out at those punk Asian gang-bangers having fights on his lawn.This leads to the obvious point that what Eastwood does as an actor makes it so watchable because it's layered: we get the "Get off my lawn!" line that made the trailer look as funny as it is- this is, at least for a good half of the movie, a kind of comical Eastwood performance without ever breaking a sweat- and as a soul who can't seem to figure on knowing how to live since knowing death is kind of easy as a veteran. And yet, for all of the joy in watching an icon like him on screen, and for some of the memorable scenes that make it enjoyable (oddly enough, since it's not as good a film as it, more enjoyable conventionally than Changeling from just two months ago), its not up to snuff with what Eastwood's done this decade at his best. In his 70s he's been more or less on a roll, making masterpieces like Mystic River and Letters from Iwo Jima and even near-excellent pics like Million Dollar Baby.Gran Torino, sadly, isn't one of them; for everything that Eastwood has going for him as star of the picture, he doesn't cast the bulk of the supporting parts well: Vang is actually dead-flat or just flubbing a lot of this character of Thao, and his sister Sue (Her) doesn't far much better. The Father (Carley) is decent but ineffective, and these kinds of average pieces of acting surrounding Eastwood magnify some of the phoned-in qualities in the script. While it goes without saying Gran Torino is nowhere near as hackneyed as Crash or lame as Guess Who's Coming to Dinner, for every powerful scene dealing with racism in the picture there's another that's just a little too tidy. It works best to see Kowalski not changing much by the picture's end, being still pretty true to who he is as a good person and a mean SOB, as opposed to silly scenes with the Korean gang who are gone for very long chunks of time from the story.For everything that doesn't work with the picture though it's just a lot of fun seeing Eastwood as this character. I'm not sure it is his last performance, as I hope it wouldn't be (as an optimist I'd hope he could find just one more icon-defining-and-redefining role before he moves on or retires), but it's not at all a sucker's way out of his iconic place. That's the way Clint, like Walt, would like it.


                
"Gran Torino" has to be the only good politically incorrect film to ever be made. Clint Eastwood's character Walt Kowalski is a crotchety and ignorant old Korean War vet whose vocabulary is a thesaurus of racial slurs. He's basically a racist Dirty Harry in his 70s-80s and the script hits us over the head with his unabashed insensitivity and cold-heartedness to the point where "Gran Torino" is half comedy. But then, as only a masterful director such as Eastwood can do, "Gran Torino" becomes one of those classic unlikely relationship films between a widower and his teenage Asian-American neighbor. It's a film with a great premise but an off-kilter script that Eastwood salvages into something poetic.There's no question Eastwood liked the potential he saw in rookie writers Nick Schenk and David Johannson's script for himself as an actor and a director. It is the perfect cap to his illustrious acting career, combining his great character acting in westerns and the Dirty Harry movies with his more dramatic pictures of the last 15 or so years. It's an unrefined story, but contains a lot of great storytelling potential.Taking place in an old Michigan neighborhood that has since become overrun with Hmong (Southeast Asian) immigrants, "Gran Torino" is about the widower Walt and the teenage Hmong boy next door, an introvert who is peer pressured to join his cousin's gang. When the boy, Thao, tries to steal Walt's 1972 Gran Torino and Walt unintentionally saves Thao from gang trouble, Walt, Thao and Thao's family become entangled, more so than Walt would like.Walt sort of mentors Thao in an inappropriate and grouchy way and he boldly confronts various gangs posing dangers to Thao and his sister Sue despite doing something each time to counter his act of "kindness" with a demeaning or ignorant comment. The script meddles with stereotypes a bit too much in this way, trying to use other characters' dialogue to battle the extremism of Eastwood's character. Sue, for example, gets hit on in one scene by three black guys who trash her white friend who calls them "bros" and to defend herself she starts calling them out on their stereotypical "pick on the Asian girl" behavior. Basically, "Gran Torino" gets a bit in over its head in trying to present an accurate racial palette.At the same time, diversity themes are part of the film's strength. No major film has focused on Hmong Americans before, and considering the prejudices Walt brings with him from the Korean War, they're an ideal focus for the story. The major differences between Walt's lifestyle and theirs is part of what keeps "Gran Torino" interesting.There's no question that Eastwood know what he's doing. He has an uncanny ability to keep the audience guessing what's coming but the story never goes where you expect it to. It's both engaging and surprising and his techniques speak as much truth if not more than the script.The only other thing hurting "Gran Torino" is its lack of an experienced supporting cast. Although Hmong actors needed to play Hmong characters, Walt's sons and the Catholic priest that pesters Walt to confess his sins are weak. Eastwood dominates the scenes he's in and if he's not in a scene, the film lacks power and authenticity. Walt might be a flagrant hater of all peoples not white and American, but he's at least convincingly so where the other actors aren't.So despite its twisted and questionably inadvertent sense of humor, "Gran Torino" is a triumph of veteran film-making and a dominating lead actor over amateur storytelling and a weak overall cast. The film takes refuge in its quiet but lovable teenage protagonist and the relationship he develops with a foul-mouthed old man and how both help each other in the end. We expect Walt to turn into a softie when he takes Thao under his wing, but he never caves completely, and that's admirable, even if it would be nice for him to take a break from the pejorative comments so that the laughs would be a bit more guilt-free. ~Steven CVisit my site at http://moviemusereviews.blogspot.com


                
Walt Kowalski's next door neighbor tries to steal his prize Gran Torino as an initiation for a gang. Walt Catches him and as pay back ends up taking the kid under his wing and teaching him things. However the gangs are still around and won't leave them alone.Clint Eastwood's second film in 2008 is a good little film about a life, getting older and how the people we "hate" may not be as bad as we thought. I like it, though to be honest I don't quite understand the exceptional raves the film is getting. Well acted I'm not certain that Eastwood really is the right choice for the role of Kowalski, though I'm guessing that with out his starring role the film may not have been made. This is not to say its a bad film, its not, not even remotely, its just that the Oscar talk surrounding it seems to be out of place and due more to the director and star.The scenes between Walt and his young neighbor are quite good and they more than make up for the scenes between Walt and the young priest which seem to be there to bludgeon deeper meaning into the proceedings. As it its a deceptively simple film, the film becomes something much more complex in its ending which raises some interesting questions about what might have happened earlier (I can not explain that with out revealing the end of the film). I don't think the film needed the priest scenes to be as 'clear" since I think the film was complex enough as it is. (Its one of those films where I got to the end and said, Ah yes that was what he was getting at.Its a good film. its worth a look, just stay off my lawn.
A great movie for all cinema lovers to enjoy.Spoiler: In his line, he remains one of the best filmmakers in the history of cinema. Do not lose your shooting style ever, elegance personified. Simply elegant. Move the camera and design the blueprints to tell and tell a story. His actors are always great. Although you know perfectly how it will end, since it is intuited from the beginning, the script is great, goes step by step. He has a great photograph that he uses to tell you the story, not a mere color on the screen. As the movie progresses we see how he uses the symbols correctly and always to tell us a story. It will be a bit typical, but I love it when it falls in the form of a cross when dying, I am not a believer but just see it to understand what counts. It is based on a series of characters to tell us the reality of this world, as it has spread the world and everything surrounds it with an excellent staging with a good make-up and costume, it will look normal, but that is how it should be.
Cute little film but overrated. Warm human story of strange friendship that offers the warmest sincerity in this rotten world against all odds is nice and deserves attention. However, the story even though emotional and warm is somehow dry and raw and lites only the surface of our hearts. I think that Eastwood has followed the patterns of the Hollywood style to concentrate on the plot to affect our feelings more than to try to develop the characters more carefully as well as their mutual interactions with him as the main hero. On the other hand, I love the charming way he introduced all the stupidity of prejudices based on racism and especially implied it during the Asian party he was invited to. It must be very hard to direct and play the main role in the movie, so I certainly send all my respect to Clint Eastwood's work in this movie. I do not agree with some people regarding the comments on bad acting in this movie especially Clint's. I think that he fits very well the character he played.


                
Eastwood makes this movie watchable. His presence energizes the movie throughout. I kept trying to imagine other actors that might fit this role (Duvall, Ford, Caan, Hopkins, others) and I came up with a 4 out of 10 rating movie. The rest of the acting in the movie is average at best. Eastwood is showing his age and is a bit of an anachronism (probably intentionally), but I still wish I was half that hardcore.I rated the movie a 7 overall. Gran Torino seemed to bog down a couple of times and Thao's (Bee Vang) acting was terrible. His dialog delivery took me completely out of the movie at least 3 times. The rest of the cast was solid with Eastwood obviously standing head and shoulders above the rest of the cast just by presence alone. In summary, he completely carries this movie start to finish.


                
I was hoping something more in the beginning because in Eastwood's films i expect more,his intelligence is unquestionable but in this film he is playing by himself. He really shows his quality by his performance (one of the best in this year) but the rest of the cast was miserable. So film can be watch just for one man's acting.Eastwood's direction is perfect simple but effective and screenplay(jokes was brilliant) is well but not good enough to tolerance bad acting.But i can guarantee you that you will laugh a lot when watching Eastwood he is really good at in this in this film.He must choose the rest of his cast more carefully after this film


                
Clint Eastwood proves ones again that he is a master filmmaker actor and even at this age he is so bloody good. This is about Walt Kowalski- a veteran of the Korean war who is of an old mindset. This movie entertains. It does so with a sly undercurrent of humor mostly from the crusty Walt. The other characters are rich and well portrayed also. Key to the story is the developing father/son relationship Walt grudgingly initiates with his teenage next door neighbor Thao. I will not spoil that as its pure golden. Walt Kolwalski is a real curmudgeon that, while vile, is so funny you gotta love him. Though we never meet his wife we know she was the absolute love of his life. He's old too and perhaps is facing an eminent decline, possibly soon as we are led to believe. Against this backdrop he faces head-on his mortality and his wishes to have done things differently...Not the least of which are his regret of not being a good father to his sons and, even more importantly, not seeking God's forgiveness. When he decides the situation he and his Asian neighbors are caught in must end he seeks a resolution within which he constructs his own brand of redemption. A must watch.


                
I'm a bit torn about this movie. it's a great story and Eastwood is perfect for the role and delivers his usual great performance. However the rest of the cast is terribly amateurish, which greatly diminishes the overall quality of the final product. Still very much worth the watch and I regret waiting for so long before giving it a go.


                
In his line, he remains one of the best filmmakers in the history of cinema. He never loses his shooting style, elegance personified. Simply elegant. Move the camera and design the plans to tell and tell a story.His actors are always great. It relies on a series of characters to tell us the reality of this world, how the world has been distributed and everything surrounding it with an excellent staging with a good makeup and costumes, it will seem normal, but that is the way it should be.Although you know perfectly how it will end, since it is intuited from the beginning, the script is great, it goes step by step.It has a great picture that uses to tell you the story, it is not a mere color on the screen.Directing, it seems that he does it alone, without thinking, but the camera is placed in the right place at every moment. There is no free plane change. It has the necessary tempo.As the film progresses, we see how it uses the symbols correctly and always to tell us a story.
A great movie for all lovers of the great cinema to enjoy.Spoiler:It will be a bit typical, but I love it when it falls in the shape of a cross when I die, I am not a believer but it is enough to see it to understand what counts.
I think some people get so used to high budgeted films with special effects and big-named actors that when they see something like Gran Torino, they think it's garbage. Well, I completely disagree. I've seen this movie a few times now and each time, the story moves me and the comedic dialogue makes me laugh. Sure the actors are not the best you'll see in a movie, especially the kid, Thao, which somehow made me cringe a few times. This adds to the dialogue which could have been better, because yes, it was funny a few times, but I believe they could have changed something. Overall the movie was okay, the plot of the movie is what got me the most, and i enjoyed watching it a lot.


                
I really liked the film Gran Torino. Clint Eastwood does an outstanding job in his portrayal of Walt Kowalski. Kowaslski is a Korean War vet and retired auto worker who has maintained the gritty nature from both environments. Eastwood who also directed the film does a good job of pulling in emotional effect by maintaining Kowalski's grit and hardcore exterior while changing the hardness of his heart. Kowalski takes interest in his Asian neighbor Thao and his family. Kowalski serves as the male figure that Thao has needed in his life. In doing this, Kowalski struggles with the social problems encountered by Thao and his sister, especially from an Asian gang.Kowalski kind of reminded me of my father who was also a war vet and worked over 40 years in the steel industry; he possessed a hard exterior, but deep down inside he had a soft spot for people. The way that Kowalski embraced not only the cultural difference, but age difference as well showed that he had a coming of age so to speak. This film showed how Kowalski lost his wife, but gained the love and respect of Thao and his family. His strength and character were also shown in a very good way.The production was good as well. The use of different forms of lighting as well as the camera focus added to the quality of the film. Gran Torino is a quality film that I would watch again.
having only seen the posters of the movie, I did not know much about it, except that Clint Eastwood plays a racist old war veteran with Asian neighbors. Of course I was expecting the whole tough guy thing from Clint Eastwood, but what really got me into the story was the gang culture in an Asian dominated neighborhood.now, Clint, as always is good in his tough guy role and even at 80+, he still seems like the guy u don't want to mess with. i loved the scene where he intimidates the gangs that he comes face to face with. especially the scene where he points his finger at an African American gang, like a gun and an Asian gang in later scenes.his relationship with the Asian neighbors, especially the fatherly figure he becomes to tao and Sue is quite nicely portrayed and at times hilarious and rather heart warming. he nicely fitted into his role as an old racist man, who slowly begins putting aside his prejudices and appreciating his culturally different neighbors.the dialogues in the movie were excellent too, especially the one's where you can see the dirty harry still alive in Eastwood. Man! it was quite an experience watching Eastwood deliver yet another Oscar worthy performance. I would recommend this movie to basically anyone who appreciates good drama with tough dialogues delivered with style.


                
Clint Eastwood is without a doubt the biggest movie star since John Wayne rode off the stage.Eastwood has done it all and his latest movie shows that Eastwood went from being a great actor to one of the best directors Hollywood has ever seen.In this movie Eastwood stars and directs.Eastwood plays Walt Kowalski,a retired auto worker,who is watching his neighborhood turn into a mixture of ethnic groups.Soon after his wife dies a group of Hmungs move into the house next to him.The Hmungs are a mixed Asian people who helped the US during the Vietnam war.Being a Korean war vet Eastwood has no liking for the Asians next door nor much of anyone else for that matter.He has two rather dopey sons who don't have much time for their old man and Kowalski ,being an equal opportunity hater ,seems to hate his own family as much as he does the blacks and Asians who are taking over his neighborhood.Kowalski's pride and joy is his 1972 Gran Torino that he helped build back in his days on the assembly line.The Hmung family next door has two teenagers ,a girl and a boy,who are soon at the mercy of an Asian gang who attempts to recruit the boy and harass the girl.The gang also develops a liking for the Gran Torino.Kowalski gradually builds up a grudging respect for the Hmung family next door.But the Asian gang soon makes life miserable for Kowalski and his new friends and he decides if the family next door has any chance the gang members must be taken out of the picture.This was a very good movie.Eastwood knows his stuff and it shows.As an actor or director he is among the best to ever appear on the big screen.He has a presence like no one since John Wayne.The movie wasn't perfect by any means.The two young Asian actors were surprisingly bad at times.I'm a bit shocked that Eastwood would allow some of their scenes into the picture and a few of the scenes were a bit off ,such as the scene in the barber shop where Kowalski was trying to get the young Asian man to learn to talk 'like a man'.That just didn't ring true for a gruff old man like Kowalski.But still these small issues aside this was a very good film.The ending was jaw dropping and totally unexpected and Eastwood used his own reputation to completely warp your perception of how this movie was going to end.I'll watch anything Eastwood directs and especially anything he stars in.While he may not hit the mark exactly on every film,who does,his body of work when it's all said and done will stand up against anyone in filmdom history,director or actor.Rumor has it that this may be Eastwood's last role in front of the camera.I hope not ,he is still more fun to watch than any of the little teenybopper crap-heads who some people laughingly refer to as 'movie stars' these days.But if it is his last acting role he ended his career with a very good film.Eastwood is one of the giants and we won't see his likes again once he wraps up his career.


                
shades of Eastwood's mentor, Don Siegels' the Shootist (1976) abound here in what could be Eastwoods swansong. Like john Wayne in the aforementioned film, the presence of this films leading star and the connotations associated with the characters from his previous fifty of work, and perhaps more specifically his body of work from 1964 to 1993. Misfit, no nonsense cops, war veterans, bounty hunters and bare knuckle boxers are mashed together create one of Clint's best characters Walt Kowalski.Clint growls his way through the film playing the recently widowed Korean war Veteren who must contend with the local immigrant population. his own family have all but deserted the cantankerous old man, his only solace is found in his 1972 Gran Torino. After a a young Hmong boy , Thao tries to steal it he sets about trying to reform the boy, which leads to him becoming embroiled in the local imigrants problems with the neighbourhood gangs. Those expecting action will be sorely disappointed, but what Eastwood the director does deliver is a poignant, yet never overly sentimental drama. The climax manages to be tense, terse and soberingly realistic
I watched Gran Torino yesterday. Being a big fan of Clint Eastwood and his films I was very much looking forward to seeing this film and as far as script, directing and plot went it didn't disappoint.The dialogue was great and it is definitely one of the more interesting scripts with a great character development process (especially with the main character) and a touching and rather surprising ending.Clint Eastwood proves in this film that he should be recognised as being among the great film makers and actors of his generation.However... Something needs to be said about the god-awful casting of this film.Bee Vang, who plays the main supporting part of Thao in the film has got to be one of the worst actors I have ever had the displeasure of seeing on screen. Granted he's a first timer, but in my opinion that is not an excuse. Throughout the film, his complete and utter lack of acting talent is enough to make you cringe yourself silly. He is completely wooden and unbelievable - one particular scene that involves him banging on a cellar door in frustration is so amateurish that the entire emotional side of an otherwise well-written scene is completely lost on the audience. Hopefully, and most likely, Bee Vang's acting career will be nipped in the bud after this.The other supporting characters were also very bad. Thao's sister was marginally better than the others but her performance still left much to be desired. The scene in which she returns after being brutalised by her own cousin is very poorly acted and she seems emotionally unaffected by the whole thing in the scenes that follow.All in all, Gran Torino is a brilliant movie that is ruined by bad acting, and although acting is not the whole movie it is one of the most important aspects. The whole feel of the film is pulled away from the viewer when they are forced to endure such horrendous performances.However, I plan on seeing this film again soon. Now that I know what to expect from the supporting cast I am prepared for it and may be able to emmerse my self more into the story.If the acting had been acceptable this film might very well have received 8 or even 9 stars from me.7/10
Gran Torino is not Clint Eastwood's best movie. Not by a long shot. However, even when Eastwood is not quite on top of his game, the result is still pretty darn good. I didn't even mind the somewhat depressing ending, because...well, that's just Eastwood. No one tells a tragic tale better than him. And what occurs in this film is tragic. But there is a ray of hope found at the end of this story...the idea that sacrifice and honor will ultimately defeat suppression and hatred. Eastwood's Walt Kowalski is a crotchety old man, and an angry bigot. At times, it's even a little difficult to like the man. But, as the famous saying goes, "you can't judge a book by it's cover." And, in the end, when the time calls for Walt to make a decision that will ultimately bring about dire consequences for himself, but ensure the safety of others, he doesn't even think twice. This is vintage Eastwood. That's not to say that there weren't any problems with this film though. Actually there were quite a few. It did seem a bit long, and yet the running time was just a shade under two hours. Simply put, there were a few scenes that could have used some editing, or could have been cut out completely. An example would be when Walt takes young Thao to the barber shop. I know that this scene was supposed to help illustrate the friendship developing between Walt and Thao. However, I think the film had already established that fact by the time this scene rolled around, and thus it seemed a bit redundant and distracting. And I'm not surprised that this was the first acting experience for Ahney Her (Sue), and Bee Vang (Thao). While they did a passable job, it seemed like, at times, they were reading their lines from a cue card. Part of the wooden acting, however, may also have been the result of a screenplay that needed some work. But, even with all the weaknesses, this is still a pretty good film. I would even go so far as to say it's a must for Eastwood fans. And if, as some have suggested, this is his last film as far as acting is concerned, he goes out with a bang. Figuratively and literally.
