Hot on the heels of 'Changeling' Eastwood is back and as well as directing he is back in front of the camera. He plays Walt Kowalski a recently widowed ex-Vietnam veteran who harbours slight racism and bitterness which isn't helped by the changing world he now lives in alone. He has relatives but they only seem to call when they want something and his grandkids have already started deciding what they will have of his when he dies. He has a few mates he drinks with in the pub but other than that his neighbourhood is being overrun by immigrants and gang warfare. Walt's next door neighbours are a Hmong family with no father figure and after the son tries to steal his prize car, the 'Grand Torino' of the title, Walt decides to try and reform the boy and hopefully as time passes learn about their culture and change his mind before he dies. As with all Eastwood films where you begin isn't where you will end up and the story takes many turns that will test all of your emotions, I laughed, I cried and I got angry it's a real roller-coaster. But its Clint's aged 'Dirty Harry' in Walt that steals the show and anytime he is on screen he is mesmerising which means that the supporting cast members are barely noticeable. At times it plays like Lynch's 'Straight Story' with sprinkles of 'Taxi Driver' but the real beauty is in the old fashioned storytelling, something that Clint is a dab hand at, mix that with the modern day context and you have a gripping and enthralling film. It's no wonder that so many 'best of year' lists contain this film, they should, it is that good and it proves that even at 78 Eastwood is a force to be reckoned with when it comes to movies in front or behind the camera or in the case of 'Grand Torino' both.
If there's any Clint Eastwood film that sums up his 'jack of all trades' reputation, then this one has got to be it. There's nothing that the guy doesn't do, and this peculiar yet powerful character study is the perfect example of that. 'Gran Torino' is a very smart and hugely enjoyable drama film with a brilliant ending that tops off what is a truly great story.It is a story built on characters and friendship where you would least expect to find it. The character development is excellent, and rarely will you find such a convincing and diverse bunch of characters that work so well together. The film's strength is definitely in its simplicity, with the stripped back, raw approach complementing the storyline perfectly. 'Gran Torino' is an impressive character-driven drama with a memorable ending.


                
Gran Torino came out in 2008, with Clint Eastwood directing, producing and starring in it.Walt Kowalski, played by Clint Eastwood is a Korean War veteran. He has recently lost his wife and doesn't have a close relationship to his sons. An Asian family moves next to Walt. At first he doesn't want anything to do with them. One night he sees Thao stealing his Gran Torino. He then chases Thao and the gang, who made Thao do it, of his lawn, thus earning the respect from his Asian neighbors. He then starts building up a relationship to his neighbors, even taking Thao under his wing. But the peace does not last long, as the gang seeks revenge.I like the movie very much. Clint Eastwood gives a wonderful performance, with also the supporting cast being brilliant. The story was excellent, showing how much a person can chance, when the prejudices are put aside. The screenplay was also surprisingly funny, especially Kowalski and Thao having On-Screen chemistry. The movie was directed very Eastwood-esk, often just taking two or three shots like in "Mystic River" or "Million Dollar Baby". The only downside of the movie is that some characters are a little bit clichéd. Overall I would recommend this movie to pretty much everyone, as the themes of racism and overcoming your prejudices affect all of us.


                
At the beginning of the movie I was wondering if I should keep watching it or not because it didn't appear interesting. But as we go deeper in the film, we start to feel more suspense I kept watching till the end , and yes it surprised me . I didn't expect it to be that good 
Destined to be a classic . Recommended


                
Strong characters that continue to grow through the entire movie. A simple plot, well written and well acted. Clint Eastwood is an astounding actor but that occasionally highlighted the relative weakness of his surrounding cast. The messages of this movie are not heavy handed. What happens happens and it is up to you to take from it what you will. Great movie that I would not be surprised if I watch again eventually.


                
The film is about a Korean war veteran, Walt Kowalski, who lives with his dog. He'd lost his wife recently and doesn't have a good relationship with his sons. Walt is bitter and tormented by the war's ghosts. Besides, he's getting annoyed with the increasing presence of immigrants in his neighborhood.One of his neighbors, an Asian boy named Thao, tries to steal his car, a 1972 Gran Torino, in order to be accepted in a gang but is stopped by Walt and his gun. After some events, Walt and Thao become friends while having to deal with the violence of the street gang.I think the script is very good. It explores themes such as racism, friendship, anger, revenge and redemption in a creative (and sometimes funny) way. It's about life and death and how the death of one person can bring life to another. Clint Eastwood does a great job reviving his "tough-guy" type but this time with lots of emotion and experience. Very Good!


                
There may not be any native Californian Indians chasing Clint in this film but if this story line were played to the backdrop western theme score "Tombstone" you would swear you were watching Clint playing the character Joe from his 1964 western For A Few Dollars More. Clint plays a grouchy old Polish descent Korean war vet named Walt Kowalski, who with each passing decade has seen his neighborhood gentrified which is difficult for an old war vet like Walt to adjust to being surrounded by the people he shot at decades ago when he was shipped overseas.When one of his next door neighbours teenage kid attempts to steal his priceless Gran Torino you think there would be hell to pay? Instead Walt Kowalski sees in this young man named Thao (played by Bee Vang) a lost soul who needs his help to stay on the right path and to stay as far away from the neighborhood criminal elements.We learn through time that as the old western saying goes...."Walt's bark is a lot worse than his bite." Walt Kowalsky is a widower who is a foul mouthed (appears to be) racist old Korean war vet who happens to be estranged from his adult sons and his grandchildren so Walt develops an inner fondness for his foreign born neighbors and we see his heart shine through when trouble comes a calling in Walt Kowalsky's neighbourhood. Clint Eastwood directed himself in Gran Torino and he is more than prepared to share the limelight with his co-stars which is an admirable quality in the (then) 78 year old actor/director who is still going strong today ten (10) years later.We love you Clint, so don't go riding/driving out in to the sunset just yet. I believe you have a few more songs to sing before the sun goes down for the last time even at your current age of 88.I give Gran Torino an 8 out of 10 rating.


                
As the granddaughter of a couple of grumpy old men who are protective of their property, more than borderline racist, and often find themselves living in the past, this movie hit the nail on the head. It made me miss the grandfather who has left this world, and made me want to call up my Pop straight away to see how he's going. The movie was a beautiful example of knocking down cultural and generational walls that divide us, and demonstrates that you can indeed teach an old dog new tricks. It was interesting to watch the dynamic between Walt and Sue, and between Walt and Thao. I spent a lot of the movie hating Walt's family and being able to connect their behaviour to members of my own family. "Your wife is dead. Time to move you to a nursing home." (When really they're thinking "One parent down, now we want to sell your house so we can have some cash.") And trying to pretend like they were doing it all to help him. It seems that a few people have raised the question of inheritance. I have a very loving relationship with my grandparents, who other people label as "intolerant" or "grumpy", some of these people being their own children or other relatives. They disrespect them, behind their back and to their face, and yet when it comes to their wills, they expect to be included. A relationship with our elders is not just about wooing them into leaving us something, nor should being left something by an elder be an expectation just because you're a child/grandchild etc. The points lost were for the religious dude. I can't stand religion, so I always have trouble when there's a forceful religious sycophant involved.


                
Having just seen this latest peace of work by Mr. Eastwood I am stunned. The last time I can remember having so many mixed emotions from a film would probably be that of One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest. Straight away we are rooting for Eastwoods character, Walt Kowalski, a 78 year old Korean war veteran who has just lost his wife. It is no surprise that Walt is a little bit tetchy, and one can only think they have seen this character some where before. It is clear that Eastwood is nearing the end of his journey so making a film of such depth and soul is a credit to the man. It deals with issues that young and old can relate to making you laugh and cry along the way. The simplicity of the film is its charm and handles sensitive issues such as race in a way that doesn't patronise. Oscar worthy? Yes, and one can only feel a little saddened as there isn't going to be many more these gems to come from one of the corner stones of modern cinema.


                
Few films have been able to translate an aspect that war can have on surviving veterans - that aspect being the embedded hate for 'the enemy' that dominates the world view of those who have had to fight in the battlefields, a hate that too easily translates into generalized racism that persists throughout the life of the veteran. GRAN TORINO takes on this ugly issue and works it with such compelling force that just when the audience feels is cannot tolerate any more racial slurs a transformation takes place, opening a window to understanding and perhaps altering the poison of racism's effects on American Family While at first it may look to be another episode of Dirty Harry or "What would a retired Dirty Harry do?", this is a much complex movie. Yes the character depicted here by Clint Eastwood, has some similarities with his "Dirty Harry" character, but in the end, he's very different from him (you will get what I mean, if you watch the movie).I wouldn't call this a masterpiece yet it is a great movie, a little slow paced but entertaining enough. Eastwood here suffers from the abandon of his family and the death of his wife. For an old man, it could mean a depression and neurosis but he's capable of teaching a young boy what life is about. He also demonstrates he's a kind man and with an exquisite sense of humor. The movie is about Eastwood learning tolerance and befriended with Hmong neighbors. He befriends the young girl there, Sue and her brother, Thao. Thao has a cousin in a gang that keeps trying to get him to join and Walt becomes involved. The racist jokes and commentaries suit the movie's tone. Those dialogs are filled with black humor and tongue in cheek humor. Although Bee Vang delivers a great, emotional performance as Thao "Toad" Vang Lor, he is eclipsed by Eastwood's performance as Walt Kowalski. Some sad moments will even make the viewer feel mad and hate the gang members. But Walt Kowalski is an old matured guy and knows exactly what life and it's burdens mean.So through his experience, fierce attitude, badass behavior, and unique sense of humor, he teaches Thao a lesson of life. The way the plot unfolds is awesome to watch. From an unapproachable and unpleasant old guy to a friend you can rely on in times of need is a pretty amazing transformation, and the film excels in detailing this change. The film spends almost 25 odd-minutes to prepare the viewer for climax, which left me engaged, worrying about the calamity that might happen. This sort of suspense and engagement is almost unprecedented. And when the inevitable climax finally happens, I felt overwhelmingly sad within myself. Yes, "Gran Torino" is profoundly moving and must watch for any EASTWOOD fan<U+0085><U+0085>My Rating - 8/10


                
I feel like a good movie is something that is taken for granted these days. Some films have HUGE hype but get low return and don't hold up to what they were made to believe. You didn't hear any hype about "Gran Torino" before it came out; there was no party like there was for The Avengers release or people waiting in the movie line to see Harry Potter. But if you ever have seen another Clint Eastwood movie, you know that this movie measures up to following some of the greatest movies made by Clint Eastwood."Gran Torino" is one of those movies that you just get drawn into and it can make you want to watch it over and over. The overall theme of the movie is to not give up on what you believe in and keep fighting for what you think is right. Walt Kowalski befriends an Asian family where the son Thao is bullied and a gang attempts to force him into their gang. Walt fights for what he feels is right and teaches the kid "how to be a man." Walt Kowalski is shown as a 'hardass' in the movie and you kind of get the notion that he really doesn't care about a lot and you wonder what is going to happen throughout the movie; but you soon learn what Walt is really about. Walt Kowalski wants to teach Thao the important things in life and wants to pull him away from the gang life that he could be destined for is he continues on the route his life is on.Some people can argue with this movie and say that it wasn't one of Clint Eastwood's best movies but as director and actor, Eastwood made a very touching and heartfelt movie that everyone can truly say they took something from. This is a movie that can teach everyone something new and could definitely be looked at as an inspirational film. After you watch Walt Kowalski fight for what he thinks is right and start to develop Thao into a man, a dark twist comes into the movie and you learn a secret about Walt that you never knew about.


                
Clint Eastwood is a bad ass, even at 70!!! A man who can use his hands to impersonate a gun, to intimidate gangs is a LEGEND!!!! That's all you need to know. But seriously, what a good film. It's such a good story and a fitting ending....and talk about character development. Not one scene is unnecessary, and it's such a realistic situation, but made into a great story. I just had a smile on my face all the way through, mainly due to Clint Eastwoods character. And that song at the end with Eastwood and Jamie Cullen is a very touching ending. I'm just sorry I didn't see this film earlier. Pure Gold!


                
This guy was just stubborn, i thought first of all. But it turned to be that i was wrong. You can't see how great someone is from just appearance. You can't judge someone until you see someone's inside.


                
I've only watched this movie once but I liked it and would watch it again.


                
A good storyline showcasing racism and humanity. Good acting, well directed.


                
It's very slow at first. However, near the second act the story gets to be very interesting, and has a shocking ending.


                
The plot of the story you most likely know so I'll skip that and just give you my 2 measly cents.Clint's latest flick of self-change, bravery and having an open mind is definitely another solid flick from this phenom of an actor/director. Gran Torino isn't perfect like his past pictures like Million Dollar Baby or Letters and Flag, but it succeeds like those do in giving messages.The film's really only gripe is the acting by the Hmong characters. I don't know why exactly that they all seemed to have zero acting experience but I'm sure Clint had a hand in that. Probably to make the movie seem more authentic he chose non-actors to be casted. And actually it works if you think about it that way. It's a guess, but it really seems that was the case.The story and the message he was delivering to people his own age is what stood out for me. I can't count how many times I've seen old timers be flat out racist or just express themselves as if the problems they were plagued by years and years ago are still a legit reason to be crotchety today. Stubbornness, narrow-minded ideals are major issues with war vets and children of the years past. It's obvious this will most likely be an ever-present problem but with Clint's celebrity and his loyal following of people who grew up with him, I'm sure it'll sink in some of these old farts heads that this is the sure way to think. Even for a young guy like myself I take these lessons displayed and try to keep my mind from becoming close-minded.So next time I hit up the local dive bar, the YMCA or anywhere for that matter and I hear a disgruntled old poop talk about his 30+ year issues, I'll tell him/her to watch Gran Torino. Then they'll probably tell me they don't watch movies.....


                
I sat in a full theater with what I suspect was a crowd older than me. You have to have a crowd like that to appreciate what Eastwood was trying to say.The crowd laughed at all the right parts in the movie: the time when Eastwood's character would let out a stream of non-PC comments, and the time when he stood down the punks.Maybe we have become a nation that is too PC and I believe Eastwood was telling us that. The old man had his ghosts and it was eating at him from inside. He couldn't relate to any other world. A man has to do what a man has to do is the saying, I believe. If you can't understand that, than you are not a man, just someone to be pitied or ridiculed.But, there was a soft side of the character that opened the door to a relationship with a young man who really needed a father. The relationship grew so great that Eastwood's character did the most noble thing one man could do for another.Eastwood was magnificent, Ahney Her was a treasure, and Bee Vang was perfect. I really hope to see more of these two in the future.


                
For some strange reason I avoided this movie for all this time. I presumed it would be a routine movie around the subject of racism with stereotypical characters.I should have known better - as it stars and is directed by the great Clint Eastwood. Admittedly the movie does start out fairly predictably and you kinda think you can guess how the story might pan out.Good performances by all the major players - the goodies and the baddies!!! The thug gang types were very realistic. I do think that Clint's racist character is very in-tune with the 'average' racist in as much as he has preconceived ideas and beliefs about 'recent' foreign immigrants. Clint's character himself is an polish immigrant from many years ago and regards himself as a true American, rather than a Polish immigrant! Worth a watch - it comes round on TV fairly regularly - it is more than just a routine racism movie, it goes a lot deeper.


                
Another high quality film from Clint Eastwood. When you look at his track record he is definitely one of the great living Hollywood directors. He has a great eye for a story that will grab people's attention. Gran Torino is about a lot of things, aging, family relationships, the immigrant experience amongst others. The story is quite simple. Walt (Eastwood),a widower living alone in an area of suburban Detroit now mostly inhabited by Asian immigrants. He dislikes them intensely and doesn't try to hide it word or deed. Due to an incident he (almost despite himself)becomes close to the young Asian boy living next door. He tries to pass on his beliefs on what is right and how a man should behave to the boy and they become friends. However local tensions arise again with tragic consequences and Walt has to make a decision about what is the right thing to do, knowing it will effect him, the boy and the boy's family. Eastwood is excellent, literally growling through some scenes as Walt expresses his (mostly negative)opinions about the world around him. In more than one scene he plays to good effect with the "Man with NoName" and "Dirty Harry" characters the audience associate with Eastwood. The middle part of the film, as Walt and his neighbour become best buddies is very funny at times, though we know somehow that violence will rear it's ugly head before the end. A moral tale then and one well worth watching.
I enjoyed this movie. No, Walt Kowalski is not the most likable character. But it's an honest portrayal of the way some men of his (or any) generation view the world. His struggle to cope with the changes happening around him, and the application of his old fashion values to the problems faced by the Hmong as they grow on him is a worthy journey to take as the film plays out. Even if you don't like Walt, you eventually root for him.Funny script, good acting from a bunch of newcomers, and a worthy addition to Clint Eastwood's acting, writing and directing accomplishments.


                
I'll keep this short, Gran Torino was an amazing film. I walked in knowing little about the plot but hearing it was a great film. My expectations were low so it probably increased my overall reaction.You can find a better plot description elsewhere so I won't waste your (and my) time. Clint Eastwood was absolutely fantastic and I was shocked to see a best actor nomination wasn't given to one of the best performances I have ever seen in a film. The Asian gang harassing the neighborhood were menacing and genuinely scary. I felt uneasy every time they showed up and was glad they weren't reduced to the clichés they so easily could have become.But what made the movie for me was that Gran Torino felt real. It didn't feel like a green screen studio with paid actors and trailers off screen. There weren't any references to Eastwood's older films, no shameless product placement and nothing that could show you're watching a movie rather than looking out your window.See this film.


                
Gran Torino is no cheap car flick. It is a deep, introspective film that left me applauding its creator - and star. I appreciate the fact that Eastwood, as a working actor and director, champions elders in our culture. As someone who hails from the Detroit area, but has lived elsewhere in the U.S., I appreciate the film's depiction of Detroit's little known diversity and the fact that Kowalski was a proud city dweller - in an older neighborhood. Most of all, standing up to a gang is something that all Detroiters and people in many parts of the country, and world, can cheer. I do hate the fact that so many characters with guts are depicted as alcoholics in film, let's get beyond that. Eastwood values all the right things, helping the vulnerable, shunning shallowness - even when its in your own family and of course, love of animals! Great film, great message...


                
Yes this movie deals with the Hmong and other races. first this movie introduces the Hmong community and some of its culture but Hmong people like all ethnicities including Caucasians can not be described by one view. for example the film describes Hmong as being shamanistic and animist but many Hmong are Christians also. it would not be fair to say all whites are white devils and catholic. of course this film draws out the stereotypes that many people have about Asian Americans as displayed by the jokes in the film. also the film talks about the stereotypical Caucasians that care about nothing but inheriting money and valuables. American materialism in short. their are different types of relationships that the Hmong people in the movie have with Clint Eastwood's character. the younger generation in the movie have a better relationship with Eastwood while the Hmong grandma despises Eastwood's character. and there is a good and debatable reason. in Hmong she says the whites came and lied to us and caused us to lose our homes and our way of life. it is true that during and after the Vietnam war the CIA did recruit and use Hmong soldiers to fight communism as stated in the film. the movie does deal with economic issues of race such as Tao believing that it is impossible for him to go to college and get a job. whether we believe this or not we cannot disagree that there are lingering traces of racism in America. the film does show that by getting to know each other we may not be so different yes different in religion and culture but not in humanity. if you did not know what Hmong is before this movie will give you a limited glimpse into the Hmong because no two hour movie will ever be enough to define any nationality or demographic.


                
Sure, there is no such thing as originality anymore. Every idea has been done to death already, and the redemption theme is no different. But, regardless of that, Eastwood has still made an excellent film, that had me on the verge of tears near the end. The only other movies that come to mind that has the same effect are Finding Neverland and Gone Baby Gone.So many movies like this try to find a "forced" happy ending, thankfully, Eastwood resisted the temptation of higher box office in exchange for making a "feel good movie." The film ended the only way it could have, and remain realistic.Sure, Eastwood shouldn't have given into the hubris of singing the end credits theme himself, but, that's a small issue, and in ways, his rough, raspy voice fits the theme of the film well.Only the fact that yes, the theme has been done countless times before makes this movie an 8 instead of a 9.See this one!
