I feel like I should let everyone reading this know of my inherent bias in favor of this film. I have seen twenty eight films from Clint Eastwood as director and have liked the vast majority of them, and loved a good number of them (my average rating for the 28 films is 7.9). Still, something felt off about "Gran Torino" based on the trailer. I read it as Eastwood trying to be 'badass' again, trying to be Dirty Harry again. "Gran Torino" is not that. Walt Kowalski may have similarities with Dirty Harry, and could possibly be read as a significantly older version of Harry (it's a stretch), but he is a distinctive, memorable character on his own, and I'd go as far as saying that it's one of Eastwood's finest performances, and one which gives him a chance to show off his dramatic and comedic chops.I'm not going to argue that "Gran Torino" has perfect acting from the younger supporting cast. It doesn't. In fact, some of them are downright bad at times, but the film works in spite of its flaws. This screenplay was probably written with Eastwood in mind (I am not sure of the behind-the-scenes details on this) and it shows. He captures Kowalski perfectly. The film is surprisingly humorous, something that isn't being captured well enough in advertising. It's absolutely hilarious at times (watch as Kowalski attempts to make a man out of Thao by teaching him how to talk like men do), and Eastwood handles the shifts in tone brilliantly. When the film takes a dark turn towards the end I sat on the edge of my seat in suspense, fully aware of where it was heading but still mesmerized by Eastwood's tour-de-force direction. This is an artist at his prime as an actor and as a director.Whether or not "Gran Torino" will hold up as one of Eastwood's great films remains to be seen, and the film feels like it would be good for multiple viewings. The characterization is strong and not simplistic at all, you could argue that Kowalski is just another grouchy war vet, but Eastwood's beautiful, nuanced performance as well as some neat little touches in the screenplay (particularly towards the end) which I won't discuss in detail to avoid spoiling anything (and it's really fun to watch this movie unfold, Eastwood keeps the film moving at a wonderfully involving pace) would prove you wrong. The film works on yet another level as a deconstruction of Eastwood's image. I don't mean that as a negative, it just adds to the film's strength as a character study.It's a more intimate film than Eastwood's other film this year, "Changeling", and also on a smaller scale than many of his other films, but it's just as ambitious in many ways. This is not a politically correct film about a grouchy old racist suddenly turning into the most tolerant person around, it is a film about a man who, near the end of his life, is forced to confront his demons, and on the sunnier side about a man who finds true friendship where he least expected it. By the end of "Gran Torino" I had forgiven any flaws it might have, and was completely satisfied with the film, which far exceeded my expectations. I have a feeling that "Gran Torino", which has already been met with strongly positive reviews (but is still being described as a 'minor' Eastwood film by some), will eventually become an especially important part of Eastwood's filmography.


                
Gran Torino - They don't make them like they used to....Mr. Eastwood has a knack for storytelling. Instead of being preachy or having an all to obvious agenda, he lets his viewers make up their own minds. His characters don't have a message, they have a life and make no excuses for who they are. In so many subtle and intelligent ways we are allowed to make our own choices. Like with Kowalski in the movie, you are not confronted with a role model hammering home all those "life's important messages", but rather with a movie saying "Look! This is the way it worked out for me. And I think I know a few tricks that might help you, but in the end it's your own life. However, you have to trust me when I say that there are a some things you don't want to see or experience!". Some people will leave this movie entirely untouched, others will certainly be crying their guts out. Not because some people "get it" and others "don't", but because it is a brilliant piece of entertainment reaching out to every viewer in its own specific way.Eastwood's acting is top notch again, although the years have not been very kind to his voice. The rest of the cast are fine, but one can certainly spot their more amateurish backgrounds here and there which is the main reason why I could not give this one a 10/10.Apart from that there is little to criticize. It's not an action movie, not a drama movie and certainly not a comedy (even though you get a few laughs out of this one). It's simply a good story about life.....and death.


                
seeing the trailer for this film kinda made me expect id be watching Dirty Harry in the suburbs.What I saw was a bittersweet superbly written, well acted story of humanity and friendship,this film is something that we can all relate to in some way, and isn't Hollywooded up in anyway, the film tells it story without any un needed hidden undertones that so many mainstream directors do to films.Eastwood is excellent as the hard nosed war vet, and his direction is perfect as always, and supporting cast did there job just fine tooClint Eastwood was perfect for the role and as director, as he has the knack of taking a story and making a film for the audience to get sucked into the story, and not for critics to pick apart....great film making,


                
I saw Gran Torino opening weekend and after hearing rave reviews, I was looking forward to it. After seeing it, I realized what people were excited about, it was Clint's performance, this is a man you do not want to mess with. He's the perfect good guy with a bad guy's lust for vengeance. I love his growls, he sounds like a great guard dog, I would love to just have him by my door if a salesman comes by to make that noise. I can't believe what a triple threat Clint is: he's a writer, director, and an actor, not to mention that he's great at all three of them. He presents Gran Torino with grace and style of an old man that society has forgotten about because of his bad mood not realizing that deep down, he's truly a good man.Walt Kowalski, a retired Polish American Ford automobile assembly line worker and a Korean War veteran, lives with his dog Daisy in a changing neighborhood which is dominated by immigrants. At the start of the movie, Walt is attending his wife's funeral, bristling at the shallow eulogy of young Father Janovich. Similarly, he has little patience with his two sons, Mitch and Steve, and their families, who show little regard for Walt's grief or the memory of their dead mother. Walt's sons see him as "always disappointed" with them and their families, unaware of their obnoxiousness. Walt's teenage Hmong neighbors, a shy Thao Vang Lor and his feisty sister Sue, live with their widowed mother and grandmother. The Hmong gang, at that point, tries to persuade Thao to join them. Thao's initiation is to steal Walt's prized car, a 1972 Gran Torino Sport. Walt interrupts the robbery, pointing a rifle in Thao's face and forcing him to flee. After a few days, Spider and his gang return. With Sue at his side, Thao manages to verbally confront them to no avail. The gang drags Thao off his porch in an attempt to assault him. His family tries desperately to fend off Spider and his cohorts. The conflict ends when Walt, who fought in the United States Army's 1st Cavalry Division, threatens the gang members with his M1 Garand rifle and orders them to get off his lawn. They leave the neighborhood, telling Walt to watch his back.After seeing Sue being harassed by three black teenagers, while her "date" cannot help her, Walt steps in to rescue her, confronting the teenagers and threatening them with a pistol. Sue gets to know Walt, and invites him to a family barbecue on his birthday, bringing him closer to her family, explaining Hmong culture and that during the Vietnam War they fought on "his" side. Sue, Thao, and their mother visit Walt the next day, with Thao's family forcing him to work for Walt for a week to atone for his attempted theft of the Gran Torino. Walt has Thao clean up the neighborhood until his debt is paid and shows Thao the ways of American men. Meanwhile, the Hmong gang keeps pressuring Thao to join them. But when he refuses, the Hmong gang goes too far in getting their revenge leading to Walt wanting more than punishment, he wants justice.I highly recommend Gran Torino if you get the chance to see it, it has terrific performances and a touching story. I'm really surprised that Clint didn't get more recognition for his strength in Walt, he became that character and I loved how he protected the family that he once hated. It was wonderful to see all these characters develop and grow together, they had great chemistry and made this movie into a great one. I think down the line, Gran Torino is going to be considered a classic, this is a terrific movie and deserves it's praise.9/10
This movie made me laugh and cry at the same time. It deals with both grimy old bastards as well as with more serious matters as racism. Good acting from Clind as well as all his supporting actors and once again Clint has shown that he is capable of making movies that involves both emotions and stereotypes! The "olidish" bitterness of Clint's character and the mix between comedy and drama is just genius. The only criticism of the movie would be that the gang-bangers were pretty and does not correspond very well to all of the reports of gang violence all around the world. But overall I thought this was a great movie with lots of potential for being one of those films that you will actually remember when you visit the video rental store in five years from now.


                
If movies like Indiana Jones, Iron Man and The Dark Knight were the thoroughbred hits of 2008, then Clint Eastwood's Gran Torino is the dark horse. This rousing crowd-pleaser is sure to surprise many, through its copious sour humour and pure badassery, while managing to still be an affecting and sombre dramatic entry in Eastwood's long-enduring and wildly successful career in front of and behind the camera.You know that a movie has something going for it when it can a) pack in so many one-liners you can't bring yourself to remember them after the show from oversaturation of the brain, b) be unboundedly racist yet still never seen exploitative or condescending and c) make a pure, grit- and-nails, grimacing anti-hero, one man army out of a seventy-eight year old man. What is likely to surprise the most number of viewers is how funny this movie really is. Eastwood's direction and line delivery as a diamond-hard antisocial veteran is bang-on, but never makes the film into a farce or embarrassment. This is due in part to the handling of the more touching dramatic moments which anchors the film in reality and reminds us of what is at play, so to speak.Following the death of his wife, Walt Kowalski (Eastwood) has nothing left but his dog to truly be with. His two sons and their families drift in and out, but Walt's less then cheerful demeanour and their impartiality keeps them in different worlds and in different times. Walt is peppered by visits from Father Janovich (Christopher Carley) of the local church at the request of his late wife to 'keep an eye on him', but has little place for religion on his heavy conscience; about as much time as he has for his new Hmong neighbours that move in next door. That is until the family's youngest son Thao (Bee Vang) begins to be harassed by a local gang who persuade him to steal Walt's prized Gran Torino as initiation. Saving Thao in an ensuing altercation, Walt sweeps the fatherless teen away from the pressures of the criminal life and puts him to work at the request of his mother. Thao and his sister Sue (Ahney Her) befriend Walt in a way, and for a reason none can truly explain.All of the Hmong actors in Gran Torino are pure novices who have never acted before and this is readily apparent. While a weak link, the film as a whole is so satisfying it is really a moot point as it serves as no thorough determent. The arc of Walt is simple and easy to predict, but then anything but would not work. Many scenes with the cultural clashes are funny and touching as with an unspoken dynamic with the elderly grandmother of the Lor family next door. A number of exchanges between the few remaining people in Walt's life who he still respects such as his barber and a construction worker who gets Thao a job, are nothing short of comic genius and piece the Walt character into a true three- dimensional individual.With a great song by Jamie Cullum to conclude the film (which stands as a horrendous Oscar snub, equalled only by the additional snub of the Bruce Springsteen Song from The Wrestler), Gran Torino is a pure gem; a film that both draws unexpected laughs, soft smiles and tears from an audience that is happy to oblige, as well as salute a screen legend in another iconic role that proves even at an old age a dark horse can still kick you in the face.


                
My expectations coming in to see Gran Torino were very high and it certainly did not disappoint. Of course Clint Eastwood reputation has only gotten even better since his recent success as a director but this time it his performance that leads the way.Clint Eastwood had if not the best performance, one of the best performances this year. His performance was vivid and magical to watch. Vivid may seem like a head scratcher of a word to use but his way of displaying his maliciousness, antisocial and cynical attitude to the many people around him including his family. Yet over the course of the movie his attitude changes towards a Hmong family who are his neighbors. When one of the boys (Thao) from the neighbors' attempts to rob him of his Gran Torino, the family sends him to work for Walt (Clint Eastwood) as punishment. While Thao works for Walt, Walt begins to form a protective fatherly type bond over Thao. In this way as well Eastwood's performance is very vivid showing how his cold bitter attitude can transform into a very warm selfless demeanor towards one family.Gran Torino was also written and directed very well. Especially since a relatively unknown cast played to beyond anyone could have expected. Some how Clint Eastwood manages to continue to maximize the potential of the material he is given.This was a very heart-warming film in my mind throughout. The ending of the film is probably more of an ending to Eastwood's career as an actor rather than that of the movie itself. It does not leave him in the place he is looked at as a vigilante but rather in the place of the man that stands up for his morals and for the people he is loyal to.


                
I can't even begin to tell you how much I'll forever cherish this film. He really outdid himself this time! I've never dreamed I'd lay eyes on such a heart-wrenching film. If I ever get the choice to see one last film on the final day of my life, this will be it.As I walked out of that theater, crying uncontrollably, people who had watched a different film that night (as well as the workers), wondered what on earth happened in that movie theater... I can only hope they'll ever get the honor to find out.Thank you Mr. Eastwood, for everything. And the spoiler? Clint wins the Oscar and... my heart.
Review: Clint Eastwood performs a knock-out and surely Oscar worthy performance as a disgruntled Korean War vet called Walt Kowalski. The plot, though simple in substance and style is brilliantly planned and educated. The film follows a disgruntled Korean war veteran named Walt Kowalski, who sets out to reform his neighbour, a young Hmong teenager, who tried to steal Kowalski's prized possession: his 1972 Gran Torino.Whilst both electric and brilliant, Eastwood fully acts his character to the bone and it shows that this is a character that has been perfectly created by Eastwood himself. Every aspect is detailed and visually amazing. Eastwood also shows us his dramatic and comedic side to Kowalski. The direction by Eastwood is powerful and imaginative which flows as boldly as the story. The backdrop to the film is mystic and thrilling as you don't now what's going to happen next, and Eastwood has crafted this brilliantly which keeps audiences on the edge.Verdict:Never since The Outlaw Josey Wales has Eastwood portrayed a character so thrilling and as exciting as Walt Kawolski. All in all this is a powerhouse performance which should get Easttwood an Oscar and a definite Director nod.
Clint Eastwood is now 87 years old as I write this and every bit still the man's man. From his grit your teeth spaghetti westerns, to Dirty Harry, to Unforgiven Eastwood has shown us WHAT movies are supposed to be. The steely eyed gaze, gruff groveled voice full of growls, grunts and innuendos serves the story of the film right to a tee. Not only does Eastwood serve as Director and Producer he gives a powerful and driven performance as a Korean War vet who for a better lack of words is stuck in those times. He believes in being a soldier, the flag and hates foreigners. The story is great, powerfully delivered of a man who is stuck but learns along the way to forgive and open his eyes and heart. The film delivers a sequence of teachings about friendship, mentoring, bullying, love/hate, gangs and sacrifice. It certainly gives us a direct look into race relations and the stressors that come with. This movie will make you laugh at times, make you certainly think and humble you along the way. GREAT FILM


                
Once rumoured to be another film in the DIRTY HARRY saga, GRAN TORINO is actually much, much more than a crime film. It's not even an action film, or a thriller, despite containing elements from those genres: in actual fact, it's a solid human drama about human relationships, along with ruminations on plenty of issues affecting today's world: immigration, integration into society, crime, violence, friendship, life and death, regret. I can't imagine anyone but Clint Eastwood starring in this film. Eastwood plays his usual character, except older, more frail than more; perhaps the word I'm thinking of is 'more human'. Whatever, he's absolutely astounding in this film, giving a brilliant performance as Walt Kowalski, a foul-mouthed, irritable old racist who gradually uncovers his humanity as the story progresses.Eastwood surrounds himself with a cast of unknowns, and these actors are also triumphant. Bee Vang, as Thao, Eastwood's initial enemy and then friend, has to be singled out as giving one of the best turns, and he's matched by Ahney Her who plays his sister, Sue. I loved the performances of these two actors, who successfully manage to hold their own against Clint.GRAN TORINO is a film firmly rooted in reality, which is why there are no gung-ho heroics here, no scenes of grandeur. The ending is particularly true to life, a neat twist that defies audience expectations. The script is sparkling and witty, never losing focus of the main themes, and also particularly moving without being sentimental. It's a difficult line to walk, but this film manages it. In all, a delight and one of the best Eastwood movies I've watched. This one's a keeper.


                
At the ripe old age of 78 Clint Eastwood is starting on a whole new career of playing tough old timers who are way past the day when they get the girl in their movies. Except as surrogate daughters which he's done in his past two films, four years apart though they be.In Million Dollar Baby Eastwood plays the gruff very blue collar fight manager Frank Dunn who takes on female prize fighter Hilary Swank and she becomes a surrogate daughter to him. In Gran Torino the process is somewhat reversed, Eastwood is a recently widowed retired auto worker Walt Kowalski, still living in the family home in Detroit in a rapidly changing neighborhood. In fact that neighborhood's been changing for decades, the latest influx being Asians. Despite his gruffness, his outright racism, Eastwood almost in spite of himself gets drawn into an Asian family of Hmong people and develops a father/children relationship with a brother and sister, Bee Vang and Ahney Her. He becomes closer to them than he is with his own children whom he feels have forgotten the American work ethic.Actor Clint Eastwood a veteran of over 50 years in film and television is a man who knows himself and knows the limits and changes that age and infirmity have placed upon him. As his most famous screen character so aptly remarked a man has to know his limitations. Director Clint Eastwood is nothing short of a genius in the performances he got from the two young Asian kids, both of whom were making their screen debuts and in fact from the rest of his Asian cast members, most of whom were new. Both the boy and the girl were just fabulous and so real as kids, not at all like Hollywood teen player types.And both kids face some very typical choices that all youngsters face today, especially those growing up in areas at or below the poverty line. Especially the boy who's being pressured to join a gang. Clint himself is facing old age issues, but he still mentors the kids and in the end does what a man's got to do.It took four years for actor Eastwood to reappear on the screen again. But it was worth the wait. With two back to back hits like Million Dollar Baby and Gran Torino, I just hope I don't have to wait another four years for Clint to reappear.


                
Walt Kowalski, recently widowed and a Korean War Veteran, refuses to let go of his prejudices and embrace the ever changing world he exists in. Irked and distant from his shallow family, Walt now only cares for his dog and his beautiful mint condition 1972 Gran Torino. When young Hmong teenager Thao from next door is caught trying to steal the car, Walt could have no idea it was going to shape his, and his neighbours respective destinies.When it was first announced that Clint Eastwood was to direct and star in Gran Torino, many insiders worried that Eastwood may be about to embarrass himself as some aged Dirty Harry clone. They needn't have worried, and in fact should have afforded the intelligent icon the benefit of any smouldering doubt, because if this is to be, as expected, Eastwood's final performance in front of the camera, it's a truly marvellous bow out from a very special man.Gran Torino, I think it's fair to say is a very personal picture to Eastwood, scratch away at the skin of it and you can see that he must have waited for some time to find the right picture to finish with, Gran Torino is the right picture for him, it's also the right picture for his fans to embrace as the closing down of a career, a career that most of us have grown up with. Perfectly etched and grizzled, Walt Kowalski embodies all of Eastwood's main cinematic characters, it feels {is} as tho we have all come full circle, the ending of Torino functioning as a beautiful and emotional release of so so many things.Substance wise, Gran Torino is a shrewd look at violence, vengeance and pedal stool heroics, with Eastwood and his writers {Nick Schenk/Dave Johannson} cunningly crafting a sensitively tough film that's also engagingly funny, it's quite a trick to mold so many factors and make it work in such an earnest way. Eastwood is immense, in every scene he is a towering presence, a beacon of grumpy magnetism, and as the story veers towards its inevitable search for emotional salvation, Eastwood emotes with the best of them, even with few words he spell binds in his wrinkly vein protruding frame.Sadly the Asian actors around him are very poor, very much so, and the inevitability factor is hard to ignore, so yes, Gran Torino has flaws. So it's possibly not given some critics the swan song they wanted {he would of had to have retired after Unforgiven for a perfect swan song you feel}, but it stands proud as a great Eastwood film because of the man himself. As the end credits role, Eastwood raspingly recites the title song, this gives way to Jaimie Cullum's soft and beautiful rendition of the same song, Eastwood you feel has given way to the younger generation. But few actors of his generation will be as remembered as fondly as he is, he owes none of us cinema fans anything, and in Gran Torino he has thanked us the fans whilst simultaneously closing down a fabulous career, thank you big fella. 9/10


                
Where as I was sometimes bothered by Walt's, um, prejudices, it was what got the point across. Had he not been so nasty what would be the point of the ending!!! From a woman's point of view, I was skeptical of "another" Eastwood flick but I LOVED this film!! I laughed, I cried, I got angry, almost every emotion!! It showed the truth (sadly) of some people out there but it also showed how people affect others and how goodness ultimately wins!! After the attack in the neighborhood, it made me realize what that family did for a lonely, sad, tortured soul!!! This film was plain awesome, but bear in mind, the language at times could be downright offensive. BUT, if they took it out I don't think the effect of right/wrong, yin/yang would have shown thru!! Kudos to entire cast, directors, etc... This was great!!!
It's late, time to go to bed, the eyes are closing...but you just can't, you're so fascinated...Old Eastwood did it again, in the age of 80 he created another masterpiece, a genius , a magician.This creation is interesting, smart, funny in a good way, good jokes and good laugh, emotional.. and much much more then that. Something that you can't put in words.As for me this baby is better than "Million dollar Baby"...I laughed, and also I cried. The movie brings a lot of emotions.one thing: didn't like so much the acting of the kid - Thao, I think the casting crew could pick someone better for the job.My suggestion - Find and Watch the movie...ASAP!Good day, Lior.


                
If the rumors are true and Walt Kowalski in Gran Torino is Clint Eastwood's last acting role, then Eastwood <U+0096> the director has staged and performed his grand exit gloriously. Gran Torino has been called not the perfect movie and blamed on handling some very controversial subjects rather heavily. I may agree with these statements but perfect or not, Gran Torino is a fantastic poignant movie with the storytelling at its best, the characters we got to know, to understand, and to care about, their interaction that seem real, and the ending that moved me to no end. I won't say better about my admiration with Eastwood than Roger Ebert did: "What other figure in the history of the cinema has been an actor for 53 years, a director for 37, won two Oscars for direction, two more for best picture, plus the Thalberg Award, and at 78 can direct himself in his own film and look meaner than hell? None, that's how many." How many actors can play a character who is in the beginning truly unlikable, hating, angry old racist but during the course of two hours he would turn to you with such different facets that it would break your heart, move you deeply, make you want to have old Walt as your friend, and make you think that Walt's late wife, the only love of his life was a lucky lady? Eastwood pulled it admirably, and I can't think of any other Artist who could.Many viewers and reviewers talk about Eastwood's returning to his most known and admired cult role of Insp. 'Dirty' Harry Callahan', and it is true, but the film is about many many things - about sad loneliness of aging, for once. It is about how hostility, mistrust and contempt for people of different from you language, way of life, traditions, culture, and background can be slowly but gradually replaced by interest, mutual respect, and understanding. It is also about the loss or not even ever having connection with your own family and not finding the way to re-connect. The film shows that it is never too late to change something in yourself, to become better - no matter how long you have to live. The last theme brought to my mind the film made 57 years ago by great Akira Kurosawa, "Ikiru" - "To Live". Very different, both films have in common the theme of inevitability of the end of a life and what can be done if the end is close? And what about Gran Torino? It is the rare collector's car of 1972 which sits in Walt Kowalski's (Eastwood) garage. Walt, who had worked 50 years at the Ford's factory in Detroit, Michigan, participated in its assembly and bought it in the same year. Gran Torino was the reason he got to know and involved in the lives of his next door neighbors even though he never planned or expected for that to happen.
It's hard to set low expectations for a Hollywood piece starring and directed by Clint Eastwood, the old actor who's spawned as a major Hollywood icon as well as an iconic figure to the American culture. For the past six decades, this fine actor has brought smiles an praises to fans everywhere from his portrayal of the nameless cowboy in the Dollars trilogy to his awe-inspiring directorial works in recent years, and his legacy still continues. This captivating drama starring the iconic actor as well as directed him isn't quite up the par with his legendary works, and can be easily be seen as just one of his minor pieces; but the energy he delivers from both his acting and directorial skills still deserve our attention. Eastwood plays Walt Kowalski, a disgruntled Korean War veteran who's just lost his beloved wife and now lives alone in a depressed state. The old man chooses to alienate himself from everyone including his family, and can't bare to have anyone in his property, particularly a Korean family who moves in next door in the racially diverse neighborhood. Though he unexpectedly makes acquaintance with the teenager girl Sue (played by Ahney Her), he gains tension towards her younger brother Thao (played by Bee Vang) after he sneaks into his garage one night attempting to steal his 1972 Gran Torino under the pressure of his cousin's gang members. Kowalski sets out to reform the young teen by developing a bond with him, and soon unexpectedly finds himself drawn into protecting the family against the gangs that threaten them. Clint Eastwood serves as the pinnacle and emotional core that embraces the beauty of this film. Though there are a few flaws in terms of narrative, his brutally gripping portrayal of the lead character manages to lay those blemishes to obscurity. In the beginning of the film, we are introduced to his character who is gripped with tragedy and struggles with his faith with only his church preacher Father Janovich (played by Christopher Carley) being his aiding hand. Before too long, the character retains a grumpy, tough-minded, and prejudicial demeanor as he's grown hate to everyone of various racial status. One scene the young Korean teenager beaten and harassed by a gang who put him in a dog pile on Kowalski's yard, only to be interrupted by Kowalski himself who points a rifle at them and threatens to open fire if they don't leave his property. The scene is truly intense and sparks a fair amount of tension and unease. Furthermore, the character's near-constant use of racial slurs towards Asians and African-Americans and intimidating threats punctuate his cynical and hard-to-like nature. Clint Eastwood gives honestly one of his most arresting performances in recent years. He's an actor who doesn't take commitment for his role for granted. The almost equally powerful aspect of the film is the ironic relationships between the main character and the young Korean teenager who is brilliantly portrayed by Bee Vang. We watch as the bond between the two characters changes not only the troubled young man from turning to a life of crime by his cousin's tyrannical gang but also Kowalski's attitude towards the family and his determination to protect the family he once despised. The atmosphere is both dark and deeply moving, particularly the powerful and bittersweet ending.Gran Torino is a dark, yet enthralling drama anchored by a gripping performance by Clint Eastwood and a powerful story that is hard to ignore. The film is an interesting piece of cinematic work that though may feel like a minor piece compared to Eastwood's other work, gracefully deserves your attention but only for mature audiences who can handle the dark, cynical tone of the story.


                
'Gran Torino' is an excellent film directed by and starring Clint Eastwood. Clint plays Walt Kowalski who is a disgruntled Korean War veteran. This film is shot incredibly well and as the viewer, I was gripped from the first to the last minute.The film delivers all sorts of emotions, some scenes are truly memorable. I found myself laughing at some of the things Clint was doing, just the way he played Walt was brilliant and completely believable. Then there was the character development side which was really nice. The ending in particular may make you well up a little.Once I finished watching it, I found that it stuck in my mind for a while. When thinking of it, I realised that there wasn't actually a lot of stuff happening but the story is just so gripping and memorable. It is just a fantastic drama and a film I would certainly recommend and watch again.9/10.


                
I've always liked Clint Eastwood as an actor and as a director and Gran Torino is no exception. You can see that Clint Eastwood's spirit from his old movies still lives on here and there are moments that I could not help but laugh when he would quip his one liners through his grizzled demeanour. Gran Torino is definitely one of Clint Eastwood's best movies as an actor and a director and shows that he is certainly not one to be on his laurels or just go through the motions for an easy paycheck.Gran Torino focuses on Walt Kowalski (Clint Eastwood), a recently widowed Korean War Veteran and retired Ford auto worker. He is not close to his two sons Mitch (Brian Haley) and Steve (Brian Howe) and his grandchildren are disrespectful towards Walt. In fact most of his family and neighbours treat Walt as a cantankerous and prejudiced old man who hates the world around him. Walt has very few friends and the only company he enjoys is he dog Daisy and his prized 1972 Gran Torino that he keeps in the garage at the back of his house. When a Hmong family moves in next door, Walt treats then with total disdain and rubbishes their customs and way of life. Walt is also dismayed that his neighbourhood in suburban Detroit has been taken over by Asian families and street gangs. The local priest Father Janovich (Christopher Carley) frequently finds himself on the receiving end of Walt's temper as Walt dismisses him as a 27 year old virgin with little to no life experience holding the hands of superstitious old ladies. When Thao (Bee Vang) is caught trying to steal Walt's prized Gran Torino he is made by his family to do odd jobs for Walt as part of penance. Walt later gains the respect from the Hmong community when Walt stands up to a group of Asian gangbangers led by Spider (Doua Moua) who find themselves on the wrong end of Walt's M1 Garand rifle as Walt growls "Get off my lawn". As Walt takes Thao under his wing, they form a grudging mutual respect for each other. At the same time, Walt also befriends Thao's sister Sue (Ahney Her) who also helps him understand the Hmong customs. To Walt's surprise, he finds that he has more in common with the neighbours next door than his own family. As Walt's ice cold personality slowly melts away, he must also face his prejudices and problems head on that have been plaguing him for the majority of his life.Without a doubt Clint Eastwood owns this movie. Gran Torino is a perfect example that as an actor and a director, age has not slowed down Clint Eastwood. Walt Kowalski is one of Clint's best characters that he has played throughout his stellar career, and as a director this is one of his finest movies. Bee Vang as Thao and Ahney Her as Sue are a shining light amongst a supporting cast of mostly unknowns who hold up the movie very well. Though this can be seen as a bleak drama, there are plenty of intriguing moments which can raise a laugh here and there as well as an occasional smile. It was a total shame that Gran Torino was not recognised for any major awards as this was one of the most memorable movies of 2008. Clint Eastwood is still a legend and for someone in the latter stages of his career, Gran Torino deserves a special mention as one of his finest movies in his brilliant career.9/10.


                
I HATE cowboy films. I don't know why. Coincidentally the ONLY memory I have of one is "The Legend of Josey Wales", and the fact that he's always spitting on the poor dog.So I'm told someone got "Gran Torino" one night and I was thinking "Pblt. Clint Eastwood. Western. Noooo thanks". For whatever reason, I watched it anyway. I'll never forget - as the credits rolled, I was totally speechless. And not because I was shocked it WASN'T a Western. I could not believe what a fantastic movie I'd just seen. I mean just sat there! "WHAT did I just see?!" "WHAT?? He WROTE that too?! How much talent is one person allowed!" I was NOT expecting the premise, the storyline, the characters, the humor, (the bad-a** car), holding my breath, or tears for that matter. You fall in love with a grumpy, hateful old man without realizing it, and the fact that he hates everyone and everything strangely makes you love him more.Honestly, if you're easily offended; rather - you can't see a movie for what it's worth - I suggest watching Finding Nemo instead. The main character Walter is racist and hateful and brash, swears and is not exactly lovable to say the least, but it's part of what makes this movie - it wouldn't be what it is otherwise. Without realizing this, you'll be too distracted by the language to really appreciate what's really going on.It's why he goes through what he goes through - and even what gives him the human quality that makes you want to hug him (knowing he'd throw you off his porch if you did hug him) - which is just how you wind up loving his neighbors and the humor that they bring to the movie because of their "love us because this is how we are, otherwise - well, love us. You have no choice. Eat some food."Walter is simply being who he is - which is a war veteran - and live out his life, he does what he sees as this the right thing, and never backs down - is what makes you cheer for him. He is, in my opinion, what every man needs to be - as far as knowing what the right thing is, and NEVER straying from doing it. He deals with life as it comes. Even when it would have been easy for most to say "not my problem".This movie just blew me away. So worth seeing! (Oh, and apparently that's even Clint Eastwood at the end as the credits roll, singing. I'm sitting here trying to think of something he CAN'T do ....)
Clint Eastwood has a way of redefining genres. What his unforgettable Unforgiven did for westerns, Gran Torino very well may do for dramas. He loves to head fake his audience as he cleverly sidesteps stereotypical characters and concepts. You think you know Clint Eastwood, think again.This isn't Dirty Harry or Josey Wales, nor is it Million Dollar Baby or Mystic River. This is come to expect the unexpected 21st century Clint Eastwood. Like a vintage wine, he keeps getting better with age. And like the Gran Torino in "Gran Torino" this is a modern day classic that glistens in the sun.Without giving away too much let me just say be prepared to laugh your ass off, repeatedly throughout most of the movie. And then be ready to stand up and applaud when he head fakes you again at the end. And then just smile and shake your head as he sings us through the credits.One of the better flicks of the year.
In his latest movie (so far, hopefully) Clint Eastwood has shown again both his talented directing and acting. Another profound movie, where black-and-white attitudes obtain vivid nuances even in case of an old man (Eastwood was 78 when the movie was finalized). In spite of miserable and dangerous background, one has several bursts of laughter due to Eastwood character's appearance and his vocabulary and expression of stereotypes. One point less is given by me due to several clichés; pre-end of the movie, however, was different from my expectations.Moreover, it was educational to get to know culture and customs of the Hmong people - a relatively small group split into several countries in Asia and having difficult times even in the end of last century.Highly recommendable!


                
In Michigan, the grumpy widower Walt Kowalski (Clint Eastwood) is a Korean War veteran full of prejudice that has just lost his beloved wife Dorothy. He is one of the last Caucasian Americans in his neighborhood and does not have good relationship with his sons and their families; therefore he is a lonely man. When his teenager neighbor Thao Vang Lor (Bee Vang) is pressed by his cousin Smokie (Sonny Vu) to join his Hmong gang, he is assigned to steal the Gran Torino of Walt as part of his initiation in the gang. However he is surprised by the old man and his traditional family feels ashamed with the incident. Later Walt saves Thao first and his sister Sue Lor (Ahney Her) later from gangs and he has the gratitude of his next door neighbors and the Asian neighborhood. On the day of his birthday, Walt is invited by Sue to join her family reunion and he begins a relationship with his neighbors, helping Thao to get a job. However he realizes that the Hmong gang disturbs the neighborhood and after a coward attack of the gangsters to Sue, Walt decides to take an ultimate attitude."Gran Torino" is a magnificent movie of Clint Eastwood with a wonderful message. It is amazing how Clint Eastwood is able to have only great movies in his long filmography. The story seems to be another tale of revenge "à la Dirty Harry", but has an unexpected twist in the end to a wise conclusion. I believe most of the viewers were expecting a bloodshed in the end, and the coherent conclusion surprised me. I hope this is not the last movie of this great American actor and director. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil): "Gran Torino"


                
I recently saw this during its opening weekend in the Phoenix area. Clint Eastwood directs himself in this urban story of a retired automotive factory worker in Detroit who's wife has recently died and is left alone with his dog in a crumbling former blue collar neighborhood that has been inhabited by Hmong immigrants. An ambitious year for Eastwood as a director with this film coming at the heels of his critically acclaimed "Changeling" he goes in front of the camera to deliver yet another classic Eastwood character. At age 78 he plays a crusty bigot who is at odds with his grown sons and their families and the modern world in general. Filled with great lines from a story by Dave Johannson and screenplay by Nick Schenk it's got to be the wittiest drama ever. I hope it's not Eastwood's swangsong as an actor and we see more of him on screen. A great film. a classic and I would give it a 9.5 out of 10.


                
Clint Eastwood's acting and career can be summed up in the fact that he was a tremendous presence both in front of and behind the camera. Walt Kowalski is a role tailor made for this American icon. It's a role we've come to love Clint for playing and yet it has more depth than we come to expect.Clint Eastwood plays Walt Kowalski, an aging Korean War vet living in a neighborhood that doesn't belong to his ethnic background anymore. Kowalski is a racist, not because he truly has anything wrong with other races but because he hates himself. His beloved wife Dorothy has passed on, leaving him to contemplate his mortality on his porch with Daisy his Labrador Retriever. His neighbors are a part of the Hmoung population. He comes to befriend Thao and Sue his next door neighbors who are trying to grow up on the wrong side of the tracks. Despite his best efforts he becomes a father figure to them willing to sacrifice everything for the people he has come the closest to in his lonely life.Putting it bluntly, the audience wants Harry Callihan. Kowalski is Callihan incarnate and yet he is a deeper and more satisfying character. I for one admire Eastwood for retiring the Callihan character and yet giving the audience what they want. Kowalski is a geriatric racist but he is as much fun and has as much spunk as Callihan did in 1971. What Eastwood is doing is quite brilliant, he is both paying homage to the Callihan breed of character and yet giving it a dissection as well. Behind the gun and the grimace lies a deep pain. Eastwood isn't a superhero and isn't trying to be one at his age. The idea of the superhero and the action hero isn't appealing when you are dealing with a 78 year old man. Kowalski is a tragic character who realizes that his life is a complete void. His gruff exterior hides a deep inner pain. It should be noted that Kowalski does not fire a weapon once in the entire film and yet the publicity posters and trailers make this out to be an action film. I wonder if Kowalski would be pushed to firing a weapon. This makes the ending of the film all the more satisfying. The ending is truly one of the most brilliant scenes Eastwood has ever filmed.Eastwood is playing a vulnerable man and we don't expect this from him. Eastwood himself is larger than life and to see him take on the role of Walt Kowalski and deliver despite it being a very similar character is really special.
