I was really disappointed with this film. It is sold as a sort of triumph of the human spirit film, but it is more like a typical mafia gangster film transplanted to Brazil and the seventies. I was waiting for the Godfather to come out any minute and say "He takes out a knife, yah take out a gun." Scene after scene is of someone getting killed and the deaths have all the depth and meaning of a pixel creature getting shot in a video game. This film entertains on the most base level and has no depth whatsoever.I can't say that I cared about anyone in this film, except for maybe Knockout Ned. The main character doesn't really do anything to improve his life. It is more like he just wanders out of the neighborhood. Where is the triumph in that? He also never seems to pass judgement on anyone or anything that happens around him. Its like stuff just happens. This dude died, and then that dude died, and yawn.... Great, he has the moral character of a robot, real inspiring.I also noticed that its one of those "based on a true story" films, like that is supposed to make us think. "Wow, I just saw a part of life that I never understood before. Its hard to believe that life is so cheap and that no one cares about anything in this neighborhood." Well, I don't buy it. Its just too cartoonish to be real. Maybe the basic story line happened but that is about it.By the way, my wife walked out on this film. I guess she thought going to the meat packing plant and watching cows being slaughtered would probably be entertainment at the same level. But at least it wouldn't be set to Samba music!


                
Was what I just watched really the film all the hype was about? I really can't believe what makes people be so shallow and appreciate that movie- like crap. Was that a movie actually in the first place or just an emotionless documentary about Brazilian crime-stricken streets? I'm asking because I really don't know and am still wondering how come such an abject movie can even get so famous and be rated so high in IMDb.First off, I didn't buy it. I really don't believe these pictures that I have just seen are so-called real stories of the Brazillian living in Cidade De Deus. Maybe the general outline of the plot can be linked to a true story but I don't want to believe Rio streets are full of gangs most of which are comprised of children. Are the Brazillian so brutal to recruit children as hoods? Because that is what that movie leads me to believe. I hope that's not really the case in Brazil as depicted by Fernando Merielles in Cidade De Deus. Secondly, if we talk about the movie, there were so many stories left hanging in the air. I was shocked when it neared the end to see that the stories told at the beginning had actually nothing to do with the general plot of the film. I prayed Deus that as the movie kept going a story would arise and all the events would get linked to a sustainable idea and my time wouldn't get wasted as such;however, the credits came but what I hoped for didn't. Everyone killed everyone and the last guys standing were little children making plans to kill their 'enemies'. Was I expected to laugh at that really? If you were going to finish the film the same way as you started-killing and raping-why did you guys really waste my time and didn't tell me that beforehand? I would go watch a wildlife documentary where lions eat antelopes and learn more about 'how tough life can be in some places'. I couldn't believe everything in the movie turned out the way I guessed they would. What's the point of watching a massacre really, I cannot understand. And finally the director of that movie should learn in what ways a movie differs from a documentary. Because a movie differs from a documentary only if it has characters developed. If you have no character depth then you shouldn't name that crap a movie. We should name it another way and look at it through another perspective. Because when we watch it as a movie it doesn't meet the need.For it to be a movie, we should have been given more than just a narrative voice to the main character's feelings. We watched a movie but we still don't know who our main character is.To conclude, I watched this film just to dispel the disappointing effects of Slumdog disaster.However, it didn't come any better. I hoped Cidade De Deus was the better one in the comparison but what I have found really let me down incredibly.
Nowadays some consider a movie to be phenomenal as long as it shows tragical poverty and violence. It is so distinct from their lives that they unconsciously feel "educated" by seeing the film; praising the film therefore becomes a way of self-elevation.City of God's fancy cinematography did not appeal to me. Unnecessary stylization in this case offends the serious topic, in my opinion. Feels more like a showcase than a honest presentation.If one wants to dig deep into tragic elements in order to make a teary, "shocking" film, he can always go as far as his claws can take him. But there's a stopping point by which the whole thing becomes a sham too pretentious to be appreciated. A 10 year-old running around killing everyone and then enjoys himself a couple of evil laughs (that are made to echo to achieve "epic" cinematic effects)? "Cliche" would be an understatement...I haven no objection to the theme of the movie. By all means such horrifying situations do exist in reality. But I really wish the approach to present the themes was different.


                
I watched this movie with great expectations, believing that the extremely high IMDb rating is probably well deserved. Unfortunately, that's not the case. Acting is very poor, screenplay is a confused mess of violence, there is absolutely no character development or any credible story, just a shallow, senseless stream of murders and shootouts.We are supposed to believe that the Big Boss of the Ghetto (who is supposedly controlling all the drug traffic in the area) is walking around and shooting kids who are about 7 or 8 years old? He has no better things to do, eh? No soldiers to do the dirty work for him? He wasn't even able to buy himself a car, so he goes on foot instead?! We are supposed to believe that the Big Boss has no enemies and that he has managed to establish peace in his large ghetto, although he is a psychopath and a vicious killer since he was a little kid when he supposedly killed everybody in an average sized motel and walked away, totally unharmed? We are supposed to believe that the Big Boss wants total peace in his area (because it's good for drug business) but ten minutes later he rapes a woman and kills half her family just because she didn't want to dance with him?! He isn't worried about the police investigating that massacre, eh? He is the Big Boss and the supreme drug lord, but he is in fact jealous and lonely and unable to find himself a girlfriend? I could go on and on and fill the whole screen with dumb inconsistencies, but I think you are getting the picture by now: Stallone's action movies actually have better and more contrived plots than this crap. Avoid this movie and ignore high IMDb rating.
Being based on a true story, having lots of non-actors, making some very imaginative choices in cinematography, and so forth, this film really throws a lot of stuff at you, and it is impressive in its ability to keep a great many plates spinning in the air (although to tell the truth, if the narrator had said "but it's not time to tell So-and-so's story yet" just one more time, I would have screamed).Unfortunately, the next day when you look back on the experience, you realize that all you really got was a couple of hours worth of just another gangland storyline with a little too much Guy-Ritchie-influenced camera work and more than a few this-will-get-them-talking shock cinema moments.Original grade: 6 out of 10. Worth seeing, probably not worth recommending.Revised grade (3/7/2012): 1 out of 10. Abysmal. Horribly bad in a way that makes me think less of people who think it's good.


                
Though a lot of people and critics have praised this Brazilian movie, I have to say that I did not like it at all. The story is bleak & serious and yet it's filmed like a GAP commercial, with a lot of stylish editing, camera movements (like the annoying 360 degrees one) and direction, which totally belies the story's tragic intent.The film is more of a showcase of the director's repertoire of movie tricks than of actual characters going through a hellish life. In the end, the effect is jarring and at times really off putting. There are a lot of gratuitous moments in it that serve no purpose but to shock or titillate the audience (the housewife and the banana bit, for example).OUR LADY OF THE ASSASSINS was much better than this and created an unforgettable experience without all the flashy razzle dazzle. CITY OF GOD is just another overpraised foreign movie.


                
An awful, awful movie. Like one of the viewers said, it is cheap in all aspects. To those people who haven't seen this film, please stay away from this junk at all cost. Go Watch some wholesome, soul-lifting contemporary Russian art movies like the Return and then see how cheap this movie is. But this is totally a piece of stinking garbage. Violence need not to be portrayed in such an outlandish, vulgar style. The camera movement almost made me throw up. Editing is almost not-existent. A cheap, cheap movie that to the greatest irony won so many undeserving awards. People who raved about this film are idiots. Critics too. It is just pathetic. Even Hollywood movies are one hundred times better as much as I don't like them.


                
If you like blood, violence, death, seeing people being rapped and murdered, then this is the perfect movie for you. I could not finish watching this movie because it is so graphic. What a disgusting movie! I regret watching 1/2 of it. It makes me embarrassed to be Brazilian, because it makes it look like we are all criminals. I would NOT recommend this movie to any normal person, avoid it like you would avoid the plague. You can show violence without being so graphic, they showed a really bad rape scene. What is going on with some Brazilian film makers? There's no need to so something like that. I cannot understand why there are so many people who love this movie, maybe they are nutty!


                
I watched by accident, it seemed like a great idea to tell an story as it is. Acting was very good. But there is too much graphic extreme violence towards little children. I would never watch again and the fact it has so many awards only shows how desensitize our society is. Stay away from this movie.


                
In spite of so much undeserved acclaim from some critics, this is a terrible movie, cheap in all respects as far as the cinematic art is concerned. Many people may approve it merely on account of its demagogic handling of a 'relevant issue' such as extreme poverty and criminality in the slums area of underdeveloped countries. But regardless of its dynamic editing that attempts to pass for 'modern' or 'innovative', this is an extremely bad movie, poorly written, directed and enacted.  I'll never understand why the AMPAS absurdly decided to nominate this nauseating movie for several awards. But don't fall for this imposture: trust me, this picture is not worth the price of your admission ticket.  Stay away from it!


                
Imagine what it would have been like if Tarantino made a film about the D.C. area sniper shootings, then you'll get "City of God" - a sensational, cold and calculated stylistic exercise based on compelling real-life human drama. The story of the kids involving in the drug trade turf wars is an extraordinary one, but somehow the filmmaker has managed to reduce it to a showcase of his cinematic bag of tricks. This film has left me completely cold, and disgusted by the filmmaker's intentions.


                
I CAN NOT believe this movie is so highly rated! This movie is misleading in so many ways, starting with the title "City of God", how pathetic. City of the Legions of Hell would have been much more accurate. An awful, awful movie. Like one of the viewers said, it is cheap in all aspects. To those people who haven't seen this film, please stay away from this junk at all cost. Go Watch some wholesome, soul-lifting contemporary Russian art movies like the Return and then see how cheap this movie is. But this is totally a piece of stinking garbage. Violence need not to be portrayed in such an outlandish, vulgar style. The camera movement almost made me throw up. Editing is almost not- existent. A cheap, cheap movie that to the greatest irony won so many undeserving awards. People who raved about this film are idiots. Critics too. It is just pathetic. Even Hollywood movies are one hundred times better as much as I don't like them.


                
I can't seem to find the words to describe this very disturbing film. I cannot imagine such a life...reminiscent of "The Lord of the Flies." Kids aren't kids--they shoot, they kill, they have no consciences. It is like peering into the eyes of soul-less little people.My stomach turned while watching this horrific movie. It is a scene straight out of hell. It depicts apocalyptic events--where evil runs unhindered. Rocket, the photographer, was the only one who seemed to escape the destiny of the rest of the residents of that hellish place. Maybe they should re-name their city "Cidade de Diablo."


                
I CAN NOT believe this movie is so highly rated! This movie is misleading in so many ways, starting with the title "City of God", how pathetic. City of the Legions of Hell would have been much more accurate.There is nothing good about this steaming pile of dog crap. It is nothing but an unbelievable blood bath of raping and murder, even from little children none the less. There is no main character, or even character progression on the parts of any one character that you follow for any amount of time in the whole mess. It's simply a non stop blood bath of sickening human filth that just go from one scene of rape, torture or murder to the next. Oh yeah, and don't forget you're not even following anyone specifically throughout the movie either. It's just random nonsense.There may very well be people in the world that do behave like this, but there is still law enforcement. The whole poverty stricken population in the country is not in a state of constant murder and rape, or they would all be dead eventually.I'm not entirely sure what the director's purpose was but it feels almost like a hidden political message. To my best ability I'd say that message is that poverty makes people kill each other, which is complete Bull SHlT!!!Total waste of your waking life. DO NOT WASTE YOUR TIME on this worthless pile of crap movie!!! Even if you don't please rate it down because it is way too high up in the decent films rated section for how stupid and wasteful of a movie that it is.
I really don't know why this movie has ranked more than 8 on IMDb and it makes me disappointed that nowadays movies which show very dark sides of the world get nominated for so many awards. I don't say the movies should be all shallow but instead of spending so much money on this movie to show so many graphic scenes. It was better to spend the money to actually help these people in Brazil. I know that these things should get taken care of but a lot of children are getting killed in this movie and it is so harsh and not right even if a single child gets to be the victim of seeing these scenes , and making these kinds of movies cannot and won't do any good for them nor the people who are watching these. And besides the movie was so boring and everyone in the room pretended to like it to show themselves involved!!! A big No No..


                
I just wanted to say this is probably the worst film i ever saw in my entire life.I mean the acting is sup-par,the supporting actors sucked,the storyline sucked,the Brazilian locations sucked and everything else sucked.Honestly I do not know why this is rated so high on the IMDb list of top 250 movies,i mean over movies like The Usual Suspects,Vertigo and Memento.That is just a travesty.Please someone vote low so you can bring this movie down lower cos this film truly sucks and it sucks badly.I have never been bored in my entire life.I really want my life back or i should say,2 hours of my life back after watching this travesty.I mean this garbage is also higher than Citizen Kane and Goodfellas and other great films,what the hell is that supposed to be about.Please for god's sake IMDb get your act together and vote this garbage lower on the list please.It truly sucks,undoubtedly one of the worst films ever made and i mean that.


                
