Cidade de Deus seems to have a lot of praise on the IMDb boards, and with good reason too. It simply is, in my opinion, one of the best contemporary films ever made.Based on true events and characters who live in the overlooked and poverty stricken slums in the shadows of Rio de Janiero, where life expectancy doesn't reach the 30's and drug dealers are kings.The tale of the City of God, and its myriad of characters is told by Rocket, a young man who struggles to make something of his life, other than to wind up another victim of drugs or gang wars.Not only are the characters in City of God absolutely fascinating, and also very endearing, but also convincingly acted by groups of young and unknown actors. The stoies are well-told, and at times, funny, and at others, brutally shocking.The cinematic style of the film gives a nod to Tarantino, with some clever time-jumping, freeze-framing, and texts indicating another chapter of the film. In every sense, a bit of a Brazillian "Pulp Fiction" or "Goodfellas", but with its own unique flavour to it.The City of God is a marvel, and a highly recommended film to watch, but not recommended for the over-sensitive or easily distressed.


                
The film revolves around the, 'City of God,' a favela (or ghetto) in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, a horrifying area where drug dealers run the community, and where children killing children is not an uncommon occurrence. The story begins with the early stages of the City of God (in the 1960's) showing where many of the problems stem from- the extreme poverty, overcrowding etc. Here, in the early stages of the favela, we meet our main characters, along with the supporting cast. The story revolves mainly around two characters living in the favela, Rocket and Lil Ze, and how they take two different paths through life. Rocket's dream is to become a photographer and to escape the City of God while Lil Ze becomes a powerful gang leader and drug dealer.The film offers an unflinching look at gang life in the City of God, as it follows the favela through three decades; the 60's, 70's and 80's, and shows how violence just spirals into more violence with the disturbingly high amounts of violence in the favela, most involving teenagers and children. The direction, cinematography, and editing are all Oscar-worthy. The cinematography is some of the best I have ever seen- with a very visceral, jerky feel, very reminiscent of Saving Private Ryan. The editing is very frantic, which makes you feel like you are on the streets of the City of God, and the direction is flawless, seamlessly blending the many elements of the story.The film was definitely one of the best films I have ever seen. The story, the direction, the cinematography, the editing and the acting all add up to make a excellent movie that I would recommend to all. 10/10, A+Would also recommend: Bus 174 and Carandiru


                
Do not be fooled by the coy charm of the promotional poster. The image of the girl shyly leaning over to kiss the cheek of a bare-backed boy on golden sands drenched in sunlight represents an ideal that many residents of the City of God strive for, but few achieve. The rewards are all too tangible: The football, the music, the heady culture of samba and carnival joie de vivre is never far away, but escaping from the slums of Rio is a little more complicated than sloping off to the beach for the afternoon. The City of God is a raging maelstrom of violence, drugs and gang warfare, and its inhabitants are indoctrinated in the way of the gun from an early age.Fernando Meirelles' film (based on a true story) is a breathtakingly convincing interpretation of life in the notorious Rio favela. Using hundreds of real-life slum children to supplement a superb central cast and shooting entirely around the dusty streets and abject poverty of the neighbourhood, Meirelles charts the history of the area through the narration of Rocket, a peaceable soul with journalistic aspirations who is entirely at odds with the mayhem around him.Rocket explains how the slum was used as a dumping ground for all Rio's undesirables in the 1960s. Despite a population of criminals and ne'er-do-wells, the early part of the film is an homage to plucky underdog cheeriness and community spirit. Rocket's brother is a member of the 'Tender Trio', a dashing group of bandits who go about brandishing pistols and holding up gas trucks like latter day highwaymen. Despite an elegant notoriety, the Trio's crimes tend to yield less than impressive fiscal reward, so they plan a heist on a motel-cum-knocking shop in an attempt to up the ante. It goes badly wrong. The gang's lily-livered tendencies mean they make a sharp exit at the first sniff of trouble but, unbeknownst to them, their lookout, unhappy with his passive role in proceedings (as bored nine-year-old little brothers are wont to be), strolls into the motel and fires at will, chortling psychotically as each hooker and john crumples to the floor.The kid in question is L'il Dice, a chubby Arnold-out-of-Diff'rent-Strokes lookalike with an insatiable lust for mayhem. The motel incident marks a shift in emphasis for the City of God and the following years see the slum descend into chaos as L'il Dice (later renamed L'il Ze) builds a narcotics empire by ruthlessly eliminating the competition. The streets become a recruiting ground for drug dealers and gang lieutenants. Small children (or 'runts' as they are affectionately known) come to see guns and criminal activity as the only viable rungs up the status ladder. 'I smoke, I snort, I've killed and robbed - I'm a man,' one prepubescent boy states defiantly.The film culminates in all-out war between L'il Ze's bunch of hoodlums and an idealistic group of insubordinates who throng behind the handsome Knockout Ned after he stands up to Ze's cruel regime. Meirelles is careful not to lionise Ned. Turning him into a hero figure would, I suppose, have romanticised a bitter and essentially futile conflict. Rocket, caught in the middle of the hostility highlights the ultimate irony: 'By the end, after years of fighting, nobody could remember how it all started,' he says. The war becomes the way of life in the favela. Being affiliated to one of the gangs gives the street kids credibility and, more importantly, access to weapons. Before long, guns are being handed out like lollipops, and the runts are running about excitedly firing their new 'toys' indiscriminately. It is the ultimate in power without responsibility.In their breathless exaltations, many reviewers have dubbed City of God 'Brazil's answer to Goodfellas'. It is a comparison that may be sound in terms of structure <U+0096> Meirelles has certainly mastered Scorsese's canny editing and daring method of chronicling events over long periods of time <U+0096> but overall this is a different beast. It is more of a Lord of the Flies with AK-47s. The most alarming aspect of all is the shocking lack of parental presence.This is essential in conveying the choices these street children have (or rather don't have). L'il Ze and his barbaric ilk become all these poor, impressionable little tykes have to aspire to. In short: they don't stand a chance <U+0096> a fact sharply illustrated in one particularly distressing and almost unwatchable initiation scene where a young gang recruit is required to murder a cornered infant in order to appease his older colleagues.But Meireilles does not let this base, visceral tone swamp his movie. In Rocket he has an inspirational protagonist <U+0096> the perfect foil to the madness and despair. His coming of age scenes where he bashfully attempts to flirt with girls and lose his virginity; and the sequence where he and his mate resort to petty crime only to bottle out when their intended victims turn out to be 'way too cool' to rob are the glue that holds the drama together. Without the light relief this would be intense and depressing fare.As it is, City of God is a triumph of story-telling: Magnificent, gut-wrenching and utterly compelling, it is cinema of the very highest order.Do not miss it.10/10
The film, directed by Fernando Meirelles, tells the story of life in the slums of Rio de Janeiro, in an area known as the Cidade De Deus, the City of God.  The story is told from the narration of the young photographer, Rocket.  The different scenarios of life that make up the wider-story are presented in Pulp Fiction style chapters, complete with on-screen titles for each different story component.  The story covers all the facets of the life, charting the growth of several key members of the gangs from childhood through to young adulthood, with their transformation from young hoodlums to local drugs barons.  The final parts of the story focus on the battle within the Cidade De Deus between two different groups, when business and personal matters lead to an unavoidable confrontation.  And what a confrontation it is, although details will not be given away here.  The result is a powerful telling of life based around real-life events.Martin Scorsese seems to have a heavy influence on the direction of this picture, with many moments looking familiar to fans of the legendary American filmmaker.  Close ups, sweeping scene shots, freeze-and-zoom shots, and a frenzied handheld approach are all trademarks that will be recognisably traceable to Scorsese, having been used throughout his career. Many shots remind the viewer of Scorsese's narrative dialogue-camera relationship in Goodfellas, in which the camera was used to brilliant effect to highlight the main points in the script.  This technique is used heavily in the first twenty minutes of Cidade De Deus, with the freeze frame trick being used to introduce the story's main characters alongside the dialogue of narrator, Rocket.Throughout the film one cannot help but watch a scene and think, 'I've seen that in Raging Bull, Goodfellas, or Casino', and this may make some look less favourably on the film's direction.  However, it is not fair to consider this 'a Brazilian Goodfellas', as one critic has observed.  The story has parallels - the underlying ideas of gangsters, drugs and violence -, the direction is similar, and the story is told with narration, much like Ray Liotta's role in Scorsese's epic.  But to regard this film in terms of what styles it repeats or nods it's hat to, is to be very ignorant. Fernando Meirelles,  has done a wonderfully hypnotic job of blending the old styles, and bringing them up to date with flashy and sometimes dangerously kinetic direction and editing.  Look only to the leaving-party scene in which strobe lighting is used to extraordinary effect, almost suffocating the story below a bombardment on the visual senses.  Think of a crossover between the visual energy of the Matrix and the violence of the club scene in Bad Boys.Cidade De Deus is much more than a directorial assault on the senses.  As Raul Walsh said if you don't have a story you have nothing, and many flashy Hollywood films have fallen short in using 'ultra-modern' direction to disguise the fact that no substantial story exists underneath.  Cidade De Deus is most brilliant in that it combines directorial and editorial brilliance with a story that is almost second to none in recent times. Only the true greats manage to cater to these two needs of cinema, and this is one that does.  The direction is amazing, but not to disguise the story flaws, and the story is brilliant, but does not overwhelm directorial originality.  But simply, Cidade De Deus is a perfect film for avid fans of cinematography, and those just in search of two hours of a bloody good story.I cannot decide yet if I would consider this better than Amores Perros, but it is certainly not inferior.  The at-the-same-time stylish and brutal visuals of Amores Perros are replaced by a grittier, more hands on approach to the subject.  Whilst in Amores Perros the characters took precedent, in Cidade De Deus the location is as big a character as those who live there. As a result we get a much greater feeling of the environment in which the characters exist, and so it is perhaps easier to empathise, and/or sympathise with them.  As the official press synopsis says, Cidade De Deus is a character, but is a place not a person.  Amores Perros triumphs in creating relationships between the audience and the characters, as it concentrates for a long time on relatively few people, each of whom we grow to know and ultimately care about, which is important for the emotional impact of the film.  Cidade De Deus deals with dozens, even hundreds, of characters, and so it is only a minority that we become attached to.  This means that while the film leaves a lasting impact we are not left with the same inquisitiveness about the future for the characters that we meet in Amores Perros.  Both films leave open ends, but Cidade De Deus feels closed. Whether you consider this a good or bad thing is a matter for personal choice.Cidade De Deus is essential viewing, and is cinema at its most brilliant. It will of course feel the wrath of critics who will dwell on the almost unimaginably high body count, but there are always those who will reject violence in the movies.  In fact the violence in Cidade De Deus, even the apocalyptic ending, is not as raw and bloody as many will expect.  Blood spilling is a rare sight, and the violence rests mostly, but not always, on choreography rather than in your face bloodshed.  The result is violence, but it is often so artistic that it looks beautiful rather than deterring. Like Scorsese's Taxi Driver the violence is abhorrent, but admirable from a cinematic perspective.In short, this is a superb achievement, and is easily one of the best films of the year, and of the decade so far.  Like it's predecessors, this is the latest film to come out of South America that indicates the emergence of major new talent in filmmaking.  Hollywood beware.


                
I have seen this movie only recently (2005) and it's easily one of the better foreign films I have seen. Actually, it's probably just about one of the best films I had ever seen.The characters really make this movie come alive with each of their compelling personalities shining though in the backdrop of oppressive conditions and constant violence. One thing which clearly comes to mind is "Lil' Dice's" ear to ear smile - so vivid and yet so ironic since he personifies pure evil.The City of God is a world you don't want to visit, it won't be featured on a post card, and it's said to be the city ignored by god himself. This movie makes you feel uncomfortable, puts you on the edge of your seat -- you are right into the middle of the City and you too are caught up in it's violent temptation. More importantly, it's about the triumph of the human spirit against all odds.This movie in effect is fast paced and hard to follow (with the added stress of subtitles over Portuguese), but it's worth it; and in fact really adds to the impetuous and impulsive undertones of the movie. In addition, the quintessential Brazilian music blending into the film like a well made Caprahina makes it feel authentic like the Italian music in the God Father.You see the flaws of these men played out in an almost fatalistic nature -- hated, greed, futility; and in it all we see ourselves, our own flaws, and our own condition.


                
I knew nothing of this film before I saw it by chance in a rare Pub open screening, but boy was I glad I got the chance to take a look. I was riveted all night - I completely ignored my friends! I thought it was an awesome re-enactment of a true story - powerful, moving, raw, real - and even funny in parts. I walked away afterwards, beaming. It's rare a great film like this is made, especially these days. I gave it ten out of ten. Please see it if you can.


                
I am a big fan of foreign film, because its great to see directors with different points of view than the average American director. City of God is the epitome of a great foreign film. It shows the classic struggle between right and wrong, in a brand new way. The raw directing style, coupled with a great soundtrack makes for a movie which many different kinds of people can enjoy. Weather your a Harvard intellectual or the local idiot, you can enjoy this. The vicious cycle of the gangster lifestyle is portrayed with haunting accuracy. It even forces the audience to sympathize with some of the nastiest thugs in the world. All in all, City of God is one the greatest movies of my time and each time i watch it i enjoy it more than the last.


                
The first moment of the film shows us a swaggering gangster preparing food somewhere in the Favella of Rio de Janeiro. A knife scrapes across a whetstone, a chicken is plucked, fabulously atmospheric music plays in the background and a second chicken makes a break for his life! A chase ensues, the poor chicken being pursued by a whole gang of hoods, armed to the teeth, and the frenzy stops with our hero (Rocket) being caught between heavily armed Policemen, the chicken and the hoods. Violence seems inevitable, and things look bad for Rocket...From this point of suspense we re-wind to the sixties. We are introduced to the City Of God itself...the omnipresent character in the movie. The carefully laid out buildings are reminiscent of a battery farm, and we soon find that criminality is evidently 'designed in'. The local youths (including Rocket's brother) are involved in petty crime, and the crime is of little interest or consequence to anyone. In fact we are quickly shown that crime is the only real option to get out of the Favella. Football is the other, but the ball is shot by one of the criminals, highlighting how difficult that route is.Against this background, Li'l Dice organises an armed raid on a brothel (he must be about 7 or 8). In a fit of pique caused by his being left outside the Motel, he goes into the building after the criminals have left, and shoots everyone dead. He is on his way (via shooting Rocket's brother) to becoming Li'l Ze, the boss of the gangs of the Favella. At the same time Rocket realises that he cannot be a gangster (he's scared of being shot) and talks of becoming a photographer.But Rocket cannot escape. He tries to work, but earns nothing, and loses his job. He tries crime, but is no good at it. The City drags him back all the time. He does better than others however. Benny (Li'l Ze's partner) is shot at the point when he is preparing to leave, Knockout Ned is dragged into the violence of a turf war, and so on. The slaughter continues with no intervention from the corrupt police, continually destroying the lives of the residents of the City, continually drawing more and more residents into the battle.Eventually Rocket's life in the Favella itself becomes the key to the exit door. He can take pictures where no other photographer would ever dare to go, and it is this that takes us back to the police, the chicken and the gang! The ensuing, climactic battle sees revenge being taken, the gang leaders arrested, the police corruption, and Li'l Ze being killed. Li'l Ze is killed by the young kids, much as he has killed Rocket's brother, and the cycle of drugs, territory and violence starts again, imprisoning the next generation.The film is brilliantly shot, linking subject matter and events into an excellent whole, and is complimented by fantastic sound effects creating a really credible (and Brazilian) view of the slums in which the action is set. The shocking reality of the children running the criminal gangs is well handled (Rocket and Li'l Ze's virginity lies in stark contrast to the experiences no adult would expect to ever see) and underscores what is both a touching, and terribly shocking film.
Incredible film. Not much to say, yet I could say it all. The film is absolutely splendid in its use of colour, characters and especially music. Though some might complain of the shaky Super 16 footage, it is evidently for effect as the first half (golden age) is filmed with lots of aerials, and smooth, precise shots.Stunning in every sense


                
The story begins in the present days, in a barbecue party in the slum of 'Cidade de Deus', with some bandits chasing a chicken. Then, a teenager called Buscapé (Alexandre Rodrigues) tells the story of the Cidade de Deus and the main characters of the movie (Zé Pequeno, Bené, Cenoura etc.), since they were kids. This movie takes place in Cidade de Deus, a set of buildings originally built in the 60's for poor persons originated from a big flooding in Rio and from some slums. In the 60's, this area was isolated, without any infrastructure. Nowadays, with the construction boom, it is located close to Barra da Tijuca and Jacarepaguá, very valuables zones. Rio de Janeiro City is surrounded by slums, where the situation presented in the film is the reality of thousands and thousands of honest poor persons. This movie is remarkable: the screenplay, the direction, the performance of the cast, everything works perfectly. The frantic camera looks like a documentary. Today the DVD was released in Brazil, I bought it and I have just watched it with my family. I really can imagine the reaction of foreigners watching this sad side of Rio de Janeiro. It is strange, because a person who does not live in Rio probably may think that this movie exaggerates in some aspects. However, this is our reality. Lost bullets, robberies, violence is part of our day-by-day life. By the other hand, the same person may think that life in Rio 'stinks', and again it is not true. My city, like a golden coin, has two sides: heads and tails. If you can afford, you have wonderful places to live. But unfortunately, a great part of the population lives in slums, like the ones showed in this movie. The lack of perspective in life of the children, unemployment, ridiculous salaries, lack of education, lack of the faith, all of these factors contributes for the formation of the next generation of drug dealers and bandits. The traffic offers positions to the kids, like showed in this movie. And in the end, even when the 'grown-ups' are arrested or murdered, there is a bunch of children to occupy the spot. A sad social problem, but true. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "Cidade de Deus" ("City of God")


                
Let's imagine for a split-second that you have not read a line about 'City of God' as you click Play in your remote. As the footage starts, the camera snaps back and forth in a frenzy, people dance the samba, a party is on the make, a poor chicken watches as her mates become chicken wings. And hence we get to the big chicken run. It's the most brilliant scene of the whole movie - in fact, the whole movie revolves around it. Around this frantic scene and the shooting that follows and that sadly shows the reality of thousands of Brazilians in Rio and elsewhere. There is no space in Paulo Lins' novel for the idle hedonism of 'Capitães da Areia', the renown Jorge Amado classic that tells us the story of a junior delinquent gang in the streets of Salvador in Bahia. 'City of God' simply has no space. Not even space for the viewer. From the first scene onwards, you are permanently reminded that you aren't but a viewer, that you are outside, that you have absolutely not the slightest-faintest-slimmest idea of what it feels like to be inside. The narrative structure is a strike of genius in that sense. Not that it was a cutting-edge idea - it has been done time and time again. But the manipulation of at least three hand-held cameras, the constant sound of samba and the relapses of the story, together with the sheer vivacity of the original dialogues (mind you, I do mean the original, extremely nuanced Rio favela-slang Portuguese dialogues!!) make the movie possible to be watched without post-traumatic-stress. You are outside, and you know it. Your whole body is either stiff or numb, uncomfortable in any case. That strange butterfly-cold-revolving sensation in your stomach reminds you that you are not comfortable. The way you breathe (or don't)reminds you that you're not comfortable. The way you bite your knuckles or shake your head in disbelief, perhaps the dampness of your eyes when that young child cries in fear of being shot dead reminds you that you are not comfortable, that this is not your world. Sometimes, in your deep discomfort, your thoughts will go ashtray, only to be rescued back by the next still, the next title, the nest flashback that requires your attention. That is the stylistic exercise that achieves the objective of keeping you focused and in your seat. That is the role Meirelles responsibly takes as film director.The rooftops of 'City of God' in the '60s remind me of Soweto. The street scenes in the '60s remind me of Soweto, Jo'burg today. Or Gaza. Or Bagdad. Or Monrovia. Or Mogadiscio. Or Rio, for the matter. See a pattern here? There is no innocence any more. There is simply the ignorance that another life is possible outside those impossible invisible walls of the favela. There is crime and punishment, cause and consequence, shoot and shoot-back, or better yet, shoot-before. It could be a war anywhere in the world. Yet, it's the city you choose to go to for holiday. You'll be dazzled after you watch these 130 minutes. Meirelles allows you the luxury of enjoying the story, despite the violence contained in it. But do stop to think about it for a minute afterwards. Think: how many of those real-life actors, casted in a real-life favela in Rio do you believe had a similar fate since 2002? Think again. This is the harsh reality. Imagine this was a documentary - you would need counseling after watching. But you do need to know what lies behind Morro-do-Pão-de-Açúcar (Sugar Loaf Mountain). Some wars happen in the gut of our society - in Rio as in Paris or L.A., and 'City of God' is there to remind you.And, well, contrarily to what you thought, the worse in Rio is not that your camera gets knacked. Now you've learned that you'll never see the worse, lucky you... F.y.i., the chicken escapes alive (clever chicken!).


                
This movie is absolutely amazing! It is a cinematic tour de force. It is undoubtedly one of the top ten best movies ever made. Comparable to American masterpieces such as Goodfellas or Pulp Fiction. But it is its own unique film.It is based on a true story of one boys desperate attempt to survive and escape the city of god (the slums of Rio de Janeiro) a truly brutal and violent place. A place where murders, holdups, drugs, and criminals are commonplace.This film announces the presences of a truly talented filmmaker, Fernando Meirelles. He directs this film with a ferocious, frantic, intensity perfectly merging every aspect of the film. He uses many different filming tricks from split screen to freeze frame. Each one is used at exactly the right time for the exact right reasons.All of this combines to make an unforgettably perfect cinematic masterpiece that i highly recommend. 10/10 A++


                
Before anyone says anything, hear me out. According to the IMDb Top 250 list, "The Godfather" reigns supreme as number one, while "City of God," or more appropriately, "Cidade de Deus," is at the number 17 slot. But to compare the two is like comparing an Arnold Schwartzenegger movie to "Crash." They are just too different. But for me, while Francis Ford Coppolla's 1972 film is rightly considered a masterpiece, "City of God" is more memorable and packs a bigger punch. That, and "The Godfather" has had 30 more years under its belt to gather its legendary status. And it's in English (which, sadly, makes a lot of difference).Now, "City of God." What a rush! Fernando Meirelles's masterpiece is a film to behold. Many critics have described films as "explosive" for the punch they pack, and/or the unflinching reality of the subject matter. But there has been no film I have ever seen that can match "City of God" for energy. It has so much energy that instead of unfolding, it throws itself at you all at once, leaving everything else to be done afterwards. The actors don't act; they don't have time. They just...are. Everything is done to such an extreme, it's surprising that Meirelles manages to make none of it sensationalistic or exploitative.Some people will tell you that this film is the chronicle of two drug lords. While there is some truth in that, the plot, if one could call it that, is better described as the chronicle of the "City of God" itself. Characters float in and out, with the "out" part frequently involving a bang (or more likely, a series of them). The characters are given background only if and when they are needed.Like I said, there's really no time to develop subtly-nuanced performances. The film moves with such breakneck energy that to do so would only slow it down. There are only a few characters that really matter. Rocket (Alexandre Rodrigues) is our window into the hellish slums. The result isn't voyeuristic, instead Rocket is more like a guide (albeit with only the narration addressing the audience). He's a normal teen, with interests in girls (particularly Angelica (Alice Braga)), sex, and aspirations to be a photographer. But his main goal is simply to survive each day. Also of note is Li' Ze, who we see growing up with a taste for violence as a kid (kids shoot and kill people just as frequently, if not more so, than adults). His increasingly drug-addled brain and his ambition makes him more frightening by the minute. The only one who keeps him grounded and (relatively) under control is Benny (Phellipe Haagensen), the "coolest hood in the City of God." There's some truth in that statement, as spoken by Rocket. He's the shed of brightness in this hellish city (though he's no goody-two-shoes). Finally, there is Lil Ze's rival, Knockout Ned (Seu Jorge), who has the film's most notable character changes.But this is Fernando Meirelles movie. He throws in everything he can think of, and then some. References to Tarantino are abound, and there are probably more, but Meirelles takes the energy level up so high that there's no room for even a "please" or "thank you." Desaturated colors. A constantly moving camera. Loud noises. An upbeat soundtrack (which is the film's saving grace from becoming too grim). It's all here.People may not agree with me that this is the best film ever made, and that's okay. I respect that. But make no mistake, it's an unforgettable 130 minutes.


                
Spoilers herein.The first choice a modern filmmaker has to make is deciding who is the camera. Everything flows from that decision, inheriting already maturing visual vocabularies for each path chosen. It's very hard to be novel today: most interesting projects come from careful integration of a novel eye with a novel narrative stance - parallels, time reversals, untrusted narrators, etc. But here is something new, thanks to the creative incubator of Brazilian TeeVee commercials, one of the more vital pockets of popular art around.In this case, we have three characters: a narrator/photographer, a dancer, and a `pusher' who literally pushes the linear logic each step at a time. Each of these is represented by a camera philosophy (and accompanying editing style) which are mixed up helter-skelter. The most obvious is the notion of the `running camera' which sometimes looks at the road or away as it moves in frenzy.This is interspersed with a rhythmic camera. This camera (Benny's eye) is the one that permeated most: it is reasonable yet hedonistic. In the first few seconds, we are introduced to these two in masterful composition: the observing, recording chicken who subsequently runs with a following POV. This is mixed with the aggressive logic of rhythm. If opening shots are promises, this is a strong promise. Over time, the third eye is folded in, literally a folding of linear stories. Each is tightly linear until it hits a node, then goes off on a tangent or a new direction usually paralleling something already seen. Garrison Keiller is the master practitioner of this sort of storytelling; not chopped Clancey-style; not shuffled Tarantino-like; but direct until hitting a capricious nexus, then direct again.All three are shooters. The story is irrelevant: kids killing kids, albeit sometimes viscerally. The characters are literally disposable. The experience is nominally about the place, but it is really about how we are shown the place. I do not think this will reinvent film like a few projects have (from Welles, Tarkovsky, Greenaway, Kurosawa, even recently Luhrmann) but it is a visual adventure worth taking and a fresh experience.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4: Worth watching.
City of God is set in poverty-stricken and corrupt Rio de Janeiro and bravely zooms in on its young citizens in their extremely violent day-to-day circumstances. Some of them are really only just kids. I don't mean kids like "rowdy teens", but actual little children with guns and blood on their hands. It is quite heartbreaking to watch, but very compelling at the same time.As it follows the life of two childhood friends who take very different paths in life, it is an excellent portrayal of eras<U+0097>the 60s, 70s and 80s<U+0097>capturing the style, music and way of life of each. Between the two story lines, the director introduces a multitude of violent characters and their lives in Rio through titled segments. Unlike Tarantino's violent segments, they are cohesive.It is also stunning to see how well the actors performed in their individual parts, especially when I come back here on IMDb and read that they were not even professional actors, but locals recruited specifically for the film. Wow! More praise: I think City of God possibly has the best cinematography I have ever seen in a movie. It had such a unique mix of shots<U+0097>sometimes choppy editing (but not Tony Scott seizure-inducing), 70s TV style images, quick camera movements and other times more drawn out and more "epic" shots. All the while it truly felt as though you were there, but desperately wanted to get away from the madness.However, it may feel, at times, somewhat like an orgy of drugs and guns or mindless glorification of street violence to appeal to teen audiences.But then I realised the violence is not gratuitous because City of God is about violence (duh, I know) and it condemns it in many ways, such as making out the protagonist non-violent and aspiring to a better life, and getting us to sympathise with him more than anyone else.


                
"City of God" is an adrenaline jolt of a film that for once manages to find a balance between stylistics and substance. The director, Fernando Meirelles, stuffs his movie to the brim with machine-gun editing, swirling cinematography and pounding music, but while this reliance on fancy tricks has ruined other films, Meirelles is so expert at blending them seamlessly into an engrossing story that the viewer quickly accepts them as inseparable from the world of the film. He delivers a deeply emotional and human story that obviously owes much to Scorsese and Tarantino---but his movie feels completely original, never like a rip off. And underneath all of the action and plotting, there is a compelling message about about the power of art (specifically the camera) and a suggestion that, just as the pen is mightier than the sword, the camera is mightier than the gun. Can't recommend it enough.Grade: A+


                
this movie is pseudo-documentary meets Little Rascals meets Peter Parker meets Scarface meets Godfather meets Lord of the Flies meets so many other classics.  it's not derivative at all, but it certainly makes you compare elements to the all-time greats of entertainment.you hope for closure for our young photographer narrator but never quite get it, coming to the realization that this City of God is truly the Land of the Damned, even today subject to profound political corruption and gang violence.  this isn't your Rio from the travel brochures...it's quite sad that more people haven't seen this film while it's been out in arthouses and other cinemas around the country.  i hope someone who hadn't seen the movie will read this and be spurred to at least rent it.verdict: 10/10.


                
The basic story, a boy who is raised in the real world, from the beginning of his life. I believe this is one of the most powerful, and truly realistic stories, that can truly show the hardships of reality, and the decisions given to people, and how they choose to accept different opportunities. When I first saw this movie, I thought it was all those things: powerful,moving, beautiful and all that, but I realized this is a story that should be heard. This story reminds me of Lord of the Flies, with realism in it. This movie deserves all the credit it gets and some, and I hope that the situation that this story follows, one day, will no longer exist: life of violence, drugs, and death.


                
With a Dickensian plot (if the content is un-bowdlerized), a child nicknamed "Rocket" (as translated in the English subtitles) relates his rise from a ghetto-dweller to a successful photojournalist who exposes the harsh world of his origin to the complacent Brazilians who live in the picture-postcard world of its upper and middle classes, and his entry into their world. "Rocket" is effectively the narrator.This masterful filming establishes the human condition wherever people are neglected because they are 'inconvenient'. The place could just as easily be Soweto or even Detroit. The poor try to survive by doing the dirty work that the bourgeoisie needs to have done but won't do itself. Parents may have aspirations for their children's improvement and insist that they go to school, study, and prepare to do honest work. The easy money of illegal activities, whether robberies or drug dealing, intoxicates some, and draws them into a trap. Personal 'honor' is to be protected at all costs to others, and thus the vendetta. But such is the sociological angle, and most of us have seen that story in a newspaper.It's an exciting tale of survival and shaky success -- and of the ultimate dangers of crime. It's also a romance and a tale of the richness of the popular culture which on occasion brings some brightness into the dreary slum. But such brightness results from successful crooks getting control and showing off their success with the monetary fruits of their drug-trafficking. Not surprisingly, it erupts into a local civil war."Rocket" demonstrates that with some sensitivity and some usefulness he can beat the odds stacked against him. Does he? To give the answer introduces a spoiler. Just watch the movie; except for the sexuality it might as well be a Brazilian version of-Te Godfather- with a few plot twists.The cinematography is spectacular, but beware: there is much violence, and much sexuality. It is rightfully rated 'R'; nobody in his right mind would want his children to imitate any of the criminal deeds shown in this film. Overt sexuality, including interracial sexuality, will offend some people. (Note that interracial sexuality in American movies is ordinarily exploitative. Not here!) That said, the filmmaker has chosen to not make any preachy comment on whether the social conditions are at all tolerable, whether drug use is desirable, or whether the violence that results from 'turf wars' or retribution against real or imagined slights to one's 'honor' are excusable. That's for the viewer to decide.
A film that portrays the life of the poor Brazilian class, mainly from Rio de Janeiro, portrayed by locals themselves, amateur actors and did a great job, many revealed to the great Brazilian entertainment industry. The film has excellent direction, fantastic subjective elements, and time does not continue in a single line, the director approaches different moments in different times of the film. Amazing. This film was a great revolution in Brazilian cinema, it was nominated for international awards, which for the Brazilian film industry was new.A great film to know the reality of the poor class, and the history of the city of God, favela of the rio.


                
This is one of the most beatiful movie ever. Every part of the movie has a excitement. The story of the movie is connected with each part of the movie. You can't be bored while you watch the movie.


                
Even the language is in brazilian. It simple straight forward & easy to understand.Story line was on the spot. At the beginning I judge this movie will be bored & stupid. Turn out, I give 10/10.


                
Fernando Meirelles and Kátia Lund are taking you on a journey through the gruesome and painful life of the inhabitants of the Cidade de Deus. Throughout the movie you become a part of this society which leads to an even better understanding of the horrible details this city has to offer. Some scenes are highly disturbing while others are simply beautiful. This change between good and bad gives this film even more strenght.
The acting is astounding and so is the entire atmosphere in every part of the movie.
For me this is one of the best movies in all of movie history and unfortunately a very underrated piece of art.


                
Hands down the greatest movie I have ever scene. A very powerful story with the most artistic imagination to recreate it. I don't think anyone else may taken this story and portrayed it any better.


                
I saw Cidade de Deus in a movie theater, just the week of the premiere. Although there were long queues, and there was almost no place to sit in the room (I only got a seat in the front row where no one usually sits), I was not prepared for the impact the play produced on me. In a clear language, and with direct images, but without being appealing, the film showed how the period when the favelas were idealized by the middle class occurred - after all, because they were in the hills, it was said that they lived there from the sky '- to communities where gun-to-mouth drug-trafficking shootings are a constant. Combining bluntness and good humor, Cidade de Deus is a movie that was born classic, and that only improves every time you review it.


                
