"The Bugs Bunny Show" is just one of many television programs running Warner Bros. Looney Tunes and Merrie Melodies cartoons. The Looney Tunes were, are, and will continue to be the most innovative and entertaining series of cartoons ever produced. These cartoons were a complete departure from what everyone else in the cartoon business was doing at the time. The Looney Tunes series was responsible for some of the greatest, funniest, and most sophisticated cartoons ever produced, as well as numerous memorable characters.Now, back to this television series. As I stated earlier, this was the first network television series to run Looney Tunes cartoons, and any show that runs Warner Bros. cartoons is definitely great.


                
Somehow, despite this show being listed from 1960, which I don't doubt it was, I watched this almost every weekend for years during my Saturday Morning cartoon craze. It was simply that one of the networks amid the usual hubbub, and probably late in the morning, this show would come on and some great (and occasionally less than great Looney Tunes shorts would come on. They were characterized by an almost by-the-numbers intro song that becomes all the more catchy the more times you watch the show (maybe on some sort of unreal level). The show would also keep a sort of consistency with allowing the material all through (though on occasion, for a ridiculous reason, things got cut out of certain episodes), and with playing really a set group of episodes from a time released. I loved it, and wish more of this could be shown for today's youth as opposed to simply the two major camps (computer animation or anime). There's something about the Looney Tunes that sticks with you, if you do look at them as more than just for kids, sometimes all for the sake of a goofy gag, though more creative than one might expect.


                
When this show was on I watched it every time I could! I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities. The animation in My opinion was crisp, clean, and really clear. Not to mention beautiful! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love. in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen. In fact, The things that goes on in this series' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do! If you like the original Looney Tunes then I strongly recommend that you watch this show!


                
This is a blast from all of our childhoods and those that have never heard of Bugs Bunny or any of the Looney Tunes characters. Really they miss a part of their childhood growing up.As BB and his friends like Daffy Duck, Tweety Bird, Slyvester the Cat, Roadrunner and Coyote, etc. Did not take themselves too seriously as well as really laughed each each other and with one another at times.Gags and the witty writing and the voice of the late and great Mel Blanc. Shows the show was ahead of it's time. And it is much more better than the junk that is on TV these days. Bugs Bunny is really a very popular character and one of the best cartoons ever to be out!
. . . of THE BUGS BUNNY SHOW, included as a 2003 DVD "bonus feature" in the appendix of LOONEY TUNES GOLDEN COLLECTION (VOLUME ONE): DISC ONE (BUGS BUNNY). It is one of two snippets from THE BUGS BUNNY SHOW lumped together here (the other being "Bridging Sequences" from the 1962 A STAR IS BORED episode of BBS). This piece consists of a recording session apparently occurring June 27, 1960. In it, Looney Tunes director Chuck Jones can be heard guiding voice artist Mel Blanc through some dialogue for BOTH Bugs Bunny and Porky Pig. It's really fascinating to hear Chuck say something like, "Do that again, with less stutter" (for a Porky Pig line), or "The correct Take" (instead of "Take Two," when Mel gets a line slightly wrong, a seemingly rare instance). This is a lot like being half under the influence of laughing gas, and listening to your dentist chit-chatting Matter-of-Factly with his technician while drilling your teeth, only funnier!
Classic in every way. There is not a single person I came across in my life who hasn't seen it or doesn't love it. It is animation at its finest in every way. It is funny, timeless and beautiful to look at. A modern piece of art that will stay relevant for years to come.


                
As cartoons go this is the gold standard as far as I am concerned. I grew up watching Bugs, Road Runner, Taz and all the other Looney Toons. It's great for the kids and I don't mind being in the room either. You don't have to worry about inappropriate content other than maybe some cartoon violence. All in all it's a must see as people make references to it throughout life?


                
A classic animated series that everyone loves and who must have seen at least 1 episode. Although only having one season, the Looney Tunes have many episodes each one better than the other. A series that everyone loves and that everyone should see several episodes (I at least I dident see any bad episodes)


                
This is a great cartoon show full of Warner Brother's popular characters, including Bugs Bunny, Daffy Duck, Porky Pig, Elmer Fudd, and Yosemite Sam. Who would forget Bugs Bunny's classic "Eh, what's up doc?" phrase as he encounters his pals or opponents, the frenzyness and speech impediment of Daffy Duck, or the stuttering lines of Porky Pig? Each character is treated with unique flavor and they give each episode fun adventures and entertaining chemistry.It is a cartoon series of all ages!Grade A


                
WB first and most famous cartoon in past century. It's very funny & short cartoon. But It's very nice.
Children choice character.


                
. . . BUGS BUNNY: AIN'T HE A STINKER? (which I assume must be one of the individual episodes of THE BUGS BUNNY SHOW, whether or not it is among the incomplete set listed here) contains most of Bug's catch phrases and brief clips from many more of his iconic cartoon outings than the stingy amount of 20 comprising--along with STINKER--the 2010 two-disc Warner Bros. Home Video DVD set, THE ESSENTIAL BUGS BUNNY. As the Uncredited narrator brings viewers up-to-date on Bugs' Lifetime Achievement Awards toward the end of this 17-minute piece, we're informed that at some time or another TV GUIDE named Bugs as History's top All-Time Cartoon Character (with Disney's mangy rodent, Mickey Mouse, lagging WAAAAAY behind in 19th place, making you wonder what kind of Rigged Election resulted in TV having a "Mickey Mouse Club" with "Mouseketeers" in lieu of a "Bugs Bunny Bunch" with "Rabbiteers"). Furthermore, it tells you a lot when STINKER's narrator reminds us that Bugs' co-stars included Humphrey Bogart, Lauren Bacall, Doris Day, and Errol Flynn (while Mickey Mouse can only boast of rubbing elbows with Annette Funicello, Britney Spears, and Justin Timberlake). Warner Bros. once ran Daffy Duck for U.S. President (though Daffy lost then, one of his disciples won in 2016). Too bad Bugs did not run last year!
