"The Bugs Bunny Show" is just one of many television programs running Warner Bros. Looney Tunes and Merrie Melodies cartoons. The Looney Tunes were, are, and will continue to be the most innovative and entertaining series of cartoons ever produced. These cartoons were a complete departure from what everyone else in the cartoon business was doing at the time. The Looney Tunes series was responsible for some of the greatest, funniest, and most sophisticated cartoons ever produced, as well as numerous memorable characters.Now, back to this television series. As I stated earlier, this was the first network television series to run Looney Tunes cartoons, and any show that runs Warner Bros. cartoons is definitely great.


                
Somehow, despite this show being listed from 1960, which I don't doubt it was, I watched this almost every weekend for years during my Saturday Morning cartoon craze. It was simply that one of the networks amid the usual hubbub, and probably late in the morning, this show would come on and some great (and occasionally less than great Looney Tunes shorts would come on. They were characterized by an almost by-the-numbers intro song that becomes all the more catchy the more times you watch the show (maybe on some sort of unreal level). The show would also keep a sort of consistency with allowing the material all through (though on occasion, for a ridiculous reason, things got cut out of certain episodes), and with playing really a set group of episodes from a time released. I loved it, and wish more of this could be shown for today's youth as opposed to simply the two major camps (computer animation or anime). There's something about the Looney Tunes that sticks with you, if you do look at them as more than just for kids, sometimes all for the sake of a goofy gag, though more creative than one might expect.


                
This is a blast from all of our childhoods and those that have never heard of Bugs Bunny or any of the Looney Tunes characters. Really they miss a part of their childhood growing up.As BB and his friends like Daffy Duck, Tweety Bird, Slyvester the Cat, Roadrunner and Coyote, etc. Did not take themselves too seriously as well as really laughed each each other and with one another at times.Gags and the witty writing and the voice of the late and great Mel Blanc. Shows the show was ahead of it's time. And it is much more better than the junk that is on TV these days. Bugs Bunny is really a very popular character and one of the best cartoons ever to be out!
Classic in every way. There is not a single person I came across in my life who hasn't seen it or doesn't love it. It is animation at its finest in every way. It is funny, timeless and beautiful to look at. A modern piece of art that will stay relevant for years to come.


                
As cartoons go this is the gold standard as far as I am concerned. I grew up watching Bugs, Road Runner, Taz and all the other Looney Toons. It's great for the kids and I don't mind being in the room either. You don't have to worry about inappropriate content other than maybe some cartoon violence. All in all it's a must see as people make references to it throughout life?


                
