. . . of THE BUGS BUNNY SHOW, included as a 2003 DVD "bonus feature" in the appendix of LOONEY TUNES GOLDEN COLLECTION (VOLUME ONE): DISC ONE (BUGS BUNNY). It is one of two snippets from THE BUGS BUNNY SHOW lumped together here (the other being "Bridging Sequences" from the 1962 A STAR IS BORED episode of BBS). This piece consists of a recording session apparently occurring June 27, 1960. In it, Looney Tunes director Chuck Jones can be heard guiding voice artist Mel Blanc through some dialogue for BOTH Bugs Bunny and Porky Pig. It's really fascinating to hear Chuck say something like, "Do that again, with less stutter" (for a Porky Pig line), or "The correct Take" (instead of "Take Two," when Mel gets a line slightly wrong, a seemingly rare instance). This is a lot like being half under the influence of laughing gas, and listening to your dentist chit-chatting Matter-of-Factly with his technician while drilling your teeth, only funnier!
A classic animated series that everyone loves and who must have seen at least 1 episode. Although only having one season, the Looney Tunes have many episodes each one better than the other. A series that everyone loves and that everyone should see several episodes (I at least I dident see any bad episodes)


                
. . . BUGS BUNNY: AIN'T HE A STINKER? (which I assume must be one of the individual episodes of THE BUGS BUNNY SHOW, whether or not it is among the incomplete set listed here) contains most of Bug's catch phrases and brief clips from many more of his iconic cartoon outings than the stingy amount of 20 comprising--along with STINKER--the 2010 two-disc Warner Bros. Home Video DVD set, THE ESSENTIAL BUGS BUNNY. As the Uncredited narrator brings viewers up-to-date on Bugs' Lifetime Achievement Awards toward the end of this 17-minute piece, we're informed that at some time or another TV GUIDE named Bugs as History's top All-Time Cartoon Character (with Disney's mangy rodent, Mickey Mouse, lagging WAAAAAY behind in 19th place, making you wonder what kind of Rigged Election resulted in TV having a "Mickey Mouse Club" with "Mouseketeers" in lieu of a "Bugs Bunny Bunch" with "Rabbiteers"). Furthermore, it tells you a lot when STINKER's narrator reminds us that Bugs' co-stars included Humphrey Bogart, Lauren Bacall, Doris Day, and Errol Flynn (while Mickey Mouse can only boast of rubbing elbows with Annette Funicello, Britney Spears, and Justin Timberlake). Warner Bros. once ran Daffy Duck for U.S. President (though Daffy lost then, one of his disciples won in 2016). Too bad Bugs did not run last year!
