The X-Men Animated Series was great, hands down.  Sure, it wasn't the comic -- and yes, the X-Men lineup stayed the same through all six seasons... but it handelled very well.  In some ways I wish the comic could have been more concise like the Animated Series was.  Some guest characters (Dazzler, my favourite X-Man, for one) weren't portrayed very well, especially in the explenation of their mutant powers, but it was very cool to see it all piece together.The X-Men had it's share of continuity problems, however.  In season 1, for example, everything was loosely played off of the comics.  For instance, the X-Men did NOT know Warren Worthington III (Angel/Archangel).  Later on through the series, however, Angel is shown as an original X-Man.  Iceman was also later guest-starred as an original X-Man, and Polaris was shown as a former X-Man as well.  Other than that, though, the team is set as Wolverine, Rogue, Gambit, Cyclops, Storm, Jean Grey, Jubilee, Beast and Professor X.  Some great storylines were the Phoenix Saga, Dark Phoenix Saga and the Phalenx Covenant.Just about any X-Man you can think of was cameoed as well.  Except for Shadowcat that is.  Nightcrawler, Dazzler, Colossus, Havok, Wolfsbane, Cannonball, Longshot, and Rictor all stand fresh in my mind.  It was truly a great series -- and it was very sad to see it cancelled, as it brought something more substantial to television -- a dream, a goal.  Not talking sponges like you see on Nickelodeon.  This was and will continue to be one of the greatest cartoons that graced Saturday-morning television.


                
The X-Men animated series was a terrific try at bringing the ultra-popular comic book featuring mutant outcasts to the small screen.  While the animation was amateurish and choppy at best, the voice over work was a particularly wonderful highlight.  The stories were re-hashes of the plots from the comics' 30+ years in publication, and a few standouts included the Phoenix Saga, and its follow-up featuring the reconciliation between Scott Summers, alias Cyclops, and his father, the interstellar pirate/freedom fighter, Corsair.


                
It's been a while since I last watched "X-Men," the animated series from the early 1990s, but I do remember that this is/was one of the greatest comic book superhero shows I ever watched during my childhood. I was a reader of the Stan Lee-/Jack Kirby-co-created X-Men comics for Marvel Comics as a child - along with Spider-Man, who remains my favorite superhero, and the two Marvel Comics titles formed the cornerstone of my fascination with comic book superheroes. The "X-Men" titles struck a personal chord with me as I got older because of how its world re-defined people's hatreds and prejudices against each other to accommodate people with mutant powers being discriminated against by the powers-that-be. Being a black American, I instantly related to the plight of the X-Men and any other mutant character who was the target of those who ultimately wished the destruction of anyone with mutant powers. That was ultimately the greatest element about the comics, and this incredible animated series. It's the reason why I grew to deeply appreciate Marvel Comics more than any other comic book publisher in the industry. "X-Men," "Spider-Man: The Animated Series," and "Batman: The Animated Series" were all the reasons why during the early '90s, I loved comic book superhero cartoon shows.10/10


                
I remember in 1993, X-Men the Animated Series is my obsession and I'm not the only one. For a lot of people in my country, 1993 - 1994 is the X-Men craze era. The said cartoon series was one of the highest-rated TV shows at the time. I was especially obsessed with Rogue. She's beautiful and sexy. She of superior strength and when she fights, she rocks!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Yet she can't be touched. She's an irresistible temptation to men, especially to Gambit who longs to touch her so much, when she can't be touched.I was a sappy romantic at heart too so I'm always looking forward to moments between her and Gambit!!! And the people at my school were no different. Different people - different X-Men character favorites and obsessions, collection of X-Men comics and lots of talk about it during breaks, you name it. Even people over 25 watch it. It is little wonder, however, why there was all this fuss about X-Men. The characters' looks and personalities are charismatic and appealing to viewers. They are drawn as sexy and beautiful women and the men as beautiful and sexy as their female counterparts. Each has their own individual history and personalities which viewers simply find lovable and appealing. The plots and stories are exciting and interesting and there's no denying that the MUSIC at the beginning of every episode is REALLY CATCHY!!!!!!!!!!!!! The animated series was simply VERY WELL DONE!!! The fact that this animated series is one of the highest-rated and most-viewed Saturday morning programs in American history to date, that it is very popular in other countries aside from the U.S., and that it boosts sales of X-Men comics--as people who who didn't read x-men comics before this one started reading them as soon as they got obsessed with it--- are proofs that this is definitely one of the best cartoon series in 90s. In my opinion it is the BEST CARTOON SERIES, not just during the 90s but UNTIL NOW!!!!!! X-Men shows a different idea of heroes. This is unlike Batman and Superman who are loved by ordinary people because they are heroes. X-Men, on the other hand, although fighting for peace and justice, defending their fellow mutants and ordinary men from harm in the process, are hated and feared by those they've sworn to protect. Humankind, that is. Still they continue to protect and defend mankind.Marvel really did it right with this one and it could NOT be said that Batman and/or Superman animated series is/are superior than this one. X-Men The Animated Series(90s) is undeniably one of the most excellent, most watched and ultra-popular cartoon series up to this day!!!!!!!!


                
This was an exciting and great show. It featured good story lines, great character development, and good animation. This show is definitely better than the movie because it takes it's time to tell us a good story. Also it was quite faithful to the comics.


                
I remember back in 1992 when this show debuted, I thought it was one of the best cartoons on the air, along with "Batman: The Animated Series". The characters had great powers but no one was so incredibly powered that they couldn't get knocked down and knocked around. Plus they were always getting on each others nerves. As cool as Wolverine and Gambit were, I always held great fondness for Cyclops and Beast, I guess because I admired Cyclops for being so stalwart and steadfast and Beast for being so damn smart, laid back and intelligent. Gambit's love/hate relationship with Rogue, the hottest virgin super-heroine in comic books, was always good for a laugh and only occasionally got dramatic but never so much that it got sappy. Professor Xavier, Storm, Jean, and Jubilee rounded out the cast of heroes with their own powers and self-doubts and dreams. Well, actually the only character who probably didn't benefit from the series was Jean Grey, who for some strange reason was always fainting in action scenes. I'm guessing the writers simply didn't have a good grasp of her character or a strong idea of how to make her powers look cool and dynamic compared to the weather controlling Storm, high flying super tanker Rogue or even fire work shooting Jubilee. One of my few regrets/complaints about this show was that the X-Men's big villain, Magneto, was only a villain or rather a well meaning if twisted and tainted anti-hero for only the first two episodes in which he appeared, and so the role of #1 agitator to the X-Men went to Mr. Sinister during the 2nd season along with the usual stock villains of racist Americans. The first 3 seasons were probably the best, after that it kind of started to wane. Also I regret that Colossus and Night-Crawler were not regular members of the cast, as Night-Crawler was a very soulful character and Colossus, well, he's just so damn cool.But these complaints are very minor in light of what was otherwise one of the best comic book to cartoon adaptations ever to air. Certainly superior to the now defunct Wolverine & the X-Men, though X-Men Evolution featured a stronger version of Jean Grey.The X-Men later made some guest appearances on "Spider-Man", which had a lot of promise and brighter animation but ultimately squandered its potential. Captain America later guest starred in both X-Men and Spider-Man.


                
I was in my early teens when I first saw this cartoon version of 'X-Men' on television and it was what ignited my long-standing interest in the Marvel universe. If there was ever a lesson to be learnt about what it is to produce a faithful, involving adaptation (be it from a comic or a book) this show was the perfect example as it managed to successfully transfer the characters and plots from page to screen without dumbing down or altering things for the sake of making them 'cooler'.The cartoon focused mainly on 'X-Men' favourites including Cyclops, Jean, Wolverine, Gambit, Rogue, Storm, Beast, Jubilee and, of course, Xavier. But there were also episodes involving characters in supporting roles such as Archangel, Bishop, Nightcrawler and Cable. In terms of villains, all the usual suspects of like Magneto, Sinister, Mystique and Apocalypse turn up at some point. Unlike the recent films, aimed at pleasing teenagers and casual cinema-goers, this series was more intent on depicting the characters properly so there is the same interactions as seen in the comics including the Scott/Jean/Wolverine triangle, the love/hate relationship between Gambit and Rogue and the sibling bond that Storm and Gambit share. It also wonderfully portrays Wolverine's darkly sarcastic side, which brings humour to the show.While the films (and the childish 'X-Men: Evolutions') show the X-Men having rather calm, settled lives on the whole, this series gave a darker view of the universe, showing the team striving to do good in a world where much of humanity loathed mutants and saw them as the threat. It also tackled story arcs, like Onslaught, Dark Phoenix, Days of Future's End and Angel's transformation into Archangel, that appeared in the comic-verse in a way that retained the essence of the stories.This was certainly one of the best cartoons to come out of the Nineties and still holds appeal to me even now that I'm an adult. In fact, I think a few of the time-travelling episodes would probably be a bit too complex for the usual eight- to twelve-year-old demography who watch Fox Kids. I'd highly recommend this to fans of the comics and those who enjoyed the films but felt they were too flat and want to see something that preserves the spirit of the comics.


                
It was this animated series that got me into the world of the-Men and other Marvel comics, which are far superior, but that is not to say this cartoon wasn't good, for it was. What we have here is the four core X-Men - Cyclops, Wolverine, Jean Grey and Storm - along with popular characters from the comics - Rogue, Beast and Gambit - and Jubilee for the teens and Professor X as the basis for the series. Many mutants and other X-related characters make appearances through the series, some more often than others, and to varying degrees of likeness to their comic counterparts, (and Morph who was created specifically for the series). The X-Men are portrayed well to their comic-counterparts, with the exception of Jean Grey. Although it was this series that got me into X-Men, and made Jean my favourite character, in this series she was somewhat wasted, not used to her full potential. She was shown less-powerful than the others, when in the comics, she is one of the most powerful mutants in existence (even without the Phoenix Force). However Jean did get a few good stories, notably the ongoing Sinister stories, her and Wolverine's love subplot and the Phoenix and Dark Phoenix Sagas.But I digress. The villains were cool and in keeping with their comic counterparts, it would have been nice to see ones like Apocalypse and the Brotherhood more often. In terms of supporting characters, Bishop, Cable, Moira MacTaggert, Banshee, Arachangel, Forge and Colossus showed up a few times, but we could have seen more of Iceman, Darkstar, Polaris, Alpha Flight, Sunfire and Nightcrawler.A lot of the stories were taken directly from the comics and adapted for this series (like the Dark Phoenix Saga, Phalanx Covenant and Days of Future Past) others were taken from ongoing comic stories and changed into single or multiple episodes for this series, like the Savage Land and the Sentinels.There was some ongoing narrative, but it is also possible to watch episodes out of order, they were generally self contained (with the exception of multiple part episodes). It's cool to actually hear the X-Men speak and the costumes look cool on TV too. A great watch, most of the time.8 out of 10 for the whole animated series.


                
First of all let me say that I am not a comic nerd, I maybe owned a couple through my whole life (wolverine was my fav and probably because of this show). I have never liked other superhero shows (another critic said he liked the batman cartoon but that show blew, maybe i just didn't like the cartoon style). Basically what I am trying to say is that I am not a superhero guy but this show might be the best cartoon ever ...You know those shows/movies you loved as a kid then re-watch as an adult and they just seem corny and/or stupid, boring, childish or just plain lame? (i remember loving "labrynth" the movie as a kid, re watched and realized its just a long and boring David bowie music video). I recently got all 5 seasons of X-men for my kids to watch because I remember absolutely loving it watching it new as a kid myself, it was my most anticipated cartoon (besides the simpsons) and I thought the kids would enjoy it...the theme music gave me butterflies, so lets start there. What a theme song !!! )best ever maybe), so good I can't believe it brought out emotion in me and that is rare. The video for the intro is pretty cool too, love that explosion.Now on to the show, a lot of reviews here hit it on the nose. The show is so complex and the characters are real. The opening scene of jubilee with her foster parents, man !!! TV shows still don't have the balls to put on content that real.Gambit hitting on the cashier, man !!! so good.The characters make jokes that are funny.They get in each others faces.The girls are more loving and the guys are cold.OK i could go on and on so lets just finish by saying watch the damn show and lets never forget it. shows like this don't come along every day and i hope people enjoy it for a long time.OK i feel like i should throw a couple negatives in just so i don't seem to biased (remember i am not a comic geek so i cant talk about comic book accuracy) just from the first episode though ...1. I don't like how gambit is just waltzing around the mall in his costume, storm and rogue were both in plain clothes though so i don't know why gambit had to be rocking his outfit? 2. The giant robot is hiding behind a tree as jubilee walks by going to her parents house to check on them ... please.OK thats about it for nowum fav character has gotta be gambit, love the accentsthis show embraces diversity but not in a captain planet kind of wayalright i am outthanks


                
In my very own opinion, the X-Men cartoon series was arguably the closest remake of the X-men that fans could get and much more faithful to the comic books themselves than what the live action movies will ever be. The costumes were identical as the comics, the superheroes were as realistic as they were and the story lines were much more varied, exciting and believable. Wolverine, Storm, Gambit, Rogue, Cyclops, Jean Grey, Beast, Professor Xavier and Jubilee were as they were. The artwork was also excellent, but just what you'd expected from Marvel.Whilst the films were in all a shambles in terms of the design and look of the characters, the cartoon series and Marvel have thankfully retained the originality, appeal and quality of the comics, and the appearances of which made the X-men one of the most successful comic book hero franchises in history. Another difference between the cartoon series and the films was the fact the creators of the show put a lot of emphasis on character development and the emotional plight of the mutants's own expectations of wanting to belong to the world and to feel accepted, which this has been addressed much better in the series than the film trilogy ever did. Therefore, the human interest aspect- no make that mutant interest aspect and the triumph over adversity tales of each and everyone of the X-Men members had more of a feel and resonance to it, of which we could empathise the characters with, and of which the films themselves fail to do because it just didn't translate well on the big screen. Unlike the movies, the animated show had a raw ness and bite to each and every one of those characters that was totally devoid in the live action versions and it never managed to pussyfoot around the issues, as well as the story lines, of which again were far more realistic and believable.This is what the movies themselves ought to have been like, but rather than leave things as they were, the directors Brett Ratner and Brian Singer decided to change a couple things round, without realising how much this would put die-hard and ardent X-men fans off. Why tamper with a classic formula? Besides, the film's disappointment shouldn't take away from the fact that the cartoon series is the best on- screen version of the X-Men.Forget the films, either stick with the comics or go for this, the animated version instead.


                
In my humble opinion, this is the greatest cartoon of all time. Certainly the greatest comic-book adaption of all time. For all you kids out there, if you want to know why the 80s and 90s were the glory years for cartoons, go on youtube and check out some of these episodes. The animated series is certainly exceptionally better than the lousy films. If the X-men films had been a tenth as good as the cartoons, they would have been awesome movies. The first three seasons were the best, the series wasn't quite up to snuff for the last two seasons (but it's still better than most of the stuff on TV nowadays). Season 3 was my personal favorite, as it featured an amazing adaption of the Phoenix and Dark Phoenix Saga. But I also loved the Mr. Sinister storyline in season 2. And the sentinel storyline in season 1 was well-produced as well, culminating in my personal favorite episode, FINAL DECISION, where Magneto helps the X-Men take out the sentinels and Mastermold.


                
X-Men is another one of my favorite cartoons that used to come on some of the old Saturday Morning Fox Kids lineups. I really liked the way Wolverine was in the series, one of those tuff and rough characters who does things there way. That sort of reminds me the way Knuckles the Echidna was in the beginning episodes of Sonic X. The other X-Men were really cool also! I had this huge crush on Rogue because I thought she was sexy with her looks and sexy southern accent. I also remember that on the 1994 Spider-Man cartoon that the X-Men made some guest appearances on some episodes of Spider-Man. The series is most same way as the comic book about a group of mutant superheroes who live at a school for mutants hosted by Professor Charles Xavier who formed a group of superhero mutants to fight against Magneto and the other evil brotherhood of mutants. This was another one of my favorite Marvel comic book superheroes! I have always liked Marvel comics a little better than DC comics because Marvel has more superheroes than DC. I also remember that this show came back on Fox Kids in Summer 2000 when 20th Century Fox released the live-action X-Men movie in theaters. Then I caught some more reruns for when they showed it for a while on ABC Family!User Rating: 8/10BOTTOM LINE: X-TREMELY X-CELLENT!


                
I'm a huge fan of comic book superheroes and the X-men are my favorite from Marvel comics. This is the best interruption of the X-men. I LOVE the live action movies by 20th century fox with Hugh Jackman, Halle Berry & etc. But this is the best adaptation from the comics. This is also an iconic staple of Saturday mourning cartoons of the 1990s. In the comics about every decade there's a different X-men team with different characters and this cartoon is perfectly based on the 90's team of X- men, which might be the best one. The show does an EXcellent job at staying true to the comics, the animation was great, the action was great and the stories/episodes where great! The best thing about the X-men in general are all the wide range of great characters. Marvel comics done a great job in creating many, many truly interesting characters with great powers, back-stories, personalities and cool looks. It's the colorful characters that makes the X-men so iconic. First there's Charles Xaviar aka Professor X voiced by Cedric Smith. He has a great voice for Xavier. He's the leader of the X-men and one of the world's most powerful telepathic. They did a great job at always giving him an important part in the show not just the typical boss role. The field leader of the X-men is Scott Summers aka Cyclops voiced by Norman Spencer. His voice is perfect for Cyclops. He has one of the most tormenting powers as powerful rays shoot from his eyes which can only be controlled with a visor he wears but he can never look at anyone with a naked eye. They did a great job showing his personality and how serious he takes things as well as his rivalry with Wolverine. Catherine Disher is great as the voice of Jean Grey, who's power is telekinesis(moving objects with her mind). I like her romance with Cyclops and like Scott she takes things seriously. The 2nd in command after Cyclops is Oroa Munroe aka Storm voiced by Iona Morris. Her voice is perfect, I love her African accent. She can control the weather around her and I love how she makes dramatic statements when using her powers like a God commanding the weather to act by her will, even Rouge commented on it by saying "lighting up with the speeches". I love Hank McCoy aka Beast. He looks like a fury animal but is actually an sophisticated Genies scientist. George Blaze is great as his voice, I love how they show his love for reading, poetry and art and how he quotes poetry. I love Rogue, she's a great character. She has one of the best personalities and back-story. Lenore Zann is great as her voice, I love her sassy southern accent and flirtations. But she is also tragic as her power is to absorb the life force and/or powers of anyone she touches, making her incapable to touch anyone. My favorite character is Remy Lebeau aka Gambit, who's power is to turn any object into an explosive by touching it. He just has a cool personality. I love Chris Potter's voice, his French accent is perfect. I love how he uses game cards as weapons and all of his "card talk" like saying "five card stud" before blowing something up. I also like how for some reason he always talks in a 3rd person. The youngest member is teenager Jubilee voiced by Alyson Court. Her hands can create fireworks like sparks. She's cool but I think they made her too immature. But the breakout star is Logan aka Wolverine. I love Hugh Jackman but this is the best take on Wolverine ever. His scratchy, Clint Eastwood like voice by Cathal Dodd is great. His heart's always in the right place but he has such a bad attitude and unlike the other X-men he'll kill . They couldn't show him actually kill(like in the comics) but heavenly implied he's willing to kill. I love his rivalry with the vicious Sabbertooth and how he's in love with Jean Grey. He is definitely the most interesting & complex X-men character. The show also did a great job with the villains. The mutant- hunting giant robots called Sentials were perfectly done. Professor X's former college, the non-mutant hating Magneto is good but unfortunately he dosen't have the brotherhood in this show, he works alone. I like Mystique, Avalanch, and Pyro. Mr. Sinister is one of my favorites, he's really creepy. I love the Juggernaught, he's a smart-ass, a bully and his super strength makes him literally unstoppable. The biggest villain is Apocalpse, who's really scary. Other X-men characters from the comics appear like Collosus, Nightcrawler, Iceman, Angel, Dazzler, Cable but unfortunately no Kitty Pryde. I love the opening credits and theme music, there's no lyrics but the music is unforgettable. The series is very mature and deals with intense issues like prejudice, bigotry and abuse. The 1st season is the best but the entire series is fantastic and is the best from Marvel comics.
After 16 years since its release and almost 11 after its last episode, I still think that X-Men TAS stills being the perfect animated series ever based on a comic book so powerful as X-Men ever was. I still miss it.You can feel the difference between X-Men TAS and X-Men Evolutions with the ages. Today I'm 26 y.o. and until now I watch TAS and feel excited about it while I watch Evolutions and feel bored with those teenage jokes. TAS was an animated series for teenagers and adults, because it was fun for the kids and mature on its plot and all its stories were very consistent for the adult audience.I must say that I like a lot the movie trilogy, but just because I'm a huge fan of the mutants, but the movies wasn't faithful to the comics at all. I agree that some changes were needed for the movies, but a lot was changed... and a lot change for the comics after the movies, and Evolution is the proof of that.X-Men TAS was extremely faithful to the comics and a lot close to the comics stories. It was like seeing the comics in the TV. All the main character and villains were there, with all their powers, original costumes, personalities, all their stories were well explored during all the 5 seasons. The other supporting characters also had their important moments. The important stories like The Savage Island or The Genosha Island, Apocalipse and mainly (I SAID MAINLY) The Phoenix Saga and The Dark Phoenix Saga were masterpieces and I still watch to them till today like they were the real movies that I though one day X-Men would be, but never was.They tried to insert some kind of Phoenix in the movies but it was a joke comparing to the importance of this entire saga in the comics, and TAS did an amazing experience with entire saga for over 9 episodes. I still think that all the Phoenix saga should become a movie series because it's a sci-fi epic that everyone would enjoy, and a sci-fi epic that the movie series fails to be in some moments.Today the art work in TAS stills being something great because it was entirely colored by hands and not by computer. All the animated technique used in production are no longer in use by any kind of studio and that's another great thing to admire.X-Men TAS is a strongly recommended series for those who enjoy a lot so loved mutants and also for those who became fans after the movies and don't know anything about them in the early years or think that Evolutions is a great piece of work. Yeah... Evolution is all about a great PIECE of work, while TAS is an ENTIRE great work.


                
I remember when X-men first came out.  I lived in a boarding high school that only had one tv per floor in the dorms.  On the great X-men premiere saturday that we had been anticipating for so long, my buddies crowded into the tv room.There was some dork who wanted to watch Looney Tunes, but we took care of him. (Looney Tunes is on... what? 25 hrs per day???) Then the broadcast was screwed up: there was no sound.  I don't know if FOX screwed up or if the local affiliate screwed up.  So we had to watch the X-men jumping around and beating up bad guys like mimes.  We just sorta guessed what they were saying.  Still, we were glued to the set for the entire half hour.  I think the sound came back for maybe the last 2 minutes.And then?  Well... a lot of us hated it.  We didn't like the way it was drawn.  We didn't like the animation.  We didn't like the lineup that they used.  The plot.  The costumes.  The complaints went on and on... We felt sorta betrayed.BUT, we watched it again next week. And the next.  And the next, and so on and so forth.  Every week, there was a group of 10-20 guys huddled in that common room watching X-men.So now, nearly 10 years later... I MISS that freakin' show.  Especially in the face of the garbage that networks have been dishing out in the kids-entertainment genre.  Power Rangers?  VR Troopers?  What is this madness?  And now, we have that EXTREME version of X-men... "X-men Evolution," where they are all young and hip.  Cowabunga, DUDE!Sure, X-men 1992 had sloppy animation.  Sure, the plot was compromised compared to the comic books.  Sure, Batman was clearly a superior show. But nevertheless, X-men 1992 was able to retain "most" key ingredients of the X-men while delivering a highly entertaining action cartoon.  For that, I salute the creators (except for the last 6 episodes, which were made by Saban and were appallingly bad).


                
As a kid, it was pretty common for me to spend my Saturday mornings watching cartoons. But the only stuff that usually interested me were the superhero shows, and by the mid-90s I'd make sure to catch X-Men and Spider-Man, which were coincidentally the two comic book titles I usually spent my allowance on (more specifically, X-Men and The Amazing Spider-Man back in their Jim Lee/Andy Kubert and Mark Bagley days, respectively).Just recently, thanks to the hype surrounding Superman Returns, I made it a point to try and watch all of Bruce Timm's DC animated shows on DVD, and I found myself absolutely enthralled and in love with this animated universe. From the dark mysteries and noirish atmosphere of Batman to the epic and rousing sci-fi adventures of Superman and Justice League these were shows that delivered great animation, top-notch voice acting, mature writing, and action scenes that would put most summer blockbusters to shame. Hell, even the musical scores were amazing, with great work done by composers Shirley Walker and Lolita Ritmanis.So stoked was I by the DCAU, I made it a point to try and rewatch some of the Marvel cartoons of the 90s so I rented any available DVDs (given that most of the Marvel shows didn't have any full season releases). Alas, I was half-surprised none of these shows came close to living up to my fond memories. The writing, the animation, the voice acting, and even the music all felt shoddy compared to Bruce Timm's DCAU.Unfortunately, X-Men happens to be one of those cartoons. Now, I can easily forgive dated animation. There's obviously no chance this series could look anywhere near as good a recent show as, say, Justice League/JLU, but it doesn't even look anywhere near as good as Superman: TAS or Batman: TAS/TNBA, its DC "competitors" at the time. It's also astonishing to make note of how terrible the voice acting was. While it's true some of the voices fit the characters well (Gambit, Rogue, and Wolverine come to mind), most of the lines are delivered in an overly dramatic fashion. I just can't help by try to stifle a giggle whenever Xavier screams and shouts "Power!" every time he's mentally hit by a Psionic attack or whenever Storm (whoever did her voice provides some of the most hammy voice acting ever) makes a point of shouting something akin to "Winds!" every time she summons her powers.The stories seemed faithful, yet that's also part of the problem. There's such a slavish devotion to the comics that the show never really developed its own identity in the way the DCAU shows did. Part of the point of doing an animated series of a popular comic book is for the writers to make their own interpretation of the series. Timm and company pulled this off time and again, whether it was through original stories (i.e. Legacy and Apokolips...Now!, Project Cadmus, Mask of the Phantasm, and really just far too many to list), original characters (Andrea Beaumont, Harley Quinn, Mercy Graves, etc.), or superior reinterpretations of old characters (Brainiac and to a lesser extent Mr. Freeze). With the X-Men writers seemingly afraid to deviate from the comics even in terms of characters' appearances (the X-men costumes matched those in the 90s comics), the whole show just gives off this impression of playing it safe. The series is essentially a bland, lifeless adaptation of the comics where as Bruce Timm's DCAU functions as its own separate universe, one that delivered grand entertainment and epic adventures. It doesn't speak well for the show when the only thing that's on my mind while I'm watching it is wondering just how Bruce Timm and his crew would have pulled it off.


                
I love everything about X Men. The animation is very detailed and atmospheric, and the character designs especially with Wolverine are quite sophisticated for the time. The action sequences, which never suspended disbelief and had some wondrous elements for kids and adults alike to savour, have a lot of fluidity in that regard. The music is wonderful as well, the intro is one of the coolest of any animated series of the 90s(and there were a lot) and the background scoring manages to be beautiful and haunting. The writing is intelligent, sometimes affecting and sometimes humorous, though any sense of conflicting emotions are equally convincing, while the story lines are daring and always interesting and the characters right from charismatic Wolverine, sexy Rogue to the appropriately antagonistic villains are very well-written and likable. The voice acting is always expressive and never felt stereotypical, bland or overdone. In conclusion, a superb series. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
This was a quite good series, as far I remember. The animation wasn't very good, actually it was the worst aspect of it, but the plot and the characters were excellent: Even as a child, I admired this series for the interesting plots and the rich complexity of the characters, dealing with themes as intolerance, racism, war and divorce. Also, it was pretty funny to watch, mostly because I always was a huge fan of the "X-Men" comics (Which are my favorite comic book characters) and this series made justice to the original source material. This was the best of the animated adaptations of the X-Men comics into an animated form (Compare this with the short "Pryde of the X-Men", "X-men: Evolution" and "Wolverine and the X-Men") I highly recommend it to anyone.
X-Men is one of the perennial favorites in the Marvel catalog, maybe as well known now as Spider-Man, and seeing this TV series it's not hard to see why. This is taken, as far as I can tell from my limited knowledge of the original comics that featured the main cast assembled here (Cyclops, Wolverine, Rogue, Storm, Gambit, Jean Grey, Xavier, Jubilee), right from the source material, and it's a pleasure to see how the series in the first two seasons followed a fairly straightforward continuity. Indeed it's like going through a comic book series; you can't really jump in on any episode to really gage the plot (albeit there are some great stand-alone episodes, particularly in the second season where we get some backstories on Gambit and Rogue), though at the least you get an idea of who every character is and what their interests, powers, concerns and little dramas tend to veer toward.This is not to say sometimes it can't get a little confusing; by the time it gets into time travel with Cable it can be a little crazy, especially in terms of how much affects what or why an apocalypse still seems to be taking place. But aside from that, it's a classic Saturday morning serial, with lots of adventure and action and colorful villains. And they're all given some meaty comic-boom dialog, too, and it's a step-up usually from the times in the movie series when they've tried to go too far (i.e. X3, Wolverine) in defining personalities. Here it's done just enough as to get a grasp of everyone, but relatively so. And along with the breakneck animation (some of it quite sophisticated for the time, some on par with the Ninja Turtles cartoons if not quite up there with Batman), there's the whole issue of being a mutant, the identity of it and how it is to be a human and an outsider in society that works its way into the show and theme in general.It's got a message but it doesn't overstate it, it's got action that is believable enough so that we don't roll our eyes and incredible at times to keep the kids wondering (there's a moment where the flying-angel character in an episode asks Rogue how she can fly and she gives a shrug kind of answer, a perfect little comic-book moment), not to mention characters like Beast and Wolverine and Magneto, who are the kinds of icons that need strong storytelling to keep them interesting to new and old fans. This X-Men series, frankly, is the be-all-end-all for me, bad-ass and an all-around crowd-pleaser.


                
Growing up in the 1990's I loved this show and watched it with great enthusiasm on Saturday mornings; it had everything a great children's show lacks today...Action, great dialogue, brilliant story lines and more importantly the most accurate interpretation of the comics.Some sort cuts were taken during the running of this show by the writers but only the things that weren't necessary or...confused people...Like Lady Deathstrike being Wolveirne ex-lover and her dad being the 'professor' who infused Wolverines bones with adamantium.I fell in love with Wolverine and the gang right here...And still today consider X-Men the greatest superheroes in Marvel...This show explored all the characters and their own worlds, making the audience empathise with them, cheer them on. The show also had a 'sex' factor..hidden as it was...But c'mon...some of the characters were hot...Lady Deathstrike was....Hot...The show also had one of the most memorable and amazing theme songs ever composed....The song just made you jump up with adrenaline...If only they used it on the movies.All in all one of the best X-Men interpretations ever established..Probably better then the movies..
Unlike many people on here, I am not familiar with the comics but I can safely say, if you liked the movies, then you are bound to enjoy this. It can appeal to kids as well as adults as it deals with some personal issues as well involving certain characters. The main characters in this series are as such: Wolverine, Xavier, Jean, Scott, Rogue, Gambit, Jubilee, Beast and Storm. Each are unique in their own way. Other characters such as Nightcrawler, Iceman and Colousess and not main characters and appear in few episodes but it was interesting to see how they were portrayed and characterised and I think they did it perfectly, considering that they didn't get much screen time. I was glad to see that it involves the love triangle between Logan/Jean/Scott and Rogue/Gambit and was done reasonably realistically but without getting in the way of the main story lines.Moving on, some of the story arcs were fantastic, particularly the Dark Phoneix saga and Days of Future Past. Some however (particularly Beyond Good And Evil) felt a bit out of place and long running. It also deals pretty well with the fight between mutants and humans while not going over the top. The animation is spot on and characters such as Logan and Jean look amazingly like they did in the movies! The fights are fun to watch and are fast paced and for once, they are allowed to punch! There is plenty of action and let's face it - who doesn't enjoy watching that? But what would this series be without humour? There are some extremely funny scenes and funny lines that you can't help but snort at. Logan and Gambit must have the best sense of humour in this particular series. I definitely recommend this series, it may be old but it is classic! 10/10.


                
As a fan of Rogue and Gambit (a couple from the later age of X-Men) I watched this series all the time on FOX. It's plots are very true to it's comic book roots (which a lot of series and movie makers seem to over look so much currently) and it was very well drawn to mirror the early detail put into the characters at the time. If you want the true soul of the X-Men watch this series and skip the new movie by the same name. You'll be glad you did!


                
In the fall of 1992, FOX was probably the hottest channel for animation. Many new shows were being added to the lineup, and two noteworthy ones were both based on popular comics. The first was Batman: The Animated Series. The second was X-Men. One of those two wound up becoming a revolutionary series, having it's own "universe" of animation. The other eventually faded away, not into complete obscurity, but still, not looked upon nearly as much as the other genre-defining show. And guess what? X-men isn't the former.Not that it was all bad. The first two seasons were fantastic, in fact, dealing with the mutant oppression, the internal conflicts between each of the X-men members, and actually good adaptations of the story lines, such as Days of Future Past, which actually had Wolverine get killed at one point.The third season is where things started to fall apart though. Beginning here, the series started focusing less on the human-mutant relations and more on the "way out there" sci-fi outer space stories, including the Phoenix Saga. The series also started to lose continuity throughout, and the plot lines started making less sense, for example, Jean Grey was alive in one episode, dead in the next, and alive in the one after that, without any explanation. The later seasons marked the final nail in the coffin though, getting rid of whatever potential X-men had. The animation became really sloppy, and Gambit received a new voice actor, one who wasn't really good. Shortly after this the series was canceled about in a few short episodes, which is a real shame. This show could have been in the ranks of Batman, but wound up falling messily in its footsteps.
I'm sorry but this show is rated way too high. I think most people are blinded by their nostalgia.I didn't watch this show as a child. I grew up watching Batman: TAS and Spider-Man TAS which I absolutely loved and still love to this day. I re-watch those shows pretty regularly even as an adult.I tried to watch a couple episodes of X-Men TAS since it was rated so highly on here. I found it pretty unwatchable. It's pretty obvious to me that this show was made strictly for children, without any concern for making it interesting to adults too.It is really preachy to kids about accepting and tolerating people who are different from you. This is a good message, but they hammer it in literally every episode. Also, the dialogue is really bad at times and Wolverine is almost useless since he can't use his claws on anyone except robots. There are countless nonsensical moments where the plot or the premise just doesn't add up. It's not a bad show for children, but I can't watch it as an adult.


                
I don't understand why so many people seem to think this cartoon was excellent.  Sure, "X-Men" may have been better than most of the other Marvel hero cartoons (e.g. Fantastic Four, Iron Man, and the atrocious Avengers cartoon), but it doesn't even come close to rivalling the Batman or Superman shows.  The animation was pretty unsophisticated and the plots could be overly preachy and simplistic.  Worst of all, the characterization was often ridiculous and inaccurate at times, like Storm's constant over-the-top declarations every time she used her powers (something that she NEVER does in the comic book); I won't even begin to discuss the cartoon's horrific portrayal of the Canadian super-team Alpha Flight.  The only good thing was that the show utilized many talented Canadian actors like Cedric Smith (Professor X) and Camilla Scott (Lilandra).Then of course, there was the way in which the continuity was altered.  I understand the difficulty of keeping everything exactly the way it is in the comic but some of the changes seemed drastic and utterly pointless.  For example, why were Banshee and Black Tom Cassidy portrayed as brothers (in the comic, they're cousins), and why was Banshee the older one when the exact opposite is true.  As well, what was the point of saying that characters like Bishop, Nightcrawler, Dazzler, Archangel, Havok, Banshee, Psylocke, and Colossus had never been members of the X-Men?  You could simply have said they were reserve members!  These needless alterations are extremely insulting to comic fans like myself.  The only storylines that were reasonably adapted were "The Phoenix Saga" and the subsequent "Dark Phoenix Saga".For the most part, the "Batman" and "Superman" cartoons are superior because they don't dumb down to viewers; in other words, adults can enjoy just as much as kids.  "X-Men" on the other hand, is strictly kiddie fare.  If you want to watch a better animated Marvel cartoon that's a little more consistent to the comic, watch the earlier seasons of Fox's "Spider-Man".


                
