I remember in 1993, X-Men the Animated Series is my obsession and I'm not the only one. For a lot of people in my country, 1993 - 1994 is the X-Men craze era. The said cartoon series was one of the highest-rated TV shows at the time. I was especially obsessed with Rogue. She's beautiful and sexy. She of superior strength and when she fights, she rocks!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Yet she can't be touched. She's an irresistible temptation to men, especially to Gambit who longs to touch her so much, when she can't be touched.I was a sappy romantic at heart too so I'm always looking forward to moments between her and Gambit!!! And the people at my school were no different. Different people - different X-Men character favorites and obsessions, collection of X-Men comics and lots of talk about it during breaks, you name it. Even people over 25 watch it. It is little wonder, however, why there was all this fuss about X-Men. The characters' looks and personalities are charismatic and appealing to viewers. They are drawn as sexy and beautiful women and the men as beautiful and sexy as their female counterparts. Each has their own individual history and personalities which viewers simply find lovable and appealing. The plots and stories are exciting and interesting and there's no denying that the MUSIC at the beginning of every episode is REALLY CATCHY!!!!!!!!!!!!! The animated series was simply VERY WELL DONE!!! The fact that this animated series is one of the highest-rated and most-viewed Saturday morning programs in American history to date, that it is very popular in other countries aside from the U.S., and that it boosts sales of X-Men comics--as people who who didn't read x-men comics before this one started reading them as soon as they got obsessed with it--- are proofs that this is definitely one of the best cartoon series in 90s. In my opinion it is the BEST CARTOON SERIES, not just during the 90s but UNTIL NOW!!!!!! X-Men shows a different idea of heroes. This is unlike Batman and Superman who are loved by ordinary people because they are heroes. X-Men, on the other hand, although fighting for peace and justice, defending their fellow mutants and ordinary men from harm in the process, are hated and feared by those they've sworn to protect. Humankind, that is. Still they continue to protect and defend mankind.Marvel really did it right with this one and it could NOT be said that Batman and/or Superman animated series is/are superior than this one. X-Men The Animated Series(90s) is undeniably one of the most excellent, most watched and ultra-popular cartoon series up to this day!!!!!!!!


                
In my very own opinion, the X-Men cartoon series was arguably the closest remake of the X-men that fans could get and much more faithful to the comic books themselves than what the live action movies will ever be. The costumes were identical as the comics, the superheroes were as realistic as they were and the story lines were much more varied, exciting and believable. Wolverine, Storm, Gambit, Rogue, Cyclops, Jean Grey, Beast, Professor Xavier and Jubilee were as they were. The artwork was also excellent, but just what you'd expected from Marvel.Whilst the films were in all a shambles in terms of the design and look of the characters, the cartoon series and Marvel have thankfully retained the originality, appeal and quality of the comics, and the appearances of which made the X-men one of the most successful comic book hero franchises in history. Another difference between the cartoon series and the films was the fact the creators of the show put a lot of emphasis on character development and the emotional plight of the mutants's own expectations of wanting to belong to the world and to feel accepted, which this has been addressed much better in the series than the film trilogy ever did. Therefore, the human interest aspect- no make that mutant interest aspect and the triumph over adversity tales of each and everyone of the X-Men members had more of a feel and resonance to it, of which we could empathise the characters with, and of which the films themselves fail to do because it just didn't translate well on the big screen. Unlike the movies, the animated show had a raw ness and bite to each and every one of those characters that was totally devoid in the live action versions and it never managed to pussyfoot around the issues, as well as the story lines, of which again were far more realistic and believable.This is what the movies themselves ought to have been like, but rather than leave things as they were, the directors Brett Ratner and Brian Singer decided to change a couple things round, without realising how much this would put die-hard and ardent X-men fans off. Why tamper with a classic formula? Besides, the film's disappointment shouldn't take away from the fact that the cartoon series is the best on- screen version of the X-Men.Forget the films, either stick with the comics or go for this, the animated version instead.


                
Nostalgia. It is a disease that infects our senses to perceive products through rose coloured glasses just because of some fleeting connection to good memories of our younger days. In reviewing the much loved X-MEN THE ANIMATED SERIES it is only right that nostalgia is removed from the equation and we can review those show as objectively as possible to the standards of that era. The end result is really a mixed bag with its ups and downs when it comes to technical quality, writing, artwork and voice acting. It is not a bad show but not the epitome of perfection that many may choose to believe.An roaring action packed opening sequence, beautifully detailed art and amazing animation, kicks off each episode to the electronic fanfare of the now iconic X-men theme. As we segue into the episodes proper the drop in quality is very noticeable. There has always been a trade off between the level of art detail and the smoothness of the animation motions. Here, they tried to mimic the detailed art of the era's comics. The designs are straight out of the 1990s comics particularly those drawn by artist Jim Lee, maintaining lots of shadows and contrast with lighting effects, clothing folds and skin creases painstakingly drawn frame by frame. The level of detail is almost on par with direct to video Japanese Anime of that era, no simple feat coming from Korean studies AKOM. Unfortunately the quality of the animation leaves much to be desired. There is a stilted look to many scenes particularly in the more crowded action sequences. Backgrounds seem unfinished at times and the occasion animation error can be quite jarring. Close up shot fare better only because there is less to animate and the detailed art more than makes up for the mediocre animation. The stories are very close adaptations of tales straight out of the comic books, particularly the best works by Chris Claremont and Fabian Niceza. Overarching story lines spanning multiple episodes give each season a grander more epic feel. Stand outs include the Phoenix Saga, the Cable and Apocalypse conflict, and of course Magneto's Insurgency. There is a good mixed of "event" episodes and more intimate character Centred ones where there is less emphasis on action, more on drama and development. Initially both scripts and actors fell into the trappings of typical Saturday morning cartoon fluff: overacting, juvenile dialogue. Come season two and the script took on a more mature tone (again a result of adapting lines directly from the comics). Characters die and relationships get broken then healed as the episodes tackle themes of discrimination, extremism, illegal experimentation, and even some existential philosophy. The status quo continually changes unlike many other cartoons which always revert to status quo by the end of the episode.Slowly but surely the voice actors eased into their roles and by season 3 they were emoting like experts; subtle, nuanced, perfect. Many of the voices like Iona Morris' extra dramatic Storm, Norm Spencer's heroic leader Cyclops and Cathal Dodd's scowling Wolverine have gone down in history as being THE iconic voices of the characters that comic readers hear in their heads whenever they flip through their Favourite books. It is easy to see why the series garnered such a wide appeal, pleasing both casual viewers and Long time comic readers alike. It's faithfulness to the source material and visual aesthetics of the comics are tampered with necessary tweaks to make the continuity less convoluted. Having read the comic, I dare say that some of the changes are actually an improvement over the original stories. The cartoon's biggest asset is its willingness to show the more mature subject matter of the comics without dumbing stuff down for kids. The artwork is beautiful in all its rich detail, a cut above other cartoons of that era but sadly let down by sub par animation. Though it takes it's time to find good footing, X-MEN THE ANIMATED SERIES is right up there among the best of 1990s cartoons. Not perfect, and definitely not aged well when compared to shows of today, but excellent nonetheless.


                
Jubilation 'Jubilee' Lee is hunted by a Sentinel after her foster parents sign her up to the Mutant Control Agency. She is rescued by the X-Men; Wolverine, Beast, Cyclops, Professor Charles Xavier, Rogue, Jean Grey, Gambit, Storm, and Morph. Professor X advocates the harmonious coexistence between mutants and the regular human population. He is opposed by others in both human and mutant world. The world extends beyond the earth into space and time.I remember watching the first season on Saturday mornings back in the day. I don't remember watching the following seasons. At the time, I found it compelling to lose a main character right from the start. It's done more often nowadays. I did binge watch the rest on Netflix. This is definitely one of the best of 90's Saturday morning cartoons. The second season has Professor Xavier paired up with Magneto in a side adventure. It would be more compelling to have Xavier stay with his X-Men to build up their relationship chemistry. Overall, this ranks as upper level of the cartoons of its era.


                
