Let me start off by saying that this is by far the best show Louie CK has ever done. Louie CK is even quite possibly the best working stand up in the business these days. His stand up specials consistently leave me on the verge of tears from the unrelenting laughter he brings forth.That being said, this show just isn't very funny...at all. This show is a drama disguised as a comedy. It's probably the most realistic portrayal of the life of a stand up ever shown on television (Sorry Seinfeld) but unfortunately most comedians are depressed, lonely individuals, who really only bring out the laughs when they're up on stage. That's what this show is. from the melancholy music, to the constant suicidal overtones, one would be hard pressed to find anything to laugh at in this show. The themes are dark and pessimistic.The show is supremely well done but I guess I just prefer the laughter to the sadness presented on a weekly basis.


                
I would enjoy the show more if Louie didn't do a stand up routine at the beginning of each show. A 45 year old man telling mediocre to just plane unfunny dirty jokes is off putting for most people. I appreciate a dirty joke as much as anyone - as long as it is funny. Louie's monologue humor is not funny; it's the kind of stuff that drunk boys might find hilarious, but not people who are serious about comedy. His musings on his doughy pot belly, masturbation and smarmy sexual fantasies are way past wearisome as comedic topics. The main stories in the show are almost invariably a stream-of-conscience exhibition of the life of a loser who is capitalizing on being slightly below average and is trying with all his might to keep it that way. He does try for the occasional "heartwarming" life lesson vignette, but even those stories fall short leaving one feeling unsatisfied and that the mark was missed. His costars and guest actors often deliver remarkably compelling performances played off Louie's incessantly dumbfounded character. Louie often plumbs the depths deep to snatch defeat from the jaws of victory, no matter how strained and predictably unfunny he has to be to steer the storyline there. That said, Young Ursala Parker, the brightest star in the Louie universe, really brings something special to an otherwise sophomoric and occasionally impossible to watch display. A little (or a lot) of on screen personal growth would go a long, long way for Louie in broadening the appeal of the show and he might want to consider a slight tweak in the way he develops and presents the common, underlying premise of all of the show's episodes: the loser loses again. With Louie, we always know how it's going to end and obviously, so does the character. Louie's lack of character breadth, combined with his heavy reliance on "dick" jokes means the audience, much like Louie's own oft spoken of "appendage" will wither with time. The supporting cast talent is there. Whether Louie C.K. is able to grow as a comedian/actor and keep up with the comedic zeitgeist remains to be seen.


                
I want to like this show. I like Louie's style and his stand up on the show is mostly funny. What ruins it for me is the vulgarity. I'm not a prude. I thoroughly enjoyed Pulp Fiction. Everything fit, even the discussion where a foot massage was compared with oral sex. I was fine with that and thought it was clever and funny. Most of the vulgarity in Louie is neither. One particular instance is where Louie and Pam were talking about a man sticking something of his (not the first thing that you'd think) into something of hers, all while watching their kids play at the park. It was shocking and I don't think that was their intent. The show is not meant to be shocking. Louie goes about his day (not unlike Larry David in "Curb") and therein lies the "humor". The events are awkwardly peppered with vulgarity for seemingly no other reason than "we're on cable and we can". I'm disappointed because I like the other aspects of the show. I can see potential for it grow and develop into something really entertaining and funny if they limit the filth.


                
