I love this show, it's funny. the effects are great and the cast works well together. I recently have seen that they are cancelling this show after 3 seasons. I personally think this is a huge mistake. While the ratings may not be what is expected (none are now that there are 200 channels to choose from) I always watched the show following this one. Well alas, no more. For those of you that are into the Walking dead, this is a show I personally think you would enjoy. The only difference is the comedic aspect and the shorter time allotment. Such a shame to see it go. It and the show following it were the only shows I watched on the Starz network. P.S. to all of the other networks, the rating system is now antiquated with so many channels. Your better off looking to places like IMDB and TV.com to find out how many people are actually watching.


                
I can't believe they actually cancelled this show, of course they cancel 99% of their series within 1 or a few seasons whether its good or not. BOO STARZ BOOOOO!


                
Ash is back! He's got his boomstick. He's got his chainsaw and he's ready to kick some Deadite ass. For the uninitiated this might seem like a bit of a silly story but you'd have to go back to Evil Dead II and Army of Darkness to really understand what's going on. Long story short? There's an evil book out there called the Necronomicon Ex Mortis or the "Book of the Dead". It contains strange incantations and funerary rites and when spoken aloud it brings back the Deadites. Those that were dead and those that can be possessed find themselves host to these evil spirits. Luckily one good shot from Ash's shotgun or a messy cut from his chainsaw hand can destroy them. Joining him are Pablo, his sidekick. Kelly, a girl that was dragged into their fight. And Ruby, a mysterious woman who seems to know a lot more about the Necronomicon than she's letting on.There's only one word that truly defines this continuation of a great series: Groovy.


                
Evil Dead is a film series that moved from low-budget horror to crazed slapstick comedy. Following in the footsteps of Army of Darkness, Ash vs. Evil Dead offers the always entertaining Bruce Campbell as an aging and utterly obnoxious anti-hero whose unique ability to kill "deadites" is only matched by the utter stupidity that causes him to release supernatural evil into the world in the first episode to impress a girl. Ash teams up with a few random people and sets out to repair the damage, a process that involves chopping off the heads of a few deadites in every episode. The show is cheerfully gory, with blood spurting out and laughing decapitated heads flying through the air, but it is so cartoonish that it doesn't really trigger my aversion to gross stuff.While Ash tries to fix things, a mysterious Lucy Lawless seems to have other plans. So far her part is surprisingly small, but I'm hoping there will be more of her. The young cast of Ash foils is fine, particularly the goofy guy, but none of them have the star power of their older co- stars. If you liked Army of Darkness, you're likely to enjoy the first two seasons of the series, which have a 70/30 mix of comedy and horror. But while the horror element only really takes over occassionally at first (like the awful return-to-the-cabin end of season 1, season 3 reverses the mix, offering increasingly little comedy, far more horror and gore, and a mess of a story that gets increasingly tedious and senseless.Season 1: 8 stars
Season 2: 8 stars
Season 3: 5 stars.


                
What a pilot! Everything about this show is first class, the story, the humour, the awesome gore and of course the cast. Bruce Campbell is brilliant of course, this show simply would not be so good without him. Often I find that horror movies or shows don't get the right balance between comedy and drama, Ash vs Evil Dead gets it just right. The last time I saw such a good balance between the two genres was Zombieland. The cast is truly excellent, it's not Bruce Campbell and the rest. Dana DeLorenzo, Jill Marie Jones & Ray Santiago are all fantastic and we all know how good Lucy Lawless is. She only makes a brief appearance in the pilot but I expect her to have a stronger presence from now on. I have to add one little spoiler, Ash releases the demons because he is drunkenly showing off to a girl and trying to get laid, it's a little flashback scene and very funny. Anyway I have to go, talking about the show has made me want to watch it again.
"Ash vs Evil Dead" has been something that the fans of the "Evil Dead" franchise have been waiting for, for a long, long time. So there was a high level of pressure on the series to deliver up to the fans expectations. And as a big fan of the original trilogy, then I can honestly say that this TV series most definitely live up to the expectations. And it does so with flying colors.This is a continuation of the story (in some degree) as seen in the trilogy, albeit many years later of course. Ash (played by Bruce Campbell) is stuck in a menial sales job and living in a trailer, when the evil forces return to plague mankind, but especially plague Ash, once again. He joins forces with Pablo Simon Bolivar (played by Ray Santiago) and Kelly Maxwell (played by Dana DeLorenzo) in order to stop the forces of evil to take over the Earth.The effects are great and very much in tune with those that we have come to love from the first three movies. Of course, they are upped a great deal to today's standards. A feat that does nothing but work for the series, mind you.And true to the trilogy, there is a lot of comedy, both subtle and in-your-face types. And it all works marvelously for this series.The cast in "Ash vs Evil Dead" are talented and nicely chosen to portray their individual roles. I was especially surprised to see Lucy Lawless in this series. Not that I mind that, no, not one bit at all. And she is well cast for her role, and I am definitely looking forward to seeing more of that character.There is a good red line throughout the series so far, without too many detours and without pointless detours. The series waste little time in getting from point A to point B. As such, it is a fast paced show with lots of action and comedy.If you enjoyed the original trilogy, then you most definitely should take the time to sit down and watch "Ash vs Evil Dead".


                
I was a huge fan of the movies as a teen. Loved the video game "Fistful of boomstick". Going to the garden shed gave me chills. I heard about this show, and feared a cash grab rolling my eyes. I watched the show anticipating disappointment, and I feel quite the opposite. Even not knowing the originals, this show can stand up in it's own right. This show has been given love and attention it deserves. I believe they are doing it justice in a well made revamp. I saw Bruce Campbell in something a couple of years ago, they still call me Bruce or something, i turned it off after 15mins, I nearly took it back to the video store and asked for my $2 back. I anticipated that here, but was delighted at what I've seen so far. The gore, the characters, the action, momentum. Ash the lovable blowhard. Bruce is a class act all the way. The story kicks off exactly the way it should. I think given a little time and word of mouth, this show could take off in a big way.


                
OK this is one of those that plot wise action wise humor wise i am a fan its got the perfect blend of off the wall humor and good action while plot keeps you interested more and more every time yes ash is a little cocky but hes an OK guy none the less always looking out for his friends and asistents and always protects them when in harms way the whole cast is great and lovable 'even dickheaded ash' it has great quotes great action great adventure 'just as i sayed before' but the downside of this good show is that there's also a lot of blood and swearing with a touch of nudity in some '2' episodes its barley noticeable but its there ' but its still a wonderful show if u are a comedy or horror fan this is for sure one to try u will love it and be happy with your choice too watch it


                
As a fan of Evil Dead 2 and Army of Darkness in all their campy glory this is about as good as it gets. Bruce Campbell picks up where he left off. I love the cheesy special effects and the many references to Evil Dead's past.The deadites are dead on and the first two episodes have not disappointed. Ash is in prime form with his boomstick and chainsaw. And the Music.........perfect. Takes me back to a time before CG special effects when there was an actual story to be acted out. And oh yes, lots of blood! Go Bruce!! Walking Dead??? I do love the Walking Dead but this is not supposed to be the Walking Dead, so why go there.


                
Being a fan of all the evil dead movies, i have to say this is exactly what i expected and what i wanted. Ash vs Evil Dead is for all those, who enjoyed Ash Slashing all the deadites in the evil dead 2 and the army of darkness and also his awesome one liners.


                
I loved the fact that they had a badass, kick ass black woman as a lead. But, of course. Of course, they had to kill her off. The only black person and they kill em off. Kinda typical, sadly. Which is the only beef I have so far with this show.
Very entertaining experience. All seasons are good, acting and writing are also good.Nothing really bad to say about it.Go for it.


                
'Ash Vs Evil Dead (2015-2018)' comes to an end with what's unfortunately its weakest season. Season 3 isn't bad, by any means, on an episode-by-episode basis, but struggles to maintain its charm and, even, relevancy across its ten-episode arc. This time, we're introduced to several conflicting story-lines that are often built-up, or hinted at, over a painstaking number of episodes only to be anti-climatically ended within moments of their full-blown introduction. This makes for a frustrating experience that feels as though it was written on a week-by-week basis and doesn't have the strong sense of 'rising action' that both its predecessor series' had. Even its big finale seems to come from nowhere and its culmination has no real baring on the end-point of the show (which is a clear cliff-hanger that doesn't really work now that a fourth adventure is apparently out of the picture). As I mentioned, though, the episodes themselves are still entertaining. This is, of course, thanks to Campbell, as well as his chemistry with Santiago, DeLorenzo and, now, Carver-O'Neill. While it's never as funny as either of the two series' it follows, it certainly has its share of humorous moments. It also has its share of 'splatstick' set-pieces, most of which are inventive and fun. Plus, the CGI seems to have improved. Still, the ensemble isn't quite as strong this time, as most of the side-kicks are side-lined or forced into strange plots that put them out of action for large chunks of time. Even Lawless' 'Ruby' is relegated to a vague and uninspired villain, a far cry from the relatively complex and entertaining roles she has filled before. As a whole, it's pretty much always enjoyable, but it feels like it lacks an identity. It doesn't find the balance of horror and humour that season 1 did, or revel in 'splatstick' silliness like season 2. It certainly feels the least 'Evil Dead' of the three seasons. It's not a failure, by any means, and I'd still recommend it to fans of the series. Season 3: 7/10


                
This impressive, lovingly crafted second season of Starz's cult show is made up of ten episodes that end up feeling like an extended movie. While there are still budgetary issues here and there, the show truly comes alive in this sophomore outing, and it's a dream come true for fans of the "Evil Dead" series. Re-introducing elements from all three previous movies, "Ash vs Evil Dead" has a knack for continuity, which makes the experience feel distinct and rewarding for longtime fans, but really none of it would matter were it not for Bruce Campbell: He seems to be relishing every minute of his screen time, delivering an impressive performance that leans into his manic comic energy for all its worth, and it's a pleasure to watch. He's well-matched here by a variety of guest actors and supporting characters that are effectively used, resulting in a compelling, gloriously gory season that goes for broke every chance it gets.


                
The first entry in the "Evil Dead" universe since 1992's beloved "Army of Darkness," "Ash vs Evil Dead" never really becomes a great show over the course of this first season, but it sure is a lot of fun. Bruce Campbell is, of course, perfectly in his element here as a middle-aged Ash, and seems to have an even better grasp of the character overall than he ever has before. He's joined by a few likable characters along the way here, and the genesis for the season's narrative is pure Ash, which makes the whole show feel somewhat both lived-in and refreshing by tapping in to nostalgia without settling into cruise control. It's nice to see the show return to the original movie's roots by the final few episodes, and the finale ends on an intriguing, memorable note.


                
There had been so much talk about a follow up to the Evil Dead movie series, but to be honest I didn't think they'll do a fourth movie. So much time had passed - and in a way I was right. But I'm also happy to have been sort of wrong too. Never thought they'd make a TV show out of it, but here we are. And it is really good. You do get some of the original cast throughout the course of the 3 seasons the show is running as an added bonus.But it's great that you get sidekicks for Ash - and interesting characters too. There is so much going on at times, you may be forgiven to lose track of some of it. But it's bloody and it's nasty and all sorts of liquids pour all over the place (or splash into peoples faces and mouths). It's not just Ash getting the "best of it" - but he seems to like it, so why shouldn't we? So a lot vivid violence, not much in the nudity department, but the show does not need it.The end is a bit weird, but then again, the whole show is. The humor has to be something you like. And you cannot watch this and be easily offended. Well you can, but you wouldn't enjoy watching it.


                
Gore, Action, Humour all things you would expect from this franchise.
Bruce Campbell delivers what you'd expect from his character, and Pablo & Kelly are bad ass and instantly likeable. This series is lots of fun and its a shame that they've decided not to make additional seasons. I think even a Pablo/Kelly spin off would work, they are great characters in their own right.
