Where to start with this pile of crap? How about the obscene length of it? By half way through I was just willing somebody, anybody, to blow Ryan O'Neal's head off and put an end to this ordeal.This film could have been so different. Just imagine if Michael Caine had been cast in the main role, he would have created some humour and sympathy for a basically disgusting, cowardly and hateful character. But no, Ryan O'Neal runs the gamut of the emotions from A to B. He has the charisma of an "I speak your weight" machine, and I just could not wait for him to get what he deserved.I give this a 2, it would have been 1 but there are some good shots of the scenery (which does a better acting job than the principals).


                
One thing that has always impressed me about Stanley Kubrick's films is the strong characters in each. In every movie of his that I've seen, there has always been one character that I feel a strong liking for, whether he is Jack in "The Shining" or Alex in "A Clockwork Orange", or even HAL in "2001: A Space Odyssey". However, this film is the exception to the rule.The main character, promising Redmond Barry, eventually degenerates into the pomposity of high society, putting his wealthy wife into debt in order to gain lordship under the advice of his once-good mother. At best, the film's plot is a warning against the evils of wealth. At it's very worst, it is a poor choice of novels for Mr. Kubrick to adapt onto the screen. The characters are static and boring, the plot disappointing, and the actors pitiful.Forget the so-called subtlety of Ryan O'Neal. Forget the cinematic power that Stanley Kubrick holds over his fans. This film is not worth your time. It is too long, with too many plot points, for not enough reward at the end. The only reason why I even bothered to finish the movie was because I was waiting for the typical Kubrick edginess to come in and rescue the film the boring path it was leading me down. That edginess never came.With no strong hero, and no strong villain, none of the characters spark enough interest in it's viewers to get them emotionally wrapped in the movie. A complete waste of two and a half hours.


                
A slow movie isn't necessarily a bad movie. Often when viewing a slow movie, it's still possible to detect and enjoy a director's intent. In outwardly dull movies such as Francis Ford Coppola's 'The Conversation,' Kubrick's own '2001,' and 'Being There,' the movies are actually teeming with subtext, and exciting ideas which afford a view of what the director intended to explore. I cannot find any such quality in Barry Lyndon. I am unable to even guess why Kubrick wanted to make this. It's difficult to see what excited him about the project. How does the social rebellion of 'A Clockwork Orange' and '2001' dissipate into this constipated movie by 1975? Kubrick foregoes both entertainment and camera movement to a Puritanical extent here. The movie is also homophobic. It's filled with sophomoric tableaux lifted from Hogarth's 'A Rakes Progress,' which still don't answer the question, "What's the point?" If I don't care about the obvious level of a movie, I don't feel any compulsion to look for symbolic or thematic value. Most of the establishing shots in this movie are beautiful, as are some settings which are photographed like paintings. It's just not enough.
Nobody could ever convince me Kubrick is a bad writer or has directorial issues.This film however after 3 hours of it I don't know what to think of it at first.Was he in a bad way at the time he made this?Personal problems?Or maybe he just convinced himself this was a good script.Someone on IMDb said the characters were wooden I agree but I would not blame the actors.The narrative to this movie is OK it's far from Clockwork Orange's level however .The dialogue is very weak stuff and makes the actors look as if they are not very good at all.It's an unexciting film even with the great cinematography it just bores the hell out of you.Honestly I had to break this movie into 4 parts as I was that bored in the first hour.Ryan Oneal while not my favorite actor is usually very good.In this movie he seems like a walking,talking automaton and not the title character lol.I laugh I know but it's so scarily true I am still in shock that a Stanley Kubrick movie came out this way.


                
I admit at the outset that I saw this movie in a theater about 40 years ago. But I haven't forgotten it, and not in a good way.After "A Clockwork Orange," I was stoked to see Kubrick's next masterpiece. A student of mine at the time told me that her dad said "Barry Lyndon" was the most beautiful movie he'd ever seen. That made me even more stoked.At the theater, I recall waiting for something to happen. Yes, I knew it wasn't going to be like "Clockwork Orange," but I still believed that something would actually happen.All I remember to this day are scenes that dragged on interminably. Ryan O'Neal and Marisa Berenson sitting in a coach while he smoked a cigar or something, as she daintily waved the smoke away. This scene seemed to go on for hours, though I'm sure it lasted maybe just a minute or so.Yes, the cinematography was beautiful, but the movie was beyond boring. By intermission, I really just wanted to leave. But I remained because I thought that maybe the second half of the film would be better.I was wrong.
