Kubrick so utterly fails to capture the spirit of Thackeray's picaresque novel with this vague and tiresome film that it has absolutely no business using the title Barry Lyndon. Thackeray's Barry Lyndon is a brash, swaggering, status-seeking rogue with a dynamic (but seriously faulted) personality, and an indomitable will who  actively schemes, fights, and bullies his way through life. A true existentialist anti-hero.  Kubrick's Barry Lyndon , played by Ryan O'Neal, couldn't be more different, even though he  participates in some of the same activities as the character in the novel does. Kubrick's Lyndon has the demeanor of gentle choirboy: intensely quiet and soft-spoken with a penchant for long, earnest gazes (as is everyone in the film.)  His personality is so completely vague and undefined that next to Thackeray's brilliantly extroverted protagonist, he is practically walking corpse. Thackeray's Lyndon is a man who compels our admiration (even affection) as well our contempt such is the force of his personality. Kubrick turns him into practically a non-entity who even at the end of this three hour film remains a paradoxical and annoying enigma. We learn nothing about what makes him tick because there is nothing there. I really found myself wondering if Kubrick actually read the novel - perhaps he got a synopsis from  a script writer. Did they have Cliff Notes when this movie was made?! The film is steeped in an introspective, meditative atmosphere exemplified by the R. O'Neal character which is totally unsuited to the vigorous, ironic, and humorous tone of the novel. Kubrick has taken the fictional memoirs of a daring, villainous  schemer and gambler and sucked all the energy and life out of them to make a tepid, pensive, piece of aesthetic boredom. The only scene that has any dramatic tension is the duel between Bullingdon and Lyndon which, ironically, is not in the novel. When adapting literature for the cinema doesn't a director have an obligation to the work's author to remain faithful to that author's artistic vision? It's understandable that some concessions must be made when moving between two such different mediums as literature and cinema; but to have such blatant disregard for the essence of the novel from which this film takes its title, Kubrick is guilty of artistic hijacking. It galls me to think that there are probably more persons living now who have seen Kubrick's  bogus version of B.Lyndon than have read the novel; Kubrick, unfortunately, has had the last word because of film's cultural dominance. If a director wants to benefit from the cachet of using the title of a classic novel by an eminent author than he is obliged to remain faithful to that author's vision and not to utterly disregard it as Kubrick has done to such a wretched effect here.


                
I'm a big fan of Kubrick's films, so back in the early days of DVDs I bought a boxed set that contained Dr. Strangelove, 2001, Clockwork Orange, The Shining, Full Metal Jacket, Lolita and Barry Lyndon. I had never seen the last two on that list, so I was really looking forward to watching them. Lolita, apart from the intentionally creepy subject matter, wasn't bad. And then I got to Barry Lyndon.On first viewing, I couldn't believe this movie was made by the same person who had made those others. What a dull, dragging, pretentious...did I mention dull?...movie this is. Now, I can handle deliberately slow-paced movies. I love 2001 and that film is almost as glacially paced as this one. But when that slow pace is coupled with a painfully boring story and wooden acting, it makes for a nearly unwatchable movie.It probably didn't help that Warner Brothers crammed a movie that's over three hours long onto a single DVD, resulting in sub-VHS video quality. But within half an hour I was looking at the clock, wondering how much longer the movie had to go. By the time it reached the intermission an hour and 40 minutes in, when most movies would have the decency to just end, I was ready to give up. But I soldiered on and watched the remaining hour and a half...I should have just gone with my original instincts.What made me return to this movie recently was that my wife is a big fan of 18th century period piece movies, so she had watched the last two thirds of this one on TV and asked me to get the DVD out so she could see the part she missed. She liked the detailed costumes and settings, and actually enjoyed the story. So I thought maybe my original opinion had been hasty and maybe I should give it another try.Nope, this movie is just awful. Such flat, bland acting and boring direction it's like the film was given some experimental treatment to extract any emotion, action or interest from it. The main character, Redmond Barry, rises from poverty in Ireland to wealth and high society in Europe not by any virtues of his own, but mostly through stupidity, cowardice and cheating. Once he finally steals the wife of a sickly Lord, he loses any likability he had in the first half of the movie and changes suddenly into a disagreeable jerk who mistreats his wife and cheats on her while squandering her family fortune. Why exactly are we supposed to care about this guy? I guess you can't expect perfection every time, but it's hard to believe the same guy who created Dr. Strangelove, 2001 and Clockwork Orange was responsible for this mess.Maybe it's just because I prefer sci-fi to period dramas, but I can't for the life of me understand why this clunker has an 8.1 average on IMDb and so many people have given it raving reviews. I can appreciate that the costumes, dialog and settings are all very authentic to the time period, but so what? That alone doesn't make for a good movie. This film should only be taken as a cure for insomnia.


                
This is a movie that is often hailed as a masterpiece because of its godlike director, Stanley Kubrick. And I know I'm going to get some serious negative reactions out there, but I really didn't like this movie at all and think it's one of the most overrated films of the 1970s.This is a costume drama that looks very pretty on the surface, but down deep it lacks a soul and any trace of warmth or humanity. Ryan O'Neil is inexplicably chosen to play the title character, though why this American was chosen I have no idea--particularly since, at times, he appeared to be half asleep during the film. This movie is just dreadfully dull and uninteresting.I seriously wonder what would have happened if a lesser-known or obscure director had made this film. I'm sure it wouldn't have received all the kudos and people might have recognized that it was a poor film.After noting all the "not helpful" scores given to the other reviewers who panned this movie on IMDb, I guess I'll just sit back and wait for them to start pouring my way!


                
I was enthusiastically recommended Barry Lyndon by a friend who loaned me a video of it insisting that I must see it. Now its not often that I don't watch a film through but, unfortunately, this was one. I struggled through 'part one' then turned off the machine somehow feeling that I had lost a large proportion of my life! Undeniably beautiful to look at (but not for three hours...) astonishingly wooden acting by some (whatever was Ryan O'Neil doing in there?), seriously corny and intrusive musical score (God! That corny Irish theme!! and couldn't the army bandsmen play anything but British Grenardiers?), poorly scripted and unnecessarily detailed to the point of tedium. Kubrick should have left this well alone and stuck to what he excelled at.. What might David Lean have done with it? Still you can't win 'em all and others will love it.


                
Yes, the sets were beautiful. The costumes, the lighting, the music, the incredible cameras, it was all there. What was woefully lacking was an EDITOR. It seems as though every inch of film that was shot was automatically put in the final cut.Gawd, could it possibly be anymore drawn-out? A glacier could win the hundred-yard-dash against this film. Hours on end and NOTHING happens. It just drags on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on...Trim it down from it's - what? - 10 hours running time, to about 90 minutes, and it just might be viewable.If you're really dead set on seeing it, expect to spend a good bit of the running time asleep. It's almost a certainty...


                
Okay, I will admit that I saw this film only once, about 30 years ago. I had totally loved "A Clockwork Orange," and couldn't wait to see Kubrick's latest. I was an English teacher at the time, and I recall one of my students telling me that her dad had seen the movie, and thought it was just about the most beautiful movie he'd ever seen. That really whet my appetite to see it even more.As it turns out, her dad wasn't wrong, exactly. "Barry Lyndon" as seen on the big screen is sumptuous. Scenes could be frozen and committed to canvas as works of art. The cinematography was grand.The story, less so. The plot was so forgettable, at least as presented in this movie, that I can scarcely remember any of it. I do recall one long, long protracted scene of Ryan O'Neal and Marissa Berenson (I think) riding in a carriage. He was smoking a pipe, or cigar, or whatever. They sat silently while riding, as he smoked and she periodically waved away his smoke with an annoyed, gloved hand (that's how I remember it anyway). The scene seemed to go on for a good 5 minutes, although it was probably just a minute or so that FELT like 5. I wanted to jump out of my skin. Honestly, I have a vague memory of having left the theater at intermission. I'm not completely sure that I did, it was so long ago. But if I did, it was the first and last time. I can tolerate boring movies. I am very, very difficult to offend. I can tolerate stupid, pointless movies. But "Barry Lyndon" seemed to be in another category altogether. I couldn't relate to anyone in the movie, least of all Ryan O'Neal's portrayal. At that time, he seemed to me to be, as an actor, completely without substance. Maybe Kubrick chose him exactly for that quality. I don't know.To be fair, maybe if I watched this movie again in the present, I would like it and appreciate it. But I doubt it.I give the movie a 3 out of 10 because of the beautiful cinematography, nothing more.


                
Yes, the sets were beautiful. The costumes, the lighting, the music, the incredible cameras, it was all there. What was woefully lacking was an EDITOR. It seems as though every inch of film that was shot was automatically put in the final cut. Gawd, could it possibly be anymore drawn-out? A glacier could win the hundred-yard-dash against this film. Hours on end and NOTHING happens. It just drags on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on...Trim it down from it's - what? - 10 hours running time, to about 90 minutes, and it just might be viewable.If you're really dead set on seeing it, be sure to have a few cyanide capsules handy. Yes, really. It's that bad.


                
Is Stanley Kubrick the most overrated filmmaker ever? He certainly had prodigious technical gifts, "Barry Lyndon" may not be be the best looking film ever but it certainly comes close, stunning at times in it's use of natural light. He acted like an artist, slow-working and perfectionist. He was certainly uncompromising. In short Kubrick looked and acted like a genius, luckily for him in the world of cinema this was enough to get him proclaimed a genius. All of his films were met by gushing reviews - witness the response to the execrable "Eyes Wide Shut". Yet any true critical response to his films should attempt to explain the utter emptiness of his post "Dr Strangelove" work. "Barry Lyndon" is important here because for all its beauty this is as vapid as film gets. Kubrick drains all life out of characters, the wit and irony of Thackeray totally lost. Ryan O'Neal shows that TV support roles are his natural home (Paper Moon is the only film he didn't ruin), and the rest of the cast are forgettable. Kubrick is art-cinema for those who are scared of real art - it challenges one after all, he is great cinema for those who believe that great cinema consists of nice looking pictures. He is intellectual cinema for the simple minded. There is more life and art in 10 minutes of a Jason Statham film than in this bore. So yes I believe he is overrated and this piece of dross is first exhibit in the case.


                
