Stanley Kubrick's screenplay adaptation and direction of Thackeray's Barry Lyndon (1975) is VERY POOR, in my opinion.The two main characters, Barry Lyndon and Lady Lyndon are portrayed as deadpan through the whole film. This is particularly weird for the Barry character since his life story, the topic of the film, undergoes great transformations from start to finish. Yet, Ryan O'Neal, as Barry, looks like a lifeless, emotionless mannequin just reciting his script lines for almost the entire film. Marissa Berenson, as Lady Lyndon, is also a lifeless, emotionless mannequin just reciting script lines, although she is portrayed as being seduced by Barry while still being married to her elderly husband, although the narrator says that she falls in love with Barry before her husband suddenly dies, and although Barry is blowing her fortune and openly cheating in front of her after their marriage. It is true that the film is set in 18th Century England, when we would expect "propriety and decorum" to dominate more than today, but the flat, emotionless portrayal of the two main characters in such a tumultuous storyline is just unreal and just indicates a VERY POOR directing job by Stanley Kubrick.I was even more amazed when I read a Wikipedia summary of William Thackeray's The Luck Of Barry Lyndon (1844). In the original novel, Thackeray definitely sets up Barry Lyndon as a hot tempered young man at the start of the novel, using this as his motivation for his duel over his cousin Nora. In the novel, Barry is not the victim of highway robbers, but makes it all the way to Dublin, where he immediately begins hanging around with low lifes and accrues so much gambling debt that he joins the British Army just to escape. Wiki says Barry seduces and bullies Lady Lyndon into marrying him. The novel not only has Barry's stepson Lord Bullington join the British Army to fight in the American Revolution, but has Barry plotting long distance to have Lord Bullington deliberately killed in battle in America.Although I'm the first to say that an auteur should have the creative freedom to revise a screen adaptation of a novel however much he wants, it is VERY STRANGE to me that Kubrick BOTH revised the storyline of the original novel and focused his direction of the main characters in a way that turned his main characters into such lifeless, emotionless, script reciting mannequins. What kills me is that Wiki's plot summary of the novel reveals Barry Lyndon to be a truly colorful and adventuresome guy, a character who already would be a wonderful film character. So what the hell was Kubrick thinking here?? I don't know, but he FAILED BADLY as far as I'm concerned.The elaborate and obviously expensive costumes, period settings, and period accessories such as the horse drawn coaches in this film make it even more puzzling to me what Kubrick was thinking in his production of this film, that is, if he was thinking at all. In any case, elaborate and obviously expensive costumes, period settings, and period accessories do not compensate for a POOR screen adaptation of a novel, and for POOR direction, and that's all I can see in Kubrick's Barry Lyndon (1972).Anyone who thinks that this is a great film must first start with the assumption that Kubrick is a great filmmaker and then work his way backward from that assumption to justify the "greatness" of this film. I just don't see it any other way.
i really wanted to, but i can't find any good aspects about this movie. i did not like any of the main characters and thought the whole film was pretty pointless. it's way too long and starts to get boring after about 20 min. there is no suspense at all.the music is pretty good, but it only reminded me of clockwork orange, which is a much better movie.i like kubrick, but i won't give him a good review only because he's considered a genius. this film is a complete waste of time.Only reason to watch it is the fact that it was shot without any light beside the sun and candles. That's pretty impressive.


                
A beautiful yet totally dull movie. It is easy to see why Ryan O'Neal never became a big star after 'Love Story'. The camera loves him and he loves himself, yet there are no emotions. We know he is deeply in love because the narrator tells us. We know he is angry and jealous, because he says he is. We know he is sad, nostalgic and melancholic because we see tears on his face. I watched the whole movie agape, laughing at its plodding linearity and it's total lack of valleys or peaks. The actions of the characters are driven by the script, not by impulsion, greed, love, friendship or fear. Marisa Berenson comes off better than Mr. O'Neal, though less is asked of her. The ending is perfunctory. With as little heart or drive as the events that first set Barry Redmond on his trip away from Ireland. Why did Stanley Kubrick make this movie with nothing to say? Was it an atonement to those he shocked with the brilliant 'Clockwork Orange'?


                
This had to be the worst Kubrick film I've seen to date.  While beautiful in every aspect, I found myself thoroughly distracted from the flat acting of Ryan O'Neal by the AWFUL insistence of Kubrick to abuse the zoom lens of the camera.  Just when I was getting to take a good look around at the beautiful picture, Kubrick would pan out at an abrupt pace that didn't serve any purpose to show the "bigger" picture.While the story itself wasn't boring (it did manage to keep my attention for the duration of the film), it certainly isn't ground-breaking in any way. Like some of Kubrick's other work, Barry Lyndon fails to capture the imagination of the audience with writing and characters, but leaves it all up to the prettiness of the film.  Give me a break!  How can all you people actually believe this is Kubrick's best, or even think that this is one of the best films of all-time.  Uggh.


                
I am a big Stanley Kubrick fan. A Clockwork Orange and Dr. Strangelove are two of my all-time favorite movies. However, I had to force myself to watch Barry Lyndon. It was three hours of my life that I'll never get back. The cinematography was outstanding, but the story was overrated and the plot was dull. I can usually appreciate movies for what they are, but it's unfair to expect anyone to sit through this movie and get anything out of it other than wasted time. 4/10 (it's only that much because of the cinematography and because it's Kubrick)


                
Kubrick was a masterful director. I personally adore both 2001 and The Shining - as close to cinematic perfection as you can come - and there is a lot to admire in the style and controversy of A Clockwork Orange, too. However, even the greatest directors make mistakes, and this was Kubrick's second (his first being Lolita). This lavish period piece telling of the exploits of 18th Century Irishman Barry Lyndon has little to recommend it beyond the helmer's name.Technically, there is some accomplished work in terms of composition of shot and the deliberate imitation of a past style of painting. As a film, though, Barry Lyndon is a variously tortuous and unrewarding watch - there are entertaining moments here and there, and nothing stands out as obviously bad, but neither does anything stand out as obviously great. It is as mediocre an experience as you could ask for - and running at close to three hours mediocre is not exactly called for. To say that it starts well and ends less well does not very well do it much of a service.But what do we ask of great directors? We ask for profundity, passion, insight, vision and excellence. None of these qualities are at all present in Barry Lyndon, a film without much point or energy, which is, in the end, overblown and rightly overlooked by the majority of film fans. Viewers looking for a Kubrick masterpiece would do well to avoid this one.


                
Quite possibly the longest three hours of my life. Every few years I give this movie another go and after it's over I ask myself why did I bother. It is a beautiful movie to look at. There's no denying that. But it's a movie filled with uninteresting characters. I very quickly lose an interest in Barry Lyndon and what he's up to. The main problem is Ryan O'Neal. He's not a good enough actor to pull this movie off. I do enjoy many of his movies but this one is out of his league. Two hours into it today my daughter walked in the room and asked "Why are you watching this? It looks like a painting?" Well said.


                
