Slow as molasses in January, and as sweet, while the camera lingers, soulfully kissing and savoring each moment. With immaculate precision of detail, Kubrick constructs his story of the hapless rogue Lyndon, portrayed by that expert at haplessness, Ryan O'Neal. Being no heavyweight in the acting department (but being cute enough to not have to be), the lengthy script about the rogue's success has been tailored in such a way that it flatters O'Neal's meager abilities. By method of Michael Hordem's sonorous narration, much of what O'Neal has to do is look handsome in his 18th century wardrobe. And that he does. The same is virtually true of co-star Marisa Berenson, who also co-starred in *Cabaret*. She is not an incredibly gifted actress, but she is indeed, an incredibly gifted beauty. So, she, too, must rely on her attractiveness. This is a time-honored Hollywood tradition that still lives and breathes today. If they gave Oscars for being attractive (and they do, don't they, Gwenyth?), this movie would have raked in the awards. It won four, anyway <U+0096> Best Cinematography, Best Art Direction/Set Decoration, Best Costume Design and Best Musical Adaptation. Clocking in at 3 hours and 3 minutes, Kubrick fans are deeply conflicted over whether or not this is a masterpiece.


                
Goes down as Kubrick's Last Great Movie. (Though seeing as how he made only three more movies, it's not as if there was a long decline.) *Barry Lyndon* was a return to form, after that wretched *Clockwork Orange* -- meaning, he refrains here from allowing his general misanthropy to get the better of his judgment. The director managed to relocate a sense of rueful pity for humanity with this work.Kubrick takes the old tale of the Rake's Progress and transforms it into something altogether new. Based on an unimportant (and unread) early novel by Thackeray, *Barry Lyndon* chronicles the rise of a middle-class Irish lad from British soldier to professional gambler to master of a great estate via an advantageous marriage. It's set in the 18th century, beginning roughly with the Seven Years War and ending rather ominously in 1789 (Kubrick tantalizes us with this important date at the end of the film, but we're not sure what to make of it). While Kubrick's presentation of the period is peerless, his main character is a liability that drags the film down from masterpiece-level to merely excellent. Most reviewers have attributed this failing to Ryan O'Neal, but astute students of Kubrick's films know better. This director, throughout his career, was simply unable to achieve what Harold Bloom has called the "Shakespearean difference", that is, the creation of character. (Name a memorable main character from a Kubrick film that isn't a total caricature.) Redmond Barry (later Barry Lyndon, after his marriage) is an intellectual's IDEA of a Rake: we're TOLD that he's a scoundrel, but Kubrick can't be bothered to put in all that hard work that's required to SHOW us the evidence. He's far more interested in Mood and Theme -- not always such a bad thing in and of itself, but subservience of Character to these other concerns leaches away the impetus for great drama. Even the scenes in which Barry is cheating on his wife are merely snapshots -- and stylized ones at that, in the typically overintellectualized manner of Kubrick -- designed to inform us that, yes, he's a scoundrel. But in any case, Barry "reforms" pretty quickly once he's married, so that later accusations of his "brutality" seem unfair. Doubtless this is because Kubrick was going for High Tragedy rather than a character study. But the greatest artists manage to combine both efforts.While I've went on about the film's main faults, don't let these distract you from checking out the film. *Barry Lyndon* is very much worth your time. This is Kubrick's most wittily ironic, and most cleverly constructed work. One marvels at the director's repeated and varied use of his chosen motifs: card-playing, horses, lost loves, and most particularly, duels. Duels between man-and-man involving pistol and ten paces; duels between man and social caste; duels between man and state; duels between states. The overriding mood is unending, repetitious struggle. Barry's antagonists are legion in the film: he's always fighting somebody, or struggling against insuperable barriers in order to achieve his goals. The movie also has something to say about tribal warfare and what Jean Renoir called "the rules of the game". Barry can play cards, but he doesn't know how to play by the rules of the tribe he wishes to join. Hence his misfortunes in the second half of the movie.Kubrick, under the guise of a romantic period piece, offers us a sterile world in which human beings are denied the capacity for change and growth. The Tribe circles its wagons; tragedy is repetitious. Throughout most of the film, any scene indicating sentiment is immediately trashed by an ironic follow-up. (It's not until late in the film that Kubrick takes things seriously and drops the ironic mask.) All the while, monotonous pieces by Handel and Schubert drone on the soundtrack, underlining the repetitiousness of the entire work. (Handel's "Saranbande" is constantly in the background during the final half-hour.) Kubrick even has his narrator "spoil" the ending with 40 minutes still to go, because he wants us to marvel at his design rather than be held hostage to the plot (which, given its episodic nature, admittedly isn't much).Finally, Kubrick broke new technical ground with *Barry Lyndon* with the use of camera lenses that, for the first time, could capture indoor light without professional arc lamps and such. The interior shots in the candlelight are just that -- no fancy lighting tricks. Every period-piece owes this film a debt. In fact, most have failed to live up to this movie's example . . . but then, most directors aren't as nuttily obsessed with visual composition as Kubrick was. The final result is a period film that hasn't aged: with the one exception of the then-trendy use of camera zooms (instead of cuts), the film would look as if it were made today instead of in 1975. This is truly one of the most beautiful-looking movies ever made.


                
The narrator Michael Hordern informs us of the rise and fall of the Irish adventurer Barry Lyndon (Ryan O'Neal) in eighteenth century Europe. It is adapted from William Thackeray's 1844 novel The Luck of Barry Lyndon.It is not a swashbuckling romance of a heroic soldier. The film is book-ended by two farcical duels, the first of which is a set up.Our anti-hero gets involved in an adolescent love affair with a cousin in Ireland and has to leave suddenly after a duel with a rival who can offer better prospects to her. He gets robbed by an highwayman when fleeing, enlists almost accidentally into the British army, fights in Europe, deserts once, then gets caught and made to fight with the Prussian army where he also later deserts from. Lyndon falls in with unscrupulous companions and gets involved in cheating at card games all over Europe before he marries into wealth. However even that is not enough for him as in his quest to social climb he destroys himself.It is in some ways one of Kubrick's warmest films helped by cinematography all shot by natural light and candlepower that makes it look like a composition from a painting by Constable, Gainsborough or Reynolds. There is sumptuous art direction the only let down is the almost diffident acting from O'Neal, almost placid to each fortune good or bad the befalls him.Ryan O'Neal was a big Hollywood name back in the 1970s but his career soon fizzled out. A competent actor but never really a big enduring star. Just observe him in 'A Bridge too Far' and his scenes with Robert Redford who has a much shorter cameo and you wonder why the roles were not reversed.Maybe Kubrick wanted O'Neal to be aloof and let the supporting characters such as Hardy Kruger, Patrick Magee, Arthur O'Sullivan and Leonard Rossiter to shine. Yet there are elements of comedy in some of the escapades which O'Neal could had taken advantage off and stamped his acting.Despite the beauty of the visuals this film is overlong at 3 hours. It unfolds at a stately pace and Lyndon slowly reveals himself to be venal who only truly cares about his son. He fritters away his wife's fortune in his quest for acceptance by society until his grown up stepson wreaks revenge and for a moment he shows some humanity in the final duel but it is too late for him.Kubrick took a little known Victorian novel and made it exquisite in its sharpness and less of a chocolate box costume drama. Acidic but still heartfelt.


                
IMDb Top 250: 217Barry Lyndon is a tough film. On one hand, it's beautiful: the countryside is gorgeous, the costumes are amazing, the sets are luscious, and they tried to get as many candlelight shots in as possible. But on the other hand, there's a very plain, straightforward story about an indifferent character with little substance and far too much time. There's a distinct division in taste in this film.The Revolutionary War era is severely underrepresented in film, and with good reason: it's difficult to make an interesting story. When your film opens to a sexual game played between cousins, it's easy to be put off. It's also easy to be put off by the sternness everyone carries. And the white faces. The era is unfriendly to film, but Kubrick made it as digestible and believable as possible.However the story is pure nihilism. Barry starts out likable if boyish, but develops into something else, which like Alex deLarge leads to some mixed emotions. But Barry isn't charismatic, and seems very wooden at times. It's difficult to read him. All of the characters are flawed, but not in an interesting way: Lord Bullingdon (say that name a few times, how can you not hate him) is a snake, lacking honour. Lady Lyndon is a miserable mess who we can never sympathize with, and Ma Barry is not unlike her counterpart in The Manchurian Candidate. No one is consistently likable, so the story is never appealing. Especially since it doesn't go anywhere, or have any meaning. Sure, that's the point, but 3 hours to tell a story that could be summed up in a sentence is ridiculous. I'm all for epic length films, as long as they're engaging: Barry Lyndon is not. Barry Lyndon is a divisive film, so to help you if you decide to watch it, here are my pointers: first, brush up on your history by looking up the Seven Years War. Next, take a picture of a candle and see how it turns out. And lastly, know the moral of the story, that you're not important. With those pointers, you'' have a much more enjoyable time watching the film than I did, because despite its high production values it just couldn't grab me. Not Kubrick's best. 7.5/10


                
Barry Lyndon is one of the most gorgeous looking films ever. It has been said that Kubrick used lenses that were under authoritative use only by NASA! Stanley Kubrick was already considered a master filmmaker when he made Barry lyndon and this film only enhanced his reputation. Barry Lyndon is about an outsider who marries into aristocrat and fakes his life. Ably played by Ryan O Neill Barry lyndon is characteristic of Kubrick from the slow takes to the pans and zooms and of course the cinematography- few films have utilized candles as well as this one. If you haven't seen this movie you should.


                
Barry Lyndon is one of the most gorgeous looking films ever. It has been said that Kubrick used lenses that were under authoritative use only by NASA! Stanley Kubrick was already considered a master filmmaker when he made Barry lyndon and this film only enhanced his reputation. Barry Lyndon is about an outsider who marries into aristocrat and fakes his life. Ably played by Ryan O Neill Barry lyndon is characteristic of Kubrick from the slow takes to the pans and zooms and of course the cinematography- few films have utilized candles as well as this one. If you haven't seen this movie you should.


                
A roguish young Irishman goes on a tour of Europe and - various military adventures down the line - falls in to a marriage of financial convenience.Three hours of screen time is long by anybody's standards, but at least you are viewing the incredible vision of Stanley Kubrick for that time. Whatever you might say about him, there are moments in all his films (even Clockwork Orange, which I detest) that are magical and moving.Here there is not a scene, prop or location that doesn't ring true to the period; although maybe a bit over-the-top picture postcard at times.
Many indoor scenes seem designed to make the world almost in to a moving painting, in fact there are times when we linger (for a few seconds) in stillness before dialogue/action starts to further the effect.Some say Ryan O'Neil was too modern for the central role, but I disagree, his acting is far from Oscar material but it gets us through the movie with minimal fuss. While BL is clearly not a man of honour, a lot of the time he is merely doing what he needs to do to get by and I found him hard to dislike - even through he is a child beater!Often he is given no real lines, but emotes on the tragedy and his traps with looks, anxious glances and glazed expressions. Female lead Marissa Berenson (although hardly in the picture on the old stopwatch) seems chosen for her dazzling profile - which we linger on slowly and lovingly, by order of films joint producer and director. We don't know her or understand her though - and that is the film's one major fault.BL is the kind of film that you are going to have to get yourself prepared for mentally and in terms of sitting comfort. There are real moments of mastery here (the duelling scenes - with the rules being explained slowly and clearly - are the work of someone who understands tension and timing perfectly), but while I salute it for its technical expertise and loving care, it does leave you with the feeling that you have spent three hours in an art gallery as opposed to watching a film.


                
A movie that relies on constant narration and an incessant music soundtrack never succeeds in compensating for the lack of any real emotional depth displayed on screen by characters presented mostly with little sympathy.


                
You have to hand it to Stanley Kubrick. The man has range. All of his movies are acclaimed classics, many of them are regarded among the best in their respective genres and they cover a truly astonishing range of different subject matters. With this movie that being a period costume drama.Barry Lyndon is at its heart a picaresque story, which is a Spanish novel type where the story follows a young man, often coming from a lower social class, trying to improve his lot in life, often mixing with the high class aristocrats. The style is often satirical, even comedic, despite the grim happenings and bleak tone. And that's essentially this film in a nutshell, though I certainly hope that in the original novels, the main characters are more likable.Yet, while I do not like Barry Lyndon (Ryan O'Neal) as a human being, the whole film is still very watchable. The set pieces are stunning - with Kubrick trying to mimic the paintings of the era and largely succeeding - the costuming is great and while the plot is very slow and deliberate, it's still endlessly intriguing. The events are also refreshingly diverse, with Barry experiencing very different kinds of adventures throughout his life.Is it Kubrick's best work? I don't think so. The technical aspects are once again groundbreaking, the depth of detail is astonishing and the sheer mastery of his craft is evident in every frame. But, the story just isn't as unique as in his other films. I'm more impressed by the technicalities than I am with the so-called meat of the film.Very much worth a watch even still, don't get me wrong.


                
Lavish period detail, gorgeous costuming and inspiring cinematography could do nothing for me when it actually came down to the story being told. Except that everything in the picture looked great, this is one of the most boring pictures I ever managed to sit through. One has to wonder whether Ryan O'Neal was miscast, simply bad in the role of Barry Lyndon, or directed to appear virtually clueless in most of his significant scenes. It's understood by this viewer that he was supposed to be a lout, but one didn't need three hours to figure it out. I'm trying hard to come up with something positive, realizing that I stand diametrically opposed to many critics and fans of Kubrick who have marvelous things to say about the film. So I'll just state it once again - it's got lavish period detail, gorgeous costuming and inspiring cinematography. For that, you could watch it with the sound turned off.
It was good but not great.It humoured me enough to keep watching throughout the whole 3 hours and was never bored. The great character actors brought a humorous edge to it most notably Murray Melvin and Leonard Rossiter.It looked beautiful and the editing was sharp, an editing style that accompanied and complemented the wonderful music for long sections, like it coasted along with the musical beats.I thought the pacing was good and never lingered longer than it needed to, even though sometimes shots intentionally lingered which I did like mainly due to the wonderful cinematography. Every scene looked like an oil painting, camera barely moving and holding the frame. It was a beautiful looking film.I was only really gripped once during the final pistol duel and that whole segment was pushed along by 11 minutes of music from where Lord Bullingdon entered the drink house Lyndon occupied until just after the final shot of the duel.I don't think the film was meant to keep you gripped, like I said it humoured me, it was an amusement. That's what I think this film is, an amusement and it succeeded with that in my eyes.7 out of 10


                
Old Kubs is at it again. A man with the most insane set designs I have ever seen, he goes to 11 with his period drama BARRY LYNDON. With a wonderful performance by Ryan O'Neal (although it might have been a bad idea to have him play the younger Barry), a wonderfully paced screenplay, and cinematography that rivals the great T Malick, he rifles us with an epic story of fortune gained and fortune lost. This film contains some extremely poignant moments, perfectly orchestrated and brought to life by O'Neal. At over 3 hours, however, BARRY LYNDON does test your patience. Towards the end, its hard not to get frustrated with Kubs. Still, the climax of the movie is some of the most intense stuff I have ever seen (and I have seen a lot). I mean, the guy is on point, and I think this is perhaps his best work. We miss you, Stanely, and I'm always willing to forgive you for EYES WIDE SHUT. Tedder.


                
Definitely not a masterpiece if we must do justice to movies deserving the title. First of all, Lady Lyndon has absolutely no character even a superficial one. We have no notion of her feelings towards her husband and her second son. Secondly, the main character has no dilemmas, conflicts not even a soul. Thirdly, the story consists of disconnected parts without aim. Fourthly; Barry's mother reappears as a lady after disappearing as an ordinary villager at the start of he movie. There are many other weaknesses besides these. The result is a historical setting, carefully set-up scenes, some good music but no content. Can not be compared with other Kubrick movies such as The Shining and 2001


                
When thinking of the directing legend Stanley Kubrick, some of the films that may spring to mind could be his sci-fi '2001: A Space Odyssey'; maybe his ground breaking and controversial 'A Clockwork Orange' or maybe even his wonderful turn at horror in 'The Shining'. One film that perhaps won't immediately hit you is this one; 'Barry Lyndon' and this is a great shame.The one thing Barry Lyndon has going for it all the way through is the feeling of luck/chance. The film is impossible to predict and this instantly makes it good as it grabs you and draws you into its world. It also does this with its wonderful collection of 'mise-en-scene' on display. The costumes are out of this world, the continually mole-faced characters are delightful as they are juxtaposed for their time and the settings are as consistently different and refreshing as each other.When I was watching this film, it felt like some sort of gritty crime drama set a few hundred years ago. Lyndon's climb up the aristocracy's hierarchy sneaks up on you a little bit as you realise that he's got to make something of his life given the position he's now facing. All this is kicked off following a nicely done and particularly moving love story early on. The brutish, overly confident British soldier/captain has spoiled Lyndon's love interest and everything is set up superbly for the actual incident to happen. Once the journey starts, you can't tell which way it's going. While totally engrossing and maintaining that luck/chance feeling throughout the first hour, 'Lyndon' sucks you in and doesn't exhale for a moment. Everything that happens is an experience and keeps you interested as to what the outcome might be.What also struck me about the film is that at times, you have no idea what the characters are even saying. From memory, the characters interact in German and some form of 'Prussian' and the gyp is: there are no subtitles (!) However, this isn't a bad thing in fact it adds to the experience. It would be spoiled if some tacky looking 1970's style font popped up telling what it is everyone is saying. It gives you the feel that you're actually there with them and it's great.Unfortunately, no film is without its flaws be it length or otherwise and the film suffers from this. During 'part 2' of the film, and especially during his married life; the film falters. The character settle down and it feels like he's reached the end of his journey until something pretty unpredictable and shocking kick starts it again, but this is quite a while later. There isn't much energy in the film, the narration dries up and the settings stays the same. In fact, it's rather dull at this point.But, as I've mentioned, something kick starts it again and it's back on the road of unpredictability and anguish.Definitely one of the most under-rated films of the 1970's and shouldn't be forgotten when thinking of Kubrick's best films.


                
Following a troika of masterpieces ("Dr. Stranglove", "2001" and "A Clockwork Orange"), Stanley Kubrick decided to make a period piece. In "Barry Lyndon", the title character (Ryan O'Neal) abandons all morals with the goal of becoming rich and titled in 18th century England. Of course, he's only doing himself in.It's debatable whether or not Kubrick was the ideal person for a costume drama, although he did a pretty good job here. Unfortunately, Ryan O'Neal isn't quite right to play Lyndon. Still, one can look for similarities to Kubrick's other movies. For example, the first Mr. Lyndon is in a wheelchair (just like Dr. Strangelove and the one character in "A Clockwork Orange"). There's a bathroom scene, like in "The Shining" and "Full Metal Jacket". Throughout most of the movie, Barry and Lady Lyndon (Marisa Berenson) are wearing red, but not at their wedding (that's a filmic element meaning that they aren't marrying for love). But overall, this isn't the Kubrick movie that I would recommend above all others.


                
Barry Lyndon is ravishing movie. And that is because of Stanley Kubrick. It is an exciting tale of a young and stubborn Irishman. It shows us how 18th century looked. It is also filled with love and marvelous music. The first part is neat and I absolutely recommend it. Barry gets from poor start to upper classes, and you would be likely to support him. However, the second one deals with Barry doing just wrong things, so you presumably wouldn't like it. You will only wait for his pitiful end... (And waiting for bitter ends like this I hate in every movie or book.)Despite the second part of the tale, the film is one of the best historical movies ever filmed.
Another Kubrick, another abstract well directed movie. This movie seems to transmit the message that aristocracy does not guarantee happiness. In fact, this 18th century story seems to reflect a problem very present in our 21st century society. To quote Notorious B.I.G. who says ''Mo' money, Mo' problem. It seems this movie reflects this train of thought very well. Furthermore, this picture gives a great general idea of the aristocrat hierarchy during the Age of enlightenment. Grosso Modo, this movie is well acted, well directed and representative of the historical dynamic of the 18th century. This film is recommended to those of you who love the historical details in movies.


                
Damn, what a boring film. Shallow characters with no depth, and poor acting! The screenplay also sucks. I mean, WTF is that scene with Barry and his cousin? Looks like something you'd find in a porn film. The events on this film are so dumb and unbelievable, is a joke. It has great cinematography, I mean, very great. But so what? Is all meaningless. I would call it a style over substance kind of film, if it had any substance. Worst Kubrick film just behind Fear and Desire. Doesn't even looks like a Kubrick film. Too bad is so overrated nowadays. Still, its rather watchable after the first hour. But don't expect nothing above average apart from Kubrick's direction. The cinematography is indeed one of the greatest ever, if not the greatest. Is the only reason I can think of to watch this boring film.7/10


                
Stanley Kubrick received Oscar nominations as director, producer, and adaptation-screenwriter of this well-costumed 18th century drama based upon William Makepeace Thackeray's "Memoirs of Barry Lyndon, Esq." (originally titled "The Luck of Barry Lyndon" and published under the pseudonym George Savage FitzBoodle). Yet, where Thackeray's story of an Irish upstart who deserts the British army and is eventually caught and recruited into taking up arms for the Prussians was--by all accounts--a rascally adventure, Kubrick approaches the material somberly. The too-careful filmmaker is enormously fond of pastoral landscapes and action seen from a great distance. Kubrick nearly distances himself from viewers as well, though the characters do finally emerge, and the film builds in quiet emotional power. The themes in Act I are much the livelier; encompassing much of the second act, Barry Lyndon's ill-fated marriage to a wealthy, widowed Countess slows things down. Still, the human faults of the protagonist (adequately played by Ryan O'Neal) come to the fore by the film's third hour, and Barry's showdown with his embittered, sniveling stepson is the stuff of high drama. The pacing, overall, is too funereal, and a child's death is endlessly protracted for little purpose, but the fights and brawls and duels are wonderfully staged. "Barry Lyndon" runs 183 minutes, however Kubrick is observant and canny enough to keep things simmering, and only occasionally does interest wane. Fine performances help, including Leonard Rossiter as the showboating Captain Quin (who is sadly revealed to have no spine), Patrick Magee as the wily Chevalier de Balibari, and Dominic Savage and Leon Vitali as the child and adult versions of Lord Bullingdon. The film won Oscars for John Alcott's exquisite cinematography and Leonard Rosenman's (somewhat monotonous) music score, as well as for Costume Design and Art Direction. *** from ****


                
"Barry Lyndon" is a drama movie in which we watch a man's story who is a young farm boy in love with his cousin Nora but Nora gets engaged to the British Captain John Quin. After this we watch him joining the British Army to fight in the Seven Years War. And also after he joins the Prussian Army and when he finish with the army he decides to marry the wealthy Lady Lyndon.I liked the plot of this movie but in some times it was a bit tiring. Also I believe that there was no need for this movie to a be three hour movie but two. Although the direction which made by Stanley Kubrick who also has written it was as I expected magnificent. I also liked the interpretation of Ryan O'Neal who played as Barry Lyndon and he was really good at it. Another interpretation that I liked was Marisa Berenson's who played as Lady Honoria Lyndon.Finally I believe that "Barry Lyndon" is a good movie to watch and I think if you watch it you will enjoy it. I also have to say not to have many expectations of action and be reasonable because it's a 1975 movie and think of this before you criticize it.


                
A period/costume drama directed by Stanley Kubrick? Those were my initial thoughts. It certainly has some of Kubrick's touches of perfection, the nice, crisp cinematography and control of everything on screen. His style oozes through. I still don't think this is all that great or anything. The first half all works as set up, but it's just not as engaging as it should have been. The second half is definitely where I was constantly engaged, and so I definitely recommend this. It's basically a "rise and fall" picture, although much less likely as one would have thought. The technical aspects of this are pretty amazing, but as it is, it stands in Kubrick's lower half of films.


                
Acclaimed by many as Stanley Kubrick's finest, I think Barry Lyndon is a good film that misses being a great one due to some truly bad casting. I can only imagine such folks as Peter O'Toole, Richard Harris, and Albert Finney were off doing other projects that Ryan O'Neal was selected for the title role. Try as he might O'Neal is just way too American to fit the part of an 18th century Irishman who wishes to rise in society and not care how he does it.I have to say that Kubrick's recreation of the 18th century in both its look and mores is nothing short of magnificent. Small wonder that Barry Lyndon won Oscars for Costume Design, Best Music Score, Cinematography and Art&Set Design. The technical aspect he nailed down beautifully.As for O'Neal in 18th century Ireland and assuming he's a Protestant there are still limited means of opportunity. Seduced by Gay Hamilton his first love, she abandons him for marriage to a wealthy British officer. And when O'Neal refuses to leave she and her family play a very interesting trick which I won't reveal to force him to leave.After time in both the British and Prussian armies during the Seven Years War and some lucrative years at the gaming tables, O'Neal has his turn at seduction when he beds Marisa Berenson while she's still married to the titled Frank Middlemass. Then he dies and O'Neal weds her and her money, but earns the undying enmity of her son Leon Vitali. That in fact seals his fate.O'Neal and Berenson do have a child of their own and seeing the scenes between O'Neal and his own son made me think that Thackerey's treatment of the father/son relationship was the model for what Margaret Mitchell did with Rhett Butler and Bonnie Blue Butler in Gone With The Wind.Kubrick opted for a full treatment of Thackerey's novel just as David O. Selznick did with Gone With The Wind. Unfortunately Ryan O'Neal just did not fit the title role as Clark Gable did with Rhett Butler.


                
In the early 1970s, Director Kubrick wanted to make a film about Napoleon. For various reasons, that effort failed to materialize. But Kubrick put his research on Napoleon and that historical era to good use later, in a story about a fictional character of that same time period, Barry Lyndon, a roguish young Irishman whose ambition and opportunism would carry him into splendorous surroundings of Europe's high and mighty, despite one setback after another.In "Barry Lyndon" what we get is thus a Napoleon-like character: clever, charming, calculating, and commanding. And we follow this character over an extended period of his life, as he interacts with the grandiose and powerful, en route to a destiny dictated as much by uncontrollable fate as by his own selfish desires.Given the film's very slow pace, I like the way the unseen narrator explains the plot as it proceeds. Such a script device ensures an overview approach to the story, so that we don't get lost in details. Implicit here is the nullification of both suspense and mystery. The title character's ever-changing circumstances, however prosaic, and his responses to those changes, are what matter. The narrator functions thus as an impartial, emotionless observer, a stand-in for Kubrick himself.Production values rate quite high as does the cinematography. Interior scenes especially look really good, with those lit candles amid colorful costumes and makeup. Indeed, some scenes convey an air of romanticized unreality, as characters pose like statues in a museum. The classical background music thus completes the Enlightenment-age mood."Barry Lyndon" is a period film with colorful costumes and some interesting characters. With a runtime of three hours and a big budget, it comes across as self-conscious and forced. Its stiffness, as displayed in stagy acting and stilted dialogue, renders it hard to like. I found it not particularly entertaining. But the film does succeed at giving viewers a Napoleon-like character, and a pretty good feel for what life must have been like among the aristocratic elite in that time and place.


                
Seems like opinion is of 2 camps: it's an unsung masterpiece, or an utter disaster. Why can't the truth lie in between? Film is long, but not as slow as I'd heard - there's a lot of story. And some of the sequences are just fantastic; also there's more humor than you'd expect. Still it all adds up to little. The film doesn't particularly make you think, and it sure as hell doesn't make you care.The problem is Barry/O'Neill at the center of it is vacuous, vaguely unlikeable and unforgivably dumb. By the end I was kind of rooting for him to get shot. I love O'Neill in "Paper Moon" & "What's Up Doc," but he's so horribly miscast here it's painful. I was racking my brains to think of who could have played Barry and concluded it was a shame Daniel Day Lewis hadn't been discovered just a few years earlier to do it. It's a fun party game, but just a shame. No doubt a different Barry would have made it a different and likely better movie.I somehow doubt that this was Mr. Kubrick's intention, but my main takeaway was that men are basically pretty awful, ugly, brutish animals with bulging, ungainly pouches in their pants. Not that the women come off much better, but they get a lot less screen time.
"Barry Lyndon" is the tale of a young man who comes into power by a stroke of fate. Ryan O'Neal does a fine job in this role, which is bittersweet, knowing that he has such potential but will forever be overshadowed by his girlfriend, Farrah Fawcett.I have nothing really of consequence to say here. I can marvel at the technical skill it took to film by candlelight and whatnot, but others have spent plenty of time on this. In short, the film is a masterpiece, as all of Kubrick's films are. I don't think it's his best work, and it's certainly not my favorite, but as I said, even his least is better than many other directors' best. So, regardless of where you rank this in his career, it's a winner.


                
