Barry Lyndon is one of my favourite films of all time.   Kubrick's craftsmanship is impeccable.   The film is slow and dreamy in its pace which, along with the scenic shots, establishes a romanticised watercolour view of the period (somewhat like a Carpenter landscape). In fact, Kubrick has set up almost every shot (indoor and out) like a painting. This romanticism provides an interesting counterpoint against Lyndon's less than admirable actions throughout the film. I would have to say that the best acting in Barry Lyndon comes from some of the minor actors.   Leonard Rossiter delivers a fantastic portrait of the arrogant Captain Quinn, with exaggerated  facial expressions and movements (eg. like in the dance scene, or when his engagement to Nora is announced) that are perfect for the self-aggrandising bluster of this character.  Leon Vitali as Lord Bullingdon also gives an insightful performance as Barry's stepson.
This was way different than anything i might have expected. This story could relate to any man, on so many levels. To me, that is both the charm and the fear this director was going for. Barry is clearly on a set path of delusion, where he feels complete control even though he clearly has none. He has moments of victory and shame. The movie shows the ups and downs of a seemingly good person to the people around him. Until he reached a point where he was exposed as a common man in a wealthy surrounding. Thus, setting a path of little respect for his actions or identity. At the same time, you want to feel for him as the main character much like his wife does.Watching the white faces, real costumes, camera angles, and superb lighting was so unique. The story was told in a passive way, with so many plot points happening gently and without much dialogue.I'm in a funk today because that movie got under my skin somehow. The idea of watching it again makes me weary because the details to consider are infinite.
The first thing that struck me as I started watching Barry Lyndon (which I'll admit that I knew almost nothing about when I put it on) was that it's a period film, something that I have definitely not come to expect from Kubrick. Granted, I'm a little behind in my detailed look at his filmography, given that more than a quarter century passed between the film's release and me finally getting around to watching it, but I very soon began to see the same Kubrick that I have come to know and love.The film is about a man named Redmond Barry, who we love and then hate and then pity and then admire for his luck and then pity, love, hate, etc. And the most interesting thing about him, of course, is the sheer magnitude of events that happen to him, given that he never for one second has even the slightest bit of control over his own life.He begins with a childish crush on his own cousin, which leads him to engage in a foolish duel, the results of which force him to flee his home without much plan of what to do with himself, other than make himself scarce until things blow over. And we witness the beginning of his truly bizarre adulthood, during which time he is robbed and forced to join the British Army basically just because he had no other choice, and then an increasingly unexpected series of circumstances and events take place that ultimately lead him to the most unexpected conclusion.The film itself is structured in an interesting way, in that it is filmed and presented with such an emotionless detachment. As Ebert pointed out, there is a narrator that gives away any important events in advance to remove any sense of tension or suspense, and he narrates as though he were talking about field mice rather than real people. As such, the film is able to come across more as an exploration of Kubrick's ideas of human nature rather than another cloying period romance. Bravo! I have read (and am not surprised by) a lot of people saying that the movie is intolerably boring, which I must say is to be expected. Like so many Kubrick films, it is prohibitively long at just over three hours, and it is interesting in that it gives a feeling that nothing ever happens from beginning to end, and yet there is ALWAYS something happening.Personally I absolutely loved it. It reminded me of another unique and enormously entertaining period film, Tom Jones, with it's brilliant comic performance by Albert Finney. Recenltly I have been going back and watching all of the Kubrick movies that I haven't seen as of yet, and even at it's prodigious length and slow pace (which is a Kubrick trademark if I've ever seen one), Barry Lyndon is still one of my favorites, at least of the overlooked classics. It is a bit of a commitment, but well worth it.


                
I'm reading Thackeray's "Vanity Fair" even as I write this comment, and what strikes me about "Barry Lyndon" now that I've read something by the author who wrote it is how much the film recreates the experience of reading Thackeray. "Vanity Fair" is nearly 700 pages of nothing much happening, yet it's all fascinating. That's "Barry Lyndon." Ryan O'Neal plays the eponymous protagonist, and Marisa Berenson his beleaguered wife in this costume drama that follows the exploits of our dear rogue Lyndon from young manhood to weary middle age. And that's really it for lead characters. Neither O'Neal nor Berenson registers much, but no matter. The true stars here are the film's magnificent and jaw-dropping production design, followed closely by its score, which, like in other Kubrick films, incorporates previously existing classical compositions that are perfectly matched with the material. Every shot in this film looks like a painting, which was Kubrick's intention and why he used such a square aspect ratio. The meticulous details of 18th Century court life make this movie endlessly fascinating, even if many viewers have complained that it's emotionally distant (a criticism that could apply to more than one Kubrick film).I loved "Barry Lyndon" the first time I watched it, thought it was hollow and lacking the second time I watched it, and then went back to thinking it a masterpiece the third time I watched it. Let's see how I feel after a fourth viewing. As for now, it's my third impression that sticks.Grade: A


                
"Barry Lyndon" is one of those movies that reminds us why Stanley Kubrick's what it is, let's start at the weak point of the film, the script is well encaixadinho but contains some holes off the pace at times are lost, though their actions are well defined, and the actions that do not excite although not bad, but the picture of this film is undoubtedly one of the best of Kubrick and consequently the film, scenes recorded without artificial lighting are of a beauty and reality are south reais, the costumes and screen elements are also incredible, rich in detail and takes us directly to the time, perfect, along with all the scene compositions that are really a work of art, zoom them in and out that Kubrick uses all the time is to show us the scene of perfection, this is quite typical in his films, but this is phenomenal, if you pause the movie at any time, you can capture the screen and send frame and put on the wall of your home the aesthetic beauty along with the details and compositions of all scenes are something I can not put into words, the soundtrack does not stand out much, but when it appears is fundamental and guides the tone of the film, "Barry Lyndon" is beautiful , magnificent and triumphant in their technical questions that show all that famous obsession with Kubrick for detail, the three-hour film are a bit unnecessary, the script extends beyond what is proposed, but it is good to have more time to admire the beauty of the movie.


                
William Makepeace Thackeray's most famous novel, Vanity Fair, has been adapted into several films and TV series. The Luck of Barry Lyndon, later retitled The Memoirs of Barry Lyndon, Esq., hasn't been quite so regurgitated. Originally serialised in the 1840s before becoming a single volume in 1856 (although set in the previous century) it's a rambling text, described by a disinterested narrator, full of satirical swipes at the seventeenth century romantic ideal. Stanley Kubrick's adaptation – a bit of a flop in 1975 – dials down the satire. With Dr Strangelove, Kubrick had taken a cold and sober story (Red Alert) and turned it into a nightmare satirical comedy. With Lyndon he takes a rambunctious and ironic picaresque and turns it into a witty but ultimately sorrowful journey into the black heart of a world that can't accept the orphan foreigner.We begin in Ireland, where a young Redmond Barry (a blank slate Ryan O'Neal), in trying to win the heart of his cousin, challenges the smug Captain John Quin (Leonard Rossiter) to a duel. The event triggers Redmond's exile, and he hits the road, not so much gallivanting around Europe as finding himself stumbling in and out of army units and from one bereft wife's bed to the next. Redmond has ambitions to wealth and status. So, when he comes into contact with Lady Lyndon (an even blanker slate Marisa Berenson), he decides to settle down and take advantage of her money and make himself a gentleman. Lyndon, however, is guarded by her fiercely protective son, Lord Bullingdon (Leon Vitali), who will defend her honour until the violent end. Barry Lyndon employs a realist aesthetic, but it's a beautified and exaggerated realism, like a photo album telling half the story – the pretty bits – as if we were observing the fantasy of an ordered universe. The style is perfect for the self-aggrandising nature of Redmond, who would rather keep himself unknowable in detail, but would gleefully embellish his grander legend. Kubrick predominantly makes use of zooms, as opposed to tracking shots, evoking a sense of flatness similar to a painting. The compositions themselves are reminiscent of 17th and 18th century pieces – at one point Lord Bullingdon effectively walks through Hogarth's "The Morning After". When the camera does come off the tripod – for example, during an astonishing brawl at a concert performance – the effect is brilliantly jarring. For a film that keeps its title character in frame but at arm's length for virtually its entire 180-minute running time (save for a brief interlude of contented fatherhood), Barry Lyndon is Kubrick's most moving and heartfelt film. Kubrick used cinema for awe (2001: A Space Odyssey) and anarchy (A Clockwork Orange); but he knew also that cinema is sadness: twenty-four transient events slipping away every second. The sombre rhythm of Barry Lyndon, and the lifetime it covers, is such that we are vitally aware of the passing of time. It is an exercise in anti-tension, with minimal editing and zero revelation. Michael Hordern's ironic narrator frequently informs us of important events before they occur.Kubrick was a proponent of the Soviet Montage school of editing: creating meaning through the juxtaposition of images. And yet with Barry Lyndon the meaning is created more by the events within the frame: the stillness, smallness and slowness of people in vast, beautiful, indifferent spaces. Barry Lyndon may lack the broad humour of the more accessible Dr Strangelove, but Kubrick's acknowledgement of the absurd is still present. Marriage, monogamy, material consumption, and the endless pursuit of money: the sometimes conflicted aspects of the independence-seeking society that sprung from the one we're watching on screen. It's a reflection of our world, today. Yes, Barry Lyndon is a historical film, and it's about history, but it's also about who we are now. It is a film that questions our values and our social convictions. We may laugh or cry at the picaresque rogue and the rigid class divisions he crosses. We may sneer at the loveless marriage born of loneliness at the story's centre. We may despair at the movement from the expansive freedom of the rolling landscape to the closed world of the gated estate. But we may also consider that, unlike Redmond Barry, we have the awareness and the means and the mobility to resist such a fate. Yet so often we choose not to.


                
Now there are some people out there who may call this film, Barry Lyndon very dull and pretentious. But I found this film to be quite gripping and masterful in telling the story. This is cinematic art, and art at it's finest. There are going to be no blazing action scenes or no potty humor, but this is a film that take it's own sweet time to tell the story.Stanley Kubrick's film is based off a book from William Shakespeare and it tells the story about the rise and fall of an Irish rogue as a member of the British aristocracy. We see how this man, Redmond Barry goes from a soldier in the British's army to a man who marries a fancy widow.The acting is very good. But outside of Ryan O'Neal, there are really no famous faces here. I think that is good because with a famous cast, that may distract from the story. Some even go as far to say that Kubrick is the best "actor" of the film. That being said, his directorial techniques are very active in the film and this film is a directorial success for the legend.Overall, Barry Lyndon is a vast epic that requires your complete attention. It does a good job in drawing your attention in. This is a film I would call as "lost art," because nowadays, we do not get to see films like these. This film features excellent technical skills and the cinematography will capture your breath. This is an epic that ranks as one of Kubrick's best films, along with 2001: A Space Odyssey. I rate this film 9/10.


                
In the Eighteenth Century, in a small village in Ireland, Redmond Barry (Ryan O'Neal) is a young farm boy in love of his cousin Nora Brady (Gay Hamilton). When Nora engages to the British Captain John Quin (Leonard Rossiter), Barry challenges him for a duel of pistols. He wins and escapes to Dublin, but is robbed on the road. Without any other alternative, Barry joins the British Army to fight in the Seven Years War. He deserts and is forced to join the Prussian Army, saving the life of his captain and becoming his protégé and spy of the Irish gambler Chevalier de Balibari (Patrick Magee). He helps Chevalier and becomes his associate until he decides to marry the wealthy Lady Lyndon (Marisa Berenson). They move to England and Barry, in his obsession of nobility, dilapidates her fortune and makes a dangerous and revengeful enemy.Stanley Kubrick is certainly among the ten best directors of the cinema history and it is not necessary to make any comment about his awesome work. "Barry Lyndon" is a piece of art, and watching this film, the viewer has the sensation that is seeing pictures at an exhibition. Further, if he or she randomly pauses the DVD on any scene, will have a magnificent painting on the screen of the TV. Therefore, the landscapes, set decoration, art direction, costume design and cinematography are simply spectacular. The music score is one of the most beautiful of the cinema history, with classy and top-notch selection of wonderful classical music. Ryan O'Neal gives his best acting in the best role of his career, an the whole cast is amazing in their intense performances. The long story is engaging, with the narrative in off, in a shameful period of Europe history, telling the raise and fall of an ambitious man initially driven by a lost love. This movie is highly recommended for viewers that appreciate arts. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil): "Barry Lyndon"


                
Stanley Kubrick was one of those directors who made the kinds of films that were so easily misunderstood and misread upon first viewing. From his first film, 1953's FEAR AND DESIRE, up to the 1960 epic SPARTACUS (which he really only had a modicum of control on, and which he basically dismissed), he stayed within traditional filmmaking bounds. But after LOLITA in 1962, he set out to push those filmmaking bounds out of the way; and from that point on, until his last one, 1999's EYES WIDE SHUT, he was a hero to a great many aspiring filmmakers, and a complete enigma to film critics. Most important of all, he never made the same kind of movie twice, which made him perhaps the most utterly unpredictable director of the post-war cinema. His 1975 costume epic BARRY LYNDON is a case in point.In choosing to do a lavish adaptation of the then-little-known book "The Luck Of Barry Lyndon" by William Makepeace Thackeray, Kubrick invested his trademark sense of deep, dark irony in depicting an Irish rogue (Ryan O'Neal), who, after winning a duel, goes out in the world to find his fortune. After a series of adventures and misadventures alike, including a stint in Her Majesty's Army, he seems to find the fortune in the guise of Lady Lyndon (Marisa Berenson), but he quickly runs afoul of his newlywed wife's stubborn stepson Lord Bullingdon (Leon Vitali). It all comes down to a duel between him and Vitali in the barn of the Lyndon estate<U+0085>and there can only be ONE winner.Among the many ways that Kubrick defied audience expectations, this film is one that doesn't movie especially fast. At three hours and four minutes, it's no MTV video; but pretty much after the stately interstellar mood of 2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY, it would be part-and-parcel of this director not only not to give what the audience expects, but to give them something that requires total concentration. Primarily filmed in England and Ireland over a period of twelve to eighteen months at the mid-point of the 1970s, BARRY LYNDON was a fairly expensive movie, at a cost of $11 million, and was, at the time, perhaps Kubrick's most poorly received film; widely mixed critical and audience reactions in America and England resulted in only modest box office returns there, though the film did clean up in Europe.O'Neal has come in for a fair working-over for his portrayal of Barry Lyndon over the last four decades, but I think it is a very good performance, molded as it were under a thorough taskmaster like Kubrick; and the same could be said for Berenson as Lady Lyndon. BARRY LYNDON also features some excellent turns by such British character actors as Patrick Magee, Phillip Stone, Hardy Krueger, Steven Berkoff, Leonard Rossiter, Godfrey Quigley, George Sewell, and Anthony Sharp.The film justifiably won four Oscars: cinematography (John Alcott); costume design (Milena Canonero); production design (Ken Adam, who worked with Kubrick on DR. STRANGELOVE, and Roy Walker); and musical adaptation (primarily of works by Mozart, Paisiello, Schubert, and Handel) by veteran composer Leonard Rosenman (whose credits included GIANT; FANTASTIC VOYAGE; BENEATH THE PLANET OF THE APRES; and A MAN CALLED HORSE). Particularly notable in the latter is Rosenman's bold orchestration of the Sarabande from Handel's Keyboard Suite #11, which has since become BARRY LYNDON's musical calling card, much as Richard Strauss' "Also Sprach Zarathustra" had been for "2001." And in terms of the photography, Alcott and camera expert Ed Di Giulio did a great thing by giving Kubrick the idea to use very powerful lenses to shoot a number of complex scenes lit only by candlelight, which has been tried by many a period film that followed in the wake of this movie.A great deal of patience is required for BARRY LYNDON; and, as with many a Kubrick film, this one requires many viewings to really understand the various nuances and themes. But a lot of times this is what great films demand, and BARRY LYNDON is an excellent demonstration of such.


                
Barry Lyndon is quite the film. I had heard this was Kubricks most slow film, and while it did feel slow in certain areas, most of the time it had me enthralled. It's a beautiful and epic film, and because of it's length (3 hours and 5 minutes), you really get the feeling you have seen this mans life. I think I will start off with just the visuals of this movie. Wow. The costume and set design in this are absolutely incredible. It's also shot incredibly well. It's no surprise why it won Oscars in those categories. The whole time I watched it, I kept thinking that it didn't feel like a movie. I never imagined the cameras and crew standing there. It felt like I was witnessing people in this time period. Like I was actually there. That's the highest compliment you can give a period piece film. Every shot is beautifully framed and looks like a painting, which was actually what they aimed to do. Visually, it will just blow you away.The story is pretty great to. It spans over a large amount of time, and lots of different things happen. There are little sections where it felt like, to me, that nothing new was happening and that made the film drag a bit, but those sections were fairly short lived. The performances overall are pretty great. Ryan O'Neal sometimes left me a little underwhelmed, but he had his moments, and I thought that he did a good job when he really needed to perform. All the other side characters are great too. Everyone just seems to fit their roles. Barry Lyndon is a film that needs to be seen if you are a fan of films. It's absolutely beautiful and is quite the experience over all. Check it out.


                
It can easily be said that in order to be fully appreciated, the films of Stanley Kubrick require a second viewing or at the very least one which is undertaken with the fullest of dedication. Both Barry Lyndon and 2001 fit into this category - both masterpieces of cinematography and of sound, they both seem to divert very easily from the pathway of other typical notions of cinema. Unlike Kubrick's other works both these films depart from any sense of dialogue and although narrative is highlighted in Barry Lyndon through the presence of a narrator, there is none the less a far more powerful underlying narrative technique present. One of the few films ever to accomplish such an art is Barry Lyndon, in which the narrative is conveyed through the pure emotion, melancholy and silence of the film's protagonists. Redmond Barry's character rarely speaks within the film and his actions are undoubtedly more powerful than his words. Rather than face heated argument or debate he instead reverts to man's violent tendencies - this is clearly seen when he throws a wine glass in Captain Quin's face; the presence of duels and fighting throughout the film, which soon develops into that of a very powerful motif, which is furthermore enhanced when he is seen whipping his stepson, Lord Bullingham. Kubrick has shown through this multi-faceted masterpiece a fresh form of cinema and a power of silence. By reverting from the typical artistic tendency of pathetic fallacy, (indeed it is hardly ever seen to be raining or cloudy within the film) Kubrick instead uses silence to display such a sense of raw emotion. It is very crucial to notice that Barry and Lady Lyndon's characters almost never speak to one another throughout the film, which adds a layer of sadness and depression to the film's narrative, whilst Barry's simple words of "I'm sorry" speak volumes of their relationship, one which is marked by pain, sorrow, betrayal and greed. Kubrick has produced a film of epic proportion, and whilst the battle montages are easily rivalled by other period pieces, it is Kubrick's power to shoot the development of Barry Lyndon's protagonist throughout his life that remains the film's quintessential element. The film is adorned with a period score and other resonating pieces of classical and baroque period music, which compliment both the so-close to perfection cinematography, and in the same vain as Kubrick uses sound in 2001, the exclusion of dialogue within the film.Barry Lyndon is a film often overlooked within the Kubrick filmography due to its serious and slow-paced undertones. It is these undertones, however that help to build up the film into a work of art that inspires possibly only the most devoted of film enthusiasts. This film should be viewed as many have suggested as such, an artistic portrayal of a period long romanticised, yet scarcely interpreted with such loyalty and devotion to the screen. Whilst Barry Lyndon remains among the greatest works of modern cinema, it is one, whose viewing must only be conquered by the most passionate of film-goers, if it is ever to be truly appreciated. It accomplishes that which few films are capable of, in bringing pure life onto the screen. Perhaps only rivalled by the select few other masterpieces of cinema, Kubrick's Barry Lyndon is a life epic, which leaves the viewer shaken and inspired. It is a film with the power to leave the viewer standing upon a whole new perspective of life, one which told through the neutral story of Redmond Barry provokes pure sorrow and depression within the heart of the viewer.In short it could be said that Barry Lyndon is one film which embodies the real values of cinema, the ability to portray precisely the notion of life on the screen and that which so strongly affects and resonates within the mind of the viewer. It is a film that will leave even the strongest of viewers humbled and depressively shaken. It is film of outstanding expertise and experience, both in artistic nature and in narrative. Barry Lyndon is a modern masterpiece and should be viewed as such, a cinematic vision of life. If one were to simply define it as "cinematic perfection", in doing so one would be doing it an injustice.Harrison Cohen - harrisoncohen@msn.com


                
I am sorry that the 197 earlier comments here are just too many to read to see if anyone else has ever made this point before, but I suspect I might have an original perspective on Kubrick and on Barry Lyndon.Kubrick directed only ten films from "Paths of Glory" in 1957 to "Eyes Wide Shut" in 1999. He had certain pet themes that he fit into his movies whenever he could. For example, telephones: the crucial call from the general to the artillery battery in "Paths or Glory"; several key phone calls in "Strangelove"; the charming video phone call from orbit to the cute little girl and the birthday call from earth to the Jupiter ship in "2001"; and the telephone on the back of the tank in "Full Metal Jacket".But the dominant theme in all Kubrick's major films is one form or another of domination, manipulation, control, exploitation. Some of the examples are obvious: ultra-violence and brainwashing in "Clockwork Orange", slavery in "Spartacus". Others are more implicit: supernaturally induced madness in "Shining"; boot camp and nightmarish combat in "Full Metal Jacket"; obsession and seduction in "Lolita" or "Eyes Wide Shut". And on the grandest galactic scale, the manipulation of human evolution in "2001".So what about "Barry Lyndon"? There are all kinds of manipulations and exploitations to be found in the plot, but "Barry" goes a huge step beyond these.-------- S P O I L E R S --------To explain... Thackeray and/or Kubrick have an artistic problem. They are telling the tale of a generally worthless human, so rotten that his own son challenges him to a duel, and Barry's only moral act in the entire three-hour movie is to refuse to shoot his son. The problem is multiplied for Kubrick by casting bland, white-bread Ryan O'Neal. Why should we care about Barry Lyndon at all?Yet somehow Thackeray/Kubrick make us care, if not for Barry, then at least for what happens to him. That is what great story-telling does. By the time of the father-son pistol duel, with its gut-wrenching tension, we really are concerned that one will kill the other and it might be the end of Barry Lyndon.So when Barry falls, we don't know if the wound is mortal or not. After Barry is lifted into a carriage and is driven off, the narrator says words to the effect of "Nobody knows what became of Barry Lyndon. Some say he went to London and died in poverty, and some say he went to Paris and died a rich man. But none of it matters because they are all dead now". But WAIT! I WANT TO KNOW WHAT HAPPENED TO HIM!!Then I realized how silly that was of me. Barry and all the others in the story are fictional characters; none of them had ever been alive to begin with. The ultimate manipulation here is the storyteller's manipulation of his audience. I don't know if the role of puppet-master belongs to Thackeray or Kubrick or both in what proportion, but someone pulled a fast one on me and I loved it.


                
Sometimes we forget that technology can change how we see things. This movie was released in 1975 but has such memorable, vivid scenery that's it's hard to imagine a movie that hasn't been tainted by the unforgiving test of time. If movies are moving images then this is one, images moving the eyes and soul.Every scene takes its time for the viewer to savor every bit of detail. Some of them are especially tasty, building tension as it goes by. I'm of course mentioning the two duel scenes. The second one is a test for the heart. The story about a humble guy that rises and falls is amazingly told. His love affairs, trickery, the desperate attempt to rise in 18th- century England. From the sharp voice lines to the monumental soundtrack. And of course, the last line in the movie which puts a lot of things in perspective. Truly a landmark.


                
The reviews of the movie that describe it as "slow" are absolutely correct, but in a good way. If the movie were sped up at all, the passage of time would seem rushed. The plot is intriguing, at times making you dislike Lyndon but at other times making you pity him. However, the costumes, scenery and lighting make the movie fascinating to watch. I originally thought this was going to be overly-dry, but was pleasantly surprised to see classic- Kubric humor stuck into the plot at just the right times. Beyond the costumes and settings, the plot paints a fascinating outline of life in the 1800s. I just wish they would have focused more on the social structure, and I wonder how realistic some of the plot would have been at the time (e.g. being able to move around the continent so easily). Overall, a great movie!


                
The first time I saw it, I wasn't all that impressed, but I gave it another chance and that was all it took. This is a great film. It has a subtle splendor that I've never seen anywhere else. I'm ashamed I'd never heard of it before seeing a documentary on Stanley Kubrick this past summer.I was thoroughly impressed with Ryan O'Neal's portrayal of this 18th century man trying to move up the social ladder of Europe, which must have been nearly impossible for a common Irishman to do back then. He is smug, subtle, calculating, and charming when his character demands it from him. Make no mistake, though. He is no hero. His character is flawed, and he pays the price for it in more ways than one by the end of the film.
There are plenty of things to rave about with this film. As many have stated, it's like watching beautiful paintings come to life in each scene. The background performers all seem to freeze when the camera isn't focused on them. This adds to the effect. I've never seen another film do this. It works very well. The story is paced VERY deliberately. If you care about the characters, this won't bother you a bit. For those out there who cannot stomach long films (and there are a lot of you) this film will be intolerable. Few people I know would enjoy this film, so I would never even mention it to them. There is one thing in particular that bothers me about this film. The way the story unfolds never allows us to get to know many of the characters very well. Since Barry is always moving around from one place to another, we hardly get to know many of the people he meets. Most of them seem interesting, but they're always gone from the story in a flash. One character in particular, The Chevalier, looks like he will be a very influential person in Barry's life, but as soon as Barry weds Lady Lyndon, we never see the Chevalier again! What the hell? Is that what caused Barry's downfall? Losing his mentor? Hmmm.  In sum, this really is a great film. It's actually more than just a film. It's an experience. My advice to everyone who hasn't seen it is simple: Give it a chance. Some day when you have three hours to kill, just turn out all the lights, plop the film in the ol' dvd player and sit back and enjoy it. Most people will appreciate it, but others will no doubt fall asleep. The film is an acquired taste, but a rich one at that!It is certainly worth 9 of 10 stars to the Hound! One last thing: Stanley! Come back to us, man! Please!!!!! The world can't take another Michael Bay film!


                
I can't get over how incredible this film's cinematography is. It's such an easy thing to point out when watching it but what John Alcott, (the cinematographer) has done for this movie is something that really elevates the whole thing to a different level, one that is unparalleled by many films today. The use of Steadicam in Kubrick's The Shining is something I'll always remember so fondly of but that technology wasn't even invented by the 70's. Instead, Barry Lyndon showcases numerous sequences depicting the lush countryside-esque landscape that the story is set in and makes use of natural lighting in both indoor and outdoor scenes. It's important to note the indoor parts as the visuals for the interior scenes also look amazing and detailed. Many of the scenes that take place in a house or some building are lit by candles, which would easily be a detriment to the visuals but works well in this case. Pausing the film during these moments of great cinematography would be the same thing as looking at a painting because they really resembled the looks of an actual piece. The framing, with its double shots and closeups, are also nothing short of perfection, as they keep the focus on the subjects whenever necessary while being mindful of the background.The story of Barry Lyndon is essentially a man's journey from rags to riches. Having this premise also be a period piece can be challenging because it imposes a lot of standards on the audience to believe in to be able to fully enjoy the film. I really liked it though, and this has to do with the presentation. I've said enough about the cinematography but the music and acting are also deserving of the praise they receive. I myself don't have a favorite actor or performance from this film because I felt like all of them kind of blended together and helped with the overall world-building, which is good.Like 2001: A Space Odyssey, this film also has an intermission, which I appreciated. Barry Lyndon is three hours long, and while I very much enjoyed the film in its entirety, I did feel the runtime by the time it was over. This also has to do with how the second part of the movie slows down, as it's in charge of steering the story towards the end. The intermission got me thinking a bit about modern films, especially because ones that are 2.5+ hours long are going to be made for as long as film exists. I definitely wouldn't mind having intermissions for newer movies and I'm curious as to why we don't really see them anymore. It's one thing to absorb everything that's happening on screen in one long sitting but making a film built around segmented parts with an intermission might make for a more easier movie-going experience these days. Having a short pause midway though might help the audience take a minute to reflect on everything that's happened and that's definitely something I did while watching Barry Lyndon which prepared me for the rest of the film.One of Kubrick's best, but The Shining is still my favorite. Thank god for John Alcott.


                
Essentially a story of a villain, the film manages to make the viewers care about every character and hate them at the same time. The character arc of Redmond Barry is shown in a singular way that which only Kubrick could've done. The character arc of Redmond Barry is shown in a singular way that which only Kubrick could've done. With nonpareil production design and its innovative cinematography, Barry Lyndon's overlong runtime is justified to an extent.


                
'Barry Lyndon' has a connection with '2001: A Space Odyssey'. Just like each character in 2001(who represent their species), Barry is shown to be someone who is willing to do anything to survive and prosper. His instincts generally revolve around his selfish desires of survival. In 2001 the desperate measures to survive at all cost end up being insignificant and inconsequential because of the implied presence of a higher power represented by the monoliths. This presence of a higher power is possibly meant to imply the concept of determinism and subversion of the idea of free will. In 'Barry Lyndon', Barry's father was killed in a duel right at the beginning of the film and Kubrick adds no feeling to that scene whatsoever. Clearly losing his father at a very young age had to have determined the life that Barry was going to lead. Having seen his life get shaped for him at a very young age without him having any influence, everything Barry does subsequently in his life in nothing but to achieve success, wealth and prosperity by asserting his own will instead of having to march to the beat of fate's tune. It is remarkable how similar Barry's sensibilities are to Charles Foster Kane's in 'Citizen Kane'. Kane was another man whose future was decided by someone else at a very young age and everything that Kane did subsequently in his life was to ensure that his life never revolved around anyone else's whims.The constant zoom-outs in the film are deliberate and thematically relevant. In Act 1, we see Barry embark on adventures, visits various places, fights in duels and wars,etc. and does everything else to ensure he looks out for himself and also to ensure he achieves material gains and an elevation in social status which he gets by marrying into wealth and class. He achieves temporary success through the sheer power of his will. This is why I think the zoom-outs in Act 1 are supposed to be premonitory. All of Barry's assertive actions are undermined by Kubrick's camera. Kubrick constantly zooms out to expand the visual field which makes Barry and the other characters look very small in the respective frames. But making Barry look miniscule in the shots, Kubrick is visually driving home the philosophical notion that no matter how hard Barry tries to willfully determine his future, in the end his actions won't matter in the bigger picture. What fate holds for him in the future will materialise whether he likes it or not. This is how Kubrick brings in determinism in the story. In Act 2, the zoom- outs are meant to show the characters completely frozen in time like the classic-era pictures on the walls.There is a scene where Barry views a picture on the wall and decides to buy it. There is a scene that comes up later which is significant because the framing is very similar to the aforementioned scene but the important thing is, this time Barry takes the place of the picture and King George III is checking him out. Barry as a person holds as little a significance as the characters in the painting.Although in Act 1 a number of the shots look like paintings too, but it is in Act 2 that the painting motif gets its thematic poignancy. This is because the majority of Act 2 takes place inside the palace walls and the actual pictures on the wall are constantly in view. The actual pictures on the wall themselves allow Kubrick to draw the comparison between them and his picture-like frame compositions. The purpose of the characters in the pictures on the wall is defined not by them, but by the person who drew them. Similarly the purpose of Barry's life and where it goes and how it crystallizes won't be determined by Barry, but by something/someone else, maybe God, maybe some other higher power, or mere chance(from a nihilistic standpoint) or maybe the society itself that Barry is a part of. Even though, he became Barry Lyndon, a lot of people in his surroundings never saw him as anything other than Barry Redmond. In the end all his achievements went in vain. The masterful thing is that the last time we see Barry in the film, he has his back to the camera. But the significant thing is, instead of zoom-outs, we get a zoom- in. Hence at this moment, instead of expanding the visual field, Kubrick contracts it to convey that Barry's ambition has been put in its place by fate.The cinematography of the film as has been mentioned time and again is jaw-dropping and coupled with the meticulous production design, 'Barry Lyndon' ends up being one of the most authentic, convincing and fully developed recreations of a period setting in the history of motion pictures.Although Kubrick again sets an emotionally distant tone, just like his other films, however the Act 2 of 'Barry Lyndon' contains some of the most emotionally charged scenes, moments and shots of Kubrick's entire career. Losing his father at a very early age, one aspect of Barry's life involved moving from one father figure to another. But when he himself becomes a father, he tries his level best to have the most loving relationship with his son and Kubrick actually upholds the purity of this father-son relationship by treating it with humanism without judgement.I have heard that 'Barry Lyndon' is Martin Scorsese's favourite Kubrick film. I find that interesting because on examination one can find that 'Barry Lyndon' and 'Goodfellas' feature an exceptionally similar arc of 'rags to riches to rags' revolving around two immensely ambitious men with the drive to break the class restrictions and rise to the top with the sheer power of their will and persistence. However, fate in the end reigns supreme and makes all their achievements and adventures seem pointless. Determinism plays a joke on them.


                
Barry Lyndon is a prime example of Kubrick stepping back from standard Kubrick and making something that baffles audiences. Much like Eyes Wide Shut , which opened in the nineties and was met with disappointment, this film, which was released in the 70s, often deviates from the director's standard directorial signatures.There is a loud and frequently remarkable score to go along with many of the scenes (and it really is a great score) and the running time, at just over three hours, is enough for someone to realize who is calling the shots in the editing room, but it feels more like a Spielbergian period piece than a Stanley Kubrick movie.It feels like an adventure, with our lead character constantly going through changes and frequently finding himself in new situations that call for different settings and when those settings change, we know we're in for another half-hour or so of fun (and sometimes intense) action.I loved it.


                
Best thought of as a film about uncertainty in life, this engrossing Stanley Kubrick drama chronicles the ups and down of an eighteenth century man whose fortunes constantly changes. Growing up, 'Barry Lyndon' was never one of my favourite Kubrick films; after all, the uncharismatic title character never changes very much and lacks personality. The narration also tends to reveal key events too early on for them to retain an emotional punch. A recent rewatch of 'Barry Lyndon' with 'A Clockwork Orange' fresh in mind was a revelation though. While one is set in the past and the other is set in the future, the two movies actually have a lot in common as they deal with young men trying to find their place in cruel and unfair worlds. Barry's breaking down into tears when unsure whether to spy on the Chevalier is reminiscent of Alex being kicked out of his parents' home with the same uncertainty of where to go and what to do, having been displaced from a once-familiar life. Emotionless as he sometimes seems, Barry makes for a highly sympathetic character too. Early in the piece is labeled as "but a boy and does not signify more than (a) parrot or lap dog!", while later he is referred to as a "common opportunist" and the film is mostly about Barry trying to change what others think about him for the better. Whatever the case, the film is very well tied together by the employment of non-original music, adapted from the likes of Schubert, Bach and Mozart. Almost every scene is set to music of some sort, and the final duel near the end is given nail-biting tension by the sombre music throbbing in the background.


                
`Barry Lyndon' is a delight for the eyes and the ears: the XVIII century landscapes are exquisite in their colors and light; the indoor sets, with perfect decoration and costume design, are marvelous to the minutest nuances; and the music, from Bach to Schubert, is sublime. But what is most impressive in Kubrick's movie is his capacity to convey melancholy and inexorability to portray the tragic story of Thackeray's anti-hero Barry Lyndon, a gifted but poor Irishman who will impersonate different roles, crossing several countries and facing continuous disenchantment, only to meet his gloomy fate in the end. The deliberate subdued acting, the narrator's subtle irony and detachment, Ryan O'Neal's sad eyes and impassive face and, most of all, the slow<U+0096>pacing of both editing and acting, all converge to provide a sense of grief and doom that mark this masterpiece. Kubrick's genius can be better observed by the way he conceives of and stages the three duels that are the turning points of the story. `Barry Lyndon' is the ultimate example of how a movie with a conventional, linear narrative can be brilliant in its own way (9/10).


                
Stanley Kubrick's Barry Lyndon is not exactly one of his typical films which of course are great as well.This film is probably my favorite Kubrick film but i can't tell for sure.The sure thing is that it is the definition of the so called masterpiece.It has great plot,direction,acting and soundtrack and personally i think that this movie is one of the most dramatic and sensational films i have ever watched and believe me i have seen many dramas.Actually i think nothing else can be said about this true epic and my suggestion is to discover yourself the greatness of this movie and in no way avoid it because of its length.


                
Stanley Kubrick's "Barry Lyndon" is one of the great dramas of the twentieth century; it is clearly the master's most under-appreciated work.The seemingly irregular tale of Barry Lyndon is quite simple. The film tells the story of the life of Redmond Barry, a poor Irish rogue that, through a mixture of deceit and chance, manipulates his way into the highest reaches of the British Aristocracy in the late 18th Century. The time-frame is between The Seven Years War and the French and American Revolutions. The three-hour long picture is broken down into two parts, making the movie appropriate for multiple-night viewing.The screenplay by Kubrick, based on the novel "The Luck of Barry Lyndon" by William Makepeace Thackeray, uses an unreliable narrator to tell the story objectively. This is an intentional, creative choice by Kubrick; the novel itself was told in the first person. Kubrick does this so that the narrator (Michael Hordern) can exist outside of space and time. The narrator knows the entire story before telling it, and gives the audience hints on what is to come. Much of the satire in the picture comes from the narrator's musings. Furthermore, one could argue that the narrator is the most human and relatable character is all of "Barry Lyndon".There is no denying that Barry Lyndon is one of the most beautifully photographed motion pictures ever created. Each scene is basically a painting in its own right. Kubrick wants us to take in the scenic beauty of each shot. When viewing Barry Lyndon one feels as if they are traveling through the Romanticism section of an art museum.More impressive than the outdoor shots were the indoor shots. Kubrick had to create a specific camera that would allow filming to be done without any artificial light- creating the ability to shoot entire sequences in candlelight. Any photographer will tell you that lighting is everything in staging a shot- and the fact that Kubrick was able to shoot entire sequences in nothing but candlelit is nothing short of a major technological milestone. Specific lenses were purchased from NASA to shoot the candlelit scenes- the same types of lenses that were used in the filming of the Apollo 11 space landing. He is truly representing what living in the time period would look like.In the end, I think Kubrick is trying to show us the futility of greed- it is this that Barry Lyndon creates a universal message. The vanity of the 18th century is still alive in well, and the story could be that of a stockbroker, imperialist, actor, womanizer, prostitute, terrorist, or President. In the end, everyone is equal. This is a human tale. One can learn a great deal by listening to the tale of Redmond Barry, who once was Barry Lyndon.
I regard Barry Lyndon as a highly distinct film. As I have seen many 20 years olds like me commenting on the film, I was motivated to respond.The first complain that comes to mind is the narration. This is a told story, not one when the viewer is left to discover the outcomes from its characters' adventures. And - mind you - it is a narrated movie par excellence. So some viewers are bothered when events are described before they actually happen, including the ending. I think this is the beauty of it. We here assume the role of the admirers. We contemplate the scenes, discover the smell of the era. Kubrick knows this is not a movie that needs to move fast, because it has a remote subject. The viewers are left the necessary moments to relate and comprehend the events that happened in times when man lived quite a different life. A life candlelit by night, instable and war-struck, insecure. The family theme is at a sad period. Duels are occur on an almost daily basis, and their leading to death is treated awkwardly... fair.Most of these are surely elements that we have to believe, in some sense be hypnotized in order to believe them. Ultimately this lead us to see that the values implied are timeless. One is left pondering at the end on this matter: what elements (life stages, truth and lies, courage, etc) are still present today, and in what form, with what consequences, etc.? This exercise is mandatory for a great movie - even if Barry Lyndon is indeed a story, it is not the straightforward story.All in all I believe we are presented a solid fragment of life from the 18th century. It is just for its complexity, its ups and downs, the long and winding road that its main character follows that mark this effort a candidate for a masterpiece.Try seeing it as gentle and appealing introduction to history, painting and music!


                
