Imagine that you love riding motorcycles and are also fabulously rich. You decide to ride around the world by a sort-of northern route. How to approach the problem? Why, buy huge quantities of costly goodies, pile it onto two suffering behemoth bikes, and hire two SUVs full of camera gear to follow you all the way and take pictures. In other words, do it just the way a couple of wealthy but saucy young British men would have done it a couple hundred years ago, using the fruits of technology wrought since then. The result, after the proper investment in editing, is pure entertainment, and works beautifully when taken as such. Ewan and Charlie float across Eurasia in a haze of movie star glamour. Everywhere they stop, people gather to take pictures, seek autographs, host the best party. The ideal, the execution, and the telling of the story are all frankly surreal. The landscape fills it out with the infinite space of Genghis Khan's homeland. The abiding image... a motorcycle, mired to the seat in mud.


                
You've got your bike, you've got your map and you've got your Wonder Lust, but there are several roads you can go down, with this Package.The first road being the Charity road. I think its Great and Commendable that the Team are helping Unicef and the Children this or anyway they can.The second road could be the irony of getting it all for free road. "What! Messrs Mcgregor and Boorman travelling around the World and they need Our charity and support, we'll have to give them a sticker to put on their panniers".Then possibly there is the third, of selling the package down the road, yeah; they love bikes and the road, now it looks like Mr Boorman is making a career out of it. A writer for a commercial monthly bike mag, now he's doing the Dakar, yes they will be selling the video, book and t shirt soon after no doubt.Maybe there is a fourth road? I've got it, #...Follow, follow the Yellow Brick Road...#? Only kidding.It all seems too easy, I sometimes wonder what was the point, apart from helping Unicef etc, just look at all the help they got, what happens behind the camera is anyone's guess.No, its a great concept and package, I'm not trying to sound like a sceptic, because I've done the sleeping under the stars around Europe on my own travels, there is a slight feeling of empathy with you when things did go amiss, I've been there too, but I would have to question its true purpose.To be honest I would recommend the DVD of a group of ordinary men who were helped only by their own wit and imaginations riding their own DR350s around the World, called MONDO ENDURO and also by the same riders TERRA CIRCA. They even had to give up their day jobs for this once in a lifetime experience.I have read the Long way Round book, but this is a case of seeing the movie then you've read the book.What books do I recommend? The first being Ted Simons Jupiter's Travel's, around the World in FOUR years on a first generation Triumph Tiger during the early '70s. The second book is by Jonny Bealby who wrote the moving story of his travels through Africa on his Yamaha Ténéré, trying to find himself after the sudden death of his Partner during the late '80s. The book is called Running With the Moon.The Team have done wonders for the image of Motorbiking, I at least hope that through all your hard work, because it certainly was, have set a seed of Wonder Lust in someone, then I say thank you.Ride Free and don't forget that Lifesaver. Thanks One and All.
I have a love-hate dilemma with this docu made for TV special for several reasons. As a enormous fan of Ewan McGregor, the principle of a trip to experience the world seems a great notion, however, there is more to this story than simply two blokes out for a lark on bikes. This much touted adventure for the extreme sports fans as well featured the star and his best friend, actor Charlie Boorman, on BMW motorcycles on an around the world vacation. Because of Ewan's star power, the pair are able to offset the cost of this adventure by hiring a television producer and charming companies to donate their equipment and services including two enormous BMW touring cycles, 4x4 SUVs, security equipment, camping equipment, designer duds for biking, tools, toolboxes, and the list goes on and on. They also had a contract with Bravo TV and a book deal in the bag. This is hardly a living off the land excursion, but an expedition that might turn into the ill-fated McGregor- Boorman Party. Most offensive perhaps, is the statement that the adventure was to raise awareness and monies for UNICEF charities for children, not to profit McGregor and Boorman. Whether this is true is never revealed and if funds were raised for the organization, it's not disclosed, however, the television commercials and internet exposure was worldwide, much to McGregor's surprise. He doesn't seem to understand how expansive the web is worldwide.Throughout the two discs set, McGregor and Boorman provide reality TV one-on-one interviews with their personal diaries of the day's activities. It is an informal discussion, usually provided after the pair have settled in for the evening and are about to retire. The humorous quips and obvious friendship and respect between McGregor and Boorman keeps the situation light, but as the conditions of the road deteriorate, so do the spirits of the star. While Boorman struggles to remain healthy and keep the pair on the road, McGregor is at the mercy of his own off-road inexperience, away from wife, kiddies, and his security blanket, it is his own inability to be of tougher stuff that is exposed. He whines, they both whine, and when it becomes almost intolerable, they meet situations and people who live so far below the standards of their pampered lifestyles it is obscene to complain without seeming hypocritical. I wanted to yell, "grow up" at the screen.Although invited to share the homes of kind folks along the road, nomads, and simple working class individuals, the experience of seeing the world as they've never known it is still trying for Ewan. It is only when the pair is exposed to the remains of the soviet block countries is there the beginnings of a reality check for the pair. Children dying of exposure to Chernobyl, children who live under the streets to survive, and nomads who are so foreign to McGregor that he at times seems childish and unprepared for their hard lives. His depression is real, yet, didn't anyone tell him what to expect?Only when the pair reach the United States, Alaska, through Canada, and into the northern states to NYC do the pair seem to relax among English speaking, cell-phone toting, westerners like themselves. But, it is during the hardship of the Road of Bones that McGregor seemed to finally grow up and with that experience under his belt, his entry to New York is a decided letdown.I enjoy the personalities, but the premise still has an uncomfortable aura of privilege versus poverty that makes for uncomfortable watching through most of the series.


                
