Many people dream of round-the-world trips but few are ever able to take them. Be it time or financial constraints, the barriers are often broad and appear unwieldy. So many times we have to experience the rest of the world vicariously via magazine articles or, in this case, a documentary.LONG WAY ROUND was the brainchild of actor Ewan McGregor (STAR WARS) and his longtime buddy Charley Boorman (ON EDGE), two men with a passion for motorcycling. One day they decide to give this round-the-world idea some wings by mapping out a course across the globe ...but instead of traveling by plane or rail, they decide to do it using two BMW motorbikes.Preparation for the trip starts months in advance as transportation is arranged, passports collected, boarder crossing ensured, and training of the two riders takes place (CPR, first aid, exercising, motorcycle training, Russian language classes, etc.) The trip begins in London, England and ends 115 days later in New York. The trip starts out well enough, with adequately paved roads and quaint villages. But the further east McGregor and Boorman travel, the less biker-friendly the way becomes. Smooth asphalt quickly gives way to pitted asphalt, then divot-riddled asphalt, then into dirt roads. Once into Mongolia, anything resembling a sustainable thoroughfare becomes completely blurred by bogs, riverbeds and stretches of absolute nothingness.Difficulty of traveling aside, the two bikers meet some of the most incredible people. Ewan McGregor being Ewan McGregor, he is initially seen as a hero, a movie-star bringing notice to these otherwise unnoteworthy locales. Police escorts pop-up out of nowhere and guide Ewan and Charley into small townships where parties await them in their honor. But, again, the further east our two journeymen head, the less this happens. In and out of Mongolia, they soon head up into Siberia where they encounter The Road of Bones, a stretch of road built by slave labor during Stalin's tyranny (many a dead slaves body rests somewhere beneath this road ...or so it is said). No one knows who Ewan McGregor is here.Pushing themselves to the limit, the two slush through wetlands, river crossings and some of the worst roadways in the world. Even a support crew that follows them has great difficulties, one time crashing their vehicle and nearly killing some of the passengers.Arriving 115 days later in New York, many viewers will breath a sigh of relief for Charley and Ewan. The intensity of the trip is well-spent on the audience, helping the viewer feel the pressure and difficulties of the route. But it also helps us see that what is often said to be impossible is, in fact, possible if you apply yourself hard enough. That and the exposure to the myriad of other cultures makes this documentary a strong film.
OK I am a hardcore sport bike rider with a little off road riding thrown in. To be honest I knew Ewan better for his narration of the movie FASTER, about MotoGP, than for his acting roles. I bought the book and DVD not really knowing much about the story or journey. Both my wife, who is not interested in motorcycles, and I loved the DVD. We both loved seeing the different lands and cultures they rode through. Also it was great to see how they were so constantly welcomed and helped by those they met on the trip. What made the production entertaining was the great editing, and Charlie and Ewan who were interesting and funny. If you like travel and adventure then see "Long Way Round". Then start thinking about getting a bike:)


                
I did not see this broadcast on television as it was on a Sky channel, and again on the BBC, I watched it on DVD, and it is one of the most engaging documentary series ever made. The programme documents the 19,000-mile (31,000 km) journey of actors Ewan McGregor and Charley Boorman as they ride their BMW motorcycles from London to New York, travelling eastwards through Europe and Asia, flying to Alaska and riding the rest of the way. With the support of their crew in four-by-fours, director/producers David Alexanian and Russ Malkin, and cameramen James Simak and Claudio Von Planta, the boys travelled through the UK, France, Belgium, Germany, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Ukraine, Russia, Kazakhstan, Mongolia, the USA and Canada, ending in New York. Through the ten part series you saw their struggles, success and exploration of each place they were in, for them, it was not just an experience travelling the world and riding bikes, it was for their families. With a fantastic title song by Kelly Jones, lead singer of the Stereophonics. It was number 76 on The 100 Greatest TV Treats 2004. Very good!
When I reserved this series on Netflix, I had no idea who Ewan McGregor was and, still, barely know anything about Borman. Since, I've watched a couple of McGregor films and have forgiven him for the Star Bores outings.Some viewers, pretending to be "real motorcyclists," have panned this program because of the "support" McGregor and Borman managed to provide for themselves from manufacturers and a small production team. One goofy character called this team "massive," which must run him out of adjectives when he has to describe a concert crowd or a rush hour bus. The actual team was small, compared to the task they set out for themselves. A couple of technical folks, a producer who managed some of the boarder and transportation logistics, and a constantly whining Russian doctor/nurse in a pair of cages that rarely managed to be at the right place at the right time. The three bikers, including a bike-mounted cameraman, managed to get themselves from one end of the world to the other with minimal assistance from their "massive team." If you've ever attempted anything long-distance on a motorcycle, you know what kind of accomplishment this was. If you've ridden a street bike, which the BMW GS bikes are, offroad, you have to be impressed with this achievement. If you're an idiot, you burn up your trustfund and pay for your trips yourself. If you have a clue, you turn your vacations into a production and get vendors to kick in a little assistance. Anyone whining that these guys weren't self-funded fools is just jealous because he didn't have the talent required to get help for his last vacation.Part of the charm of the program is the unpreparedness of the two primary characters. They weren't serious, or skilled, off road riders, neither were competent mechanics, but both are motorcyclists in the best sense of the word. I'm sure that the scale of the intended production added some motivation to finish the trip, but it still took incredible perseverance to travel from London to New York, the Long Way Round.Not only did I enjoy this program, I bought it and have watched it several times. It has also inspired me to make my own mini-backroad tour to Alaska this spring.


                
