I do not know what made me want to watch this, but I am glad I did. As the title suggests, the main character can beat all of his enemies with one punch. This might give the impression that this is boring, but it is not.The first episode does give an poor impression of the show being nothing more then a series of fights, but once episode 2 kicks in, it gets so much better, the cyborg is a great sidekick with a nice contrast to the main character (I do remember there names). The other characters are also very creative. The show also has clever humor that will make you a least chuckle. The big problem I have with this show is that monster just seem to appear out of no where with no rhyme or reason (except for the one at the end), other then that amazing series and can not wait for season 2.
The concept, an invincible hero that can defeat anyone with one punch, turned me off to the series initially. It's the same reason I'm not a fan of Superman, he's too powerful and it's boring.However, what's fun and keeps me interested in One Punch Man (OPM) are: 1. humor: the comedy and one liners in this series are hilarious (e.g. Genos as modern art). Since this show was initially a satire, observing the series as such makes it much more enjoyable. It uses tropes and expands on them or pokes fun at them: what if a person was all powerful, then he'd be extremely bored. Also, Saitama is essentially a Goku character and the show doesn't hide this" hero to come and save everyone" trope, but lays it out.2. the hope of a villain that can take more than one punch: Boros and Garou are the only two known characters to be in this category and I'm curious to see what the fight between Garou and Saitama would look like, even though we all know whose going to win.3. side characters: these characters are not invincible and have their own backstories and enemies that adds to the drama and action of the show. When these characters fight or take up screen time, I get pulled in because there's no longer that promise they'll really survive and they also have their own demons.Still, the show gets the 8 only because it's just a fun show and doesn't really delve deeper into the message it tries to give or get even more meta on it's genre. If it explored moral themes and made even more fun of its genre, it would help.
Fights, fights, and more fights... and all end with our hero destroying the enemy with just one punch."One Punch Man", the anime adaptation of the manga of the same name, delivers a constant barrage of laughs and action in a faithful adaptation.Saitama is a hero. But not your average hero, like Son Goku, that needs 30 episodes to destroy the big bad after having gone through another 30 episodes of fights with the henchmen. No. Saitama wins his fights with just one punch. We don't really know how he got so strong (the explanation of his training regime to Genos is hilarious), but he is. So strong that the constant apparition of new and more dangerous enemies are never a threat. Even if you keep waiting for a real 'enemy' to appear.With this introduction it is pretty easy to see that "One Punch Man" plays the "Dragon Ball" or "Naruto" card but with a twist, poking fun to all the constant fights in those anime. And it does a great job of it, with a constant tongue-in-cheek approach to your hero anime: from the 'heroes association' to the hero's rankings to Saitama's fights, "One Punch Man" is in constant 'funny' mode. Some jokes will be better understood by fans of action anime, but all the deadpan jokes can be enjoyed by everyone. It also helps that the fights, when they come, are perfectly paced and with amazing effects. The humor delivers, but the action too and the threats are always 'believable'.But in what "One Punch Man" excels is in characterization. Saitama is your hero after all the threats have disappeared. He is a hero that does his job because it is his job, but doesn't really find a challenge in it anymore. Genos is the perfect secondary, the one that would be the hero in your regular show. And all the others, like Mumen Rider or Terrible Tornado, just add to the series. The voice work is amazing (in its Japanese version, which is the one I saw) and bring the characters to life. The only problem I found is that I enjoyed more the manga than the anime (it also had the surprise factor that this adaptation doesn't (can't) have).Do you like anime? And action anime? Or action? If you do, this is for you. And if you don't, this is for you too. "One Punch Man" is amazing.You won't regret it.


                
The overall show is good to watch. The fights are in some cases is good where a hero and a villain posses equal powers. But the one punch man character is too powerful that no one can compete him which makes a fight less interesting. You will not that he is going to kill a monster with a single punch. Personally, I like the fight where both the opponents have equal power better even a villain contains more than it will be a challenge to a hero for unlock his more power but in this anime case. How big or powerful a villain is he can't bear Saitama's one punch.


                
It is really entertaining and funny but it really doesn't have any story. I feel like every episode could be standalone. Animation is great and charachters are funny. And ending theme song is amazing.


                
What a cool anime ^^ Definitely makes fun of the classic anime tropes, such as characters having monologues about their life and reasons they wish to continue becoming stronger~~ LOL One Punch Man just throws those tropes a punch in the face. Saitama, aka One Punch Man, is a great hero, with a different conflict than most heroes as he is bored with no challenge since he became immeasureably strong.A great anime to break up from the monotony of animes and just make you smile at how ridiculous Saitama is :D Hilarious!


                
Okay, I don't really have the time to make a big review of the series, but this is addressing the people who become so attached to something that they hype and preach it to the point where it seems almost perfect. A good example of this was the new Star Wars movie that recently hit theatres in September. Before fans even seen the movie, they hyped it up way too much so when people left the cinema the day of it's released, many were disappointed that it wasn't as perfect as everyone was saying it was. The same goes for One Punch Man. I've seen reviews dating from back when episode one was just released were people were giving the overall series a perfect ten without watching it in it's entirety. Even afterwards, many were still giving the series 10/10 stars, despite it's problems (which it has) I know it all falls down to opinion, but the more and more reviews I looked at, the more I realised the number of perfect scores weren't decreasing. There's nothing wrong with liking a TV show (a lot) but giving it a perfect score just because you like it is absurd. When the show dies down after season 2, which will probably be the last, I hope most will come to realise that this show is not the greatest in existence. This show is the highest rated on IMDb because of fanboys/girls who are still way to into it.Don't let the ratings lie to you, it's a great series, but believing it's perfect going into it is just going to disappoint you when you realise that it isn't. All in all, I'd give OPM an 8.5Btw, loved the new Star Wars movie (like I said though, the hype ruined it a bit)


                
