A new perspective in the Japanese Anime. No mainstream characters, not a cliché story or plot, it has a great potential in becoming even better, personally I didn't read the manga(the comic) and in my opinion this anime show is really watchable and I recommend it to everyone no parental advisory, call them even and watch it together.Saitama is very interesting character you'll never know what he is going to do next or when is he going to punch the opposer.Don't hesitate and start watch this great show you won't be disappointed, and you'll thank anyone and everyone who made you watch it.


                
I am truly tempted to give One punch man a 10 but in my opinion there is no perfection. There is near perfection and one punch man is that. The first episode that i saw, i laughed so hard that i almost fell off my chair. As it progresses to the next episodes they try to combine the comedic and the seriousness of the story together, and they manage to do that. I feel like that the writers are truly doing this with a feeling of passion and next to it they enjoy the absurd fighting sequences. Opinion on the last two episodes of season 1:My thoughts: The amount of awesomeness put in this two episodes is beyond imagination. It's just incredible how they build up the climax to the end and to show the endless powers Saitama has. Although it's a parody it doesn't stop me as a viewer to enjoy the anime and accept it as part of something great. When i say something great, i mean putting it next dragon ball, and other incredible animes. It's obvious to the rational thinker that a lot of elements like the characters design (boros etc) are similar to Dragon ball, and that it's influenced by them. BUT what makes it so different one might ask himself: Just by observing the amount of details put in to the fighting sequences will tell you that 'one punch man' is a serious anime (in some ways). Dragon ball is nostalgic and has a great history and character development behind its series and one punch man will have to gain more years in order to obtain the status DB has. What i'm trying to say is that the detail put in to the fighting scenes in one punch man are far beyond what other anime have achieved or tried to... It's a masterpiece in way... And that's what gave this anime a 9 out of 10. He destroys all of his enemies with one punch and mocks them like they were nothing. But it still does not get boring and that's the reason why this anime is a great success. Make the details look sublime and the fighting sequences beyond comprehention, mix it with a flavor of humor/comedy and you've got in my eyes the perfect anime (action fans). Just take a good look at the episode where Saitama fights Genos and you'll get the perfect picture on why this anime is amazing (there are youtube videos with that scene). It even got me to search some more info about this anime on the internet. There are youtube videos and articles about the origin of one punch man. It's interesting to take a look. I hope this show keeps up the quality as it is and i can't wait for more! ----> after watching the last two episodes i can only imagine where it is headed. This anime has proved (after this season) that it will not fail to entertain it's anime loving fans!


                
Let me start by saying that I never skipped the opening song of OPM. The opening (albeit somewhat cheesy) fitted this over-the-top and outrageously cool anime really well. My scouter was reading hype levels of over 9000 when the "Hero" opening kicked in (or punched in?).Studio Madhouse pulled out all their stops when animating this 12 episode wonder.Protagonist Saitama is a hero for fun. An ordinary human who managed to acquire extraordinary strength. Hero Saitama's strength corresponds to the titular "One Punch Man" as he effortlessly beats monstrous opponents to pulp in a single punch. This anime is a satire of super-heroes and the premise of a hero beating stronger villains each time. However, Saitama is already (presumably) at the pinnacle of his strength. He gets disappointed each time that no opponent lives up to his power. Noramlly, formulaic battle anime (Shonen) focus on a protagonist who trains religiously to obtain new powers,skills and fighting prowess in order to keep up with a rival and beat new powerful enemies. However, OPM does not follow the norm.Surprisingly this anime stills grabs our attention despite us knowing that the protagonist is absurdly strong from the very beginning and that he will probably never lose a fight. This anime manages to captivate us with this rather plain hero (he is bald...and possesses no fancy attacks). With the arrival of super-cool, cyborg hero Genos, the simplicity of hero Saitama becomes apparent. Genos' repertoire of attacks, masculine appearance and seriousness can be juxtaposed to Saitama's plain combat skills, low-key appearance and nonchalant attitude. Interestingly, while Saitama's physical hero feats are commendable and absolutely insane, it is his virtues that makes him a hero in every sense. Saitama does not care that he is being labelled as a fake (lambasted by society); he is also prepared to relinquish his own worth to preserve the value of hero compatriots. The relationship between Saitama, Genos and the Hero Association is also very interesting.Give this 12 episode anime a watch. Watch at least 3 episodes before writing this off as: "Oh...this egg-headed guy just beat an alien with one punch...how anti-climatic? Does this show even have a premise?..."The anime (ultra-condensed) stays true to the manga and is full of vibrant colours, explosions, sonic booms etc etc...The animation is eye-candy and the anime is unique.OPM has already spawned debates like Saitama vs Son Goku/Superman...and has engaged the interest of superhero lovers. The final fight in OPM was fantastic. Saitama will be talked about for a very long time and as I am writing this, I am listening to OPM'S Hero opening.
I see some of these reviewers are giving this show a one star rating because it lacks a rich and developed story. Well, that isn't what this anime is all about. I absolutely agree that a good story-line is important, and I highly appreciate the creators that take the time to make them. This show may have a semi-simple story to it (depending on your point of view), but it is soo fun to watch! That's all there is to it, and that's all it needs! It was very refreshing to see a show that counters the seriousness and "good story" of other combat oriented shows, where the main character becomes so stupidly strong that their "good story" eventually becomes pointless and ridiculous.There aren't many shows that I count as great, but this is surely one of them. Not for the depth of the story (although the story is deeper than these reviewers seem to think), but for the sheer fun and entertainment of watching. At the end of the day, that is what counts.


                
I have anticipated the release of one punch man since August and after watching the first 9 episodes I can say that I am definitely impressed and have high hopes for this Anime. One punch man, in my mind is on of the better anime shows I have watched in my life. The story revolves around an unbeatable hero Saitama who defeats anybody with one punch. Now this would normally spell for a pointless plot an uninteresting story and an unlikable show, but somehow it works! Firstly the story isn't focused on Saitama's battle with terrifying monsters. It's more to do with his daily struggle trying to climb the rankings of the hero ladder and his personality which often clashes with the normal citizens he is trying to protect. Secondly the supporting cast (Genos, sonic and even the villains) are incredibly well thought out. Even though Saitama defeats foes with one punch, the supporting characters themselves aren't as godlike and have intense battles and power struggles with demons and monsters which are well drawn.Lastly this anime is hilarious. Not the funniest anime i've ever seen but definitely enough slapstick to keep you smiling.All in all, a wonderful anime that lived up to and exceeded my expectations!


                
To really appreciate this series you need to know couple of things.1. Author of this series originally drew this series in order to learn new manga drawing software he purchased. So you will see lot of silly and or in some cases stupid things, but as he went series got more and more popular and ended up being a one of the most popular anime/manga in the japan.2. There is two version of manga one is made by original author and other one is illustrated by professional manga artist. So there is big gap between the two. You see, more serious Saitama was a creation of second artist and humorous, silly face of Saitama was created by original author, so both of them ended up mashing their talent and artistic sense to create one of the kind anime we see today.


                
From the studio "Madhouse" responsible for their works on some outstanding anime like 'Deathnote' n 'HunterXHunter' comes another great title with a hilarious mix of action and suspense.Being a remake of the hit manga series,it truly lives up to its expectations of bringing out every little aspect that the manga has to offer.The series mainly is about 'Saitama' who as a child has always dreamed of being a hero.After undergoing some intense training,he finally achieves his ambitious dream making it into a reality.But then realizing that overwhelming power is quite obnoxious,he embarks upon a quest for finding worthy opponents and keeps facing the evil forces.As the title suggests,Saitama is quite proficient of ending any battle with just one blow and over a period of time finds it infuriating and discovers himself getting detached from his own sentiments,which is very well illustrated in the remake. Finally,not the best I've ever seen,but truly captivating and profound.Those out there who have not really tried it or never heard of it,should definitely give it a whirl for what you have in offering is much divergent experience.


                
Some Info:One-Punch Man's first season aired in Japan between October 5, 2015 and December 21, 2015 All 12 episodes are currently streaming on Hulu Published and Licensed by VIZ Media Manga (currently ongoing) One Punch Man doesn't need big breasted girls, multi-episode / season-wide battles with a single enemy, giant robots or even suspense. It's a great anime without the annoying anime clichés and for that reason... was very refreshing to watch.Saitama, unlike other anime protagonists, doesn't really give a damn. He's not trying to change the world or get some girl. He's not flashy and his hair never even changes colors... he's bald. He's indifferent and not particularly motivated. His origin story isn't particularly impressive. And his only conflict is being too damn strong... he defeats all of his foes in one punch.When I caught wind of this anime about a hero that can defeat all of his foes in a single blow, I though "well that must be boring". Saitama's crisis is more existential, he's a man that can't be challenged One Punch Man may lack traditional suspense in battle, but One Punch Man is unique because the focus isn't really ever on the battle itself. Instead One Punch Man is made interesting with villains like Vaccine Man (an evil incarceration of all the world's pollution, of course), and their satirical plans to take over the Earth and/or make it a better place (like the dude in charge at The House of Evolution). One Punch Man is unpredictable on purpose. It's funny, and has an appropriately cliché cast of supporting heroes competing for rank in The Hero Association. Oh! and... Mumen Rider.In a nutshell, One Punch Man is a mockery of other anime without being standoffish. While the plot of this anime may be satirical in nature, it is respectfully animated and has an awesome soundtrack in addition to a unique plot. I look forward to more! I also look forward to the New Anime from One-Punch Man's Creator, which will be releasing later this year.hashtagbert.com


                
This in my opinion is probably not the best anime I've seen but I've had so much fun with this show and from minute 1 I fell in love with this amazing and hilarious show. This show even though it seems like a purely comedic show, it got me to care about characters such as Mumen Rider and Genos, characters that aren't like Saitama and can actually die. SPOILER WARNING WATCH THIS AMAZING SHOW FIRST BEFORE READING THE REST. Again even though this show seems purely comedic I cried where Mumen Rider risked his Life attempting to fight a monster that could kill him, and he gives a heartwarming and truely great speech about how he knows that he'll lose but doesn't care if he dies as long as he somehow helps to save the people in the shelter. The whole time this was going on I was just waiting for Saitama to show up but near the time he got there I was terrified thinking he would kill both Mumen Rider and Genos. So in general the animation is a 9.9/10(truely spectacular, only issue is that while it's good at fight scenes I wouldn't say it has amazing scenery apart from that. Sure it looks pretty but during calmer moments it doesn't add anything visually, it just looks bland.The characters 9.8/10 (While I care about other characters like Mumen Rider and Genos, those where the only ones I could really like. The side characters are bland and just uninteresting. Saitama even though he is the protagonist because of the fact that he can literally not die, it's just not thrilling if he gets into a fight since it ends so quickly though it does somewhat add to the comedic aspect and underline themes of the show). The comedy 9.9/10 (very rarely are the jokes a miss, almost ever joke leaves me laughing a lot). In general this show made me fall in love with anime again and my final rating is a 9.9/10 if you have the time I highly recommend, it's even on Netflix at the time of me writing this review.
Funny. Entertaining. Good animation. Simple. The downside is that the duration is short. Definitely a great anime. Its opening is exciting, makes you want to hear it again and again. Their proper characters. The idea of anime is best, not have to be so complex so that one likes the series. No doubt the first season is wonderful. Many people might like it. A few people, no. I recommend it to people with "humor," who likes "anime" (obviously) and action. Though. I have to clarify that I am not a reader of "manga". So I can not give the differences(faithful) of Anime and Manga. But hopefully soon I can read manga. I forgot. Special events (Ovas). No waste.


                
Honestly when I first heard of this anime, it was shown as a "ok" meme gif on Facebook and made me fall in love with the show as well as its main characters. I like how Saitama is this laid back hero but at the same time, does his best to be badass and save the world. I even like his robot companion Genos, he's also likeable too and actually kind of sweet for a tough ass looking hero himself. As well as that, he cares about Saitama and that really stands out with the show!Love the humour, the characters and its on going storyline. I'm even looking forward to season 2 and hopefully it's good as its original first season!


                
Most super hero's are not something you can compare with yourself. But this guy just stays like a normal human, being himself.


                
I am normally not into over the top violent animes but One Punch Man was actully pretty good and fun to watch.This show is about a young man called Saitama who had been train for 3 years which caused him to go bald. So he becomes the hero known as One Punch Man, just with one punch he can solve everything. You might all be thinking is that all.....No! he eventually gets frustrated and he wants to find a foe which is a challenge for him.We are introduced to characters such as Genos, some sensei and Speed'o sound sonic. Some are heroes, some are villians. All of the characters are likeable except for that annoying, bratty Toronado girl, hated her she was probably the only reason why an episode got ruined.However, despite that annoying little b*tch majority of the anime was good.If you are a hardcore anime fan and you are looking for a good action anime I would highly recomand One Punch Man.
Considering how much potential this series had to go wrong, its amazing that it turned out as great as it is, thanks to the studio and animators being great at visual comedy, and the creation of just enough mundane problems for Saitama to keep his story from getting too one-note. 
The supporting cast is also great; the Hero association providing some great and ridiculous hero designs - with some great fleshing out of some characters by the end, giving me high hopes for the second season.
I hold particular love for the cordial Mumen Rider, who we should learn to emulate in our everyday lives by taking part in good deeds everyday, no matter how small or incredible they may be. Watched sub
Finished 29/04/2018


                
One Punch Man is a cold refresh in the new era of anime, visually enchanting, funny at every moment and hilarious in the plot. From the first seconds of the first episode it's clear that the central idea about Saitama is make a new concept in the super-heroes stories, and let me tell you that it's very well achieved. Every time it's possible the series goes around the ludicrous bureaucracy that affects every organization, and make fun of that without leaving the battle between good and evil. Saitama, and almost all the other characters, have a real life; they work for living, they make their own shopping at the grocery, they bath, eat at restaurants, etc. but never forget their main responsibility: be part of the super-heroes society and fight against evil. This is a central point in the series, because it's about super-heroes and the protection of the world. One of the best things of the series is that anyone of the characters never leaves their natural innocence, and make you feel good about their feeling, even when their are trying to destroy something or annihilate the whole human race.All this components make this series a very well developed story, and possibly a new classic.


                
I just finished watching One Punch Man. This show can only be described with these two words: Freaking Insane. I literally fell from a sold one to the final episode that I may have taken drugs I never knew existed. Even though this show was absolutely the definition of insanity, chaos and destruction I have to say this show also had me hooked and loving every single moment of insanity. I wish this show never came out because this character can literally by this point defeat any other character. All in all, if I have to read the show this craziness gets a 9/10 ha ha
No idea how this can be beat. It's brilliant with fresh animation and plenty of humor and action.


                
Anime may have developed a loyal and feverish following outside of Japan since the dawn of high-speed internet but in reality, fans will likely always have to contend with looks of bemused, quiet judgement when their grandparents ask why they're watching "those funny Asian cartoons again".Now and then however, a series will come along with crossover, mainstream appeal that seeps into western pop culture and introduces a new generation of viewers to the world of anime and manga. Dragonball Z, Sailor Moon and Pokémon all found homes on international T.V. Channels, and even casual television watchers are likely familiar with at least one of those franchises, if only because of the "it's over 9000!" meme. Likewise, it's no coincidence that Hollywood is currently in the process of churning out live-action versions of Death Note and Ghost In The Shell whilst rumours of an ambitious Akira project continue to swirl. More recently, Attack On Titan has succeeded in attracting anime newbies and connoisseurs alike with its brand of gore-centric action sequences, intriguing mysteries and fist-pumping soundtrack.


                
Note that I have only seen season 1.This show presents an amazing level of humor and animation that kept me invested for a very long time. My only complaint was that season 1 should have ended after episode 9, or episodes 10-12 should have been combined into a single episode. The final three episodes became far too serious, and they truly felt for the most part that they belonged as part of a completely different show. But with that said, the first 9 episodes comprise one of my favorite anime shows of all time.


                
In a world were every super hero and villain monologues about their tragic back story. Mad scientist try to take over the world. Monsters aim to be the terror of such and such city.You have one guy that's too lazy to care. Saitama, the guy that became a hero for fun then got bored of it when he reached his peak at -you guessed it!- defeating the monster of the day with just one punch.
One Punch is a parody of the genre. It shows you how ridiculous all these tropes are by playing them up to eleven then knocking them out with... well, one punch!
It's very well written, the characters keep it grounded though their earnestness and never give up attitude, the art is beautiful and it's HILARIOUS all without being cheesy or turning to the camera and winking because meta. Something you don't see nowadays.
If you love the super hero genre than you'll love this show. Yes it pokes fun of the tropes but from the point of view of someone that also loves them and very clever about the whole thing. WATCH IT!


                
I absolutely love this show. One of the best action anime shows out there in my opinion. Saitama has a hilarious sense of humor and I find myself laughing at the way he reacts to enemy threats, no matter how many times I've seen the episode. Even with subtitles, I'm still totally engaged in the show, and tense during fighting scenes. I hope this series lasts many years!


                
The insane amount of comedy and fight scenes masks the pungent odor of no character development. Definitely not worth something as high as 9.6/10 I mean,its rating higher than so many more anime which are better by a long shot e.g. Death Note Its not right to rate it this high as the anime has just begun. Some people want as much character development as Goku got,which would be too much. But character development would be appreciated.The animation is great and is of course an anime worth watching. But in no way can it be placed higher than Code Geass,Full Metal Alchemist,etc.The story is unique but quite strange.The problem is that this anime has gotten too many fans,and those fans are trolling about how good this anime is.


                
One Punch Man is almost a one joke show, but it works at continuing to mock, ridicule and even lovably homage a genre that's become such a cultural staple in today's entertainment-consuming society it's a bit of a surprise that this anime stood out from the crowd to get people's attention.One Punch Man, also known as Saitama, is a bored superhero who keeps defeating/killing enemies with just... one punch. Saitama is tired of the villains losing this battle, and around him he encounters a cyborg with a 'sombre-backstory' who wants to train under his guidance. It's a pretty crazy show and even though it does parody superheroes a lot, it's got no shortage of over-the-top action to entertain you alongside its self-deprecating takes on 'all-encompassing' superhero sagas.Simple, but funny. One Punch Man is an enjoyable treat of a show.


                
Season 01: English DubbedFor a show that has a lot of Elements being influenced from Dragon Ball Universe, and where the main character has a lot of fights ended by just One Punch, it never gets Boring. In fact, there is always a light tone set, combined with a lot of Gore.As the show progresses, there is more combining of the comedic and seriousness of the story together, and the Writers manage to do that. The aggressive enemies make some of the fights appear to be a long Fight, until One Punch Man destroys in a single strike, here the KOs are accompanied by a bit of comedic timing.The true Strength of the show lies in Mocking an enemy, as if they were nothing, by making the details look Sublime and the fighting sequences beyond comprehension, mix it with a flavor of humor/comedy and we get a near perfect anime. Eg: Saitama fighting Genos shows why this Anime is amazing


                
