This show has the potential to be wonderful. Hugh Laurie does an excellent job (and American accent I might add - he's British) as a sarcastic, yet super intelligent doctor. The show has a wonderful cast and the illnesses these patients come in with are very interesting. The acting is brilliant. It hasn't really been about the doctors yet, but it's starting to get a bit more personal. Up until now (the 3rd episode), it's been mostly about the patients, which is what you want in the beginning of a show. The comic relief is that Dr. House has to do work in the walk-in clinic where every hypochondriac in New Jersey comes walking in... his dealing with them is hilarious. And just as additional enjoyment, Jesse Spencer is very pleasing to the eyes. :)


                
I never paid much attention to "House MD" when it first premiered. I heard from a couple of people that it was basically the same thing every episode: Impossible disease to diagnose, House messes with his team, House suddenly solves the case.But one day when I was bored, I switched the TV to House. And it happened to be the Season 6 finale (titled "Help Me"). Going to be honest, it blew me away. I did not know what was happening to the characters at the point in the story, but the acting was fantastic. The atmosphere was superb. The complexity of Dr. Gregory House intrigued me. I saw him as a tragic hero (something you find in works of literature) and his tragic flaw was his leg. Not only the physical limitations brought on by his leg, but the mental ones as well. The pain he suffers day by day that lead him to be the man he is. You see House as an ass...but you feel for him, because you know why he's an ass. Also, Hugh Laurie does such a good job with his accent, if I had not watched "A Bit of Fry and Laurie", I probably never would have guessed Hugh was British."House" is like a beautiful novel. It has its themes from episode to episode, and it has its overall themes as a television show. It is a work of art, and I hate that so many dismiss it because of its premise in a hospital. I have watched every episode of "House" since I first saw it and those were many hours well spent. If you've never seen it...the Complete Series is on DVD now!


                
This is one of the best, most lifelike medical dramas I have ever seen.House himself is abrasive and rude and it all adds up so you just like him more. At the start you really don't like House - he seems rude and infantile, but as the show progresses you develop a love for his style.He definitely saves more people than those doctors who practice medicine by following the rules.Although he has his problems (addiction/crippled leg) you don't tend to see them - so intriguing is this character. He will stop at nothing to discover what is wrong with his patient - even if he has to break into their home.The closest medical drama to this that I have seen is ER - if you are into ER, House is a must.


                
"House M.D." hit our screens two years ago and could have be lost in the myriad of other medico shows on TV currently. However, the ingenuity of wit seen in the script and the complexity of Laurie's performance has caused this show to rise above the pack! The range of talent demonstrated by the actors makes the show both compelling and simultaneously medically credible. Highly recommended to all who are fascinated by the quirky!Hugh Laurie deserves a special mention: the flawed Greg House could have become a stereotyped charatcer, but Laurie's background in comedy provides him with the perfect delivery of his cynical lines. When he is teamed with his underlings, Chase, Foreman and Cameron and charaacters such as Cuddy and the ever-important Stacy, "House M.D." proves that it is worth the hype in the media currently.


                
Okay.. so i am kind of a late bloomer and i am man enough to admit that i should have watched this show eons ago. This show is absurdly good but not the eighth season-will come to that part. Gregory house M.D. is a super genius diagnostician and not a people person. He is self-centred jack-ass who doesn't care about the patients or any other people around making him my kind of doctor. The house character is played by Hugh laurie with utmost brilliance. All the other characters including wislon, cameron, lisa, foreman chase etc brought there A game to the table. The best part about this show is they change the entire story in every season which makes it more interesting. Like in season 5 ending blew my mind and so did the season 4. Every season of house M.D is unique in its own way till seventh season.. The eight season kind of stretched the show a little bit but it does not make greg house uncool. The show is a kick-ass, the story, the writing, the dialogues.. all the witty comments of house.. all the cast in every season is just pure brilliance. In the end i'll recommend this show to everyone who loves good TV and great writing and perfect acting delievery. And a thankyou to everyone who suggested the show to me (you are just smart people). Go watch this show...if u haven't watched it yet..


                
They say that if you combine a great character with a great actor, you're halfway to a great show. "House M.D." seems to do that with most of its cast, but especially Gregory House and Hugh Laurie. House is a snarky, sarcastic, occasionally callous but adorable jerk. He is also the most brilliant yet least well-adjusted doctor at Princeton-Plainsboro Teaching Hospital. Around him are three junior doctors, all three of whom have varied but interesting personalities. There is also his only friend, James Wilson, an oncologist and his superior with whom he has a rather antagonistic relationship. House involves strange, rare and complicated cases with no easy diagnosis, resulting in the spouting of some mind-numbing medical terminology(which I thought was a brave and successful attempt at retaining some reality)and often character-driven story lines. "House" has the best writing for any show in America, if you don't believe me just check the "quotes" section for samples of dialogue. House had an infarction in his leg, resulting in it becoming painful and near-impossible to move, which made him addicted to a painkilling drug known as Vicodin., which proves to be the source of many problems. House is, for all his imperfectness, a genius, a master of observation which is depicted in his clinic cases as he can instantly detect either and environmental cause for the disease/problem or find some the patient themselves do not know about. He is a deep character, though, and flawed, but likable, making him a cornerstone for this shows incredible success with the critics, though mainstream audiences prove less receptive and prefer to tune into pseudo-romantic, unintelligent trash like "Grey's Anatomy", a classic example of catering to the mainstream resulting in distaste from most critics. Why have not even FIVE ratings come for this show? Please rate it, even if your opinion differs to mine, rate it!!!!


                
About ten or twelve episodes into the first season i switched on two a random show called 'House'. I only got to watch the last ten minutes of the episode but from the moment I saw it I was HOOKED! Now I've got the DVD set and follow the new series religiously!!'House' is one of those rare jems of TV which come around once and a while and you never forget when they're (god forbid) gone. The sarcasm and the cynical humour is fantastic! The arguments and quips from the fantastically acted cast are on the standard of West Wing. The cases are fantastic (even though a little far fetched as my med student sister tells me but who cares! It's television!) and Hugh Laurie? Well, Laurie is absolutely freaking amazing. I loved him before this from the buffoon in black-adder and even from his small appearance in Sense and Sensibility but when i saw him in action I could not believe that he was the same guy who got multiple concussions in 101 Dalmations. Go Laurie!But this is a fantastic show and there have been rumours that it may continue for five years (jesse Spencer-chase-has signed a contract) which I seriously hope are true. I have to say one last thing: Thank you David Shore!!!!!!


                
So here's the deal: While I know that the main gripe some people tend to have with this series is the formula that never seems to change (wrong diagnosis over and over until House saves the day) I never actually got bored. Luckily for the viewer there is so much going on in each episode and most of it really made me have a great time. I laugh at some of House's clever schemes and even cry sometimes (most of the time because of some drama-plot-twist or because someone of the main cast "dies" on screen). If you want a more comedic approach to medicine check out Scrubs which is hilarious and - thanks god - doesn't rely on background-laughter. If you want to learn some more about exotic diseases and feel "clever" (which you'll do since you kinda feel like part of the team getting all the inside information) you go with House (wath Scrubs anyways!). I'm often stunned at how far this show has come until it finally ended (with a really worthy final) and I'm happy I stayed with House 'till the end (I'm on my second run 3-4 years after I've watched the first episode for the first time).If you hate doctors and medicine, this show won't change your opinion (it may even make things worse). But IF this kind of hospital drama is your thing, you will not find a better series out there.


                
It is NOT a mystery show. This show tells you about friendship, love, hypocrisy, being alone, enjoying life on your own, harsh truths of life and MISERABLE-NESS. Altough House saves lives by solving medical puzzles yet this show is about the character evolution. It shows how and why he likes being alone, why he can't love and show likeness to anyone, why he is ALWAYS in pain physically and emotionally and about the most selfless deed anyone has ever done for anybody. This show portrays almost every aspect of life in the perfect manner, not by making superficial hero who is best at everything but by portraying a most screwed person in the world who is far from being perfect. If I can summarize the best character ever in one line I would like to share this dialogue of 13(Hadley).Dr. Remy Hadley: "You have spent your whole life looking for answers because you think that the next answer will change something, maybe will make you a little less miserable but you know that when you run out of questions you don't only run out of answers. YOU RUN OUT OF HOPE.


                
Speaking as only a recent discoverer of House, M.D.--that's what you get for leaving the T.V. on after American Idol on Tuesdays--I am really impressed with the quality of the show, and I wonder how it would get on FOX, which seeks the common denominator. I am impressed with the quality of writing. The dialog is Sorkinesque: fast and witty. The medical research is complicated, timely, and, from what this layperson can determine, accurate. The script writing is excellent, taking us on a labyrinthine journey in 48 minutes or so to find the correct diagnosis. David Shore plays with us by inserting allusions to that other egotistical loner who jumped to hasty wrong conclusions, Sherlock Holmes. The characters have depth. I hope this show will last a few more seasons. Since John Wells turned E.R. into medical mayhem with helicopters and planes crashing into the emergency room and firefights with automatic weapons, there haven't been any good medical shows to watch.


                
I started watching House M.D. about a year ago, and was instantaneously impressed by Hugh Laurie (playing the lead as Dr. Gregory House).His delivery of sarcasm and the bitterness is absolutely unmatchable.However, by the 15th or the 16th episode, the show started becoming a little boring, because there was hardly any story in the show (just the brilliant acting and a whole bunch of medical stuff that went over my head). While i was somewhere in the middle of the second season, i completely stopped watching the show. After about 8-odd months, a friend of mine, who made it through the second season told me that the show gets better after the second season, and so, i started watching it again. After that, I never had to looked back. The show became more and more interesting with a definite storyline coming into picture and Hugh Laurie became my hero!Even though he remains the center of attention throughout the show, his team (consisting of Dr. Eric Forman, Dr. Robert Chase and Dr. Allison Cameron in the first three seasons, and Dr. Hadley (a.k.a Thirteen), Dr. Chris Taub, Dr. Lawrence Kutner, and Dr. Amber Volakis in the latter seasons) add depth and new dimensions to the show.Dr. James Wilson (Robert Sean Leonard), House's best friend (in fact his only friend) and Dr. Lisa Cuddy (Lisa Edelstein), the dean of medicine,try their best to keep House within the boundaries of sanity. The sexual tension between House and Cuddy is something to watch out for!Granted the show is a little over the layman's head, because of all the medical stuff, but the script, the plot (especially during the 4th, 5th and 6th seasons) and the acting of each and every character makes up for everything!Pushing the boundaries of sanity and side-stepping morality, this show is a must watch for everyone!


                
Friends often lament that American cinema today has been eclipsed in the creative handling of big ideas and their expression in words and images by the exceptional cable series that have appeared on television over the last fifteen years. "House" is the perfect example. From the casting, scripts, lighting (quite remarkable and unusual in its twilight effect for a dramatic series), and themes of life and death that it tackled--remarkably, for eight years-- "House" emerges as a timeless series for thoughtful people who seek intelligent entertainment. Serious issues complemented with wry humor, and sometimes with sentiment so true that it redeems the word, this series offers every reason to own a television set."One Day, One Room," the twelfth episode of the third season (2006-07), written by David Shore, is an extraordinary example of some of the best writing and performing anyone will ever find in episodic television.A friend of mine gave me the boxed DVD set of all eight seasons. I'll always remember him for that . . .


                
I guess you guys need to watch the full show before you talk because i see a lot of people here talking about a stupid things because they didn't watch the full show . HOUSE M.D maybe is the greatest medical show ever in history for many reasons you will notice when you watch the full show and Hugh Laurie have a great acting skills and the show inspired so many people including me because i supposed to be a clinical pharmacist so sometimes i need to diagnose the cases and watching house really like motivate your mind to think more about the solution of the case so before you talk and say its bad just watch it allnot just watch an epi from season 2 and an epi from season 5 and hey i can't understand the show !!
This is easily the best show I have ever seen. When I started watching show I honestly didn't think that it would be good. I only watched it because it starred Hugh Laurie and I was a big fan of him. Then I watch one episode (Cursed) and I'm completely blown away. I seriously loved every episode and every season (season 5 being my favourite). I even remember the date I started watching the show because it was the 21st May 2012. I knew that season 8 had just ended so I went online to find out the air date of season 9 and guess what?...House MD ended on the day I started watching (so now the fact that Cursed was my first episode seriously creeps me out). As the show went on I just wanted to become more and more like House, watching it really was one of the best decisions of my life. I highly recommend this show because it will make you feel emotions you didn't even know you had. Episode like "Three Stories", "No Reason", "One Day One Room", "Houses Head" and "Wilson's Heart", the last 4 episodes of season 5, "Broken", "Help Me", "After Hours", "Twenty Vicodin"' Nobody's Fault" and the last four episodes of the show will keep you up all night. Also, it wouldn't be fair to write a review for this show and not mention Hugh Laurie's acting. Anyone that has seen him in British comedies would agree with me when I say that he is arguably the greatest actor ever, and let me tell you, Dr House is not an easy character to play - especially the detoxing scenes. This show has everything it needs to be classed as one the greatest shows of all time


                
I judged House by the commercials and decided that it sucked for the longest time. Then I visited my brother in Brooklyn and he flipped it on. It was better than I expected, but I just didn't "get" Greg House's character and wondered how anyone could watch an ass like that every week. Then I read some of the threads on the message board, got some insight to his character, and checked it out again. I'm completely hooked. House is one of the greatest characters in television and movies. The show would be good without him, but it wouldn't have made nearly as big of a splash. Hugh Laurie, as House, carries the show very well, and his supporting cast is definitely sturdy enough to compliment him well.House is the first, and only, medical show I really like, and I've gotten my boyfriend and his mother into it now too (and they hated it way more than I did to begin with).Give it a decent shot and you should be surprised.


                
When I started watching House M.D., i thought it was just another doctors movie. Then it hit me ! I really mean, it hit me! I saw a crippled doctor, wearing no doctor's robe, walking along a crowded corridor, using his cane as a weapon, complaining about some case with the line that made me stick to this show up to it's fourth season (and hoping for more): "Cancer, she's gonna die, boring!". I was bewildered.Then I saw another episode, and another, and I couldn't stop watching. Just for Hugh Laurie I wish this show never ends. The humor, the irony, the sarcasm, the crew, the stories, the cases, the episodes, EVERYTHING is entertaining, it's like you get glued to your seat and you keep watching, absorbing every little word he says, admiring every joke that he makes.And you know what keeps me coming back for more? The fact that he is unpredictable, it is just impossible to know what he is about to say, what he is about to do, to think. Don't expect a show with doctors that scream "scalpel", "clear the room", and with a lot of blood. It is as much of a story about the cases as it is about the characters. If you are a person who loves the action, the adventure of the discovery, the thrill of the puzzle, or if you are a person who hates doctor shows but has an excellent sense of humor (although just about everybody can laugh when House responds to "You owe me some clinic hours" with "And you owe me a lap dance") you are the one this show is designed for.They are amazing, both the character and the actor. Hugh Laurie, you have my entire respect !


                
This is the kind of program that will have two types of audiences: those that are totally upset that nothing really sexual, pretty or soapy is going on here, and those who like a good medical drama that focuses on the medicine which isn't too sexy, pretty or soapy. I'm with the latter group. And what I like the best? The up and down put-off attitude of this doctor who is not perfect in any way, very human and sadly, very brilliant. So why is he in a "training hospital"? Ah, there is the beauty of this series.This isn't your glossy, over set television fare. It's bare, it focuses on the medical, and yes it uses many of today's TV technical advances to portray them.The central doctor in this series, Dr. House, has a few charges who are also smart, young and cocky. This is good because they will learn much from their assigned mentor who is flawed, moody and not very sociable - but a medical genius - and how hard it is to unlock that information so these doctors in training can learn. And the Administration. There's nothing like the hospital administration (business) to interfere with the medicine..and the egos.I love the failure rate given to many in this series: patients as well as doctors. There are successes, but the failure rate is important as well - because not everything in the medical profession has a happy ending in 60 minutes..and not just because someone has to expire, but because of decisions, negligence, prejudice and much more.A hard show for some, but a true gem above the alternatives out there.
I have literally watched this show since the Pilot episode in '04. I grew up on this show. From 8 to 16, I feel like I've loved House since the beginning and I will never stop loving that character. Or Hugh Laurie, for that matter. I even told my mum, when I was 9, that if I ever got sick, she had to take me to House. I can remember every episode very vividly. And before the Swan Song, I was always curious about how they did all this medical stuff on these people. It seemed freaky. But, thank you House, for letting me grow up watchign you. I feel like you are one of the most real characters on television. Nobody is nice all the time, and nobody is perfect. That is what you represent to me. Reality. And for all other House fans out there, I think we all agree: This show will be missed <333-Nicole


                
I have to say Hugh Laurie as Dr. Gregory House is a revelation. I have seen him in programmes such as Jeeves and Wooster and Blackadder where he played a upper class twit who had a whinny voice. I never thought he could be a sex symbol but he proves me wrong here. He shows in this series that there is more to him then comedy and that he can actually act. His accent is brilliant and maybe some Americans don't feel that but they shouldn't be quick to point the finger, let's face it, the American actors have done some bad English accents in their time, Dick Van Dyke, need I say more. He plays an antisocial doctor who is a departure from other shows where he doesn't have a good bed side manner and only cares about solving the medical conditions and not so much helping his patients. He says what he likes and at times can go over the line. He is definitely the anti-hero but you can't help being drawn to him.When I first heard that Jesse Spencer was going to be in it, I thought it would be a disaster as I have seen him in Neighbours and didn't think much of his acting but again he has surprised me by how good he is.I like the fact that the programme does a different take on investigation shows, this time the detectives are the doctors who have to look at the body and what has happened to find out the right reason for the illness so they can cure the patients. The visual aids help me understand at times as the medical speak can go over my head.The cast help to make the series a joy to watch. It is funny at times to seethe way House treats his friend Dr. James Wilson (Robert Sean Leonard) and his boss Dr. Lisa Cuddy (Lisa Edelstein) as he always seems to plow over them at times to get what he wants. I do love the character of Dr. Allison Cameron but she can see things black and white and no grey in-between which sometimes gets on my nerves. Omar Epps as Dr. Eric Foreman is the one that is like House in some ways but in others, he has his own view and is a very strong character who isn't afraid to battle with his boss if he thinks he is wrong.This show is original and fresher than any other of the medical dramas on television and it is interesting to see a different side to medicine, not just treating people in accidents but people who have life-threatening illnesses and seeing how the doctors explores the options of each symptom to find out the true cause of the illness.
There are three aspects of House which I admire.The writing cast. Hugh Laurie. And Robert Sean Leonard.The show looks at life from a critical standpoint. It refuses easy solutions just because they give the satisfaction of a purposeful world. As its main character it has a deeply conflicted, yet intellectually brilliant man, who is not straightforwardly depicted, but remains inscrutable to a certain point throughout the seasons. It provides a setting where it is not unlikely for crucial, ontological questions to pop up on a daily basis, and it takes every advantage to tackle life from multiple perspectives. It has portrayed a variety of main characters since it first appeared on air, and though not all have given satisfactory performances, the dilemmas of their relationships were nevertheless made real.I am sorry to see House go. But it had one hell of a ride.


                
The greatest TV show ever made. Don't you believe me? Just see it. The greatest TV show ever made. I thought I would never write that. Especially about a medical show. But... That is it. Why do I think so? I will try to explain.First, it is the idea. I know, it is not very realistic but who needs realism actually? Let me tell you what do I think about the idea. I think they wanted to make a medical show that is not exactly a medical show. "House M.D." is more like a crime show where "the criminal" is not a man or a woman but the disease they are trying to cure. This is not trying to be "ER" and that is good. I needed something different and I got it. How can I not be glad? Second, there are the characters. Especially House. He is GREAT. Really. I don't think it is possible for that kind of a doctor to even exist but he is great. A drug addicted genius who doesn't care about his patients but for their illnesses. A doctor who would do anything to cure the disease even if he has to destroy his patient's personal life. A doctor who loves the mystery of being a doctor. Yet sometimes you see him being a real human being with all of his feelings and desires. Sometimes he shows he cares about the patients. Great, I told you. And Hugh Laurie does a great job portraying him. Honestly I had never seen such a good acting in a TV show before. Of course there are the other characters. While their function is most of the time to be puppets in the hands of House all of them have a personality. Cuddy is great, so is Wilson, and so are the other doctors. I didn't like Cameron, though, but the way House treats her is...Well, that is from me. Just see the show.


                
Here we are with House M.D. in it's 4th year and the show is still going strong. I love medical dramas and like most people I also like a good mystery. House M.D. combines both in a very interesting way. Instead of having the lead character of the show be a very handsome and likable guy who is compassionate with his patients you have the exact opposite. Hugh Laurie's Greg House is a scruffy-looking, sarcastic character with a bum leg that hurts him all the time. The constant pain is making him pop vicodin pills as if they were m&m's and he makes no effort to hide his addiction to the painkiller meds, not even infront of patients. Sometimes he even cheats to get his hands on some. Yet despite his seeming unprofessionalism he's somehow the most brilliant diagnostician in the entire hospital. The viewer ends up with a love-hate relationship for the guy.The supporting cast is also excellent and lends variety to the show with the diversity of characters. You have the very compassionate oncologist Dr. James Wilson (played by "Swing Kids" star Robert Sean Leonard) who deals with cancer patients all the time and is House's best if not only friend. Dean of medicine Dr. Lisa Cuddy appears to be an inadequate doctor but excellent boss who is often finding herself in the position of having to defend House's actions. Then there is African-American neurologist Eric Foreman who is sometimes a bit stereotyped as having come from the hood but makes a great contribution to House's think-tank team and favorite person for House to pick on. Dr. Allison Cameron, the sex-kitten of the show, is not all that likable in my opinion. I find her constant arguing with House about ethics annoying. She will go against House's directives even if the "right thing to do" will end up costing the patient his or her life. Dr. Robert Chase, the young, easy on the eyes Aussie doctor seems to be doing most of the labwork and going to patients' houses to check for possible causes for the patient's illness (reminds me of the show Medical Investigation). Speaking of Medical Investigation, I liked that show, but not nearly as much as I like House. The lead character in Medical Investigation was a very unappealing character and the rest of the cast forgettable. For some reason what didn't work for Medical Investigation works with House. Maybe the show wouldn't have been cancelled if an actor of Hugh Laurie's caliber had been in the lead role.I used to watch E.R. for a few seasons but lost interest after Paul McCrane's character of Dr. Robert Romano was killed off. Thereafter the show had lost it's appeal to me. I liked Dr. Romano, he was sort of a precursor to Dr. House with his no-nonsense attitude and biting sarcasm - another guy you loved to hate. As said before, I like medical shows and also mysteries and I think House M.D. combines this very well. The show reminds me a lot of the 70s Quincy M.E. starring Jack Klugman. Both characters aren't physically attractive and go against the rules quite often if the end result justifies the means. Both characters get in trouble with their bosses a lot. What do a doctor of diagnostic medicine and a coroner have in common? They both search for clues to find out what happened to a person. The only difference is that House's patients are still alive and he tries to find a cure before time runs out.In my honest opinion House M.D. is the best medical mystery show since Quincy M.E and I look forward to every new episode. I hope the show sticks around for as long as E.R.


                
In television, sometimes you get an actor and a character that intersect for something all time great.It doesn't happen that much. But when it does, no matter how unoriginal the premise or lame the stories, the show will have an appeal because of the lead character. Not all of Columbo's mysteries were great -- but Peter Falk was always great and so was the character of Columbo.House is that way. It's a medical show inspired by Sherlock Holmes. It has good writing and good acting, but like any television show, week after week story-grind can cause creaks in these. But Laurie as House never disappoints. I've read some Sherlock Holmes stories, and Sir Arthur's description of Holmes looks like Hugh Laurie -- I wonder if his casting was just luck or someone saw the resemblance? Probably just luck.In any event, Laurie dominates the small screen. In House, he has crafted one of television's all time memorable characters. Like Captain Kirk and Columbo and Rockford, House lives apart from his show's episodes, which means he can survive a bad plot or a temporary wrong turn in terms of character arcs. The rest of the (sometimes) revolving cast do a good job. But Laurie is the reason why we watch. Even though his character name is different and he's a doctor, not a PI, he's the best Sherlock Holmes ever.


                
I have to say that "House MD" is the best program currently running on television. To me it's completely different from anything that's ever been made. It's kind of like the "Xena Warrior Princess" series in that it's just completely original in concept and incredibly entertaining EVERY TIME! Also, it's totally addictive and well worth giving in to the craving for more.The writing, actors, characters, production and everything else are top notch and well done. The cast and background characters seem completely dedicated to making the finest product at all times and they succeed perfectly and admirably. I am also in awe of the writing talent that comes up with some of the funniest zingers I've ever heard.I don't know what else I can say. If you haven't seen this show yet, you don't know what you're missing!


                
Season after season, "House M.D." has managed to renew itself in a manner that is beyond mere innovation. Despite House's character remaining what made him so fascinating from the start, and despite the series format having substantially remained unaltered, there is such a new quality in all of the elements that surround the main character in the transition from season 2 to 3, and now season 4. Episode 1 of the fourth season, with the "mistaken perspective" on who the girl surviving the crash was, was an astonishing beginning for what often is, for many series, the season that will mark the end of their run. This also proves that Hugh Laurie's portrait of the amazing practitioner is strong enough to make this wonderful show stay on the air for many years to come, while others, like "Prison Break", appear to be going nowhere.


                
