I've caught this show a few times over the years, and despite it being a somewhat amusing off-the-beaten-path medical evening soap, I was never really drawn in. Tonight's lineup was a bit drab so...I tuned in again. The show's popularity is inexplicable. And now, I think the writers are bordering on the absurd. In this episode: Blatantly stating he was intending to marry a Russian or Polish gal to give her citizenship status in exchange for massages, housecleaning, and her performing duties of a "whore" and saving him $33,000, House projects an attitude and image of women that is crude and intentionally insulting. Not a prude here, but really? Playing with remote toy 'copters in a hospital lobby? Ridiculous. Like most people of any maturity and life experience, I unfortunately associate hospitals with loss and trauma. I'm thinking families in such an environment would not find such a scenario in the least amusing. Ping Pong in a radiology room? His implied and/or obviated disrespect for patients (in general) except as accidental hosts for diseases he can show off his "brilliance" diagnosing while "telling off" parents, wives, husbands, etc.etc., not to mention subordinates, is more than a little off-putting. His behavior is most often reminiscent of a sociopath. And people just put up with his BS. Why?Now I know why I don't watch the show. I just don't like the main character. Drug addict, smart ass, grubby looking misogynist, probable sociopath. No thanks. I rated it a 2/10 because I occasionally learned some medical fact or other.


                
First of all, I don't understand why this show is popular. As somebody said before, it's following a formula--somebody gets sick with a bizarre symptom. The team of doctors spend the entire episode diagnosing and misdiagnosing while the patient gets sicker and sicker. All the while, Dr. House is going around being a colossal prick to everybody in the team.The medical team is pretty dull. No personality whatsoever from any of them, and they are just too pretty and perfect. They're also painfully stupid....House is basically just a series about a doctor that is a complete asshole, and it's getting boring really quick.


                
Every week there are several trial and error attempts to diagnose a patient ... i'm sure in the writers mind, it seems logical ... and every episode batteries of tests are run which prove or discover nada ...walla, in steps dr house to solve the problem .... or does he


                
