I've watched House from the first episode and really like the show, but one thing it is NOT is a MEDICAL drama, as so many previous posters have said. What it is is a very well-written program that delves into people's personalities and motivations set in a hospital backdrop with the diagnostic dilemma of the week to add interest.As a practicing surgeon for almost 30 years, I know for a fact that the "medicine" seen on House each week bears only the remotest resemblance to what really goes on in a teaching hospital, or even a private hospital for that matter. The writers can't even get the specialties correct-- Epps' character is a neurologist, NOT a neurosurgeon, and would not be performing any type of operation.I have,however, chosen to suspend reality when I watch the show because the characters are so good (especially Laurie). I do find the Cameron character annoying, but to tell the truth I encounter all these types of personalities daily.The House character is really not far off the mark of many physicians who have been in practice for years. You really do develop the ability to determine quite quickly when patients are less than truthful, and also what they are NOT telling you. The only difference in real life is that we can't be as tactless as House. The show is actually at its most medically accurate when House is in the clinic.To sum up, just enjoy the show for the entertainment value, because if you are expecting medical accuracy on the E.R. level, it ain't there.


                
Watched the first two or three episodes by accident, then lost track of when it aired and missed a couple. Found that I missed that cranky genius doctor detective and his relentless -- even brutal -- honesty. Came back in time to learn why he limps and sucks down painkillers like candy (but I'm not telling you); now he's my new favorite dangerous man, edging out James Spader's self-destructive lawyer on Boston Legal. I hope this show lasts. Whether or not it does, I know that House will eventually wind up in my DVD collection beside Hugh Laurie's fabulous comedic work in Black Adder and Jeeves and Wooster. This guy really has range!In case it doesn't last, check it out quick. There's very little else like it on TV today.


                
House M.D.portraying the real idea behind the character sherlock holmes, hugh laurie steals the show and won't let you leave it. other characters besides gregory seems a bit under-cooked but it is a minor flaw in this whole beautiful and long journey of house. it seems a bit stretched after the fifth season but gives you a satisfactory end.


                
First of all, I think series creator David Shore has done something very cool here. He's taken Sherlock Holmes and plopped him right into a high-stress job in the 21st century. Shore has said House is modeled strongly after Holmes, and this is definitely clear in a lot of House's dialog and mannerisms (especially in his conversations with Dr. Wilson). He and Hugh Laurie have done a better job creating a modern, believable version of the character than most other attempts I've seen ("Law and Order: Criminal Intent" comes to mind). Also, although I love Laurie's performance, it could get annoying if it was just a one-man show (again: "LAO: CI"), and Shore has wisely surrounded him with a large cast of characters to make things more interesting. Each character adds something to the show, and it's very entertaining to see all the different personalities bouncing off each other (and ultimately, bouncing off House). My one complaint is that character development has been a little slow (especially with Chase), and if they don't branch out in that area, things could get stale. Finally, I've heard some people criticize this show for being too unrealistic, but all I can say to that is, it's not supposed to be (what mystery show is!?). Yeah, the diseases patients come in with are totally off-the-wall, and House diagnoses and cures them in unrealistic ways, but if they were coming in with commonplace diseases, they'd get cured in 5 minutes and there wouldn't be a show! If you can manage to suspend your disbelief and think of it as a character-based mystery show (and can handle some of the graphic surgery scenes), you're bound to enjoy it.


                
House is a great show only because of Hugh Laurie. The other actors are fine and do their jobs adequately, but the show is all Hugh. As for the plots, they always seem to follow the same formula and it gets a little dull. It also seems to condone experimenting on patients and guessing, which I, personally, find a little disconcerting. Maybe diagnostic medicine is practiced that way, I wouldn't know. About the accent - I'm from Canada and I don't think there's anything wrong with it. If his character were supposed to be from the southern U.S. then perhaps it would be a problem, but it seems to be a good generic American accent to me.In summary, if you don't like Hugh Laurie, then don't bother to watch it.


                
House MD was an unforgettable series which had it all: - interesting medical cases if probably not that realistic - interesting characters, notably House - interesting relationships - great scripts - a dream cast with Hugh Laurie, R.S. Leonards, Lisa Edelstein, Olivia Wilde, Jennifer Morrison, Jacobson, Spencer and a few more.It is therefore sad that the series didn't stop on a high note at the end of season 7.Season 8 is an unmitigated disaster. Frankly it is next to shameful, especially on the part of the writers. There is not a single episode to save the season. All are absolutely boring and not watching them is just what the doctor ordered.As in real life, jerks get promoted, this time its Dr. Foreman, and we have to suffer through his lines and parading as a would-be manager, although he is probably the most antipathetic, boring, petty TV character ever.Clearly a bad omen in retrospect, most charming characters departed from the series already (Cuddy, Thirteen Cameron) and poor Wilson, Chase and Taub are not given a fighting chance but instead terrible lines.House is just the shadow of his former self and he seems just as bored and unconvinced as we are.Finally Odette Annable, which had the potential to become the new thirteen or at the very least a great character, is completely misused as a sleep-inducing frigid what-am-I-doing-here character.Were I to prepare the ultimate complete House DVD set, I would put the whole season 8 next to the Extras / Deleted scenes, in the Extras / Deleted episodes category.


                
I liked when I saw the first episodes. Indeed, quite different from "E.R." and with a character - Dr. Gregory House - well developed and almost believable. However, after seeing more than 10 episodes, I started getting bored, as the each story looks like a copy of the previous: always a young, apparently healthy patient, arrives with a strange disease whose cure nobody can find. House rarely sees the patient, always runs into some trouble (or conflict) with the patient's relatives or friends, etc., and then... a miracle happens: out of something untold (hidden by the patient, if you wish) or of the environment surrounding the patient, the diagnostic emerges. And, of course, House is always right and the others wrong. As I said, at the beginning, is likable. Afterwards, is way too predictable.


                
I hate TV series. They are hardly jewels of the art, because they are not created to be them. I suppose you just think differently when you produce 2 hours masterpiece vs. when you are creating something that should attract people to TV (for commercials) for half an hour.But, I like "House". Every time I watch it, I feel ashamed. But, after I've watched it, I always check "Was it worthwhile?" And every time the answer is Yes.The story is trivial, with lots of medical details which I am sure are incorrect from medical perspective. The whole setup is ridiculous - doctors try to guess the illness and treat it based on trial and error rather than facts. But it keeps you occupied, presents kind of a small detective story where a bacteria or a like is a criminal.The actor's play is nothing outstanding. But they do good job supporting the main character - Dr. House - whose irony and sarcasm make you laugh every time. And his phrases are real masterpieces.In whole, the series run in one environment - the same hospital, the same actors plus one or two new sick people - so it is rather boring. But then, you know what to expect when you turn on your TV every time when "House" is on: some fun, touching "live" situations, and a group of people fanatically doing their job again and again.
Judging by the comments both in and outside of IMDb, you either love or hate House. I do neither: I like the show, most of the interaction between the characters and the way the mystery is solved. On the other hand: the format is indeed the same across nearly every episode. (On the third hand: so is nearly every show. In a detective someone dies and Poirot/Grissom/Barnaby always finds out who did it).Of the House series, the first and second season were quite strong (the second maybe somewhat more than the first). The third season was weak, with a boring middle arc 'starring' a nasty David Morse and declining relations between the characters (Dr. Foreman wore an angry scowl for most of the second half of this season).Now the fourth season so far proves quite interesting: the previous sidekicks have been dropped out of the inner core, to be replaced by new and fresh characters. The fun has finally returned to the show and I'm curious about the other episodes in the season.


                
Okay, so, I'm not one to get into medical shows. I've never had an interest for them. And for the first year and a half House M.D. was on, I never watched it. I saw the previews and write-ups about it. It was obviously a pretty good show.Then one day, when nothing else was on TV I flicked over to it just to see what all the craze was about.All I have to say is wow. Just... wow!! This show is amazing! I thought medical dramas were boring and just repeat themselves. And House does have the basic medical plot. Someone's sick, they come it, it takes 3 tries before they finally cure the patient or find out what's wrong, etc. But those special twists they throw in that still catch you off-guard.. that's what it's all about.Dr. House is brilliant. Hugh Laurie has always been one of my favorite actors. But he really shines in his role as House, the sarcastic, rude, Vicoden-addicted doctor who couldn't care less about his patients.Dr. Foreman is good. His character at times can get a little irritating, but Omar Epps plays everything perfectly.Dr. Chase is a pretty boy who always is sucking-up to House. Jesse Spencer is also, a wonderful actor.Dr. Cameron is played by the gorgeous Jennifer Morrison. Cameron has a thing for House, and of course, being House, he disregards it. I haven't seen Jennifer Morrison in much, but I hope to see her shine in future roles.Dr. Wilson is the friend of House. He often helps House out on figuring a few cases out. The way these two interact is so entertaining. It's perfect.Last, but not least, Dr. Cuddy. She's played by beautiful Lisa Elderstein. Cuddy is firm but fair and her character is just what this TV show needs to tie it all together.Throw in the humorous, but rude, sarcasticness, jokes, drama, and romance and you have yourself the perfect show that in great hopes stays running for a long, long time.


                
Granted, this show isn't boldly going where no show has gone before, but it is quite entertaining.Hugh Laurie as obnoxious yet somehow endearing Dr. House is the eye catcher, offending patients and the people he works with. Solving medical riddles is something he seems to do in a detached, professional sort of way. Oddly realistic I thought: a doctor in a teaching hospital who treats patients as a necessary evil, an instrument he uses to teach his (rather flat charactered) students a thing or two about medicine.Somehow while watching House M.D. I'm remembered of Blackadder (Rowan Atkinson) one of those other great British comedians who's scarily good at insulting people in a funny way. You'd hate to have him as a friend, but he's damn funny to watch.


                
House is a good show. It is not great, it is certainly not terrible. It is simply good. I spent a large majority of the summer of 2016 sitting down and watching House; I essentially lived and breathed House for several weeks. I can safely conclude that, once the show had finished, I was reluctant to view it all again.My friends informed me that the first few seasons were not as good as the latter seasons. While I do agree with them, I also think that, overall, the show is not actually that great and that there are merely some individual episodes, or some parts of episodes, that can be considered as 'great'. I do not hate the show, I just struggle to like it. I think it is fair to criticise the fact that there are too many episodes in each season. I felt like every season could have been reduced to 13 episodes and the story would have been more or less the same. Furthermore, I believe that House was far too formulaic for my liking; each episode became more and more predictable as the show progressed. The quantity of episodes, coupled with this predictability just wore me out too quickly, and I lost track of some story lines. Most of my praise is towards Hugh Laurie's fantastic portrayal of Gregory House. He blended humour, professionalism and painful rage perfectly, to create a character that one could mistake for being real. The final episode is certainly one of its finest, using deceased characters to emphasise House's pain and regret, but also doubling as a fine send off for one of TV's greatest anti-heroes. Overall, House is most certainly a watch. However once is probably enough.
It's pleasant, but predictable.I enjoyed house for the first 2 seasons, but easily got bored thereafter. It is however, the only TV show that has kept my interest for so long.Now it's in the middle of season 6, and I started watching again. Even though I missed the seasons in between, I don't need to watch them to know what's happened.It's the standard 'dieing patient' story. Personal problems, love, friendship and family complications is also a predictable trait of the show.If you have time to spare, it is worth a watch. You don't need to start from season one to get the gist of it though. Also, if you like puzzles, cunning and wit, this would be good for you as well.It's the sarcastic wit between the characters that I love about the show.


                
I've caught this show from time to time and watched a good handful of episodes. I remembered it for the lead doctor character's sarcastic personality, but with an exciting knack in trying to solve puzzling cases. His crack team of doctors were also a worthy addition to the cast and gave the show some added entertainment. Not the most suspenseful or intriguing show I've seen, but definitely worth a look.Grade B-


                
This is one of those programmes that has a huge reliance on its leading actor. Hugh Laurie is outstanding as the witty, grumpy, selfish but ultimately kind Dr House. Without him this would just be a run-of-the-mill medical drama.The other characters are not great. You get to know them after a while and start to take an interest, but there's little originality in the casting and no stand-out performances. They chop and change the supporting cast between series, which I suppose was intended to keep it fresh but I found off-putting.The format of the show is nice. Although it's a medical drama, the focus is on diagnosis of unusual or hard-to-understand conditions, so the feel is more of a detective show.House is a show I'd recommend for an interesting, easy watch. But after 8 series and 150+ episodes, I think it's run its course.
The first seasons isn't realistic (or anything after that point) but it is entertaining. Seasons 2 and 3 don't expand on it too much but they are still somewhat above average. The rest is clearly below average.
Watch the 1st ( 9 out of 10) and stop.


                
I am sad and disappointed because in one part a lovely rat was really put to death and cut open. No animal should be harmed in making TV- series, program or movie. Rats are specially intelligent, cute and social animals and need more respect as they receive. Rats don't eat people. I know them because I have had over 40 pet rats since I was young. Rats are very suitable pets for children also. And surely do not eat peoples lips or other parts (in case of famine also people can though eat other people). Otherwise I like House the character and Hugh Laurie the actor, too. I feel sympathy for House because he uses stick and it is good that he defends himself strongly and with amusing comments. I don't like the other main characters as much. Meny parts of the series are quite interesting.


                
Few % of Atheists I know posted House M.D. quote in their facebook. So that got me curious about this show.I watched the first episode. It's probably very premature for me to judge the show, since I only watched 1 episode, but I will judge it anyway :PHouse M.D. presented you with this "suppossed to be-unique", genius, sarcastic character called dr. House. he solves the mystery of 'medical' case in each episode. To put it bluntly, it's like watching detective show, but the mysterious villain is the disease, and the Sherlock is this House. So is not really that original. This typical 1 case per episode show has a weakness, that is lacking of character and story development. The other characters beside House are bland. and House is not really that interesting, most of the time he is just this grumpy old man. I can't grasp, if he is really genius or not with all the medical deduction that he said. without medical knowledge, we don't know for sure if he said brilliant diagnosis or just random medical bullshit. So, that's it for me, I have no interest for pursuing the next episode.


                
