'House' is like a breath of fresh air to television screens. It's an intelligent show complete with solid, interesting characters in a sea of bland, predictable and repetitive shows that bombard the airwaves. The show revolves around diagnostician Doctor Gregory House, a bitter and antisocial cynic whose heightened intelligence leaves him with little patience for most people around him. On the surface, he has little interest in patients and instead it is solving the puzzle of their ailment that draws him in but we see many subtle instances which prove he does have a heart for both his patients and his friends. Reeling him in are his best friend Doctor James Wilson, who sees House as fulfilling his need to be needed, and his boss Doctor Lisa Cuddy, one of the few who can give House as good as he dishes out in terms of insults. Training under House as his fellows are Robert Chase, Allison Cameron and Eric Foreman, who all realise what a trial their job (or rather, their boss) can be at times.Hugh Laurie, in the title role of House, is absolutely perfect. He is able to depict House's startlingly genius IQ that is intertwined with his childishness and sullenness, which, in turn, hide the fact he does care for his patients and those close to him. As such, he turns what could have been an detestable character into one the audience can like. Robert Sean Leonard also delivers a strong performance as Wilson in a manner that shows the character's kindly yet, at times, manipulative nature. The chemistry between Laurie and Leonard is excellent, which is essential in portraying the complex friendship between House and Wilson. Lisa Edelstein, as Cuddy, excels in playing the school marm to the eight-year-old boy House can be without comprising the deeper attributes of the character. Jennifer Morrison, Jesse Spencer and Omar Epps, as House's three fellows, also shine through in displaying the individual traits of their characters and how each interact differently with House.One of the first things that drew me into the show was the sarcastic humour. Almost everything that comes out of House is humorous, even if it does make the person he is speaking to cry! House is a true anti-hero, inherently a good guy but is willing to do whatever it takes to solve his puzzle regardless of patients' views and colleagues' opinions. The character probably has also done more for disability awareness (House walks with a limp and is in chronic pain after suffering an infarction to his right thigh) than any PC government campaign. Here we have a show that isn't afraid to depict a disabled person acting like an arrogant oaf at times instead of being as some sort of glowing hero and example to us all, as most shows enjoy doing when portraying a character with disabilities.The show is more like a detective drama along the lines of 'Law and Order' with medicine as opposed to a purely medical show like 'ER'. As such, there is more time dedicated to development of the characters as they go about trying to cure their patient. Everything is portrayed in a darker adult manner and there isn't too much focus on romance (which can ruin a show). Story lines are meaningful and involving, with no softly option taken in showing the realities of life and death. That said, the medical aspects on the show are almost always realistic.'House' is a highly recommended show for those looking for something put together with intelligence and adult characters who act like adults instead of over-grown adolescent children in high school. Long may it continue!


                
This show is so great and creative that it makes you like a man who is arrogant, cocky, careless and hates everyone but him. Meet Dr. House a really talented doctor and an addict.This is a drama focusing on one unique hospital case in every episode plus how it affects their personal lives in the background. Show is clever and many times made me think about my life( which BTW every smart TV show does).Characters are well played, specially Hugh Laurie, handled the role of House quite well. I couldn't ask for more.The only drawback I could come up with was that this show shows blood and surgery and some really nasty scenes. If you are OK with that. This is a show for you. Even if you are not Give it a try. May be its craziness makes you ignore its nastiness.


                
I "get" House, and not just because I too am a misanthrope of sorts with a chronic condition that cannot be cured. This show was sold to Fox as a "Medical Law and Order" with the network being told that the cases not the cast would be the focus, and I think it would have been a failure had there been truth in advertising. The interesting thing about this show are the relationships and in particular, Hugh Laurie as Greg House M.D., a genius at diagnostic medicine that saves lives but does not like people.And why should he? He develops an infarction in his leg, is misdiagnosed until it becomes so serious his leg may have to be amputated, clearly expresses his wishes to take a medical path that will mean either his death or complete recovery THEN has the hospital administrator conspire with his girlfriend at the time, who has his medical directive powers, to come up with an intermediate solution while House is unconscious. House keeps his leg, but will have deep chronic pain in that leg for the rest of his life plus the leg is now virtually useless. This is all told in flashback in the first season.So for eight seasons House's friends and colleagues chastise him for not embracing his friends. Why should he? If he had been friendless at the time of his infarction, nobody would have meddled in his medical decision about his own body. His friends betrayed his wishes and left him in this state, pushing him away when he doesn't meet their high standards of behavior - standards of behavior that are fine for someone who isn't constantly in pain with a deep justified sense of betrayal.Hypochondriacs - you have nothing to fear here. The medical cases are so bizarre and such one-in-a-million kinds of things that you have a better chance of winning the lottery than getting the diseases that House's patients get. Nobody House treats has breast cancer or Lyme disease or Parkinson's or any other highly probable illness.Let me finally say just one thing about season seven, where most people think House jumped the shark in the action he took in the last episode of season seven. You don't start a love affair with someone who has grown comfortable in their isolation, tell him that you don't want him to change and tell him you think he is "an amazing man" just as he is, give him a big taste of of happiness and belonging and even family for perhaps the first time in his life, only to rip it away because of one isolated case of failure that should have been predictable. In other words you break your word and change the rules - you really did want change - and if you do these things, to quote House, "you really are an idiot" if you expect anything but an eventual emotional explosion.House is the best thing on TV today, I highly recommend it for the social and unsocial viewer alike - it has something for everyone.


                
An intelligent and a outstanding TV show. Incredible directed, especially by Greg Yates (house's head) that bring a reviling life and fresh air to the TV.And the eternal Hugh Laurie that make the main character a cult mark of the TV, presenting us with a fantastic interpretation. This is the show that i don't wanna to end. using the style walk and talk, the creators give the show more realistic emotions and keeping the action on going. Creatores Bryan Singer and David Shore can look at them selves as winners, as they probably concept's the biggest score of American television, by carrying on one curmudgeonly character that make so much fans all over the globe. A TV show that will make our mind blow away. A must see.


                
The genius of House is that it really shouldn't work. The format of each show is simple and identical - patient gets ill, medical team argues about diagnosis, patient gets fixed. The hook comes from the soap opera that surrounds the diagnosis and the way you get addicted to the characters. Hugh Laurie is a revelation as Dr House - for a typically British sketch-show comedian and long-time double act with Stephen Fry to convincingly portray a disabled American doctor shows his remarkable versatility and he really steals the show; we new he was good, just not THIS good. You'll also recognise Robert Sean Leonard from Dead Poet's Society (a great foil for Dr House as oncologist Dr Wilson), Lisa Edelstein from The West Wing and Jesse Spencer from Oz soap Neighbours (he was Billy Kennedy). Apologies to the rest of the excellent cast who i'm less familiar with. The top quality guest stars complete a first class drama that's well worth a look. House lives at 221B, a not that subtle nod to the way the writers compare House's brilliant obnoxiousness with Sherlock Holmes. You may find it all a bit predictable, but i'm betting there's a huge number of you out there who'll get hooked on House.


                
This series is simply a character study of Dr. Gregory House, (Hugh Laurie, 'Flight Of The Phoenix') a misanthropic, foul-mouthed, sarcastic doctor with an ego the size of Europe and Asia combined a bum leg (because of a leg problem) and an addiction to Vicodin, who saves people from mysterious maladies which almost kill them, all with the help of a complex Australian doctor, Robert Chase (Jesse Spencer, 'Neighbours'), a smart black doctor with way too few screen time, Eric Foreman (Omar Epps, 'ER', Scream 2', 'Brother') and a pretty (annoying) female doctor who gets WAY too much screen time and needs a rewrite, Allison Cameron (Jennifer Morrison, 'Stir Of Echoes', 'Grind').He also finds time to talk with his only friend, who helps him a lot of times, Oncologist Dr. James Wilson (Robert Sean Leonard, 'Dead Poets' Society') and fight/flirt with the lovely Dr. Lisa Cuddy (Lisa Edelstein, 'Relativity', 'Ally McBeal', 'West Wing'), the hospital's Dean of Medicine.It is amazing, and if it has problems, they are all to find in the writing for Miss Morrison's character, who seems to be too stupid for her own good, and whose obsession for House (who REBUFFED her and made her face the truth... it didn't work) is dragging the show down ('Do you like me? I need to know.' OH GROW UP!).Lose the House/Cameron and all will be good. Really.
Hugh Laurie is great as Gregory House, M.D. The cast members surrounding him are very good. The whole concept of House being a diagnostic specialist who was himself misdiagnosed and suffers constant leg pain because of it is awesome. His bitterness about the whole thing shows through, however so does his good heart. He is forced by his boss to work in the hospital clinic and actually deal directly with patients. He would actually prefer not having to see the patients in person, but when he does he finds it hard not to care. House does anything he has to to help the patients and find out what is really wrong with them no matter what it takes. His methods bring about conflicts with his boss, colleagues, and patients, but he gets the job done. Great show!


                
Rewatching this series 5 years after it last aired, House remained the best medical series that was ever produced. Inspired by Sherlock Holmes, House uses pretty much the same template of a crime and investigation drama; an mystery occurs, an investigation ensues, the mystery is solved intelligently and viewers walk away feeling gratified. And, like any good crime series, the details are important. The writers provide a convincing array of medical mysteries, with the symptoms playing a crucial role in creating suspense, with consequences of every diagnosis explored and are graphically visualized. The human element here is also present, with the human condition and the tragedies that these choices lead to it are brought to light.And these stories are continually made interesting by the actors - including the extras - who played their roles with conviction. I argue that Hugh Laurie was the first British that broke US market and proved that Britain have better talent. His American accent has fooled countless of people into thinking that he was American born, and his portrayal of the cynical, anti-heroic, titular character successfully draws you in each episode. In fact, Hugh Laurie's House is much more fascinating than Benedict Cumberbatch's Sherlock. The other cast members don't really shine other than all of them being different aspects of Holmes' Dr Watson. Robert Sean Leonard acts as the voice of reason, Omar Epps as the stubborn rival, Jesse Spencer as the doe-eyed hapless sidekick and Jennifer Morrison as the loyal friend with a crush. In retrospect, splitting Watson into different characters makes House's banter with each of them more entertaining. Dr Lisa Cuddi, played by Lisa Edelstein, is the Irene Adler for Dr House without the romance but instead replaced with a lot of ironic flirting, office power play and entertaining banter. Screw Grey's Anatomy, screw ER, screw Chicago Hope; screw all the medical shows that are nothing more than inane soap operas meant for over-emotional, entitled, adult children. House MD is the show for intelligent viewers, for the thinking viewer. Recommended.


                
I'm a TV series and telefilm addicted, I've seen many of these, but I never had the pleasure to know a TV series like House M.D. I can ensure you'll never watch something maincharacter-based like House. The whole series is well structured, nothing is unreal, nothing is boring, nothing is useless, every little detail can change the story permanently. House is an incredibly well dettailed character, like everyone else, but he in particular gets more and more dettailed, going deep with the storyline. The storyline is good, the relationships are well made, the series contains many plot twists that I could never imagine, even if I'm used to experience plot twists! Many series go down and down, proceeding with the seasons, while House M.D. still can maintain his high level 'til the end. Great TV series, highly recommended!


                
This show is amazing. I recommend it to everyone, even those of you who are not a fan of medical shows. I started watching House thinking that it is similar to Grey's anatomy. Right from the very first minutes I figured that it is not. The only similarity is that both TV show events happen at a hospital. You'll meet Dr. House, the arrogant son of a bitch who you will immediately fall in love with. You will get to see his everyday struggle. You won't be able to help yourself from reading spoilers, just because you want to know what exactly happened to his leg. You will meet the people in his life, how he sees them and how they see him, how he affects them and how they affect him. While the episode is playing, you will connect to the patient. You will see how every one on House's team connects to the patient according to their personal experiences. House's cast includes amazing actors, with a guest star in each season. Also, did I mention that every season finale will mind f*ck you?
Dr. Gregory House (Hugh Laurie) revels in solving the hardest of medical riddles. He chooses his team which changes over the years. Dr. Eric Foreman (Omar Epps), Dr. Robert Chase (Jesse Spencer), and Dr. Allison Cameron (Jennifer Morrison) are the three original underlings. Dr. James Wilson (Robert Sean Leonard) is his only true friend. Dr. Lisa Cuddy (Lisa Edelstein) starts as his boss.Hugh is a British actor playing an American doctor who has a badly damaged leg. He's a grumpy caustic know-it-all. Too bad for everybody else, he is almost always right. He is inevitably the smartest man in the room. Oh did I mention that he's a drug addict. It's master acting class from Hugh. It's physical. It's accent work. It's character work. It's a great character.


                
Wow! People really get heated in their opinions on this show. So, may I please interject with what I hope are some salient points:1) This is a series on U.S. network television -- please don't expect the medical content on the show to be accurate, or even try to be accurate. It's ENTERTAINMENT, people, and Hollywood was never accused of putting accuracy and fact before maximization of entertainment value.2) Yes, the plot can seem to repeat itself from show to show. Perhaps this is done on purpose, in order to: 1) show that even being a doctor can get tedious and repetitive from day to day, and/or 2) help the characters and their relationships stand out from the "background" that is the medical stuff. If you're that interested in the medical stuff, take the plunge and go to med school already.3) Most Americans here appear to "buy" Hugh Laurie's American accent. I, for one, assumed he was American (or Canadian) until I learned otherwise. So, for someone who's not American to say that it's a lousy stab at an American accent...perhaps the expression "it takes one to know one" would work here.4) Yes -- House's character is obnoxious, misanthropic, ...(insert pejorative adjective here), etc. What I love most about the show -- and I hope I'm not alone -- is the brilliant sarcastic wit spewing out of his mouth with astonishing frequency and rapidity. You either like this type of humor or you don't -- if you don't, just don't watch it. No harm, no foul...Let's please take this show with a grain of salt. After all, that's all it is, right? A show...


                
First of all I must say, I HATE TV-SHOWS, I hate serials and I almost hate people who loves them, because I somewhat think they have no life...Now about Dr. House: It's the first time that TV-Series caught me and I can't even say for sure, why? Maybe it's Dr. Houses' witty, British humor that you can't usually see in American movies.Maybe it's because in my childhood I loved Sherlock Holmes and Dr. House reminds me him so much...Maybe it's just because Hugh Laurie is such a good actor that it's just a pleasure to sit back and watch him act...I don't know which reason it is, maybe all of them together. All I can say - that this show is GREAT, catching, inspiring, funny, dramatic, chaotic and... did I say funny? Just one complaint: After season 1, in season 2, show became more "soapy" than it should be. Because "soap" - isn't very "Housish"...Implementing the character of Stacey Werner was a mistake (Just my 2 cents). She is annoying, she is out of the team, she is distracting and she ruins the character of House. (She's not as other co-workers and characters who actually HELP to build Houses' char) I'm not against some "private life" for our dear medics and absolutely not against some character development and depth, but DON'T dare to try to IMPROVE House, Because that's where his charm is. He's not improveable; he's not sentimental, he's sarcastic son of a b***h and that's how he must stay...Less private drama - more cases!


                
In 2010 I caught my sister watching an episode or two and I didn't think much of them which was a real shame because I adore Hugh Laurie very much! Last year I started to get into a bit because I do like my science (even though there are pages and pages of forums dedicated to debunking some of the medical theory used on the show and well I just DO NOT CARE...I wasn't watching it to become a doctor of medicine) and well, I watched every single episode from one end to the other and it was time very well spent. Lots of laughs, lots of moments where a tear nearly comes to the eye and lots of moments where you're not quite sure what to feel. A real emotional roller coaster and you will not regret watching it I promise you. And credit to Hugh Laurie...the best American accent performed consistently (by season 2) by a true English gent. Not a bad limp either.
For all you people who have an appreciation for Medical dramas or simply compelling television, "House" is definitely worth giving a try. The casting is excellent with Hugh Laurie making a wonderful "Doctor House". His sidekicks fit the bill well. It is very interesting how the show uses doctor House's inherent brashness to allow him to say things that seemingly are politically incorrect, but almost always appropriate!! At the same time Dr. Wilson is used as House's alter ego to give the viewer an alternate more main stream point of view. The writing is excellent and the cases being solved are very gripping and keep you guessing till the end!!


                
I can't believe USA would try to present such a smart program on basic cable. Granted they dumb down the dialog slightly for viewers, but they obviously assume their audience is somewhat versed in infectious disease medicine. They assume an audience that can conceptualize drug-resistant microbes. A program like this has great potential for addressing the many cross-purposes in medical practice - a potential that is rich in human interest stories - although it is admittedly hard to weave in realistic dialog among doctors that is both comprehensible and enlightening to viewers and consumers of medical services. Dr. House personifies the darker contradictions that cripple our health system and does a fine job of grimacing under ironies and isolation. He negotiates medical ethics as well as immunology in a dramatic way, (calls to mind "Critical Care" (1997)and "Wit" (2001), and could raise awareness of patients who are nannied into relinquishing responsibility for their own participation in society's institutions. Dark irony is the only lubricant to keep our medical establishment rolling and Hugh Laurie squeezes it out just right.


                
This show took me by surprise in its excellence. The first time I caught an episode, after its being recommended to me by a Hugh Laurie fan, I was hooked. Not only is each medical mystery intriguing in its complexity, but the casting of the show is excellent, especially Hugh Laurie as Dr. Gregory House, Robert Sean Leonard as Dr. James Wilson, and Lisa Edelstein as Dr. Lisa Cuddy.If you have been avoiding "House" because you figure it's "just another medical drama," please check it out! It's so much more than that. The characters are developed each week, the dialog is often hilarious, and most of all, Dr. House himself is intriguing enough for just about anyone to enjoy his show.


                
My summary statement displays just how highly I rate House, and with good reason. This is what you get when you take the written complexity of Sherlock Holmes' deductabilities, use that basis to solve 21st century medical mysteries in a 21st century politically and morally correct world, using today's general society as a backboard. Throw in a maverick diagnostician, more Sherlock Holmes tit-bits, and the core of this show is complete.The acting of all the roles are superb, each individual brings a unique X-factor into each episode, everyone has their quirks, just as they should in real life. None of them are truly stereotypical, a brilliant foreground guise overlapping the show's general moralities. The majority of the credit in the acting goes to the lead, Hugh Laurie, but I have to reserve my applause to his characters only friend, Dr Robert Wilson, played impeccably by Robert Sean Leonard. First cast on the show, and it shows, the scenes he appears in automatically breathe in an air of what is to come, a dramatic moment, a comedic line, or a battle of morals with Dr House, every scene he is in is 100% pure entertainment, a fine actor who should be offered large roles in Hollywoods more serious movies.The show is so accessible to all audiences, it's writing is bordering genius. You can watch it as a passing medical mystery without becoming overly involved in the characters and the background stories, and you can, like myself and millions of others, immerse yourself into a whole world of personality clashes, moral crashing and social bashing between the on-screen ensemble.The closest you will come to a perfect entertainment production.


                
i was really upset when the first series ended especially leaving it with his life hanging in the balance.. besides there's nothing much (at the moment) which is similar to House on TV.i really enjoyed the episode with the boy who thought he had alien implants in him, very strange..!!it always amazes me how many different things can go wrong with the human anatomy. With House most i've never even heard of or would have thought possible..!the story lines are interesting, fun and weird but always keep you guessing. I like the way you can see him working things out in his mind and how he gets to the final conclusion..looks like his leg is going to start bothering him again, more misery then.. don't suppose he'd be House if he wasn't dishing it out..!!
Incredible show! I'm normally not a big fan of "Doctor" shows, but I will quickly make an exception for this. Dr. House's wit, sarcasm, and overall disregard of courtesy creates a one-of-a-kind story that never ceases to amuse.House is in charge of a hospital's diagnostic medicine where he and his three staff-doctors attempt to solve totally bizarre and seemingly impossible cases. Though he cares little of other's opinions in regards to feelings, he also is wildly devoted to his cases and will do near anything to cure his patients. Many plot twists obviously keep the show fresh, but what really shines on this show is character conversations, where House's awkward, bitter, and brutally honest reactions will keep you laughing and excited to hear what he says next. A quirky romantic story line also ensues, which mixed in with serious drama and hilarious lines creates a very well-rounded show. There is a lot of medical jargon during the diagnostic scenes, but luckily the results are always summed up, so you don't need to go to med school to follow the story.Great show! Just watch one episode, and you'll be hooked!


                
A major plus for House MD is that it don't trivialize matters, nor does it shirk away from being pk. And a pk show couldn't be as funny and enjoyable as this is. Causs it has a lot of humor and snide remarks. One favorite is for when Foreman and House are "arguing" about Foreman being rided and it's getting worse. The comment "Well its not because of your colour, You where just as black last Tuesday" is a evidence of the joy the show brings. And all you pk:ers out there should shut up and go to bed. This is NOT a show with racist remarks. believing that shows what a shallow and ,frankly, dumb person you are. Another good thing is the lenght of the episodes (43 min w/o commercial) that don't force the episodes to be either divided nor shrunk with forced removing of plot twists. The other two of Houses team are Cameron and Chase. Cameron is a little over-friendly and believes in the good man, even though Houses motto "Everybody lies" proves to be true again and again. But don't go away thinking that every episode is about this, as the problem is very varying but most often a disease with a long strange name not meant to be spoken with mortal mouths. The bloopers probably would be very fun to watch. Chase is an Aussie with blond hair that is referred to as "the pretty doctor".All Main and sub-main characters in the show has their own problems that gets reveled little by little as the episodes goes by like a red line connecting the episodes to get a continuous feeling as the patients differs. Some people will think that House is a ripoff from Dr Cox from Scrubs as neither of them play nice or take interests in the patients life unless it's connected to the disease.
To tell you the truth, I had my hesitations about watching another medical drama but this show surprised me. Hugh Laurie deserves a lot of credit for taking on an American accent and playing it so well. You forget he's British. The casting of Lisa Edelstein is a welcome addition. She carries her character very well. Robert Sean Leonard is playing an Australian. Funny since the show is set in New Jersey and that's where he is from. Omar Epps is touching in a strong role as the neurologist. My favorite episode is starring Leslie Hope in a guest appearance as a homeless woman down on her luck. It is one of the most touching episodes on television lately. I even teared a little. The fact that this show is set in New Jersey is a welcome change for us. Rather than depicting us as fun loving mobsters or crooked politicians, the show provides an interesting location. I will be watching it more. I love Hugh Laurie and hope that his die-hard fans would nominate him for a British honor. He is long overdue for it in my opinion. The casting, writing, and acting is superb. I watched MAD-TV's parody of the show starring Michael McDonald in a perfect performance as Dr. House. HE is so good that you wonder if it is actually Hugh Laurie himself. Great show overall.


                
Why on earth would it be fun to watch a complete jerk terrorizing his poor colleagues in a US-hospital? Well beats me but it is! In fact, I think this is one of the most addictive show currently on TV! Dr House is mostly NOT what a good doctor should be! He is rude, uninterested and well a complete ass. He is also quite brilliant! You can't help but feel sorry for the people around him. In fact you would feel sorry for House too if he wasn't so obnoxious. Who would have thought that stiff-upper-lip Brit Hugh Laurie could be so believable as an American doctor? It's consistently fun to watch. The cast is great and the stories are engaging. Highly, very highly recommended!


                
Like a medical drama but good.Sometimes sweet and heart-warming, sometimes sad, but nearly always interesting and humorous.House is a cranky, sarcastic genius which I would say is loosely based on Sherlock Holmes with his small medical team being young Watsons.


                
First off, I don't usually like medical dramas. In fact, I don't usually involve myself with many shows on TV period - I find they lose my interest pretty quickly (Lost).House is different. Laurie is absolutely brilliant, and pulls off the American accent superbly. He also does a good job with the disability that his character has. No complaints there whatsoever.The script writers for this show deserve the most praise. Every week House has new, witty rebuttals for his colleagues which never fail to hit the mark.House is just a brilliant show, and is one of the three I watch on a weekly basis. It matters little if you miss an episode, because they don't really continue...sure, there's a continual aspect to the global storyline, but the individual medical cases are all wrapped up in one episode. Yes, you could say it's a little formulaic - they come in with a problem, House usually has the right answer etc, but IMO that's part of the draw - the formula works. I especially like it when they call for an LP, which seems to be a regular occurrence...that always brings a smile to my face!


                
