I watched this with my father and neither of us cared for this debut episode. The show begins with a reference to the fact that only about 9K officers patrol the entire City of Los Angeles, but then fails to tell us which geographic area or Division the show is set and we don't really know if all the myriad characters introduced work out of the same station or what their assignment are(i.e., Robbery, Homicide, Vice, etc.).The writing is a disaster. It's trite and unbelievable. "We got our own war on terror here," says the distraught black mother of a victim of gang violence, as the chorus of detectives in the background nod in unison ("Amen!"). "You've got 90210 written all over your face," exclaims the training officer, derisively, to the rookie played by an actor who's last gig was depicting a juvenile delinquent from the wrong side of the tracks (THE O.C.). Really? "If you can't handle it, quit!" he tells the rookie on his first day on the job, and this is before the rookie has to shoot and kill someone. The training officer's hostility to his new charge is inexplicable and ridiculous. His job is to train and motivate the new officer, not destroy him and get him to quit and put his 6 months of expensive Academy training to work for the benefit of "Small, Safe, White Community" P.D. The training officer's big speech at the end was laughably over-the-top. Also, the banter between C.Thomas Howell's character and the female officer was not realistic. LAPD is highly PC and that sort of sexist talk is simply not tolerated, certainly not in the presence of a female officer.There were other flaws, such as the shaky camera work and the silly use of "bleeps" to cut out unnecessary foul language. If the director wanted documentary-style, he should have cut out the music, slo-mo, long stares into the camera for "effect", and myriad characters, and simply followed the young rookie on his first day.Los Angeles has been the setting of some cop successful cop shows (DRAGNET, POLICE STORY, ADAM-12, CHIPS). But in recent years, every cop show set in Los Angeles has been a failure (remember the much-hyped ROBBERTY HOMICIDE from a few years back?). For whatever reason, producers and directors seem to have difficulty capturing the essence of Los Angeles and instead wind up with a jumbled, sprawled out mess--much like LA itself.


                
