It was perfect. I loved the gritty look, the hand-held camera work was awesome (it was very fluid and gave the show a reality show feel, almost like an episode of Cops) and the locations all so well chosen...The stories were all terrific and I felt very true to life.Ben McKenzie is terrific as the earnest rookie and Regina King shone, it's probably her best role. The other cast is all so good too.NBC was stupid for canceling this show and keeping Jay Leno on the air. I like Jay, but his show doesn't need to be on five nights a week. Maybe they'll move it to once or twice a week and bring back the solid dramas NBC used to be known for.As for Southland, I really hope this show gets a chance with another network.If it does, I'll watch this show wherever it ends up.


                
To me this is one of the best new shows. After Lost ends I think I will be looking forward to this the most along with 24. I love V but fear for it to get worst, I've seen almost every Law and Order SVU and I'm getting sick of it, and Flash Forward is good but not as good as this. This show has a "fresh" feel which makes it stands out. There is nothing like it. The first season was amazing. I'm not sure why I like it exactly but one of the reasons is that it takes CSI style cop drama and takes it a step further. Some times the subject matter and the way it is shot make it seem almost too realistic. It almost has a horror movie effect on me. I grip the edge of my seat.


                
I am going to school to be a police officer in WI. The pilot was so REALISTIC. Awesome. This show is probably going to let a lot of people know that being a police officer, Detective, or any job within the police is really just a job, an awesome one, like the FTO said "this is a front row show the greatest show on the earth..I am a big 24 nut and I actually prefer watching southland.. cuts out all the bullshit.I would have to say.. Really good acting especially on the FTO's behalf.. he did a great job at letting everyone watching what it is like to be a rookie police officer, and how hard it is to complete the training guidelines and pretty much be a prick to your trainee.Keep it up... That pilot was amazing.2009 Best Series...


                
Previous to watching Southland, The Shield and The Wire were my two favorite cop shows. I officially have three favorites now, Southland among them. So, WHY IS IT SO GOOD? Well, it's got convincing characters, believable acting, and furthermore good acting to top it off. I enjoy how at the beginning of episodes it give you a glimpse of what is to happen later, then goes back to show how things came to be that way. What's also really great is the character development. You see characters gradually evolve as the show progresses. You're presented with real world realistic, believable scenarios of what can happen to cops, mentally, in the field, and in their lives, and how they deal with it, sometimes good, others badly. If you enjoy cop shows, AT ALL.... WATCH THIS


                
As another reviewer mentioned already, you are missing out if you have yet to give Southland a chance on your TV screen. One of the realest, most intense shows I have ever watched. I am no expert as it pertains to anything producers, actors, directors, etc do to make a great story, but whatever these folks are doing is truly incredible.I know I will sound overly gushing, but the show literally brings you into the conflict of the officers and detectives on patrol each episode. Your adrenaline will pump when a mob gathers after a young perp is arrested. You will care about the characters. You will watch again. Just give it a try.


                
Only time will tell how high the replay value is for this show, but watching from start to finish (though I don't recommend binge watching) proved an exhilarating and emotional stretch of series watching to rival the very best. It takes a lot to roll credits and leave me wanting more. "Southland" did that consistently (like a ravenous wolf I consumed this series). The documentary camera work, while adding a "really there" authenticity, also offered inventive angles and really ratcheted the tension at every turn. I couldn't get into "The Shield" partly because of the shaky-cam, but it really is well-done here. And "Southland" was almost always on-location (not to mention the wide array of inside-the- patrol-car shots), so the feeling of really being there was genuine. No wonder this show was so expensive. But it was the writing that kept me coming back for more. Events occur naturally on this show; even the rare use of the stock "toxicology report confirms ..." trope to keep the narrative going didn't feel forced (it's a contrivance on a great many cop shows). And these were characters I genuinely gave a damn about; there mistakes, weaknesses and the struggle to maintain humanity at the end of the day. Which was certainly helped by the stellar ensemble cast. Everyone here is terrific, particularly Regina King and Michael Cudlitz; episode after episode, these two deliver performances that get under your skin, and they are nothing short of captivating to watch. Cudlitz made Officer John Cooper one of the great characters of the genre - equal parts frustrating and fascinating. Give that man an Emmy. The cancellation of "Southland" is truly heartbreaking, as the season ended with all sorts of insanity coming to a head (and a bitter cliffhanger with no closure). But what we've gotten is some seriously riveting, impressive and haunting television, the likes of which I don't think I'll see again in the near future. Just an unbelievably high-quality show. Outstanding. 10/10
Forget shows like 'The Mentalist', 'Glades', 'Blue Blood' and any other cop dramas you can think of 'The Shield' excluded, 'Southland' is the business. From the off I was hooked by 'Southland', but immensely disappointed that the episodes in the first couple of seasons were so short. However this has been remedied and what a show. Filmed in a fly on the wall documentary style it surely must be as realistic a cop drama as you can get. When I first got into 'Southland' I read a review on IMDb and it said something like after 'The Shield' who would think of making a cop drama, and I thought yeah they're right. Who could follow in the footsteps of Vick Mackey, Shane Van Drell, Lem and co on the mean streets of downtown LA. Well, and some of you may find this hard to believe 'Southland' redefines the cop genre and offers something unique a new take on what some would consider an exhausted genre. 'Southland' has it all: an awesome cast, shot in real life downtown LA locations, it's well made, well produced, what more could one want, BUT MORE... roll on February 2013.


                
I've gone through all the typical cop/crime drama's....the ones that appeal me a lot are 'WHITECOLLAR', 'CASTLE', 'THE MENTALIST', etc...all of them had quite a monotonous tone...a case comes into light...they show a lot of suspects and then the a person amongst the team rises to the occasion and figures out the the real suspect....even NCIS, SHARK, BONES, etc...have the same sort of themeThis show is so much more than a typical plot...there's a very deep story line going on in the background while a number of real life cases go on....there's a gradual development of characters...some characters have that charm and spunk everyone wants to see...especially BEN SHERMAN (BEN MCKENZIE) & JOHN COPPER (MICHAEL CUDLITZ)....the acting is definitely top notchThe thing about this show is that it seems to go at a slower pace but thats what makes it great...it gives time for the story line to develop in each episode and after a couple of episodes u'll know that this series is way beyond all the other typical stuff you see on TVI recommend it to anyone who wants to break the monotony while keeping the element of drama and action alive


                
This is my new favourite and most watched show. I first seen an episode while in NYC and ever since I'm obsessed with it. I can't miss an episode. In my opinion, this is the best cop show on TV, ever! I like how the camera is not stuck in one position and moves around like a cameraman on cops! Some of the things that happen are shocking and the cast deals with it in their own ways makes me realize how bad/sad/good the job of a cop really is. I just hope they keep making Southland for as long as possible. Just one thing: I hope they don't keep beeping out all the swears words. Come on, the show is on at 10pm. It's not like people haven't heard those words before!


                
Southland is not a show for those with A.D.D. It takes concentration to keep up with the events that occur, but it's well worth it. There are plenty of television series where one can mindlessly watch and be satisfied, but there are rarely shows with depth that are both excellent in quality and complexity.The show follows different perspectives of police officers on the streets of Los Angeles and the main emphasis of the show is to depict entertaining yet realistic views of police officers and what they deal with.The reason I tuned into this show was because of Ben McKenzie, I have always been a fan (yes, The OC). His acting is amazing, I'm glad he got another chance to shine on television as his talent is obvious and his character is definitely relatable.(Edit) After watching more and more, I must admit that I have been feeling guilty for not mentioning the other actors. Regina King, Shawn Hatosy, Michael Cudlitz, Arija Bareikis, and Kevin Alejandro all do so well, every actor on this show gives 110% and then some. I feel for every character, it's amazing to be able to experience such emotion for so many different characters in only 44 minutes.I hope this series does not falter, it has potential and thus far, I am amused and addicted.The censoring of profanity is rather childish and seems as if some phrases intend to be humorous (as many humor shows often use the *bleep* sound rather than actual profanity). I'm glad TNT picked it up, but sadly the budget was significantly reduced alongside cast reduction. So far it has been able to carry on, hopefully it continues doing so; don't ruin a good thing.


                
I absolutely loved this drama . I was so disappointed it was canceled The characters were so real. It was gritty in your face drama you never knew what to expect. I watched from the beginning I will certainly miss it one the highlights of weekly viewing. So much garbage on today ! I guess the network's decision is final. The ensemble cast was excellent each actor so talented and convincing. I would have liked an ending that would have wrapped up all the story lines. Maybe they could do a TV movie later. It was the best police drama I have seen on TV. I guess it was too raw for prime time that is why NBC got rid of it. Thank goodness for cable alternatives or there would be so many shows that would not air. Just wish the network would reconsider and bring it back ! Actors have probably moved on to other projects.


                
Thank God, this show has a spot here on Englih TV. It is one of the fastest moving, personal and thrilling shows on TV at the moment. The cast is superlative and the back stories on theses folk keep you glued to the screen. Bravo to all involved and keep up the good work. Can't wait for season 5. This show has more to offer than THE WIRE did for me. It has few rivals for its grittiness and honesty. Perhaps the closest show which ticks all the boxes is JUSTIFIED. That is also a show to be proud of. They are the only two series I buy for my personal collection of dvds. Great television comes along more often than it once did and SOUTHLAND is certainly great.


                
It was supposed to be aired on Oct 23rd. bleep bleep bleep. One of the finest cop drama ever!!! I wanna watch it. Make it happen. Ms. King's performance is just great. Really Fine actress! I don't understand why there aren't many comments about this here. I'm not happy this series is not loved by many people. It can not be any better. Long live the Southland. It was supposed to be aired on Oct 23rd. bleep bleep bleep. One of the finest cop drama ever!!! I wanna watch it. Make it happen. Ms. King's performance is just great. Really Fine actress! I don't understand why there aren't many comments about this here. I'm not happy this series is not loved by many people. It can not be any better. Long live the Southland.


                
I'm here with general overall comments on this program.If you love watching police drama - SOUTHLAND is _the best_ (so far) in the genre. If I could, I'd give this series 20 out of 10! This series is 100% better than Breaking bad in my opinion.It's probably the best "cop show" _ever_ and I would encourage anyone with an interest in great compelling performances and great story to make time for this series. It really hits its stride in season 4 but all season and all episodes are totally engaging. I binged watch using DVDs and downloads so story arc continuity was easier to maintain (especially for "the hood" stuff in Seasons 1& 2), and I would encourage you to do likewise. The gallows humour and practical jokes in season 4 are not to be missed. There are numerous series out there competing for your attention - but do not miss this one. There's a line the character John Cooper uses in episode one indicating being an LA cop is a ticket to the "greatest show on earth with a ringside seat". He's absolutely correct. Bring your piece & wear your vest!Chris G. (retired male 65) Winnipeg Canada - Nov 2014


                
Southland is one of the few police dramas that does not come across as clichéd, unrealistic or action packed just for the sake of action. The drama is realistic. The characters represent real police officers around the world with real issues, they are not just macho alpha males wanting to be the top dog or female characters sexed up and made out to be glamorous and lethal. Alcoholism, drug dependency, homosexuality, adultery, divorce, parenthood, office politics, racism, sexism, corruption, and social status are several of the many themes the show encounters. Southland does not tip-toe around many issues or in no way dilute many of the themes explored. Southland deserves to be commended for its realism and engaging drama which attracts viewers to empathise with its characters. The portrayal of the Los Angeles Police Department is the salt of the earth with it's reliable, straightforward, and no BS approach. To be honest, Southland was a surprise package which had me hooked from the first episode.Southland alternates between various characters throughout the series.Michael Cudlitz (Band of Brothers) plays Field Training Officer John Cooper and Ben McKenzie (The OC) plays rookie police officer Ben Sherman. John Cooper is the grizzled 20 year veteran who has seen it all on the streets on Los Angeles and also has very little patience for those that break the law, regardless of how minor. Cooper doesn't have time for office politics either. Cooper hides his sexuality from his co workers but in later episodes references are obliquely made and in one episode, he admits to being gay. Ben Sherman is the rookie police officer who resents his privileged family background after a childhood incident which left him psychologically scarred for life and also built the foundations for his desire of wanting to become a police officer. We learn that Sherman is an excellent marksman and also is strongly protective of women. Sherman sees the world realistically compared to his other sheltered family and friends. Initially Sherman is ambitious, intelligent and strongly driven to make a good impression as a police officer by doing well, but later his perception of society wears him down and increases his cynicism.Arija Bareikis plays Chickie Brown (Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolo), a female police officer who is a single mother with aspirations to be the first LAPD female police officer to join SWAT. Though she loses the respect from all her fellow police officers when she fails to report her partner for his alcoholism, she later redeems herself when she makes a solo arrest a dangerous rapist. Her partner is the motor mouthed, foul mouthed, alcoholic, obnoxious Bill "Dewey" Dudek played by C. Thomas Howell (The Hitcher). Initially Dewey is widely disliked by all his colleagues due to his obnoxious behaviour and abrasive remarks as well as his alcoholism, but after he is sent to rehab, he returns as a police officer with a more serious approach to his job although parts of his obnoxious personality remain intact.Sammy Bryant played by Shawn Hatosy (The Faculty) is a gang and narcotics detective who later transfers back to patrol. Sammy is a more than capable detective and patrol officer however he has issues in his personal life, including his neurotic wife Tammy (Emily Bergl) who later cheats on him. His best friend and partner Nate Moretta played by Kevin Alejandro (True Blood) is later killed in the line of duty after several gang members beat him to death. Their gruff supervisor Daniel "Sal" Salinger played by Michael McGrady (L.A. Noire) is often supportive of the teams efforts but also has to contend with his disaster-prone daughter and his wife who is rapidly ascending the ranks of the LAPD.Lydia Adams played by Regina King (Enemy of the State) is an ambitious and strong willed Robbery-Homicide detective with a strong desire to bring those to justice and to help victims in need. Lydia's efforts are often hampered by bureaucratic red tape and social politics. Lydia often speaks her mind when it comes to issues she disagrees with, which is often to the chagrin of her partners, her supervisor, and the LAPD Media Relations Officer who she considers to be an enemy of hers. She goes through various partners throughout the series including Russell Clarke (Tom Everett Scott), Rene Cordero (Amaury Nolasco), Ray Suarez (Clifton Collins Jr), Josie Ochoa (Jenny Gago) and Reuben Robinson (Dorian Missick). Lydia also lives with her elderly mother who is a former school teacher, and later in the series Lydia becomes a single mother.The cast is excellent and there was not one dull episode throughout the series. Other actors to make an appearance throughout the show include Lucy Liu (Charlie's Angels), Bokeem Woodbine (The Rock), Jamie McShane (Sons of Anarchy), Lou Diamond Phillips (Young Guns II), Carl Lumbly (Alias), Laz Alonso (Breakout Kings), Chad Michael Murray (One Tree Hill), Derek Ray (Mad Men), and Anthony Ruivivar (Third Watch).It was very sad that the series came to a premature end as it would have been great so have seen a few loose ends tied up. However, throughout the time Southland was on, it was always a pleasure watching the show. It was great watching a show that was more realistic story lines with realistic characters that dealt with realistic themes. Southland was quite an underrated show that will be sadly missed.10/10.
Out of all the current cop shows on TV this is IMO is the best one currently in production. It isn't one of the overdone and dime a dozen shows like CSI or NCIS type of shows. I get tired of the self contained shows where everything is nice and neatly resolved in an hours time. Shows with multiple story lines going on at the end same time that take most of a season to conclude are the most fulfilling of story lines.The show starts with a rookie cop teaming up with his training officer as one of the 3 different pairs of police officers that the show focuses on. In another 1/3 of the show you have all of the homicide detectives and the other part you have the gang detectives.


                
I'm a big city cop. For 25 years. Big city cops hate cop TV shows. This is so amazingly true to nature. Great stories, Great actors and actresses. The story lines are intense. After watching an episode, I can't wait for the next one. And, unlike Chicago Code, there are no foreigners trying take the place of Americans on here. Keep this show going. Advertise more. You will definitely get more viewers. Keep up the amazing work. I'm trying to spread the word for you. Everyone I've told that has watched it, just loves it. Good job. (I think it really stinks having to write "10" lines for this review because now I have to write this line and other bs to try and fill it in....if it's a one line review, then sobeit. ).


                
Back in the late 60's all the way to the mid 70's there was a cop show that i loved and now have the collection of called Adam-12. It is my opinion that Southland is just a new name for Adam-12. I love it. Finally a real cop show. My hat off to NBC for finally realizing that America is getting bored with all the fictional garbage that they have been shoving down our throats. The only thing the show is missing is at the end "The incidents you have seen are true. The names were changed to protect the innocent" America needs to realize that its not all about car and foot chases and murders. There is a lot of other "calls" that need to be handled too. Jack Webb i think would agree.


                
This is my favorite cop drama ever! I think the best is the wire but this is my favorite and ranks second on the all time best cop shows. It's so raw and in your face. The directing and execution is perfection. My only complaint is it didn't last a little longer. It's absolutely captivating and engrossing. The characters are casted perfectly. I love the Camera shots through the on foot chase scenes adding to the realism which this show really feels like..authentic. I'm possibly in the minority I don't like a procedural, I favor serialized cop shows better. It gives for more character development and better focus on story arcs and sub plots and this is the case with southland. I love each and every season. It's very gritty and sometimes dark. You feel as though your responding to a call alongside them and are there on the scene up close and personal. It's truly groundbreaking. This is a must watch and extremely brilliant. The writing is consistently incredible as is the stories throughout the seasons. For an incredible cop show look no further but this one is not like one you've seen before. Prepare yourself for a truly unique experience. Like the wire their hasn't been a show like this since. Bravo


                
This exceptional television series almost works like a fly on the wall documentary series about the American police force.There are bleep outs on bad language used while the force go through the motions of each day...Hand held cameras sweep with the action as though the camera's were in mid air.As an English viewer here in England, it is though I were a fly on the wall watching reality, instead of damn good acting. ...This series is excellent throughout, but could be regarded as dour by some people, even depressing...


                
I've watched a lot of cop shows over the decades and this is the best dang show I ever had the pleasure of watching. I'm glad that many of the cast got "famous" from this series. Reminds me of Deadwood. Another show that was too good for its' own good.


                
Great cop show! Up the with the best to be made. Real and genuine!


                
Ok so I know I'm a few years late to the party...but from the beauty that is HULU i was able to watch Southland on my summer vacation. And all I can say wow...how little respect Hollywood has for the audience. What a great show, amazing actors, seat gripping storylines and it just stops...no rhyme or reason. I'll add it to the list of shows that left way too early and that I still miss; American Dreams (2002) and Jericho (2006)


                
You feel like you're going through the streets of la with the cops always eating at the most popular places, real gang names are used and the realities of being a cop. One of the best shows of all time.
First and foremost I want to thank the outstanding cast of actors, director/crew that made this police drama possible. I loved every episode! Now, was there some creative/dramatic liberty taken..maybe. I mean It is a show after all. However this drama dared to show the dark side of not just a segment of LA society but of our boys in blue. It brought some of the grim realities of what goes on in society on both sides of the fence. So sorry it had to end. You guys had me hooked! Five awesome seasons! You did a great job and wish you continued success in your future endeavors. Some of my favorite actors made appearances on the show which made the show even that much more exciting to watch :) Thomas Howell for example. Love him in the film Gettysburg and the Outsiders. Yes I'm that old. :) "Let's do it for Johnny man!" :) lol! Same with Kevin Alejandro. Saw him for the first time in the recent series "Lucifer". Folks, as much as I knew it was acting it killed me to see his character get killed off the show. So many other characters I wouldn't have minded see an early death. :) Next to End Of Watch I've never seen any other police drama that truly had me at the edge of my seat/emotionally connected as this show did. Funny thing is that up to a couple a weeks ago, I had not even heard of the show. I just so happened to run into it on Hulu while I was browsing and figured I'd give it a try. I'll admit at first I thought it was going to be like all the other cop shows I've seen in the past. Good cop bad cop blah blah blah. Was I ever wrong. In closing this long winded review, sorry folks, a final thank you for police officers everywhere that by chance may read this. I realize how much of a bad wrap you guys have received due to some bad apples out there. I know that they are not a true reflection of what a true police officer is/supposed to be. I want to thank you for the sacrifice you folks make on a daily basis. I am a retired military veteran and seen my share of chaos/personal grief and to an extent know how hard it can be to keep the job away from home/driving you crazy. Sincerely, thank you and if you guys can somehow get this show back I would love you forever! :) lol!


                
