At first this looked to be a kind of watered-down version of "The Shield" but the first-rate production work and the quality of the acting kept me interested. As the characters interacted and events unfolded I detected an intention to present a realistic -- if condensed -- version of life on the streets for LAPD. More importantly, I could sense that, unlike so many of today's TV dramas, this program seems to have something to say. Generally speaking, only TV producers Dick Wolf and David E. Kelley can be counted on to deliver on that score -- at least for the first ten years or so! For me, the jury is still out on "Southland". So far, so good ... Just watched the second episode -- better than the first -- solid! This really IS turning out to be a cop version of "ER" ... grounded in realistic detail ... focused on the minute by minute challenges of realistically portrayed characters. This one could be a keeper!


                
Okay so the idea is to remain alert in our viewing, neither merely react nor let ourselves be numbed by what's on the screen. In this way all the cinematic elements fall into place and we can discard what gets in the way of seeing clearly.This for example, it's about a day in the life of Los Angeles cops patrolling the streets. The whole thing is held at a distance the makers would probably describe as unsentimental and real, it's shot in a docu style, they don't go out of their way to idealize cops and victims. We get all this in a diaristic format that no feature film could afford that lets us just tangle with life. For a while it's powerful stuff. All of that power for me comes from the abstract way we are lowered into this world (in the shoes of a rookie cop on his first day) and left to swim. It's a meaningless world that has been already spinning off by itself as we enter. We know little about the characters and learn little for a long time except what we see of them during the job. Their job is our viewing as well, having to face damaged life in every corner.All of this plays not just against a Los Angeles backdrop, the city is the protagonist. I came into this as part of a cinematic project about LA and I found one of the most vibrant depictions of it, the camera hurls itself everywhere, from fancy Bel Air mansions to ghetto backalleys. Some of the most evocative shots frame desperate characters on the rooftops of buildings with clear skies in the back.So to see clearly into this is to get this blueprint of a transient world of suffering with people tracing aimless orbits through the city. Very little is meaningfully changed or redeemed and each day is only another opportunity to go in and out of suffering, stay alert and present. Nothing builds, everything dissolves back into the smoggy air come nightfall.Like most TV this is eventually diluted the more it goes on, life becomes plot, the dilemmas become habit. By that point we are as numbed as the weary cops of 20 years we met on that first day. But for a while it offers a glimpse no other work I know of at this point does; imagine, in another 20 years time people are going to look back and find it tame.


                
In general I don't like the shows on U.S.A. because they are so superficial. The plots lack any creativity and the characters are so one dimensional that I find them boring. Even the shows that look good in the previews tend not to be.You can imagine my surprise when I watched "Southland" and liked it! The acting was great, the story was intriguing and I enjoyed the gritty reality of the show.If you are a fan of "Band of Brothers" you might like this show because of the heavy use of steadicam shots and the character of Sgt. Bull, played by Michael Cudlitz, also plays the lead cop in "Southland".The only negative thing that I could say about the show was that it bleeps out the mature language. Swear without the beeps or don't swear at all! Masking the mature language with bleeps was distracting and didn't add to the dialog at all.


                
Southland for me is appointment viewing. I have loved this show but something has gone wrong this season. Southland's center was the rich stories about the cast's lives and how these story lines spilled over into how they did their jobs. Cooper had drug problems, he was injured, he was dealing with his homosexuality in an environment that was not conducive to that, and now? We had a 25 second workout scene and now it's all better. Moving on. Regina King - sleeping with her female partners kid, now? Partner (who was great) gone, and the guy? Gone. Only recently is her life creeping back into the plot.Ben Sherman - father and mother issues. Why did he join the force? Now he's looking for a house in Simi Valley?Sammy - Crazy wife, dog, divorce, restraining order, partner killed, seeking revenge! Now? I guess we have moved on from that.I just don't understand why this has happened. I still love the style in which the show is shot and produced but the whole thing feels smaller and seems to be retreating to a safer place. I am going to keep watching but this season has been a troubling departure to a known quantity.
This show is not the best of documentary style, but the idea is not a bad one. The field training officer is almost true to life. My first one was nothing like him but I had some just like him. The story line that follows the rookie is well done. It could be a better show if it cut out some of the other characters and plot lines. They did a fine job on the rookie and should focus on that. It was very similar to my first night out minus shooting someone. Cop shows can never be dead on not even "Cops" because even on that show the real cops change attitude and act for the cameras. This show is as close to real life as fiction comes.


                
Southland is a good police series that portrays in a quite realistic way how everyday's activities and problems unfold for Los Angeles policemen. Each episode takes on a different situation or event: the murder of a Hollywood star, the rape of a young girl, a simple dispute between neighbors, etc. Therefore all kind of crimes, with all their aspects, are dealt with and analyzed in-depth. Besides the action, that's quite good, thanks to well-made car chasing and camera zoom- ins, the lives of single policemen can be seen. Each one has to deal with his/her problems (drugs, divorce, past life regrets, etc.), which makes the plot interesting and nicely integrated with the more police work part. A particular feature of the series is that policemen are almost always simultaneously riding their cars, patrolling the city, waiting to respond for emergency calls. This, along with the good camera work, gives it a realistic cut to it.


                
Officer Ben Sherman (Ben McKenzie) from a rich family is a rookie paired up with training officer John Cooper (Michael Cudlitz) who is secretly a homosexual and dealing with a pain killer addiction. Homicide detective Lydia Adams (Regina King) is a smart independent woman living with her mother. Officer Chickie Brown (Arija Bareikis) suffers from her outrageous partner Dewey Dudek (C. Thomas Howell). Officer Sammy Bryant (Shawn Hatosy) is stressed from his crazed wife Tammi (Emily Bergl).This starts off as a gritty character-driven police drama on NBC. It got sold to TNT in the second season and the show becomes more procedural in later years. It becomes one outrageous police encounter after another. The big takeaway for me is that Ben McKenzie shows that he has a wider range than hinted at in The O.C. I liked him in Junebug but in this one, his character actually grows over the years along with his acting talents.


                
