If this series supposed to be an improvement over Batman - The Animated Series, I, for one, think it failed terribly. The character drawing is lousy... (Catwoman, for instance, looks awful...) But what really annoyed me is that it made Batman look like a sort of wimp who just can't take care of himself in a battle, without the help of two, even three sidekicks. I mean, he's Batman, for God's sake! I know the comic books, I know that Nightwing and Batgirl are supposed to be Batman's allies, besides Robin, but still... making Batman say that he needs help from them... What, he can't handle a few punches? In BTAS, he could face a dozen adversaries without any problem... He's getting old? Come on...And another thing: I really don't think that Batman would allow a kid like Tim Drake to go into battle that soon, without years of hard training. One, it's irresponsible (and Batman is everything, but irresponsible), and two, it's not what happened in the comics, if we are to remain faithful to them.Batman - The Animated Series made history, with its animation, its stories and its characters... That really was a legend of Batman. The New Adventures series turned the legend into just another Batman flick.
After watching Batman: The Animated Seres you'll possibly be a little shocked by the first handful of episodes, I was. The one big problem comes at you right away. Most of the new character designs come of as simple and very angular. The Joker being the most disappointing with his pointed chin and his now expressionless eyes which is a stupid decision. The Clown Prince of Crime is a mad comedian, he needs readable eyes!Two-Face luckily stayed pretty much the same, but explaining the problems with the redesigns would take too long, so let me bring up one case of awesome: The Scarecrow was so creepy and that really worked with his character!But I must confess one thing, this sequel series had much more darkness to it and not the sophisticated way of Batman: TAS. It's more graphic and less psychological and that's shown from the first couple of episodes.But not every episode lacked the psychological side: Judgement Day, Mad Love, Old Wounds and Over The Edge are actually really well written in that way, my personal favorites being Mad Love and Judgement Day.But we still have the solid voice acting skills from these talented actors. Kevin Conroy and Mark Hamill are amazing as always and a surprisingly sinister performance by Malachi Throne as the new character The Judge in the Judgement Day episode.By itself The New Batman Adventures succeeds, but as a sequel to Batman: TAS, it falls a little short.


                
I grew up with Batman: The Animated Series, and this, the follow up. While I never saw as much of this as I did the Batman TAS, I have recently begun watching both of them. In the end I have to say The New Batman Adventures don't quite hold up. As noted earlier, batman's character is much darker, normally I would let this slide but it reaches a ridiculous point. The animosity between batman and Robin, Dick Grayson and Bruce Wayne seems to have come out of nowhere, and while you see an episode explaining this, it doesn't quite hold up, despite the episode that was supposed to explain it. I found myself thinking, Batman wouldn't interrogate a thug in his own living room inf front of his wife and young son. It annoyed me to no end. The way that Bruce Wayne is portrayed annoys me. He is no longer the tortured soul. He's just moody. Where you may have once sympathized with him, you no longer feel the same level of sympathy. One of the biggest issues I have is with the animation. I just don't like it. They use the intro sequence from TAS but feature none of the animation. One of the things that I absolutely hate is the new Batmobile. Its ugly. I love the horribly impractically long Batmobile of the animated series, the one USED IN THE OPENING CREDITS which is nowhere to be seen. Additionally all of the characters just seem uglier with the new animation, less human. Especially the Villains, the Joker, Mad Hatter, Killer Croc, Mr. Freeze and the Ventriloquist/Scarface in particular are just ugly. I liked the way they did Scarecrow in this, he reminded me of the art style of Mike Mignola, but it felt out of place here. Also Catwoman is just wrong seriously wrong her whole design is awful. On the plus side, I enjoyed most, if not all of the stories in here, except for the fight sequences where it seemed Batman's sidekicks were just sort of shoe horned into the story for those scenes. A great deal of the stories were amazing and went on to further explore the batman universe quite nicely. Additionally the voice actors were kept. And, as odd as it may sound I liked the fact that they showed blood. It seems odd, I know but it was a nice touch and reminded me of the Mask of the Phantasm, an amazing Batman TAS movie. The blood showed that these fights you see episode after episode have an effect. Pros: Good Stories, Amazing voice acting.Cons: Shoehorned-in sidekicks, bad animation style across the board, a new ugly bat mobile, inexplicable personality shifts. Animation and art style used in the opening credits appears no where in the show. Watch this, its better than most modern cartoons, but watch TAS first.
