I was full of hope when I watched the pilot for this highly rated and very popular series. After the pilot I was bewildered as to why the vast number of viewers have given this wishy-washy show such outrageously high ratings! There is nothing new being done here and the quality is mediocre, IMHO!But I decided to watch another episode, just in case the material got better. I, however, gave up towards the end of it. I found it so boring and basically just annoying. This series hardly deserves even one star; it's dreadful!I found the acting to be mostly mediocre, as well as the material. Winona Ryder is overplaying her role with too much hysteria. Other actors are just so so...
I watched the whole series with great disappointment. The acting was bad, the script very amateur, the sound/noise very irritating, the cinematography horrible, the story weak and confusing, and the whole thing just a mess. I kept watching all eight episodes thinking that based on all the rave reviews surely there was something I was missing here. I think this might be among the worst TV series I have ever watched. I had heard the Duffer brothers interviewed on NPR's "All Things Considered" and I was drawn in thinking this was going to be great. I need to exorcise this somehow from my weekend. It was a waste of time and looking back painful to watch. I realize people have different tastes and clearly many people love this series but I honestly have to differ and can not recommend it at all, even on a very boring day with nothing else to do.


                
There's just one thing that really impressed me about this series and that is the high IMDb rating given to this heap of garbage. I say this because I find it utterly amazing that the reviewers who rated this steaming pile of excrement with 9's and 10's must surely ALL be under 12 years of age, and yet they have somehow managed to write reviews that, for the most part, are well worded, grammatically correct and with very few spelling errors. So - well done, kids!! For anyone over 12 years of age - please, just stay right away from this stinker.(PS: Would it have hurt to have given poor "11" a Kleenex tissue or two?)


                
While I realise that different strokes are for different folks for the life of me I am gob smacked how this has such high ratings. One could argue that this is simply a SciFi film but come on dudes this is at best a remake of ET except ET was actually quite a decent film.It is the biggest pile of rubbish I have ever watched. Slow in the beginning - even slower in the end. Acting is terrible and dialogue is pathetic. Seen a review that says only watch if you are U22 years of age. I sayDO NOT BOTHER TRYING TO GET INTO THIS. Utter tripe !! vs Wasting appoximatly 8 hours of your life


                
That's the problem with T.V. shows today and this show is one of the problems when it's going to end. In my opinion I'm tired of seeing the same laziness in shows like Stranger Things, Daredevil, Jessica Jones they all just guilty pleasure with no fresh ideas. And Neflix it's starting to become the huge problem of people laziness in finding anything to watch because they bored until the next new thing. Stranger Things is not an enjoyable show for the mind same thing could be said with Mr.Robot it's just guilty pleasure like Pretty Little Liars, Vampire Diaries, and The Walking Dead where they just going to keep dragging out the story until it doesn't make sense anymore. I have to stop this show before I get suck into another show with no entertaining enjoyment where I can relax and enjoy. Stranger Things is another stable show like Mr. Robot until something new comes long nothing is refreshing and no re watchable value like The Fresh Prince Bel- Air,Friends, Cartoon shows, some daytime sitcoms where you can relax and enjoy it over and over until it's call your favorite show you grown up watching where is the excitement in the show; I already been there and seen it before when I was a child. There's no need to go through with this again. A step back to child/Adult memory Stranger Things is nothing new it copies and paste from other classic movies and t.v. shows; it's getting boring find something refreshing you can enjoy to relax your mind, because this is another guilty pleasure 1/10 for this laziness. I will hold my options open until someone create something new and refreshing to call my favorite.


                
Really a 6/10 but I had to give a 1/10 but its getting overrated.The show follow the 80s so by the book, it's hard to get any message from it. Is it it good? well almost.... almost...Winona Ryder and David Harbour manage to carry the show through weaker parts. The kids are cringeworthy but believable. The show sometimes follows old plots and 80's theme so hard, it just loses focus. It's become almost a parody in some parts. The production values are good. It surprisingly didn't feel cheesy. Still it lost itself following/imitating better movies.Only watch if you YOU want too. Your not missing anything by not watching it, Its IS overrated.


                
I had HIGH hopes for this show. My mistake. Do you like plot holes, horrific acting (Winona Ryder), nonstop yelling for no reason (Winona Ryder), and unintelligible writing (the entire show), then this is the show for you. Since it seems America loves stupidity, this show is a major hit. For anyone that looks at the world around them with any semblance of intelligence or objectivity, avoid this show.Normally would give it a 2 or 3/10, but it's rating is far too high and it's far too loved for how much of a pile of garbage it is, so a 1/10 it is.


                
9? This is what happens when a culture of hype, trend and Netflix zombies rate things. Ratings no longer signify a good movie or show. They just shows what's trending. How did this crap ever get made? Did someone notice a bunch of online teens saying that they're 80s or that they wish they were 80s and Netflix decided to make a show on a Web trend? This whole show is just a spot the 80s game and it's boring after the first movie poster. It's inferior to every movie it takes from. The episodes and show itself don't stand apart or have an individual strength. At heart its more 90s then 80s with the boring Dawson's Creek type love story. But Netflix are catering for the teen girl binge viewer. The characters are awful and interact on only simple terms. Like the kids always bicker because that's what kids do. They go on adventures on crap bikes because the Goonie did therefore all kids in the 80s.The grieving mom is crazy but in the end right because that's what happens to characters in generic shows. The cool outsider listens to The Smiths even though they're not even out yet (year out.) I wonder if he'll get the girl??? That would be a surprise. The cop is disillusioned and then by the most basic character development he eventually won't be. Every plot in this show as well as the dialogue is predictable. The show obviously has plans to run a long time because it's so stretched out and slow. Nothing happens and then at the end something will to fool you into watching the next one. Watched by people who want to be part of a trend. Did I mention it's 80s? Well that makes it good. Most people watching this weren't even born in the 80s yet seem to judge it's authenticity. Horror? What horror? And that character 11 or whatever her name is. She just plays the generic alien learning human ways. E.g Ways? What's. ..ways? Love? What's. ...love? Christ almighty this show is trash.


                
I've given it 1 star because I can't go lower than that. My friends are raving about it, they pushed me into watching. I watched season 1, just because I was a bit intrigued about the ending but boy, I was disappointed like never before. I thought maybe just maybe it is gonna be a super twist in the end, that's why the high rating, that's why my friends' love for it. I went on until episode 6 of season 2. OK, couple of first episodes started to attract me but then it fell over flat. Winona Ryder overacts and overacts. Children did good job though. I lost it when in episode 6 of season 2, Will Buyers tells his mother that he was sorry and "he" told Will to do that, she questions him, "Who told you to do what?" Sorry Joyce, but were you sleeping through the whole thing or wait the writers were sleeping perhaps because were they still trying to ascertain about Will's condition or they were still in doubt about the monsters. Also every time there is a report of certain monster or whatever, people dismiss that as if they hadn't seen or heard anything like that before as in season 1 before that. Just plain stupid and the sad part is that our collective intellectualism and smartness is going down rapidly.
This is a pretty predictable TV show that's basically an adaption of Door to December by Dean Koontz, only with a lot of Stephen King / Steven Spielberg elements tossed in, especially from It, Goonies, Poltergeist, et cetera. The "Duffer" Brothers assumed that few people would recognize that, and they were right. The worst part is people will assume that MKUltra was something that this show created, and those of us who knew about it beforehand have to hear about it from fans of this show.


                
This was nominated for a golden globe? and not twin peaks... wtf? this is all Lynch-like


                
I grew up watching a lot of 90's show where the main protagonist has some kind of super powers and this show is no different.The fact that it's tagged as Horror has nothing to do with "horror". Its like a toned down version of E.T movie for 8 year old kids.The show is mostly about a bunch of kids fighting to make themselves heard in an adult world, this is why this show is so popular among kids. The "horror" part of the movie is just an after thought.Stranger things keeps baiting the audience by dangling little hints of horror and super powers in 3 secs scenes just to keep the audience entertained and hooked, but the rest of the screen time is just petty problems of kids and adolescents trying to do the right things.


                
I heard about this series and really was looking forward to seeing it, but I was very disappointed.First of all, there's no way it gets as high a rating as it has without every Netflix employee going on and giving it a ten.IMDb is great, but it can't stop the fraud going on here.But back to the series. I watched all 8 episodes, hoping it would get better, but it only go worse.Now I know why Winona Ryder hasn't had many offers lately. She's a terrible actress. The whole time she has this facial expression like she's a deer in the headlights. It's very annoying to watch her pretend to be obsessed with finding her son.Actually, none of the characters were properly developed. None are likable, except maybe the sheriff.And as several others noted, this is a ripoff of every horror, scifi story ever written.Can't anyone come up with something original and well written?
A kids stories for kids, played by kids, and might have also been written and directed by kids.
There's some foul languages though, so this maybe (I guess) for kids over 12 years old.
I hate when a movie uses jumpscares which add nothing to story line is a strong indicator for bad writing/directing. It most always go together with temper tantrum, close calls, coincidences, stupid simple logic fails (no common-sense), etc. cliches you will get from B- grade movies.
Postive side, a bit over acting but overall actingwise are quite good.


                
I'll start this with a little game myself and my friends engaged in two hours into this series: Guess the next line of dialogue?Will they say this? Yes! Funny.Will they say that? Yes. Amusing.Surely, they won't say this. Yes. Fun factor now worn thin.I cannot guess correctly five times in a row? Why, yes, sir, you can.Inspired by Steven King, Twin Peaks, or whatever other I've heard this referred to, it may have some merit but only in that the producers found a way of taking the best of those and others that went before it and reduced that artistry to the lowest common denominator, removing all originality, inspiration and insight. I thought after 2 hours I was actually watching a cartoon for 10 year olds.Now, maybe I should have given it more than 2 hours.Maybe, if I had tits, I could be my Aunt Agatha.No.Who is voting for this shallow dishwater?It's been done before, often, almost invariably better.


                
This is a good series, not so bad actually, but the hype people are creating here is wrong. This is no where near Spielberg or Stephen King, calling it so is a massive disrespect to the legends. The show is a mediocre Science Fiction series, nothing more. The jump scares are really bad sometimes, the acting is not really good, sorry but I found Winona Ryder over acting a lot of the scenes. The series feels just plain old' stupid when people keep doing the most stupidest thing possible. I mean if you're standing on a wall and there's fire on one side of it, while piranhas' on the other side, where would you dive? A normal person would keep standing on the wall right... not here, people would look for the most dangerous possible route and follow it. Then regret their decision and surprisingly the lead cast would always make it back too. It's worth a watch, I did enjoy watching this, but a 9.0 rating?!!! seriously fanboys? I'm giving it a 1 just so that hype goes down, as it's false. This is definitely a 6 though. I did really love the 80's music - which was the best part of the 80's anyway...


                
Smoking, smoking and oh, there is some smoking with some alien and supernatural stuff mixed in. My wife enjoys it and says everyone at work is talking about it. She doesn't like Sci- Fi. I find it boring, annoying and about as interesting as a freshly baked lawn turd. I love Sci-Fi... but this misses the mark by a wide margin for me. Oh well.Thumbs up only for the 80's music!


                
Although it starts quite nice, it gets more awful by the minute. The dialogues appear as if spoken by the Teletubbies, everything is repeated at least twice. Winona Ryder (who used to be wonderful!) acts like a 70 year old lunatic witch with weird gestures and wide eyes, even the rest of the cast is screaming and yelling most of the time. The 3 main kids act completely over the top, including all those movements and slang kids use TODAY, but didn't in the 80s! The Natalia Dyer story line (please give her something to eat! She looks as if she is falling apart any time!) is schmaltzy beyond compare, and contains by far the stupidest acting. What is worst, there is probably not one original thought in the whole series, it is just one big mashup from Poltergeist to E.T., the Goonies, Indiana Jones' sidekick Short Round, even Minority Report. You name any other 80s' flick, it's there. But - and this is a huge big BUT - Millie Bobby Brown (Eleven) is absolutely amazing! Every gesture, every shy gaze rips your heart into pieces. She definitely deserves much better than this crap series.


                
This is a very bad show. The only way Im thinking people like this,is only if they are teens or so much younger than even that. Is not a good show for anyone who is over 22. There are some good parts, but the show has bad graphics and stupid children lines and the girl is just awful. Nothing is believable about it and everything is predictable . Don't watch it if u are over 22.U will love it if u are a teen or younger.I will definitely not watch season 2. P.s. don't get yourself fooled by the high IMDb note, i bet only teens voted most of that. The only good actor there is the mother and she is great for sure. Maybe if there were older kids, at least 18 or so, the show would have been great.
The high ratings for this show continue to surprise me a year later. Terrible, plagiarized tripe, from two brothers who would make the Chuckle Brothers look like the Coppola's.It just kept getting worse and worse - silly acting, predictable story- line plagiarised from countless 80's classics and dumbed-down to the extent where it became laughable. Truly sickening to see this utter tripe lauded by so many. I shall not be watching the second season of this garbage.


                
The acting is terrible and all the kids are unlikable and unrelatable brats. I don't actually think this deserves a 1 star, I'm just giving it that rating to attempt to balance it out from all the annoying 12 year old girl fans. Sorry this is so negative I just thoroughly dislike this series. And for people saying that I haven't given it a fair chance, I watched the entire first season and was incredibly disappointed. Now for the people who ask why I didn't stop watching it, it's because of all the good reviews. I assumed that at some point the show would pick up but it never did. So personally I think it's one of the worst things on Netflix. Yes, there are worse things but that makes this atrocity any better.


                
Stranger Things is nothing more than Cut - copy & paste TV series. Cast is decent ..makeups are good but direction and story are too bad.So called inspiration from various sources just feel like you are watching Steven Spielberg + John Carpenter + Stephen King's movies at the same time. which is not very pleasant experience. The story revolve around a lost child and their friends and family trying to find him.I can't go into great detail because there are so many flaws in direction and story that its not possible to explain all of them here. But they says that "even a good cast cannot save a bad story". Even though there are plenty of thrilling and exciting moments but they don't make much sense as don't understand the story and whats going on.Seems like directors were confused and they are trying to make viewer even more confused.Folks just do a favor please done make a season 2 of this series.Thanks Best of Luck
I usually do not commit myself to any serial because experience tells me that most of the serials, specially the American ones (compared to British serials not Indians!!!), tend to extend the episodes unnecessarily. They start with exciting beginning seasons and becomes dull or absurd with time. That's why I watch serials that are out a while ago and those having a definite end in sight and those which are highly recommended. Stranger Things has all three of these and so I started and finished watching this with utter disappointment. I have pointed out some of my sources of disappointment below, there are more, but I am not willing to spend any more time on this:1. The storyline is a cliché, may be it would have been a good storyline (though I doubt) if it originally were made in the '80s. Controlling things with mind, aliens, secret government experiments are all so things of the past in the entertainment world. 2. Acting was horrible and full of overacting. I particularly hated the acting of Winona Ryder. 3. Trying to sell tragedy so hard. Chief Hopper's dead daughter, Joyce's broken family and finally death of Eleven gives me the feel of watching something oriental. On the other hand, poor Barbara's family does not seem to have any concern for their daughter or whatever she was. 4. It does not make sense why the Government tried to sell a staffed doll as a dead body rather than just terming it a lost case and again no one bothered about missing Barbara the same way as they did about Will. 5. Three teenage kid managed to handle the monster with relative ease whereas the well-armed government agents are decimated by the same thing does not make any sense or reminds me of bullshit movie plots. 6. And many more. Finally, I started watching the series with higher expectation because of its high recommendation and because I expected better from a Netflix series, and this did not help either.
SpoilerI thought this was going to be an original Netflix series, however I watched the first three episodes and they are just stealing ideas from E.T., Starman, Poltergeist, and Carrie. Surely, there can be some more creative ideas out there, can't there?I was waiting for the Titanic II to sail and sink in Lake Michigan, ha ha. Maybe that happens later in the series.On the other hand, my wife loves it and continues to watch it.I also noticed that the writer changed in Episode 3, but it didn't change the stealing of ideas.
About Stranger Things, I wanted to love this series. But as my rating suggests, I did not. First let me say I am no longer young. Second, I am not so old that I need a film to be explained to me. But I simply did not understand much of what was going on in the final three episodes. More important however was that the characters never seemed to act like real people. Particularly the adults. case in point, one mother and father in the series never go into their son's room - not once. If they had they'd have discovered with whom he'd been sharing that space and well, that would ruin the story. So, I understand the 'why', but I think it could have been handled lots better. As for the kids' acting; really terrible. Finally, if there was one more scene of the kids jumping onto their bikes I would have screamed. In fact, I did.


                
