SPOILERS GALOREI was predisposed to like this show. I wish Hollywood produced genre movies as good as the 80s classics, such as Aliens, The Terminator, The Lost Boys, you name it. I played D&D when I was younger. Midway through the first episode, I had high hopes.But the cracks started to form fairly quickly. I kept watching, hoping that it might get better. Eventually, I got to the point where I knew that it wouldn't, but I wanted to see how bad the ending was.Now come the spoilers. I can't really tell you how flawed this series is without getting to the final episode.There was not a single surprise. To say that this show was predictable was an understatement.The acting ranged from OK to awful. Winona Ryder's googly-eyed mania was painful to watch. The best actor in the show was the young girl who played Eleven. Her quiet expressions made some scenes more interesting to watch than they would have been otherwise.Some of the mysteries of the series never see resolution. For example, how did Will communicate through the lights? Especially if, when you're in the Upside Down, you can't perceive the world on the other side?The series was too long. At least a couple of episodes consisted mostly of people walking around, driving around, going here to there without the story advancing anywhere. A two-hour movie could have told this story.The monster wasn't that interesting. Better that we never saw it fully. Also, how does an apex predator survive in a lifeless world? Just wondering. Of course, when the series runs for several hours, you have time to ponder these questions.Here's another one: How did the bad guys' MAJESTIC 12 base operate in a completely undetected fashion? Did dozens of people live on the base, with no contact with the outside world, for years? Be that as it may, they were stunningly inept, to the point of hilarity.And the end really wasn't the end. The chief bad guy might not be dead. The monster might not be dead. Eleven isn't dead. The young boy who goes missing in the beginning is coughing up alien slugs, but doesn't tell his parents. No resolution of any plot point, in a cheap bid for another season. (Note to the writers: Why not just start another plot, as other series have done?)A big disappointment, from someone who was ready for something good.
Described as an homage to the 80s, Stranger Things feel more like a second rate mix of Spielberg's anything produced in that decade, the Twilight Zone, a touch of Stephen King, Alien and countless horror movies.The series targets teenagers, who apparently fell for it big way. Also nostalgic fellows with a soft spot for synthesizers, the main source of the "period" soundtrack.The plot is set in motion by four boys cycling at night through a dark wood -> cliché. Will, one of the boys goes missing after meeting an unseen but horrible creature -> cliché. The police starts combing the dark forest holding shaky flashlights -> cliché. More searching will be done, ALL in dark places and ALL with shaky flashlights. This series of clichés is compounded by a truckload of others, crushing any possible foray into uncharted territory. For instance, Will's mother is hysterical and behaves crazily, but everybody knows she is right and misjudged by society.To hit even better the teenage target, the key character is El (for 011, the number tattooed on her arm), a pre-pubescent girl, who cannot talk normally and communicates via rolling her big eyes and muttering a few words. Obviously there would not be much "suspense" if El would just give a detailed account of her experience, but the contrivance of her silence is annoying.Yet more teenage angst is added with a sub-plot involving the sister of one of the boys, her sexual escapades and the abduction of her best friend. A little bit more of the scary monster is shown in each episode, in proper horror movie fashion, waiting for denouement in the last episode - where we will be shown how evil is the government and how brave is anybody under twenty, plus Will's mother.A paint by number futile exercise in nostalgia that does not even work on the horror- supernatural angle, due to over-predictability. High rating demonstrate how successful is show-business at scraping the bottom of the barrel and recycling overused storytelling formats for the "benefit" of younger audience.
Stranger Things is a Netflix original show created by the Duffer Brothers and it markets itself as a tribute to the classic1980's sci fi and horror culture. I saw the first season after having heard over and over again how great this show is, and immediately a few things stuck out for me, in regards to the show's originality. There is a fine line between paying homage to a book or a movie, and making a blatant rip off. And oftentimes, Stranger Things crosses this line. Some fans and critics have already said, that the writers of this show rely too heavily on nostalgia and on the source material they're supposed to be paying homage to. While recognizing most of the 80's sci fi references, and the plot elements that Stranger Things borrows (E.T., Alien, The Gonies, Stand by Me etc, etc), I also recognize references and entire plot lines that the writers of this show have taken from the 1990's TV-shows, like The X-files, Twin Peaks and even a lesser known sci fi thriller, The Pretender. There are entire scenes and story lines that look like they have been copied off of the X-files (even season 10, which came out last last year). It's difficult to find a modern show about the paranormal and supernatural that hasn't been inspired by The Twilight Zone, The X- files or Buffy the Vampire Slayer. I don't have a problem with that. The X-files was in turn inspired by Kolchak: the Night Stalker, from 1970's, and both the X-files and Stranger Things build their narratives on that "80's paranoia and government mistrust", as Chris Carter calls it.The problem is that when you borrow too much from older source material, and when you rely too heavily on the homages and nostalgia, you run the risk of compromising your own originality. And the lack of originality is Stranger Things' greatest weakness. This show doesn't break new ground; it doesn't surprise its audience that already knows their science fiction. Instead, it rehashes the plot elements that are over thirty years old and tells the same story that Chris Carter was telling us twenty years ago. The main antagonist in Stranger Things might as well be The Cigarette Smoking Man, sans the cigarette. The police chief who's drawn into this case, thinking that finding the boy will somehow help him deal with his own tragedies might as well be Fox Mulder or Dale Cooper from Twin Peaks. Or any other noir cop who drinks too much. And the mysterious science lab might as well be the secretive Centre from The Pretender. When critics and reviewers describe Stranger Things as "Stephen King meets E.T. meets the Goonies, and with a pinch of X-files" you know what you're dealing with - a potpourri of pop culture references. Well, I got most of those references. Do I get points for that now? Instead of coming up with something new, the writers repackage same old tropes and stories. It's the most shameless way to profit off of nostalgia and the audience's sentimentality. The creators sell us a poorly written story and underdeveloped characters wrapped in a neat bring-your-childhood- back package, hoping that we won't notice the bad product because of all the "feels". But it doesn't work for me. Because everything that Stranger Things has to show for - I have seen it before. I love old science fiction (it's basically all I read/watch); I love creepypastas and stories about shady government cover-ups, and this show seems to be made for people like me. But while I'm watching that very first scene, I know that I've seen this before. And I can make a qualified guess about what's going to happen in the next scene. And in the next episode (and I'm right on the money). Every plot twist, every development is recognizable and traceable back to the 80's and 90's source material this show borrows from, which only makes the next twist all the more predictable. Nostalgia baiting and lazy writing, that's basically hat Stranger Things is. That, and hype. Lots and lots of hype.


                
Even though I often find movies on IMDb overrated, I was expecting something good from this because of the 9.3. I am convinced that this is a case of the people rating something highly be cause it seems like it should be good. yes, its got lots of references from the 80s, but that does not mean its any good. We'll start with the worst dialogue ever. there were several places where the writings was so bad and you could actually see it straining to be funny. Worst in this department were the three screechy kids. One of them was a kind of hybrid character of GOONIES' Chunk, and Stand by Me's Vern. The chemistry between him and the black kid just missed the mark, the dead pan was never deadpan enough and the "clever dialogue" bits fell flat. although I' admit the other kid actually seemed to fit in the time and place being represented. Winona Ryder. She is so hit and miss. There are moments when she seems quite believable as the character but at other times ....just not. Worst though, might be the lack of originality, with ideas being stolen from all sorts of 80s titles. The 80s atmosphere felt less like the 80s and more like some a version of what a current have imagined it would be like from their distorted 2016 perception.


                
For three episodes I tried and tried to like this ... But to keep a mystery like this going you have to have interesting characters ... And NONE of these were ... And they ain't pretty either ... Poor old Winona Ryder looks rough as hell in a cast that either looks inbred or suffering from an eating disorder !!! ... So along with a bad cast, well, nothing of interest happens In fact nothing much of anything happens ... A series of cliche's ( rather than the reworking of 80s tropes as the makers would try to have you believe ) plod out on the screen in an increasingly less interesting manner ... Visually it is tired and uninventive ... I gave it 2 and a half hours of my life and all this mediocre fluff has proved to me is that I have a lot better things to do with it than bother wasting another 5 finding out where this clunker is going


                
This may contain spoilers.For some reason I expected a sci-fi series, not a horror one. I'm sure it wasn't just me - several of my friends who were excited about this show (and told me about it) clearly said sci-fi multiple times. We were wrong."Stranger Things" is a mediocre, uninteresting, seen-it-a-million-times (soft-ish) horror series that tries to ride on the back of 80's nostalgia by ripping off every 80's movie you can think of.Some reviewers compared this movie to E.T. and it is true - the cinematography strongly resembles Spielberg's work (not the quality or the story, mind you). Otherwise that comparison is very unfair: E.T. is an intelligent, charming, emotion-evoking sci-fi and none of that applies to this series. If you read comparisons to other 80's movies, they're probably partially correct because "Stranger Things" likely ripped those off, too.The movie is frequently dark to the point where you can hardly see anything on the screen, there's a lot of screeching and screaming and some killing and blood and there's a monster in it for some reason but I don't believe much is revealed about its back-story. What story is present is nonsensical and is simply reused from other horror stories. Nothing original here.Acting is mostly OK (the kids were over the top a few times; nothing too bad). I do feel sorry for Winona Ryder for acting in this - I haven't seen her in a role for a while but I recall her being a good actress (she was OK in this one) and I think she could do better.If you're a horror fan, you may rate it higher but over 9? No way - that would mean this is somehow in the company of "The Shawshank Redemption" or "Schindler's List". I think this series is about 3 out of 10.
SPOILERS BRUH -------------When this movie isn't beating it's story line over your head with a bat (4 of the 8 episodes are carbon copies of the kids riding bikes, the girl mashing things with her brain, and the kid communicating with his shrieking mother via electricity), it engages in a mountain of Fan Service, usurped only by this years Star Wars (worst of the 7 made so far, not even close).Much like other Netflix series Orange is the New Black and Love, you either have no care about the characters (the kid is kidnapped in the first scene. there's no connection), or you straight up dislike them.Garbage Level: Dumpster Fire
I'd give Season 1 an eight or even a nine, purely for Millie Bobby Brown's great performance, but S2 was a HUGE frustration. I made the effort and watch it all and I am not happy about it.They failed - from every angle. I see people say the story had holes - no, it was a complete joke - one huge hole.Most actors were even unbearable to look at, but I don't want to go in detail, since most of them are just children. I don't want to offend children - not their fault. The series creators did a very bad job even with Millie Bobby Brown this time. In their attempt to make her look overly cool and bad ass, because they did it in so cheap cheap cheap way, they actually made her look stupid. It's such a waste of a great talent. Oh, and what's with the "sister"? Was this girl even an actor?Was S1 just a lucky strike? How can the same people create one good "movie" and one complete crap? And now, how is it that most reviews of these series rate them with less than 5 and yet it scored total of 9? wow.. some IMDb calculator here..


                
I will actually give this show a overall 5.5 or 7 in some good scenes but I see a lot of crazy people gave 10 stars? Are you fuking crazy? So I have to give it a 2 to trying to make it reflect the true star worthy!This TV series is so boring so slow and so messy, the ending scene clearly is an after thought for season 2! The plot has too many unclear things, it's just too much flaw...The casting is very on point, most of the actors are quite good but maybe the casting is so on piont it becomes very stereotype and cliché!I don't see why people go crazy for this tbh! I only watch it because I was bored


                
the only very amazing thing about this is the setting or mise en scene of the 80's; including the photography, music and dressing of the characters. Winona also has a solid performance, as an experienced actress. Everything else is f*king stupid. WHY THE HYPE? It's a generic story with generic characters who are not likable, except for the curly haired kid. Sci-Fi? really? please... Waste of time. I know everyone loves the bald kid, this show, the "love stories", but I'm not one of them. i don't see anything special about this, AT ALL. Seriously, why you like this, people? If we're talking about weird "sci-fi" stuff who has no scientific background whatsoever you can totally watch Twin Peaks. WAY BETTER. This is laughable, boring, generic, and too long for the slow paced and weak story line.


                
But pick up after worth 6.5 +.star rate 2 to lower the overate.Slow in developments .Disappointed in some aspects of the other dimension.Watchable .Can have been much darker and grittier.Get better later on that level.
Well, season one was great, but season 2 is full of liberalism for the SJW and their propaganda. Women act like men, more minorities than whites, mixed relationships, whites are evil, blah blah blah, same old, same old. Shouldn't the craziness in Hollywood be enough to prove to you people their way of looking at the world is warped!?


                
Note: I've only watched season 1. as of now.I'm writing this because the hype over the 2nd season reminded me of this show. And frankly, of how much I was disappointed when I watched it last year, tempted by stellar reviews.How "Stranger Things" got these reviews, I still can't understand. Could everybody be blinded by nostalgia to such an extent that they forgot it was a NEW series? That it should offer something more than heaps of references to be good? In fact, that it desperately needed some steering away from the plot devices straight outta the 80s - not to end up worn out as hell? Ugh. This series wasn't a nod to 80s stylistics. It was a rip off.I could end up liking it anyway if it was more character-driven - even if the plot is fairly simple, it's still fun to watch strong characters deal with it. It wasn't. I watched a standard set of small town Stephen King characters, lead by a bunch of kids on bikes. Stereotypes, stereotypes everywhere. Could this have been more derivative? Giving it a 2 for capturing the elusive 80s vibe. They nailed it. As far as everything else goes, I'll give the 2nd season a try. But if it's as "good" as the last one... I'll probably be snoring halfway through episode 1.


                
This show is created entirely for, about and, if would seem, by 12-year-olds. If you are in that demographic, you should find it quite enjoyable.


                
Maybe I missed something... OK: where did they get all those cars from a time where no cars survived? That is the only reason for a 2 otherwise it would have been a 1 show. I am sitting here with a lot of questions: Why did they kill the poor Cook? Why does the police chief keep his finger in the trigger all the time? Why is the story predictable?Why is it so boring? Why put a 1,5h Movie in a 8 hour series? Why are so many questions unanswered? Why can the girl shoot the monster 12 times with a six shooter? Why is everything back to normal after Will gets back and the whole different dimension stuff seems to bother nobody?Why are all the characters so shallow?Questions over questions...


                
This show is so boring, didn't keep me interested. Winona Ryder was good and the cop guy, but the kid actors are sort of annoying and cliche. There's nothing tense about this show, it feels more like a kid show. The demogorgons are not that scary, at least not the way they are portrayed here. If we are to compare 80s style Sci-fi's, The Thing or Outer Limits... much better concepts.


                
I had seen some pictures from about "stranger things" and it looked interesting and that's why I wanted to see it.So what is it.If you take goonies, the thing and add some sci-fi parallel universe. Then you have stranger things but a lot worse then you have seen before. In the first scene in stranger things you will see the poster from the 1982 movie "The thing" by J.carpenter this follows trough the series so looks like the thing is a inspiration that those who made stranger things have as inspiration.If you love thing, parallel universe, and monsters like alien, the thing. Then I think u like this.I hate monster movies and screaming kids in every scene if u do the same then my advice is forget this.
1) After a few episodes, it is clear that Winona Ryder way over-acts.2) This is a cross of many previous movies - The Goonies, Phantasm, Dreamcatcher - with some X-Files thrown in.3) When I think of the 80s, Vision Quest comes to mind. When I think of Vision Quest, I think of Louden Swain. And lo and behold... he shows up as the doctor/scientist. But, he looks really old. The white hair is terrible.4) The younger kids do a better job than the high school teenage kids. But, they talk to quick. Again, they over-act. Literally, one kid is beginning to say his lines at the exact Nano second that another kid finishes his lines. Too staccato for me. Very annoying.5) The level of production is like an after-school movie or weak Stephen King movie, like "The Stand."6) One thing that I did like was the 80s synthesizer music. That brought back good memories.7) After the forth episode, I just left it running while I worked on the computer. I've already paid for the Netflix subscription, so it was just background noise while I worked. I occasionally looked up, but I can tell you this... episodes 5 - 8 go downhill from 1 - 4.
Really predictable, easy story, lots of holes. Characters trying to act like they're cool but not as cool as they think they are. It's enjoyable about 30 percent of the time, then you're just bored.


                
Not the masterpiece that everyone says it is characters lack depth generic storyline and also bland


                
The first season had its moments, even with the misrepresentation of D&D and the frequently long episodes. Season two never should have happened. Each episode is duller than the one before and the 80s nostalgia vibe has just gotten tired. The performances are fine, but none of the characters have really grown much. And since they weren't that interesting to begin with, this is a problem. Highly recommended if you're having trouble sleeping, though. This will knock you out.


                
The writing was pure film school, the acting was needlessly overwrought and the directing was nonexistent. I tried to like it, I really did, but I found myself fast-forwarding after the third episode.With the exception of the actress playing Eleven, the child actors were remarkably bad. The lead boy (who was cast no doubt for his physical resemblance to the original Elliott) was especially hard to watch. "What's wrong with you?" and "What do you want from me?" he screams. What a brat. And poor Winona Ryder, she chews the scenery episode after episode before settling into a quiet, huggy moment with Eleven, and suddenly you remember -- "Oh, she was once a really fine actress. She was Abby in The Crucible! She seduced a young Daniel Day Lewis! But where has she been? And why is she working for children now?"If this thing continues, the Duffer boys should bring in a few guest directors, folks who understand the craft of directing well enough to tease out a performance here or there. And I'm sure it will continue, and everyone will just love it to death, and who cares about performance 'cause that's how we do it.Is Stranger Things the first I-GEN series? A series lifted ENTIRELY from prior media -- as opposed to, say, one's life experience? Remember life experience? It was the the original strange thing -- a thousand times stranger than media collage. Is Stranger Things thus, the first fully-sampled series? Are its "writers" merely humanoid precursors to the A.I.-driven algorithms that will soon be writing all of this stuff?No series should winnow down to multiple choice endings, but this one did, and to their credit (hence the second star), I guessed wrong. I really thought they'd rip off The Fury. I bet you, though, it was scripted that way until someone in accounting perked up and said, "If you kill off your pervy, Cassavetes villain, satisfying as it would be, you'll compromise the bundle you're likely to make on a second season. The algorithm tells us so.


                
The first episodes were good but then it bacame boring especially in the last episodes


                
I thought the kids were phony, Winona Ryder was annoying, Matthew Modine was comatose and the plot was hackneyed.But the "best" part was the special effects that looked as if a dollar store exploded. I have done better special effects in my basement.What am I missing about the merits of this weak effort?


                
Anachronistic and boring. I really don't understand the hype. The only reason I didn't give it 1 Star was because the acting is decent.


                
