I only manage to finish this series by "purge watching." It's my own term. It's the opposite of "binge watching" where you're apparently so enraptured by a show you can't stop watching. "Purge watching" is when you can't wait for a series to be over, so you use the fast forward button during the throw-away, series-padding scenes. And there's a lot of padding in the show. Like a cheap Stephen King Santa. Honestly, are we supposed to really accept this asa "homage" or is it just the ultimate recycling job? A number of critics thought 8 hours devoted to the somewhat thin story of "Stranger Things" was excessive. I was thinking about the story in my head, and if it hadn't been given the soap opera drag out treatment, condensed down to a 2-hour movie it would have been even worse -- exposing more clearly the basic silliness and retread plot. The watered-down tempo helped what otherwise would have been Cream of Condensed Tripe. You could claim running the same old numbers is in the name of "homage" or you could argue there's really not a lot of new ideas in the show. From the first scene where the scientists get pulled upward into the elevator, dangled by an unseen beast, I went "ho hum." Like I haven't see that visual in a million monster films. An old clever show like the X-Files would have had a pair of eyes creepily material in the wall of an elevator and then maybe the doors close and a scream. That show as extremely creative at coming up with original ideas and images -- which is why it was a great show. But immediately I wasn't that impressed with the "Duffer Brothers" mise en scene. I need more "things I've never seen before" from Sci-fi. And little touches like the elevator scene are where true originals and moderate talents separate themselves. I nearly bailed completely on the series. Episode 3&4 were sluggishly directed by Shawn Levy, who is pretty much an incompetent as a stylist. By episode 4, it has completely lost the "vintage feel" and leaning on the influences of contemporary cable: Let's play a moving piece of rock music over amontage of the different actors staring thoughtfully into space. The music swells... It's the HBO Method of audience intercourse. A directorial cliché. Sorry, but this doesn't have the "feel" of a 70s or 80s production at all, maybe a bit in the opening episode or two, but it pretty much is quickly replaced by a run-of-the-mill cable show feel. Vintage Spielberg always had a very kinetic feel. 70s and early 80s films were riffing off the vibe of Altman, Pennebaker, Penn, but sanitizing them a bit and joking them up. The vibe of this series is probably closest in spirit to the lousy cheapie Steven King films, and not in a good way. It's a leaden feel. I'm still skeptical of the "tribue" aspect of this show The Winonna"Poltergiest" ripoff/tribute is the worst bit so far. Where's the dwarf psychic? As I also noted they managed to pay "homage" to "Under the Skin" and "Pan's Labyrinth" Were those nostalgic "homages?" If your pose a show as a tribute (and make sure to let people know up front to cover your tracks) does that eradication the icky "borrowing." I think a couple of producers (the Duffers you would assume) sat down and said: "Yeah, I like the kid with powers from FireStarter, let's use that. And the kids from "It". The whole kid thing from King. "Alien" was a great movie. How about goo? And we'll stay away from the afterlife and just make it a portal to another dimension...." Add Shaw Levy's teleplay staging (someone should let him know the camera moves) and it's all a bit snoozy. By the way, I also notice that the Duffer Brothers didn't write the series. They farmed out the episodes to a bunch of writer. Right there, their auteur status goes down the drain, IMO. Interestingly, I noticed that the Duffer Brothers wrote the teleplay for Episode 8, but another writer suddenly turns up with a "story by" credit (for the first time in the series) for that episode. That tell's me the Duffers' couldn't even figure out how to put a cap on their own series and brought in someone else to make sense of it. And the ending is all pretty perfunctory and predictable. They even managed to reproduce Steven King's most reliable device ... not being able to produce a really satisfying ending. So anyway, that's that. I'd give it a"C." And warn Steven King to keep his paper covered during the next test.
Oh dear, oh dear, where to begin. As the summary suggests we loved the first season, yes, it had its flaws, mainly in the terrible script but we (the people I watched it with) forgave that in light of a gripping, well paced narrative.My biggest gripe about ST2 is the poor mechanics. By this I mean the story doesn't work. The continuation of how principle characters from ST1 behave in ST2 doesn't add up. When you acknowledge that that target audience for this is the 30-40 age bracket, meta-geeks and nostalgia-nuts who remember the films, music, games, culture of the 1980's, you must pay tribute to the intelligence that this group of people bring. OK, I'll say it, we're geeks and geeks like things to make sense.Dusting would not treat a baby demagorgon as a pet, nor would he hide it. Hopper behaves practically like a jealous lover, a Jozef Fritzl to Eleven. Eleven barely spoke in ST1. So many incongruities. The top secret HAL lab, that anyone can just roll up to and gain access. What annoys me the most is that the Duffer Brothers have created a story of total rubbish, they have trampled over the credibility of the characters they successfully developed in ST1. They have done with ST2 what Disney have done to Star Wars: repackaged the original with louder bangs and hoped that the audience doesn't call them out on a flagrant cashing in on a premise with no substance.Ultimately, I know I shouldn't care, but I do because I love ST1 and I hate ST2 for it's lazy storyline, it's awful script and really shoddy CGI.
Season one was pretty okay. It didn't have the "wow" factor and I wasn't hooked but I was willing to give it another shot so I watched season two. Season two was full of nonsense that just doesn't make much sense. The smaller dots just don't connect right. The main story in season two was unrevealed early on so there goes the mystery and suspense. I lost interest midway through. I hope they come up with better story and one that makes sense in season three. I don't think I will be following this show.


                
The 1st series was so watchable and had such a great 80's feel which made it addictive. Second series has the 80's feel but overall storyline was flat at times few characters over played their parts. You had Nancy played a love struck innocent semi stuck up girl then uses her best friend to go to a party to sleep with her boyfriend Then after feeling guilty after her disappearance hooks up with another boy and sleeps with him in the second series. Not forgetting that she wanted to shoot Steve if he wouldn't get out the house. To me that is not her character I think 1st series should of been a lot longer . I feel like the producers have or are running out of ideas to keep show going for the fans.
Nice core story and cool recreation of the 80's environment. Too bad that this includes ripping off many elements from popular films of that time: the series is a combination of "E.T.", "Alien," "Signs" and "Close Encounters..." Doesn't anybody have an original idea for a series anymore?And the dialogues are sooo laaame!! As if they were written by the three children who are the main characters. That's a pity, because they really get in the way of enjoying the show. There are so many clichés that this also becomes irritating... How many times can you get away with characters keeping stupid secrets from each other, when there is no need to do that? How many times can characters just say "trust me on this..." instead of explaining why they want people to do something? And how come in the parallel universe you have the same buildings, except with weed growing all over them? Why is it always night there? Why are there no people (except a poorly-dressed monster), yet there are lampposts on the streets, but no lights inside buildings?Well, if you're 8 years old, I guess you're not bothered by any of this.
This show is essentially pandering to the masses who want something mindless and nostalgic that wraps up in a predictable, anti-climactic bow. Stranger Things does not deserve to share the same ratings with a masterpiece like True Detective. The acting is annoyingly terrible. The plot is predictable and disappointing. But if you're looking for a a feel-good, nostalgic 80s vibe - yet want to also feel like you're watching something edgy and creepy (which this isn't) then go for it. There was a point in one of the episodes where Nancy and Jonathan are shooting bottles and I said "He's going to miss, then she's going to hit the bottle on her first shot, turn and give him a coy smile, and then its going to immediately cut to the next scene." And that was literally shot for shot what happened. Is this a testament to me being psychic, or that this show is utterly predictable?The only thing that kept me watching until the very end was a hope that there would be some sort of interesting, clever turn - some sort of intelligent explanation for the events that beg all of the questions. But nope. The explanation that they give is so dull that my eyes nearly rolled out of my head. The whole concept of the sheet of paper, and the "upside down." Look, I love fantasy. And I'm all about accepting when there are things you aren't meant to know, but this was just annoying. And don't get me started on the child actors. They can't conduct a scene without escalating to full blown yelling within 20 seconds and frankly - its annoying as hell. Of course you can't expect Oscar winning performances from children, but the Directors here could have provided at least the simple direction to not be yelling 99% of the time. I literally made an account on IMDb just to make this review. I feel like I'm the only person out there who sees this show for being the total crap that it is.
What started great in S1 leaves me irritaed in S2. Did they change the writers? Did they change the directors? What happened?Example: Eleven has never been outside of the town ever. She can barely talk properly. But all it needs for her is to take a look at the photo and *boom* she's sitting in a night-bus to Illionis to find her "sister". How did she recognize Illinois if she's never been there at all? Really? At least try ...Now we get to watch almost completely storyline-disconnected 2 episodes of Eleven and her sister, which after 2 episodes dissapear and did not contribute anything at all to the story.The whole S2 feels like they decided to develop the characters a bit more after the finished filming. They cut two or three episodes out and simply put some new in. Almost nothing happens in E1-E5. Should have stayed that way and keep more mystery. But no, after E6 they decide to go full Michael Bay ...After E6 I just wanted to end the torture, finish the series and forget about it. It's a shame what happend to a good series.


                
Dissapointing. The main charactors are very nerdish/uncoo/unfunny. Its very hard to watch them, as they are all immature zeta nerds. In other words, they suck, and are stupid.


                
Stranger Things follows a group of people within a small town who go looking for a young boy who has gone missing and ultimately realize that there's more to the mystery then they initially thought. Some of the mystery elements were pretty good, and I watched the first season because I was curious and mostly interested. It had it's moments of cool stuff, but that was maybe once every second episode. The show advertises itself as a horror, yet it fails to be scary. There was not a single moment at any point during season one did I feel even slightly unsettled or scared. It's more of a sci-mystery, but even then it's not that good. It lacks a substantial amount of originality, from the design of the monster to the presentation of the plot. Nothing about this show is special. Another thing is just the amount of flaws in the show. There were multiple points where I had several questions about how certain things happened. For example, at one point two characters are in the forest together. Let's call them 1 and 2 to avoid confusion. 1 finds something almost as soon as they get into the forest and calls out to 2, but he's nowhere in sight. So what, did 2 just sprint off in one direction? Did he put in earbuds and start listening to some heavy metal or something? Did he leave the forest? Then, 1 goes off somewhere on her own, 2 magically returns, not out of breath or anything (so he clearly didn't sprint off somewhere) and not wearing earbuds either, and he can suddenly hear 1 from a place totally opposite the forest. Again, no spoilers, but somehow 2 hears 1 from that place. And even if you try to argue that 2 has bad hearing, in an earlier episode he hears a scream loud and clear from the other side of that very same forest. It just doesn't make sense. Some of you will call this a nitpick, but it stood out so blatantly to me that I couldn't help but address it. And besides, I can only ignore so many nitpicks before it becomes a problem and I have to start docking points. The acting, please kill me, is awful. The children are horrendous. They're expressionless, character-less actors who have no talent. At one point two characters are arguing and one kid looks like he's about to fall asleep as he yells at the other character. That, or he's stoned out of his mind. Sure, he's underage, but that doesn't seem to stop kids. On top of that, Winona Ryder attempts to pull off the insane mother role, and it's clear that she's trying to be great, but she's not. I don't think Winona Ryder isn't talented, but she didn't pull off the performance she seemed to be trying to. Everyone else was pretty flat too, at least if they were important they were. The characters these actors portray are even worse. They're unbelievably flat and boring. Each one can easily be described in a single sentence. The show tries to make it look like it came out in the 80s, but its gets to be annoying with how hard it tries. It shoves all this 80s crap into every scene, and it feels like the Duffer Brothers are ramming all their 80s computers down our throats and movie posters up our butts. I think the conversation the Duffers had before the show was in their attic, surrounded by the stuff of their youth, and started like this: "Hey bro, what should we do with all this stuff from the 80s?" "Let's make a TV show" "Oh yeah, that's a great idea. But how will we get someone to produce it?" "Oh, we can just get Netflix to do it. They'll eat up anything, so long as they can make a couple bucks. Quantity over quality, like they always say" Furthermore, the 80s thing sacrifices a level of quality even. The first thing was a personal issue, not an actual flaw really. This is though. The CGI is awful. Painful even. Now I know, "It's trying to look like it was made in the 80s" but I don't care. The show proves that it knows what practical effects are, and whenever it decides to use those it looks great. But I can think of only a handful of times where it actually did that. So why didn't it use practical effects all the time? I don't know. It's stupid, though, that's for sure. And the writing, oh boy. It ranged from okay to awful to flat out not making sense. And what's funny is that I think some of the actors knew that, specifically the main child actor. His delivery was so bad sometimes I wondered if it was on purpose. Like he knew that the writing was awful and was pushing the limits as much as he could to see how poorly he could act without the director noticing. Just for fun, I guess. One more big flaw: the soundtrack. It switches between this repetitive, boring, and frankly annoying sound/noise and ill-suited songs. Seriously, none of the songs have any place in the show. At least not at the points they were used. Overall Stranger Things sucks. Yet like I said, it was, for the most part, good enough to keep me watching it until the end. Will I watch the other seasons if there are more? Not a chance. At gun point, maybe. But not of my own free will. I don't get why people love this show so much, but if you do then go right ahead. Obviously I'm either missing something or I'm just not as easily impressed as most people or something. I don't know, but I don't really care. In the end I would not recommend this show.


                
OK. I have decided that Stranger Things is kind of a kiddie "Lost-wannabe". I don't care what kind of ratings this show is pulling, it's really not that good. I'm trying, but i'm pretty sure it's going to fizzle out for me. I need more substance less blah blah blah. Right now it's hitting at a 4 for me. Whynona needs to take some meds. She's just not making it as a convincing character. My absolute favorite character is the chief of police. I do like him. The rest are just not very likable. And come on, the nose-bleeder really should've grasped some of the English language as she was talked to fairly normally even though she was in a very weird situation. Overall, the acting is mediocre to real bad and the storyline is mediocre to borrrring. I'm on episode six.....give me something.....I need something to keep me interested or yawn......zzzzzzzzzzzzzz.


                
OK. So I have mixed feelings about this show. I watched it because of all the hype around it, and cause my friend was a crazy fan and recommended it for me. So I was like<U+0085>"OK. Why not?"I won't lie. There were some really good things about the show. The best thing, I thought, was the setting. It's set in the 1980's in a small suburban town in Indiana. I simply loved the 80's vibe it gave off, and the nature of the setting. I also loved some of the characters: Steve (the 80's bad boy), the "innocent" Nancy Wheeler and the hilarious toothless kid. In some ways, it made me feel like when I was a kid. The games the boys play with such imagination and passion, their unparalleled love of science and their complete disinterest in adult matters (dating etc<U+0085>); it was all perfect.But the reason this show loses points is because of the clichéd plot. I mean, how many times have we seen the same old "science experiment gone too far" plot-line being repeated over and over again, just in different contexts? Divergent, MazeRunner, and now this? I mean, seriously? There was no other overarching plot you could've come up with? That's why the show got really boring for me after episode 5, because I already knew what was going to follow. The old "break into the lab, stop the evil scientists from recapturing their captives, defeat the monster" yadee yadee ya<U+0085>Seen it all.Some people would argue the main plot wasn't really the science experiment, it was more the overlapping of parallel universes and the American government crossing ethical lines in trying to develop a weapon to fight the communists. To me however, it's the same old science experiment rhetoric I have just seen too many times.Having said that, there are some people who really love this show. And that's fine. There are definitely a lot of elements in it that would appeal to many people, but for me, the "science experiment" thing along with the clichéd plot just ruined it.


                
ET, It, Super 8, Goonies. Old boring idea! I think we are seen it all! Nothing new. Kids are great, all 4 stars for them! Why boy acting girl role??? I don't see reason to somebody make something like this. I think is very less ideas is left in Hollywood, and product is "Stranger Things". Old, boring, predictive story,with no exciting finale, predictably ending.
I can't believe what garbage this show was. Watching nothing but screaming and panic for hours upon end, no character background to be found, horrible humming noises, and every cliché ever made dumped into a sloppy mess. The monster, the government, and the kid 11 have almost no meaning, no explanation, and no relationship to each other. The only reason this gets anything over a rating of 1 is because the costumes and background really reminded me of the old days (haha). I don't know why they left the ending open like they did. If they're planning on a second season they should consider starting over and using a different cast.
OK I rated this a 4 only because I think it's getting way too high a rating so I wanted to balance it out. It's probably worth a 6 or 7 at most. But definitely not nearly a 10. There is a great deal of hysteria going on over this show and not a lot of actual critical thought. First of all, yes it's a cute story but it's extremely derivative (i.e. it's stealing all it's ideas from other places including but not limited to Asian sci fi horror flicks) and often trite & clunky. The dialogue is cheesy & stilted at times and some of the acting is appalling. In particular WINONA RYDER!! What has happened to her? She was unwatchable at times her over-acting was so irritating. Fortunately, tho I was tempted to quit watching half way through due to Ryder & some other actors terrible acting, I stuck with it and simply skipped over most of Winona's scenes. As it turned out this made no difference to the story line and made the whole viewing experience so much better. If you want to do the same thing you just have to be careful - there are a couple of important bits with her in them & they are watchable enough because her dialogue in them is limited. Anyway - I think it's a fun series to watch but try not to expect too much even tho the ridiculously high rating tempts you to do just that. Also watch out for Millie Bobby Brown as Eleven. Her performance alone is worth sticking with the show for. She is brilliant & manages to save the show from being pretty mediocre. Girl has a big future ahead of her.So anyway - do watch it! It's fun, has a nice 80's vibe & a cool 80's soundtrack (for the most part) but just don't get misled by the current hysterical popularity of the show. It's not as good as the ratings suggest, it's just enjoying a lot of buzz & hype, much like Pokemon Go. It's a shame really because my overly high expectations ruined it for me I think.


                
This show is a sausage fest. The 4 female characters that are actually interesting exist as appendages to their male counterparts. They are incapable of completing tasks of their own autonomy, or of having character development separate from each of their respective male love interests. They are boring, underdeveloped, and watered down. Duffer Brothers, please get out of the house and talk to any woman ever.


                
Gone: charming children, solid writing, comedic relief, solid writing...did I mention solid writing? This thing feels forced, right down to the forced comedic moments by gangly, awkward pre-teens...relies too heavily on 80's-90's themes and music, and when you realize there is only 2 episodes left and they haven't gone anywhere, you've wasted your time. Everything in season two is a cliché or is beyond literal for the times. Uncomfortable watch, complete with annoying pre-teens, bad acting all around, rushed script writing, bad special effects, and lac of tension/release.If this were condensed into a 2 hour film, no one would watch it...seems series always get a pass for very flawed work.


                
I do not understand the hype with this show. Perfect material for a teenage night get-together to watch some cheap horror. The acting is terrible - especially that Nancy girl - every time she comes up I just cringe. The story-line is ridiculously slow and juvenile themed. If you are a high school-er or younger this might be acceptable entertainment, as I see the target viewing market for this a crowd between 12 and 18 years of age maximum. There is not much depth on the adult characters and their interaction - even Winona is only seen screaming and not much else is explored about her persona. It would have been nice to have seen more scenes with the kids parents, or more filming inside the police station...adult interaction in general. Stay away from this, do not believe the hype. I just wasted a few hours I will never get back.


                
This is my first review and I'd like to write since many people didn't make the obvious connection: Stranger Things "borrows" so many things from Resident Evil 0 and Silent Hill movie that it's borderline theft.The "bad man" is James Marcus from Resident Evil 0. He is a white haired, tailored suit man that every government has.Parallel dimension is nothing new but the way they treat it is directly borrowed from Silent Hill 4.The creature? It is the most obvious one: It is the Leech from Resident Evil 0. The Leech! Please make a Google Image Search and tell me they are different. I immediately got cold feet after seeing it because it's borderline theft.Best thing about Stranger Things is Winona Ryder. And her part has been "borrowed" too, from Silent Hill movie. Child got lost in a different dimension, she goes a bit out of her mental health but she has been always right and at the end she "rescues" her child. It is so... Let me put it this way: If Winona Ryder didn't act extraordinarily great, this show would be irredeemable.I'd also like to point out that Stranger Things had no impact on me. Not on horror-wise or plot- wise... I watched it and said "meh". As a "meh", it gets a 4/10 from me.
Im sorry while I can see the throwback to E.T. and some other 80's movies I wasnt that impressed with the series it actually got more boring as it went along and still dont quiet understand how this kid survived all that time in the other place. While it was an interesting binge I would not buy it on DVD or watch it again
As the show continues to throw unexpected twists and turns i find myself stuck on one thing trying to figure out what happened. There a lot of electric moments where there's lights flickering and beams of lights in the dark. There is a whole other world where if blood is in the real world then this monster comes out and begins attacking.Then the girl that looks like a boy is getting hunted down by her father because he know that she has super powers.The biggest part of the story line is to figure out where will is. Will is in another word and he can communicate in lights and other ways. There is a moment in the show where some people say it was will that got pulled out of the water but his friends knew that it wasn't him.
A Serie sad , and so low action don't like , to much hype for nothing to me .


                
