Stranger Things is a 1980s inspired and themed science fiction horror Netflix show. The show is set in November 1983 and takes place in the fictional town of Hawkins. Hawkins residence live a fairly normal life until a boy named Will Byers goes missing in the woods. Three of Wills friends Mike Wheeler (played by Finn Wolfhard), Lucas Sinclair (played by Caleb McLaughin) and Dustin Henderson (played by Gaten Matarazzo) are very worried for him but what they uncover something more dark and sinister. After looking for their missing friend they come across a girl, who they call Eleven because of her tattoo. However they soon find out this isn't any ordinary girl but one with very special powers. It is very clear the show takes lot of inspiration from classics 80's films like The Goonies and ET. The performances from all of the cast are great especially the child actors, who show the right amount of charisma and banter you expect from kids growing up in the 80's. However, the star of the show here is definitely Eleven (played by Millie Bobby Brown) who plays the ET type of role in show. Millie's brilliant acting skills have a lasting effect on the viewer even though she has 42 words throughout the whole series. The Duffer Brothers brilliant writing and directing skills play with your emotions to create a love letter to all those 80's horror films. It's truly something special! 9/10
What can I say Netflix has done it again!I was hooked from the first episode! The acting in this is brilliant, especially from the younger members of the cast.The period it is set in they have managed to get it spot on down to the littlest details.I especially like the musical score in it, sets the mood superbly! This series has the perfect amount of mystery, suspense, and scares to keep you wanting more!! Hope this show runs for many more episodes, it's a classic in my eyes!


                
Stranger Things season 2 surpassed the first season. I have to write something after reading several reviewers who said that the story is predictable and clichéd. What they don't understand is that is not important. The creators of Stranger Things know how to tell a good story, they recognise that it comes from strong characters and that what gives a story richness is the strength of the characters in the first place and from there, their interaction, the story and plot is driven by the characters acting true to themselves. In a great story the plot may be predictable but that is for the very reason that as you come to know who the characters are you can see how they will act. Situations then become of great interest as you feel almost as if you are a part of the story, because in your mind you feel the characters are real and you place yourself alongside with them and 'live' the story with them. To call this cliché betrays a lack of empathy with the characters. This can come about if the characters are undeveloped and remote. But in a story such as Stranger Things the characters are consistently strong and believable and earn your empathy. This gives you faith to invest more of your attention to the drama, draws you into the story. It is clichéd because every great story has always done this. This is the essence of great story telling. What is important is whether or not a movie, book, TV series, piece of music has soul. If it comes from the right place then it can take you on a journey, a real journey of discovery into yourself just as the creator went on a journey into themselves to create it. Too much modern art and culture is calculated, from the intellect, it is empty. No matter how good the execution is it is still empty in the end and cannot leave a lasting impression. Stranger Things is destined to become a modern classic of the TV series genre. Needless to say it is also very well executed in all departments too, from the acting to the music, the cinematography, the direction. It has no pretensions, it is what it is and it is very very good! I want more entertainment like this and less like the last film i reviewed which was Blade Runner 2049 which i think is symptomatic of what is wrong with Hollywood. Over calculated and pretentious instead of just real and heartfelt. Stranger Things gets my highest rating a 9/10.


                
I likely would not have enjoyed this series as much if not for the Duffer Brothers' choice to set it in the early 80s. It had every bit of the feel of an early Stephen King, produced by Steven Spielberg, directed by Joe Dante. There are some who feel that the subplot with the boys is reminiscent of The Goonies. I completely disagree. It felt like The Explorers (1985).The acting was solid. Ryder and Harbour carried the day, but Millie Bobby Brown, Finn Wolfhard, Gaten Matarazzo, and Caleb McLaughlin really did an incredible job. Young people should not be this talented! I can't wait to see them elsewhere.There were very few errors in setting (one minor error in the sound track). Even little details like the wicker back on the chairs pulled me back.The eerie feel of being in the woods and the electrical problems around town really contributed to a dark feeling. I didn't feel like this was horror, more like it was suspense.The one flaw in the show was the monster. Show-not-tell should have prevailed until the very last episode. Then a bit more imagination would have been warranted.I can't wait for a season 2, though I'd be more than happy with them leaving this plot and going elsewhere.


                
I rarely write a review, but I had to do it after reading some of these other reviews, like it's bad acting all the way. Well, these people probably are used to watching Neighbours or Days of Our Lives and just have no clue about acting in the first place. The kids are great and actually I really like the way Winona Rider plays the mom in this. She looks like the mom that would kill to save her son and that's the point, right?Also people are saying that "if you take away the 80's effect, it would not be that good." Well I guess that if you take away the fantasy effect in Lord of the rings, it would also just be a little boy throwing a ring in a volcano, while he is fighting some gypsies or something, so that argument makes absolutely no sense at all! I mean, come on.. The 80's element is a very important aspect of the series, so stop with this nonsense. Me, personally am a huge fan of this 80's nostalgia feeling and the Duffer brothers did an amazing job recreating this aspect.So, if you don't just want to watch another CSI or comedy sitcom (nothing wrong with that tho), this is just what you are looking for! It will keep your interest from the first second to the last. You will definitely not get bored watching this! Enjoy!


                
I ended up binge-watching the entire season - 4 episodes yesterday and 4 tonight - like so many others!! I thought it was excellent! I'm not even a huge "80's" era fan, but this show managed to find the very best of that decade and bring it to positive light. The homage to the films and writers was so well done and the music was amazing! Parts of the show reminded me of "The Goonies" and "Stand By Me" as well. After I watched the entire season, I realized I was thoroughly entertained and without a single scene of gratuitous violence or sex, something that much of today's programming relies on vs. back in the 80's or earlier. I found it refreshing and yes it's something a family can actually watch together (although very young children might be frightened by the monster). The only reason I did not rate this show a 10 is I thought Ryder's character was a bit too much at times. The constant hysterics wore me out for the first half of the season but it did get better in the second half. I understand she was a panicked mother so I can't put a finger on it. I just found Joyce a little annoying. I'm not sure if that was an acting or writing flaw so I will leave it at that. That was minor though and I still would recommend this show wholeheartedly!! I hope they bring it back for more season(s)!


                
An amazing nostalgia driven story, but also mysteriously thought provoking and scary. Stranger Things gives us a mash up of several cult hits like, The Goonies, IT, and ET. The show always seems to end an episode by sinking its claws a little deeper each time and really has you caring for these characters by the end.IE(Hop). Winona Ryder returns in great form and delivers a great performance. Her range of emotions of a grief stricken and angry mother shines through. David Harbour also shines as his character, but I think the real shining performance was those of the four main kids, who are all great and feel genuinely real of time period.(80's) Great fun and well recommended. Netflix keeps knocking it out the park with great intriguing stories.


                
This show has pretty much everything in it and every aspect is don very well indeed.I feel like a kid again watching this, it reminds me so much of that excitement I felt when watching Goonies for the first time, or Explorers, or Back to the Future, ET etc etc.If you grew up in the 80's, you will likely love this. If you did not, you will still like it as it is such an amazing, well paced, interesting, funny and immersive experience with characters that you can really bond with.It is a faithful 80's movie reproduction seen through modern eyes.This show on it's own is worth a netflix subscription.


                
Hope you have read the official storyline.One of the most beautiful things about this story is that it is set in the 80s. Its just like watching it 30 yrs back, not something that was made now and made to look old (I hope you get what I mean). Only difference (but really appreciated), is the beautiful HD (and no grainy crap too).The characters are so reminiscent of the Enid Blyton kids who solve mysteries - their true friendship, need to help and adventurous spirit, all make you truly fall in love with them. And into this comes in a beautiful girl (not talking about prettiness), for whom you really feel love and compassion. And then there are the teenagers and adults all of whom in their own way bring out the various feelings inside us.Basically its the characters that make this show great. The good storyline, pacing, editing, etc., give these characters a solid framework to take us on an adventure. And you don't have to wait each week, forgetting the story and loosing the touch. The entire thing was released together (8 episodes, 6 hrs), so we can finish the story at a go.The story itself is quite simple - Battling alien like monsters from an alternate universe. They could have easily done a 1.5 hr movie, but this longer version is nicer because it gave us a chance to meet these interesting people and spend a longer time with them. I was really sad to see it end. The way it ended, I think there could be a 2nd season. The ending was also a little sad, and I am hoping the 2nd season may have a solution.Quality is on par with Mr.Robot, Person of Interest, etc., so I can easily recommend it to you.Hope I could give you an idea about what to expect. Cheers...PS: It is so happy to see kids who don't have ipads. Kids who loved to use their imagination and who loved to cycle out in the open over long distances. I could feel their freedom and free spirit...............


                
This is a great series well worth watching..but for kids today it's historical..this is what we used to do...meet up..ride bmxs...talk..have adventures...
A great series, very well acted.
Turn off your phone and go outside!!!! :D


                
The first season of those show was phenomenal. Loved it. Very nostalgic. Unfortunately the second season fell a little flat for me, and that is because the main antagonist (Matthew Modine's character) is not seen in the second season. I think that is what sent the show downward. I think viewers could identify more with a human antagonist than " the darkness form another dimension etc" that has no real motive that we can understand vs what we can all understand might be Dr Brenner's motive.


                
STRANGER THINGS was a pleasant surprise. It sprawled comfortably on Netflix's browsing page very recently. Needless to say, I binged all eight (8) episodes in one sitting. STRANGER THINGS, as mentioned in several other reviews, is the "fruit smoothie" of 80s culture. Take in a tablespoon of Stephen King, a few dashes of Spielberg, and a whole lot of 80s horror/thriller culture, blend it together and you essentially have STRANGER THINGS. To start off, the fact that this is NOT a reboot or sequel to a film or television show that debuted in the 80s time period is actually relieving. Not that I necessarily have anything against that, but this series really goes to show that an original concept can still be filled with nostalgia but have its own identity. Hopefully, that will encourage future film/series creators. Regarding the show itself, I found myself on several occasions praising the acting (ESPECIALLY by the children), and engrossed with the plot. I can most definitely appreciate the choice of having this as a television show as opposed to a short movie. It really gave a chance to flesh things out. The plot, while relatively simple, is filled with several cliché tropes - however, they are utilized much differently, which is another thing I happened to enjoy. The "walking backwards and accidentally tripping over something" action DOES NOT lead to a death. The car engine actually STARTED. The girl actually doesn't give too much of a damn (romantically) about the nerdy/weird/outcast guy EVEN AFTER EXPERIENCING A LIFE-CHANGING SITUATION together. Again: a breath of fresh air. My only real gripe with the show had to be the ending. However, this is all hypothetical and essentially not solid. The plot really showcases itself as a one season deal - however, the show creators already confirmed that season two would be a sequel to season 1. I felt that season one's ending should have been more conclusive as opposed to purposely leaving many loose ends to pick up in season two. HOWEVER, if season two does pick up these loose ends and thread them into something even more awesome, then it's a win-win situation and I will be happy with season one's ending. Also, to nitpick, the underlying themes of "mystery" and "folklore" seem to be muddled and messy. Individually, the themes are very strong from an episode-to- episode basis; sadly, as a whole, the show really loses these themes and you're left with a pure thriller-adventure as opposed to the cool dark sci-fi feeling.+awesome characters+superb acting +engrossing plot-possibly weak ending-muddled directionSTRANGER THINGS - binge-worthy - 9/10


                
When the first season has garnered rave reviews & has developed a cult following, expectations from the second season of Netflix's hit Show were abnormally high. The Duffer brothers had tough job at hand & had to present a bigger & better second season in order to satiate their show's huge fan base's thirst for quality entertainment. But the Duffer brothers luckily do not disappoint. Netflix has perfected the art of producing quality drama shows & then churn out several seasons of their hit shows. The second season starts off on a high & answers a lot of questions unanswered in the first season. The script is excellent. The show manages to keep you involved & intrigued throughout. Finn Wolfhard (Mike), who probably shot for IT simultaneously, must be given credit for portraying two characters who are polar opposites of each other. Such maturity in acting at such a young age is commendable. Series regulars Winona Ryder(Joyce Byers) & David Harbour (Jim Hopper) continue to perform to our expectations. A few new faces are introduced & we are even told that a much loved character will be a part of the second season as well. The second season delves deeper into Natalie Dyer(Nancy Wheeler)- Charlie Heaton(Jonathan Byers) & Joe Keery(Steve Harrington) as well. The demons are bigger, scarier & more powerful than the first season. The camaraderie between the four friends will make you miss your childhood friends & bring back some pleasant memories from school. Gaten Matarazzo(Dustin) is endearing. Noah Scnapp(Will Byers) who did not have much of a role in the first season has a prominent role in the second season & gives a fine performance. Caleb Mclaughlin(Lucas Sinclair) does a good job of supporting the cast, although he doesn't have much of a role himself. He is probably cast for adding some "color" (pun intended) to the show. The makers have even added a dialogue on these lines. On the whole, the second season will remind you why you feel in love with the first season. The Duffer brothers have to be thanked for not letting us down. Netflix has been kind to add a recap before the first episode starts. The last two episodes are out of this world! We are having withdrawal symptoms already & cant wait for the third season!


                
A perfect TV show needs 1)Breathtaking screenplay 2)Perfect score 3)Continuity in story 4)STORY***** Stranger things fulfills most of these things and it's great to see that.Sharing similarity with Stephen King novels it is chilling and mysterious... It is very similar to the movie 'IT' they share the same theme.. i loved the first season.. second season could have been better..


                
Stranger Things. Long story short: I loved it. I watched the first season in two days only. However, before I start watching it, I didn't know if I was going to like. I mean I didn't watch any trailer or read any review. I began without knowing what it was. I watched the first episode, and then I could not stop. The actors play very well. Moreover, I'm a big fan of David Harbour. Then, the story is perfect. In each episode, there is more suspense and we want to know what happens next. I really love the way that the series is shot. The thrill is maintained and the feelings are forwarded. So I can undoubtedly tell you that Stranger Things is one of the best TV Shows you'll ever see.


                
As always, it is difficult for any series or film to maintain the high quality standard of the first one. In this case, he has fulfilled it with honors. I have devoured the 9 episodes over the weekend with a desire for more. The eighties will always have an additional enjoyment and not a little will be flooded with that emotion when listening to the musical themes. I recommend the most fans and those who did not see her to do an authentic marathon and see season 1 and 2. They will not regret it.


                
Netflix really bought an excellent product, it took me directly thirty years ago. Good soundtrack, nice photography. Dungeons and dragons was the first nostalgic memory. The show is full of good 80's references. I never heard the Duffer Brothers name, but this time they really did it. I liked your work pretty much. Winona Ryder and David Harbour were good... but the kids were awesome, Finn, Millie, Gaten and Caleb... Kudos! Goonies, Super 8, ET, all together. An nice adventure, with mystery, love and friendship that you must watch. I enjoyed it a lot. Can't wait for season 2.


                
On the surface, the new Netflix original series "Stranger Things" is a science fiction/paranormal thriller set in a small 1980's suburban town where a group of kids and others confront mysterious and terrifying forces. However more importantly, this series is a marriage of elements from classic Spielberg and Stephen King, and acts as a love letter to 80's cinema. Direct or subtle references are made to "The Thing", "Halloween", "It", "The Goonies", "Stand By Me", "E.T.", "Carrie", "Jaws", "The Shining", "Poltergeist", "Evil Dead", and possibly even more films that I did not recognize. Combining these clever homages to classic cinema with incredible pacing, cinematography, soundtrack, and performances makes this series one of my absolute favorites. I highly recommend giving this series a look even if you don't understand the many homages and references just because of how well this show is directed. I would even describe the small town setting, mysterious antagonistic forces, dramatic pacing, and desperate investigation for truth as a more easily digestible form of True Detective season 1, another absolute favorite of mine. Another comparison likely to be made is to J.J. Abrams "Super 8", however the narrative similarities are simply due to both of these works accomplishing the same thing, giving an appreciative and nostalgic nod to Spielberg's classic work. If I had to choose some weaker elements of "Stranger Things", I suppose they would be predictability in the plot and lack of complexity in the dialogue. TLDR: I loved it, definitely give it a shot


                
OK I do not give 10 because that would require me having multiple  orgasms as I am watching and that ain't about to happen. This is a good  little series and well developed and a fine piece of scripting. The  direction is not seen and that is exactly what it should be. My main  congrats goes to the actors. Most of them did a great job and were well  casted. I was very impressed with Winona Ryder's performance which was  a balancing act between many unforgiving aspects of character and she  pulled it off very nicely. I think her weakness versus strength moments  were actually brilliant acting and deserves later recognition. The kids  were outstanding and very much so well delivered and likable. I think  we have a few new starts and I mean real acting stars on that horizon.  As to the plot which also was well developed I have my only concern. It  seems that the big bad government aspect is still a part of American  society that requires more diligent perusal. I do not agree with these  sentiments that the government is the bad guy and we are all at the low  end of the social spectrum This 99% mentality really sux and it is high  time that the citizens of the US wise up and stop blaming the  government for everything and have a look in the mirror first. Because  the craft that was displayed in this series was of such a high standard  I do not wish to labor the point but people, you really need to grow up  a bit about this anti government mentality. It is childish and just  plain ignorant.
Netflix's newest monster mystery mini-series, Stranger Things, is a lovingly made homage to the kinds of 80's horror and adventure films that I loved as a kid. Combining John Carpenter, Steven Spielberg and Stephen King, the Duffer Brothers somehow create an entirely fresh feeling and unexpectedly engrossing sci-fi series. The highlight for me is the group of D+D loving misfit school friends (particularly the toothless Dustin) who are forced to get their act together, Goonies style, to deal with the disappearance of their friend Will Byers. There's plenty of comedy in these endearingly nerdy boys that contrasts brilliantly with the darker, supernatural elements of the show. Winona Ryder, too, stood out for me as the frazzled parent of the missing child, providing some very memorable moments. Can't recommend this highly enough.
At first I saw a lot of Spielburg in Stranger Things, then once I got a few episodes in I realized that it's actually inspired mostly by Stephen King stories. Stranger Things = Stephen King (get it?). The biggest contributors I've noticed are Stand By Me, Dead Zone, Creepshow and Firestarter. It's very well done, the visuals are great, the acting is good and the pace is brisk enough that it should keep most people interested. It does help if you're familiar with 80's thrillers because nostalgia is one of Stranger Thing's strengths.It's definitely weird, which is expected. I definitely see this show becoming a quick cult favorite.


                
If you're familiar with Stephan Spielberg's films, and find yourself enjoying them more times than not, then you really owe it to yourself to watch this series. Story: 9 The main plot revolves around finding a lost boy, Will, and a government experiment gone horribly wrong. This plot is extremely thrilling and sucks me into the screen every time the show is focused on it, however, the rather generic high school subplot that laces most of Nancy's story line lacks some creative "umph" if you will. But that's where the characters come in. Characters: 9 Stranger Things does an exemplary job of building a believable, well directed, well scripted main cast, yet, the side characters suffer from blandness. The three boys are phenomenally well written, it was a nostalgic rush of hanging out with my friends as a kid. Sound: 9 The techno beats underlying the tense scenes are gorgeous and give this series a unique musical identity. Visuals: 8 The sets were amazing, they appeared and felt exactly like an 80's town. The monster, however, is clearly not where most of the budget went. Overall: 9 You'll laugh, cry, and scream as you watch this cast suffer through and eventually triumph over a daunting mystery.


                
This show has great actors, a very well-written plot that keeps you in suspense every epidsode. I binged watched all 8 shows in two days. Reasons to watch this show - characters' emotions and reactions are much more true to real life than how most shows are written, 80's nostalgia that isn't all ruffle skirts, sprayed feathered hair, and blue eyeshadow; the episodes are written as chapters of a story and not separate episodes. I also like how not all of the information is given to you right away, hence great writing of a serial show. Episodic shows are stories each in their own tied together with an inner story. This show is like watching a book your reading. I like that and so did my kids. They couldn't get enough of it. I like that each character has their own flaws and there's no perfect hero. I can't think of anything to improve upon. The special effects were great and believable. There wasn't too much of it either. Maybe the only unbelievable part is the character of the the science teacher. He's a little too naive. And the bullies are a little too extreme. Most kids would back down and never say a word if they saw what Eleven could do. Bullies usually back down once challenged. After the kid peed himself, I can't imagine he would go back for more. There's very few people that would keep up that kind of hatred. Love the show. Want more.
Netflix, you've done it again. Another quality production. The cast were excellent, the story-line fresh and new and the script was riveting and exciting. UNFORTUNATELY, ... I got overly excited and watch all 8 episodes in one day. I should have stretched it out but, hey, ... I loved it. I do have a question, however. There seemed to be an opening for another season at the end. Am I right? I realize that may not have been the intention but I know that I would certainly love to see another one. Of course, bringing back El would have to be a foregone conclusion. I would also have to agree with a previous reviewer that mentioned that the government entourage was pretty weak in this series. I would suggest beefing them up and making them more believable in any future effort.


                
Quality Science Fiction and Horror stories are a rarity, but I've seen Stranger Things. The brilliant 80's style "Tron" music and electrifying title set the mood for this epic adventure. Reminiscent of iconic 80's films like The Goonies and ET, but with the sophistication only a modern series could deliver.High Production Value Visually Interesting Above average performances on the wholeGreat for binge watching under the covers on a cold and rainy night. Truly one for a night of Netflix and "chillin".
