this movie has a great storyline.. for the people that doesn't know Turkish movies highly recommended to watch this movie, its a great drama with Sener Sen (one of the best Turkish actor)who's the last bandit from his old gang. He was in prison because of his backstabbing friend, he gets out of jail and start for seeking revenge and starts finding the real reason of the backstabbing. This movie stays one of my favorites and thats why i wont spoil anything, so i highly recommend you guys this movie !! 10 out of 10ReZ


                
i can write just one comment about this movie. You must see that movie before you die. Magnificent movie from Turkey. "From the cinematography to the plot, to the fine acting, this film is a great example of the diversity of film-making outside Hollywood. A triumph from beginning to end, this film is pretty difficult to pigeonhole as it has so many elements to it. Is it a thriller, is it a reflection on one man's life, is it a buddy movie, is it a revenge movie? It's all this and more. It's got a great pace about it and the depiction of city and country is nicely juxtaposed in many of it's scenes. It's a while since I've seen this film, but there are so many scenes which have stayed with me. I love this film, but damn it's difficult to find." i am join in that.


                
This is a great Turkish movie. It has a great story line. This movie opened a new age in turkish movie history. Before this movie turkish cinemas were almost dying. The actors are great. If you want to watch a great movie try this!


                
Sener Sen was a well known actor before Eskiya but after this movie he is like Al Pacino for Turkish people.The movie is the best movie of all Turkish movies and I had seen it for nearly ten times and each time I discovered different things and I liked it more.The movie is about an eshkiya means a person lives in the mountains,takes money from rich people in order to survive someone lawless.After 35 years in prison he meets a man in the train and than their fates go in the same way.He will love him as if like his child so that he will even leave his darling for him.The movie is about love,revenge,mafia and drug deals.It is a real masterpiece and I recommend this to everyone


                
Also we know about Sener SEN...he is the king of Turkish Movies. I like him very much. Movie is wonderful in all the ways. I watched almost all the movies of Sener SEN...Eskiya is the finest and the biggest production for him i think. But i want him to act in the more movies. It was the last biggest production for him. Now he plays for a T.V. with Turkan SORAY who is the finest and greatest actress ever and ever in TURKEY.


                
This is one of the classics, unbelievable good play of one of the best actors in Turkey. Just fantastic. I only can say; just watch it first and than decide. Marvellous Excellent Fantastic Extraordinary Great Super Just Turkish. I don't know what to say, they say that I have to full ten lines, but I can't because I don't know what to say, so I will just fill some words on it like good bad evil better sunshine banana badman happy new year football soccer sucker sugar tree three and also like these . I can also can write all and you all, check this out in the league of the extra-ordinary gentleman, at least if you wan so, we can call it even


                
Sener SEN is in my opinion the greatest actor around the Turkey. He can perform every role play without any feigned movement. And ESKIYA is after many years of silence of the productivity in the cinema community of the Turkey, a milestone leaving behind the unsuccessful and infertile times. Before that film there was no such a good film recently made and even I can say for a decade. After a few outstanding films (Suyun öte yani, Tatar ramazan, Uçurtmayi vurmasinlar, Berlin in Berlin, Duvar, Yol...) it was the first striking film. The cast is well chosen, also the screenplay and soundtrack is amazing and a very dramatically ending. I LOVE this film. whenever I watch it I experience the same feelings and sometimes I cry ...


                
Eskiya is perhaps the best Turkish film that has authenticity. Everyone who wants to learn about Turkish films should see it. It has been regarded as the return of Turkish cinema after all the bad amateur porno movies shot in the 70's. People trembled after seeing it. The performances of Sener Sen and Ugur Yucel who were the main characters in the film were worth seeing. What is left after the movie was their unforgettable quotes about life. I did not meet with a Turkish person who watched the film and did not cry. After Eskiya most of the film directors who were jaded owing to the situation in Turkish film industry get excited and convert their investments in this sector. But, unfortunately, we could not see a film that has trembled Turkey more than Eskiya did.


                
this movie is great and this is unusual Turkish movie which commended every country which was shown.actors(especially sener sen and ugur yucel) and actress are great.Proof of rising of Turkish cinema all what i want is,in the future,to replicate such that movies in turkiye and i'm full of hope about thati think it isn't fair that this movie was ignored by the academy awards.because a lot of movie that isn't better than Eskiya have won academy awards a lot of times so if we will work harder than we did i'm sure we will win thatand signify our name all world
no movie will ever reach where eskiya stands for turkey. perhaps it's the only movie to be the best movie ever of its native country without a single discussion.i'm not exaggerating, i'm not overrating. it really is a great movie that touches your heart. sener sen, being the best actor of turkey, can make you cry and he gets a huge help from the great composer erkan ogur. for the closing scene, erkan ogur is playing his own invention: fretless guitar. best film music ever in turkey? must be so.i won't say things like "if this movie had been taken in Hollywood, it would have been great. if only they had more budget and more famous Hollywood stars had been acting..." because this movie is great as it is! take one frame out and there goes the magic out! it's a complete movie with absolutely no mistakes or something missing.my only wish would be to have really really English subtitles to make this movie enjoyable for many many others. it's probably one of the most difficult movie translations of all times but there are really really few words to express those said at the end of the movie.or everybody should learn Turkish and try to understand the part on their own.


                
Very amazing and very dramatic a film ,the film is deeply affecting people,a movie with real life stories ,texture historical structure and images are wonderful


                
...Turkish film sector made a great progress with "Eskiya". Following the footsteps, award winning films were shot. Eg. Faith Akin in Berlin. The film is also important as it took attraction from abroad. Ugur Yucel the leading actor of "Eskiya" is one of the most important players in Turkey. Also Sener SEN is the top leading artists of Turkey. He is very famous all over the country. This film is not the peak point of Sener SEN but he makes the film top rated in my opinion. ...Turkish film sector made a great progress with "Eskiya". Following the footsteps, award winning films were shot. Eg. Faith Akin in Berlin. The film is also important as it took attraction from abroad. Ugur Yucel the leading actor of "Eskiya" is one of the most important players in Turkey. Also Sener SEN is the top leading artists of Turkey. He is very famous all over the country. This film is not the peak point of Sener SEN but he makes the film top rated in my opinion.


                
I watched the film for the first time when I was a little kid. Even then it had a mass effect on me. Still unforgettable. As a grown up, I still watch it sometimes to remember the drama it tells.Also, Erkan Ogur (the marvellous musician for OST) has a great effect for the movie to be that dramatical.Once, we watched the film with Italian and Spanish friends and they cried. So, the film definitely tells universal things that anybody can feel. You must watch it to understand what I mean.A little detail from the movie: Most scenes were filmed in one of the most historical and famous apartments of Istanbul: The Dogan Apartment (aka Dogan Apartmani). Yavuz Turgul (director) has a kind of interest in the building. His another film with Sener Sen "Muhsin Bey" is also filmed in the apartment.


                
After serving a 35-year jail sentence, Baran (played by Sener Sen), an eskiya (a bandit, a haydut in Turkish), is released from prison in a town in Eastern Turkey. When returning to the home village he witness the fact that the world has changed dramatically during those years, with the village itself underwater after the construction of a dam. Then he also finds out that the person who masterminded the betrayal that brought him to jail was Berfo (Kamuran Usluer), a friend who had once been closer to him than a brother. In order to snare Keje (Sermin Sen), Baran's sweetheart, Berfo seized his best friend's gold and had Baran arrested by the gendarmes on Mountain Cudi. Then Berfo purchased Keje from her father against her will, and disappeared. According to rumor, he is in Istanbul.While traveling to Istanbul by train, Baran meets Cumali (Ugur Yücel), a young man. Cumali was raised in the alleys of Beyoglu, his life revolving around bars, gambling joints, alcohol, dope and women. Cumali dreams of joining the mafia and making it big. He takes Baran to a dilapidated hotel in the backstreet's of Beyoglu. After a while, Cumali and his friends discover that Baran used to be a bandit, but they can't take it seriously. Cumali's dreams of a new life include Emel (Yesim Salkim), his girlfriend. Emel has a convict brother, Sedat (Özkan Ugur), who is in trouble with the other prisoners in his jail. His life is in danger, and he needs a high amount of money to get out. Cumali promises Emel to get the money for her brother as soon as possible. Thus, when he deals with a transport of drugs for the mafia, he steals a quantity, enough to secure the escaping of Sedat and also later to get him in trouble with Demircan (Melih Çardak), the mafia boss.
I just finished watching the film for a forth time in a row. The movie is truly captivating, the ones that grab your soul and spin it in the air again and again till you drop back to earth with a heavy breathing. And then you ask for more...Acting: The main character -Bandit- seems to be an experienced actor and you can tell. Although I don't speak Turkish, you can feel the energy of every syllable and word he speaks. At no point you think: "my god, this guy cannot even speak properly!". He never comes across as a lazy actor who thinks he performs in a high school play. Never. The other main, the younger one -don't remember his name now - told you the experience is so overwhelming you forget the names- is very good. When he frowns and you can see his eyebrows and forehead making this look full of pain, you sympathise instantly. And he spends a big part of the movie in pain and in problems, you don't stop sympathising. The rest of the cast are all very nice people, good neighbours I'm sure.Cinematography: Weirdly weirdly weirdly, and I mean it, I kinda liked it. I was looking for movies shot in Istanbul - a late obsession of mine - and wanted to see Istanbul, especially how it was in the 90's. I got a happy surprise, a nice gift I could say. Again the City is magnificent, and any movie shot there cannot escape from grabbing some of its greatness.Music: There is music. Check! Plot: If you get rid of the clichés, dress it with a bit of Orientalism or some western energy, it could be a decent one. We've seen worse from Hollywood. Overall: I would give it 3 stars. Or why not 10, who cares!


                
Excellent movie, excellent story, excellent acting... Solid 10/10.While you are watching this film, you also get the magic of the city. Filmin is attracting you with all the details. You'll find everything you're looking for in this movie. awesome movie.Istanbul is one of my favorite cities and we have plenty of opportunities to see in this film


                
35 years ago, a group of bandits in the mountains Cudi is caught by the police . All the thugs in 35 years , or have died due to disease or from reckoning . Except one ; Baran Baran 's conviction long after the release of the film's native land Viransehir prison is now under the waters of the dam 's learning continues. Ceren village, facing the main him tell what happened in the absence of 35 years . Baran , who intend to pursue livelihoods in spite of the recommendations of Mother Ceren the road. Itself to be caught by the gendarmes Mustafa to notice a fact unknown to many years to learn. Berfo'nun led to the betrayal of his best friend fall in jail . Bandit Bandit Berfo their gold confiscated from his father in childhood love buying Keje fled to Istanbul . Mustafa himself prepared execution remorseful , but the bandits had already decreased after Keje .The bandit set out by train on the way to Istanbul , grew up in the back streets of Beyoglu , nightclubs, a casino, a young man living in drug chatter , with Cumali encounters . Cumali her father cheated on her aunt's house located next to the stepmother goes to prison to kill the pain of childhood sexual abuse last a loser trying to shut down the hard man undressing . Yilmaz Güney inspiration of his father who was a fan of the name of the thin film Cumali Cumali area and that a drug courier , realizes the civil police officers waiting for him at Haydarpasa Train Station package Bandit bag to get caught hers , and it changes the boss kit auto body shop in Tarlabasi Demircan.The asks him to . Demircan.The query call, this time waiting for the cops cumali survivors . Suspecting that escaped the hands of the police informer Demircan cumali works make him talk . Meanwhile, in the hands of the bandits appeared on the door of the repair shop cumali recovers bag .
Bandit(Eskiya as original) is perfect. Really good script and chracters. You can feel them. Also Taksim is showed truly. Watch it now!


                
Brilliant performance by Sener Sen. Absolutely genius... If you are botheredf by this movie you have no idea whatsoever about the tarlabasi district of Istanbul where gangs of New York seem to be just a baby who is aching to be with his/her mother. It is, ultimately, a story about a bandit who shifted his space and location greatly however what he stood for stands correctly. It is no different from, if it is not greater,than High Noon or any other Spaghetti Western which depicts a lonesome gunman whom stood for his principles. "Kill or to be killed" in that simplified world The Bandit is whole a lot more than a vengeance story, it is about love, identity, character and more than anything else it is about justice. So if you are lumpen elitist whose job is to judge and be judged do not watch this film for its only for those who have suffered and willing to suffer more.


                
