From the cinematography to the plot, to the fine acting, this film is a great example of the diversity of film-making outside Hollywood. A triumph from beginning to end, this film is pretty difficult to pigeonhole as it has so many elements to it. Is it a thriller, is it a reflection on one man's life, is it a buddy movie, is it a revenge movie? It's all this and more. It's got a great pace about it and the depiction of city and country is nicely juxtaposed in many of it's scenes. It's a while since I've seen this film, but there are so many scenes which have stayed with me. I love this film, but damn it's difficult to find.


                
Now, how can you not watch a movie if it has garnered an avg vote of 8.6 spread over 30000 odd fans/critics on IMDb...? Sener Sen is a Turkish actor whom you probably don't even know, this was only the second film I watched with him as a lead and he is fantastic ! This film has prompted me to write my first ever review, even Braveheart couldn't do it! The movie is about the life of a bandit after having spent half of his life in prison, adapt to the changes in the surroundings, or is it the surroundings that adapt to him? Keep guessing ! His long time love is the only thing on his mind before old feeling and emotions surge and drown him into the life, he was once a King of ! He is strong, though weak at times when you see him with his love, at one time he is seen advising the young buddy to quit the wrong ways of life while at times...but he knows how to turn things right if they do really go wrong...! Street views, the countryside, the city of old Istambul and the starlit sky-- a wow cinematography! Add to that the Bandit's act ! Superfluous !!! Please watch it and save the movie for next generations ! It sure teaches us a way of life that was !!!


                
"Eskiya" has a very questioning style with superb acting. The movie is clearly questioning if bandits could be "good", contrary to the known prejudice.;) "Baran", the leading character as a former bandit (eskiya in Turkish), is someone that represents the 'dying good', still 'pursueing' his one and only love, but the story is still not a love story, on the contrary questioning the todays shallow look on morality, the conflict of east and west in a very Turkish way.Namely and truly romantic.Sener Sen, as one of the best actors in Turkish cinema is at his best.Ugur Yücel, is doing a remarkable job.You should see this one if not already.Turkish cinema influenced by "west", thinking of especially the last scene, which is 'still' worth seeing... ;)Erkan Ogur, a phenomenon for modern Turkish music, is one of the people that "make" the last scene... His name should be remembered if someone talks about this movie anywhere, anytime. ;)


                
at the outset,I take pride in this movie because this movie is from Republic of Turkey.I think this movie explains nicely Istanbul and Turkish culture.For example,a lot of people thinks that Turkey is usual middle east country.However,Turkey is secular and cosmopolitan country.On the other hand,people should be careful for bandit's says because this words are certainly philosophical and witty.Some people examine the visual effects which are very bad and amateur.I agree with reviewers but never forget people should give more importance to scenario and operation as well as they should enjoy and learn Istanbul and Turkish culture.Both A Separation,The secret in their eyes and some Bollywood movies teach me a lot of culture so that people should appreciate the different movies which are outside Hollywood
