I'd like to point out a few facts before I review the movie. First of all, Mozart died at home surrounded by his family, pupil and a priest. Secondly, the plot of Amadeus is not exactly original. Rimsky-Korsakov wrote a short opera called "Mozart and Salieri" with the bare bones of the story and the identical characterization of the two composers, and he used Pushkin's drama for the libretto. So, the rumor that Salieri killed Mozart has been around for almost a couple of centuries though we all know there isn't an iota of veracity in it.That being said, Peter Shaffer's movie adaptation of his own play is still an astounding achievement. Have you ever seen a movie based on your favorite book and come out of the movie theater rather disappointed though the film version faithfully followed the storyline of the book? Amadeus is definitely not one of those movies. Shaffer clearly understands the difference between stage and film; the story is more elaborate in the movie, and some of the lengthy lines are replaced with more subtle images and close-ups.I'm often surprised to find that people don't get that Amadeus is the story of the fictionalized character, Antonio Salieri, not the real one, who adored Mozart's music but hated everything else about him. In other words, the movie viewers are seeing Mozart through Salieri's eyes. Needless to say, his view is rather slanted. If you have read Shaffer's original play, you probably remember he describes Mozart's laugh 'grating.' In the film, this annoying laugh becomes more symbolic. Though Salieri speaks in front of a Catholic priest, he is actually having a one-sided discourse with God. At one point, he declares, "One day, I will laugh at you. Before I leave this earth, I will laugh at you." But as he is wheeled out of his room by an aide at the asylum, what we hear is that screeching laugh of Mozart--or is it? It becomes obvious as we watch that this movie is called Amadeus because that's what Salieri wished to be--God's beloved.The movie might give some viewers who don't know much about Mozart a wrong impression that he was a cad, and it gives incorrect information on some of his music (e.g.; the count in The Marriage of Figaro sings "Contessa perdono" AFTER he learns that the woman dressed in the maid's clothes is his own wife. There's no mistaken identity here. Read the title of the song--Countess, forgive me!), but these are minor offenses. Though I am a die-hard Mozart fan, I can laugh at tongue-in-cheek references to Amadeus in other movies. My favorite? In Guarding Tess, a secret service agent tells his partner, "He (Mozart)'s a jerk. One day, a guy shows up with a mask, and he drops dead." What's not to like about Amadeus? The tale Peter Shaffer tells is gripping, the actors are first- rate, and, of course, there's music. The selection of Mozart's music in the movie is excellent; you can truly enjoy the beauty of his music no matter how much or how little you know about it. In case you are wondering, a little tune Mozart plays on his back and hands crossed as a penalty at a party is Viva Bacchus from The Abduction from the Seraglio, a duet for Pedrillo and Osmin. Pedrillo, while singing this song, is trying to get Osmin, the harem guard, drunk to help his master rescue his true love. No wonder Schikaneder calls it 'our song.' And the improvised version of Salieri's welcome march is actually a famous song, Non piu andrai farfallone amoroso, from The Marriage of Figaro.As I said, I'm a huge Mozart fan, so my rating may be somewhat biased, but what the heck, I gladly give ten stars to Amadeus. I watched it close to a hundred times over the years, and it still gives me a great pleasure every time I see (and hear) it.


                
In 1984, Saul Zaentz, Peter Shaffer and Milos Forman collaborated in bringing a truly remarkable life to the silver screen. The story of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, through the eyes of rival composer, Antonio Salieri. The film is complete with an insightful script (courtesy of Mr. Shaffer), magnificent acting, wondrous sets and costume designs, incredible choreography (thanks to Twyla Tharp), and, above all, the glorious music of Mozart himself.The movie of Salieri's life, through which Mozart played an integral part, is told in flashback mode, beginning in around the year 1822. An old and perhaps emotionally disturbed Antonio Salieri attempts suicide, and in doing so, apologizes for killing Mozart some 31 years earlier. He survives and is admitted to an insane asylum, where he tells a young priest his tale of jealousy and mediocrity.The priest is fascinated and alternately troubled by the lengthy and emotional story. Salieri tells of growing up in Italy with a father who did not care for music; and how he rejoiced for the chance to go to Vienna after his father's untimely death. He tells of how he first had met the young Mozart, and how immature and dirty minded Mozart was. He also tells of how "The Creature" had an intimate relationship with the girl that Salieri had cared for. Most importantly, however, he confided in the priest that he had learned to hate God for giving him a deep love of  music, only to deny him the talent to create truly memorable music. He thought God had given him Mozart to mock him. Salieri's heart filled with such rage, such hatred and such jealousy, that he had vowed to himself to make God an enemy and to kill the young Mozart.As the movie moves along, carrying with it a deep sadness of the human condition, it also celebrates life by giving the audience joyous music, wonderful atmosphere and a general appreciation of humanity for not only eighteenth century Europe, but in any age where music speaks for our emotions.The movie won eight Academy Awards in March of 1985. The only reason it did not win nine was that Tom Hulce was nominated for best actor instead of best supporting actor. He actually was in a supporting role, and in a strange twist of irony, F. Murray Abraham won the best actor statuette; citing probably the only time when Salieri beat out Mozart in anything.The movie itself was shot in Prague where Milos Forman said "(It) is a gem because it's possible to pivot the camera a full three hundred and sixty degrees and never encounter a modern vision." Very few new sets had to be built, as the scenes and buildings they found were quite often apropos to their needs.Amadeus works well on virtually every cinematic plane that exists. It is a masterpiece that must be viewed multiple times to receive what the film has to offer. The emotions of humanity, through the eyes of the troubled Salieri, indeed speak for all of mediocrity. He is their champion and their king.


                
One of the greatest movies of all time. This is a movie that speaks for itself. Beautiful Cinematography and stellar performances by all especially F. Murray Abraham who carries the film. Tom Hulce was a terrific choice for this movie.  True this is historically incorrect but it doesn't matter this film works on so many different levels... the music ahhh the music. Mozart is pure genius and his music touches this film and everyone involved. You can just sense that Mozart's inspiration drove everyone on this film to perfection. A must see film for all!


                
It is because of this movie that I began listening to Classical music. Up to the age of 20 I wouldn't listen to anything but rock, rap, hip hop, punk. Then I fell in love with Mozart. And because of this epiphany I went on to listen to other styles of music such as country (Patsy Cline, Loretta Lynn, Hank Williams), Edith Piaf, Al Jolson, and so on. This movie is breathtaking. A knockout and I wish I could see it on the big screen! Tom Hulce was wonderful as Mozart! Elizabeth Berridge who plays his wife Constanza looks eerily like the real Constanza judging from portraits of the great composer's wife. F. Murray Abraham deservedly won the Oscar for his outstanding turn as Mozart's arch enemy-fellow composer Antonio Salieri who was NOT a 'mediocrity'! He was a brilliant composer in his own right. It is just that there are the fair, the good, the great-and then there are the gifted. Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart was one of the gifted. When it comes to music even the un-trained ear can tell that God kissed the man right on the lips. And there was nothing Salieri could do about it. He could train in music for a million years and he still could not come close to the genius that was Mozart-who's "Eine Kleine Nachtmuzik" is recognizable today even to non-classical music fans.
Amadeus is one tremendous film. The acting was great. Tom Hulce did wonderful and I have only seen him once in a film and that was Animal House. The rest of the cast was great to like F. Murry Abraham did a terrific job in his performance. The music was brilliant, I have never seen a film with such great performances in their plays. I really did admire this movie, everything in it was very interesting and after I watched the film I did a little research on Mozart. The script and directing was superb and the cinematography was brilliant. I couldn't of asked for a better film than Amadeus. I'm glad I saw this film!Hedeen's outlook: 10/10!! **** A+


                
I thought that it would be impossible to make a movie like this one! Peter Schaffer's original play inspired Milos Forman, the great czech film maker, that surprised the world with "One flew over the cuckoo's nest" (1975). The sublime, almost over-human performance by Frank Murray Abraham (the Mozart enemy and secret admirer, Salieri) is one of the keys for the movie success, mostly to it's depth. The perfect sense of timing by Milos Forman is admirable, he knows when to play wich music. All the scenarios: opera houses, palaces, streets, etc., are details absolutely harmonious! One of this classic secret was that Forman gathered "the" team, perfect team work.We can just admire it, laugh, cry, reflect, most of all, listen to it. See it, it's 10/10.Thank you Mr. Forman...


                
I remember as a child, my sister told me to watch this film. That it was the best film she ever saw. I didn't watch it until I turned 10; finally I sat myself down and watched it. I fell in love with it.Based on the life of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, played a terrific and hilarious performance by Tom Hulce. This also has the life of Antonio Salieri, a great and well deserved Oscar winning performance by F. Murray Abraham. Despite the story not being accurate, come on! This is a great movie that was a gigantic Oscar waiting to happen. Congrats to Amaudeus for bringing the beauty of classical music into out living rooms.The story is that we start off with an older and more suicidal Salieri who blames himself for Mozart's death. When a priest comes to ask Salieri to plead forgiveness to the lord and wants to council him, Salieri describes who he was and how music inspired his life, he plays a few notes from his opera's that were masterpieces, the priest just looks at him not knowing the music. Salieri just looks at him with a smile and says "Ah, how about...?", he plays Mozart's most famous work and the priest gets excited saying "Oh, how charming! I'm sorry, I didn't know you wrote that!" smiling and knowing how it will please Salieri, Salieri just looks at him with a emotionless face "I didn't. That was Mozart, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart" and you see the priest's embarrassment. Just great and a perfectly played out performance by Abraham and Frank.Tom Hulce gives Mozart this crazy and annoying yet nevertheless funny laugh that you can't help but laugh at it every time he does it. He brings such life to Mozart and an immaturity that I think some of us can relate too in being spoiled and always knowing you're the best at your talent. He marries Constanze played by Elizabeth Berridge and she does it remarkably well. Constanze is obviously the more mature one and is the only woman who can try to tame Mozart's crazy ways. When Salieri gets a little jealous that the emperor played by an under rated Jeffrey Jones, since he is the emperor's tutor, then the emperor demands more of Mozart and his music. Salieri vs. Mozart: on the next celebrity death match!"Amadeus" is a fantastic movie that anyone could easily love and enjoy. It's definitely a must see for movie fans and anyone in general who is just looking for a good movie. This was the best picture of 1984 and it's well deserved, just trust me and the awesome reviews it's getting!10/10


                
F. Murray Abraham portrays Salieri, a hard working but mediocre composer driven mad by the arrival of a ``natural'' talent, Mozart (played by Tom Hulce) in a highly political environment.  The movie provides some crucial insights into the motivations of the characters, and shows both a superficial image and reveals deeper truths (e.g. Mozart appears to party all the time, but is actually a very diligent worker). I am uncertain as to the historical accuracy, but this movie (i) was entertaining, (ii) inspired a greater love and knowledge of Mozart's Music, (iii) dramatized the undoing of a great talent by both external forces and his own weaknesses (iv) has great costumes and music and (v) has a great supporting cast.


                
What can you say about this movie's director, Milos Foreman? He is just simply superb at the itemization of complex human nature. The film, "Amadeus" is considered to be one of the greatest movies of all time! You would think that any director who lays claim to a film with such a stellar reputation would be at the pinnacle of his professional genius. The fact is, that in Foreman's case, he previously directed another film which has been critically earmarked as perhaps the most spectacular movie ever produced, that motion picture being: "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest" Milos Foreman won the academy award for best director in '1975 for "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest", just as he won the academy award for best director in '1984 for "Amadeus". Foreman takes a monotonously challenging approach to his films. I am convinced that this world renowned director could build a perfectly designed New York City skyscraper using only a pair of tweezers. This is how detailed Milos Foreman actually is! "Amadeus" was a simply remarkable movie which engages in a comprehensive biography of one of the most masterful composers of classical music in the whole history of all creation, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. This movie depicts how Mozart did not even write the notes to his sheet music on script paper, he memorized all of the music which he originated !! That is just simply amazing! Clinically using the adjective, prodigal, for describing Mozart, would merely be a paramount utterance of understatement. The culprit to Mozart's vulgarity was due largely in part to his baroque environment! Mozart's corrupt candor cultivated a tailor made invitation for his spontaneity to allow his personality to open the floodgates for him to maximize his flourishing aggregate potential! The movie "Amadeus" purported an intensely vivid clarity for pointing out a great many of Mozart's talented attributes! In a time when Germanic culture carried an assertively chauvinistic aura with the world's paradigm, Mozart was convinced that if he was going to write an unequivocally marvelous opera, that this opera should be composed and expedited in Italian. The English translation for this opera was entitled "The Marriage of Figaro". The cerebral complexities to Mozart were simply astounding. The grass root recognition of ideological fervor which prevailed with the hierarchy during the period of nineteenth century Austria was portrayed with a very subtle disposition in this film! The rendition of Mozart's music which was performed by the Dallas symphony, and conducted by Edward Mata, was a compendium of Mozart concertos which I will emphatically categorize as marvelously top notch entertainment. When I was in Austria, while visiting Salzburg, I ate lunch at a restaurant which use to be Mozart's home. The plethora of Mozart artifacts in Salzburg were, to say the least, intellectually sensitizing! This enriching sojourn of mine became a reflective synopsis of how influential Mozart was to the entire spectrum of classical music. As a matter of fact, I became passionately imbued with an aesthetic appreciation for Mozart as a result of watching this film,!! Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart auspiciously revolutionized all of western civilization.The film "Amadeus" executes a successfully cogent expertise at illustrating Mozart as an aficionado with an artistic finesse and an unprecedented musical flair!! Winning the academy award for best picture back in 1984, this is just simply the introductory tip of the iceberg in terms of being an indicator of how wonderful this motion picture truly is. If you have not seen "Amadeus" yet, make it a point to do so. The acting is great, the cinematography is enlightening, and the directing, by one of the all time directors in the whole history of Hollywood film making, Milos Foreman, is totally sensational!! See this film!! Five Stars!! Perfect Ten!! No Question About It!!


                
A lavish, highly enjoyable production, the film is one of the finest biopics ever made, not just because of excellent production values, or the mystery element about the title person's death, but because it brings more to the depicted section of Mozart's life than just that. The film brings up and dives into deep religious issues and how important such religious beliefs were in the eighteenth century, and also it brings up some ideas about the profane mixed with the sacred. The whole production is wonderfully set to classical music, and it is technically superb in every area, with very good costumes and editing, as well as some fine acting, particularly from by Jeffrey Jones, who is as delightful as ever as Emperor Joseph. Nevertheless the film feels a bit lively in excess at times, and it never quite feels like it is in Vienna with the mixed accents, but still it is a quite a stunning achievement and simply superb entertainment. The film deservedly won 8 Academy Awards including Best Picture. A director's cut of the film was released too, running an extra twenty minutes at no detriment to the film.


                
I've just acquired a video of "Amadeus," and I have a much greater appreciation for it now than I did when I saw it six years ago. I was filled with the urge to see it after watching "The Hunchback of Notre Dame" repeatedly, which stars Tom Hulce as the voice of Quasimodo. Yet, as I watched "Amadeus," though Tom Hulce was exceptional as Mozart, it was F. Murray Abraham with whom I was most impressed. He is PERFECT as Salieri, and he does one of the best acting jobs I have ever seen in my life in this part. He plays his character in such a real and believable way that I was completely taken in by him. Also, so great is his talent, that it took me about five times of watching the movie all the way through (and checking the credits!) to realize that it was the same actor playing "Old Salieri" and "Middle-aged Salieri" throughout the movie. I recommend that you see this movie just of Abraham alone, though the entire thing is a masterpiece. I went out and bought a cd of Mozart's Requiem Mass after seeing it just twice! Overall, this movie is intriguing and entertaining, and the actors are perfect. No one could have played Mozart better than Tom Hulce, and I don't think I have to mention how amazing F. Murray Abraham is as Salieri again. I give it a 10/10. Simply fantastic.


                
Now, this is my idea of a movie - spectacle, religion, sex, envy, and some of the most stirring music ever composed.  And it all seems so modern; a bad visit from Mozart's father is awkward in the same way as a bad visit with my own parents!  Here's a film that makes ancient history seem like yesterday, using the same trick employed by all classic films - solid characterization.It's a shame that so many of these actors never did much else, but maybe that's a blessing in disguise because it allows them to embody their characters without other movie associations getting in the audience's way.I was worried that the extended edition would hurt the film's pacing (most extended editions are a bad idea - the material was cut for a reason!).  But in fact, all of the restored scenes are excellent.  I should have expected no less!  Beautiful costumes, beautiful locations, beautiful everything...very fittingly, "Amadeus" stands above and apart from the mediocrity.


                
As of this writing, I have about 90 reviews on IMDb. I'd only began submitting reviews a few years ago, so the films I'd seen in the past were never reviewed by me. I thought I'd take the time now to give a quick review of the 10/10 films I'd seen in my life.First one up is "Amadeus," and to me, the best film ever made. It's the movie I compare all others to, including classics like "The Godfather," "Citizen Kane," and "Schindler's List.""Amadeus" has it all - excellent acting, excellent cinematography, excellent costume design, excellent music production, excellent set design, perfect combination of comedy and tragedy, and tons and tons of classic, memorable lines, especially those delivered by Salieri. I saw this movie in the theatres when it first came out. I was 18 years old and it made me fall in love with classical music. Director Milos Forman is truly a wonder, given that he's helmed quite a few films that made my top 25 list - "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" and "Ragtime." How fitting it should be, then, that my favourite song of all time appears in one of his films, "Hair." Coincidence? I think not. The man's a genius, plain and simple. He's also caused me to structure some of my screenplays and novels based on "Ragtime." Talk about influential.


                
Mozart is my favorite composer, I love his music, all of it - his symphonies, concertos, operas, Requiem, you named it. I've read many books about him; I try not to miss any concert where his music is performed. I know that "Amadeus" the movie is not exactly his biography, and his relationship with Antonio Salieri, with his father Leopold, with his wife Constanze Weber, with the Emperor Joseph II and with the court musicians in Vienna of 18th century, might not have been exactly like it was shown in the movie, and Mozart himself might not have laughed as Hulce did but I LOVE the movie. I've seen it many times and I still love it. It is about a conflict between a genius for whom to create was as easy as to breath, and a talent that realized that no matter how he tried, he can not be a genius. It is very easy to admire a genius from the distance; it is unbearable to be next to him and to realize that you never will reach the same heights. Admiration, contempt, hatred, denial, self-hatred and above all of these "monsters with green eyes" -divine music that will live forever, music oblivious to the dark passions, music that makes us feel the presence of perfection and harmony...Once again, "Amadeus" is not a biography, at least I don't see it as such. It is a work of fiction and a wonderful film that did not make me see a real Salieri as a villain. Having read many materials about Mozart and his time, and having listened to the music from his epoch, I have a respect for Salieri and his music which is quite charming.Amadeus - beloved of Gods and taken by them too early because those whom they love die young.


                
AMADEUS: DIRECTOR'S CUT Aspect ratio: 2.39:1 (Panavision)Sound format: Dolby DigitalMany years after the death of Mozart (Tom Hulce), the aged and embittered court composer Salieri (F. Murray Abraham) relates to a disbelieving priest the story of his obsession with Mozart's musical genius and how it led to jealousy, betrayal, and possibly even murder...Sumptuous evocation of a time and place, using Mozart's glorious music both to propel the story and underline the emotional dynamics of Peter Shaffer's extraordinary script. Based on his well-received stage play, and completely reworked for the screen, AMADEUS (1984) - and its updated version, reviewed here as AMADEUS: DIRECTOR'S CUT, released in 2001 - portrays Mozart's world as a romantic marriage of Royal palaces and candle-lit garrets, populated by eccentric emperors and their devious, toadying lackeys. The composer himself is played by Hulce as a spoiled, egotistical brat who indulges his passion for earthly pleasures with all the enthusiasm he brings to his musical compositions. But the film is anchored by Abraham in an Oscar-winning turn as Mozart's nemesis Salieri, consumed by envy and hatred whilst simultaneously awed by his rival's genius, the genius which Salieri had wished for himself, only to be denied by a mischievous God. The scenes in his asylum cell - where the elder Salieri confesses his 'crime' to a naive priest (Richard Frank) - are a tour de force, played with an intensity that simply burns up the screen. Beautifully designed and photographed, and bolstered by a magnificent supporting cast (including Jeffrey Jones, Simon Callow and Kenneth McMillan in a role completely excised from the original theatrical print), the movie unfolds like an operatic melodrama which builds to a shattering climax, as the two central characters reach an understanding (of sorts) during the writing of Mozart's 'Requiem', only to be divided forever by unexpected tragedy. A masterpiece.The director's cut runs 180 minutes (the original theatrical version ran 160m) and reinstates various bits and pieces which help to clarify a number of crucial plot developments (the antagonism between Salieri and Mozart's wife is more fully explained, for example). Incredibly, the MPAA gave the film an R-rating for a brief sequence in which a female character bares her breasts to the camera! There's nothing here which warrants anything more than a PG-13.NB. The original version was released theatrically in 35mm and 70mm editions, featuring a 6-track Dolby Stereo soundtrack.


                
Yes, Amadeus is funny, sad, musical, romantic, and even sexy; but its real value (IMHO) lies in what we can learn from it about the creative temperament. Great artists (sadly) usually ARE impulsive, hyper-sensitive, self-indulgent, non-conformists who are often also self- destructive. Amadeus can easily be viewed as a tragic-comic essay on the artistic personality in general. It was this focus that made it such a valuable learning experience for me. It will remain on my personal top ten list of rewarding film experiences.


                
Amadeus (1984)A million reviews have been written about this deserving movie--and the big points are good ones. And debatable. One, the play was better. Maybe. The play couldn't use cinematic tricks for its effects, but the movie really took it all much further in movie terms. It's a movie, not an adapted play.Two, it's inaccurate. Yes. Of course. It's a dramatized movie based on an historic figure. The truths are plenty--the boy genius, the patronage, the music scene in general. The fictions are worth noting, mainly that Salieri didn't kill Mozart (there is zero evidence of this, just chatter). Salieri didn't transcribe Mozart's final Requiem at his death bed. And Mozart's wife didn't sound like a ditzy American. Of course. Three, the operas are staged in contemporary terms, like dry ice effects. The venues are appropriate, and in fact, Mozart's time is not that far from ours, not in the larger picture.Speaking of venues, the whole city of Vienna looks terrific--because it's actually Prague. Go to Prague now and it'll have the same effect, though without the gray severity. Yes, Mozart was buried in a common grave. Yes he died too young from still uncertain causes (see Wikipedia for a full rundown of likely options). And yes, he was pretty innovative and radical. And if not as silly as Tom Hulce's interpretation, still a renegade socially and musically.Is it a good movie? Yes, a great movie. Who won't like it? Well, people with an aversion for historical dramas might, but even here, it zooms with such crazy, fun, funny energy, I don't know why it wouldn't just suck people in. Eventually though there are short scenes that are basically straight opera, with some continuing story along the sidelines. If you hate hate opera, you might have to just marvel at the sets and crazy crowds.There isn't a bad actor here, or a bad moment, really. And the music, the music! It's wonderful. The performances, take note, are by the high water mark of Mozart performances in the 20th Century--Sir Neville Mariner leading his famed orchestra. Likewise, the opera productions are by one of the great talents of the era, Twyla Tharp. The director Milos Forman has a short resume but it's impressive, including "Hair" as a kind of precursor and "One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest" as proof of some kind of higher ability. (Forman hasn't always been on target, though, notably with his highly polished but pushy and almost abusive "Goya's Ghosts," which has a similar structure to "Amadeus," building a large world around a true rebel artist.)Anyway, a marvelous movie, a truly lovely experience, beautifully filmed, intensely envisioned, and acted with aplomb (F. Murray Abraham is a wonder as Salieri, young and old). And it is layered with some of the most emphatic and resolved music ever written.


                
I have seen the original version of "Amedeus" 6 times and no doubt, it is and always will be a deservedly crowned masterpiece and Best Picture. While I agree with that 100% , I've always had this feeling that there could or should have been more to it. Not because the original was cut by 20 minutes but because it seemed to have more focus on the absurdity of W. Amedues Mozart himself. Yes,he's the title character,but the point of view of the story is told by Salieri and it seems,aside from his aged version and the times we see his young self on screen,in the original his story of his disillusionment with God seems too quick. In this director's version,we find out more than we had before about this. Scenes of him quietly praying but at the same time crying out to God to help him have as great a gift as Mozart.Every failure and snub he receives in his life,from the arrival of the young genius culminates in his declaring God his enemy and burning the Holy Cross in the fireplace. The new scenes help build it to a better climax on that note. Along with this the expanded story of when Mozrt's wife secretly visits Salieri to show her husband's work to him,to gain a paid teaching post. This leads to the deleted section of Salieri telling her to "come back in the evening" , for illicit purposes. Once she later arrives and removes her top garment exposing herself,for whatever reason,he decides to instead have her shown out the door. I'm assuming out of his own sense of decency,he decided not to go through with it. It's Mozart he wants to punish ,not her. Even though he has. Lastly,there's also the funny scenes with Mozart trying to instruct a nervous young girl while her family and dogs make constant noise. It's something that causes him to storm out and feel indignant at having to put up with something like this. It adds only a little to the overall story. With the film expanded to 3 hours,again,I feel I saw a much more complete storyline,with both Salieri & Mozrt represented equally on screen. ....but whether in it's original form or this version,there's no way I'd ever rate "Amedeus" less than 10 stars. That'd be like telling Mozart his music has "too many notes",so...well,there it is. {END}
I adore classical music, and Mozart is one of my favourite composers. When I came across Amadeus in my local charity shop, I knew I had to buy it. I watched it, and I loved it from start to finish. It is true it is not necessarily a true depiction of Mozart's life, but I was so blown away by the quality of the acting, sets, costumes and music that I forgot about that. The film is just gorgeous to look at, Vienna in the film (Prague in real life) looks beautiful, but the sets and costumes are colourful and lavish. The music is utterly majestic, from the Marriage of Figaro, Queen of the Night(brilliantly sung in what is one of the most difficult colouratura arias ever), Requiem in D minor to Don Giovanni, it was a feast to the ears. The script I thought was of exceptional quality particularly during the finale of Marriage of Figaro(one of the most beautiful tender moments in any opera is where the countess forgives her husband), and the direction was very fine. As many reviewers have pointed out, this is more about the mediocrity and envy of Salieri than it is of the eccentric genius of Mozart, thus the story was compelling and intriguing. The acting is wonderful; Tom Hulce is excellent as Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, yeah his laugh is a tad grating, but I loved the manic and eccentric interpretation Hulce gave. Elizabeth Berridge is suitably petite and alluring as wife Constanze while Jeffrey Jones is delightful as Emperor Joseph II. For me though, F Murray Abraham gave the film's best performance, for he was absolutely outstanding as Salieri. Overall, brilliant film, gorgeous to watch, amazing music and essentially a must see! 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
Antonio Salieri (F. Murray Abraham, in an outstanding performance), the Vienna court's composer, is in the end of his life in an asylum. He receives the visit of a priest and tell him how he destroyed Mozart (the actor who has disappeared from the screens Tom Hulce, also in a marvelous performance). Then, the story of Mozart, through the jealousy and admiration of Salieri, is told to the viewers in a spectacular movie. The performances of the cast, the direction, soundtrack, costumes and photography are wonderful. A curiosity: Cynthia Nixon (Miranda, from Sex and the City) has a small, but relevant participation in this movie as the servant Lorl. A movie to be watched many times. The viewers who appreciate excellent movies and classic music will certainly love it. My vote is ten.


                
Few films create such a lasting impact as "Amadeus." Although it may not be as well-recognized as some other classics, those "in the know" have been privy to one of the great films of the 20th century. Its Director's Cut re-release a few years ago re-established it as a classic, and enticed many new viewers.Personally, having been subjected to this film years ago, watching the Director's Cut is a delight, because it seems to flow even better now, even with an extra twenty minutes of runtime.The film begins with the composer Antonio Salieri (F. Murray Abraham) telling his story (and Mozart's) to a priest (Simon Callow). Antonio feels personally responsible for Mozart's early death, and finally - after years of silence - spills his beans.The flashbacks (intercut with scenes of Salieri reciting the story from memory) show us the infantile and juvenile Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (played by "Animal House's" Tom Hulce) and his domination of musical composure in Vienna, where he was the subject of jealousy from Salieri, whose lifelong dream was to be half as great as Mozart.The performances are wonderful - Hulce perfectly embodies the Mozart many of us weren't aware existed - the troubled, disrespectful and hyper-active man-child. Today, historians claim Mozart probably suffered from attention disorders like ADD. Whatever the reason for his behavior, Hulce never lets up on the believability.Even more impressive is F. Murray Abraham as Salieri. It is really he who carries the film on his shoulders and is the vital link to Mozart. I personally think it was a brilliant decision by Peter Shaffer (playwrite and scriptwriter) to convey the story through the eyes of another man close to Mozart, rather than Mozart himself. It's far more effective than a simple narrative, which would have detracted from the effortless intrigue of this movie. (Once you start watching, you're hooked - even though it's three hours long on the Director's Cut, it's over in what feels like less than half that long.) Milos Forman has been responsible for some wonderful films throughout his career (other highlights include "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" and "The People vs. Larry Flynt") but in my opinion, from a directorial standpoint, this is probably his strongest. "Cuckoos' Nest" may have had deeper themes and drawn greater parallels between characters and events and symbolism, but "Amadeus" doesn't need to be complicated, and it isn't. At heart it is the story of a brilliant composer and the man whose jealousy destroyed them both. This should be seen by everyone at least once - because once you see it, you'll come back for seconds.


                
Amadeus is a wondrous, if factually dubious spectacle, but be careful to watch the original theatrical edition rather than the director's cut. The film critic for the Toronto Globe and Mail said that Amadeus needs an extra 20 minutes running time like the Magic Flute needs a drum solo, and he was right.It is a rare case of film studio being wise to order cuts. The only other example that springs to mind is James Cameron's pious additions to The Abyss for his "special edition". The added scenes do add slightly to our understanding of the story, but two hours and 38 minutes is simply too long, especially for a director as methodical as Milos Forman.


                
Just watched it again the other day, still love it, this movie doesn't age. It's tragic, comical and cynical at the same time, just like Mozart's opera buffa. I think Wolfie would have loved it too. F. Murray Abraham's performance is perfect, I try to find one scene where he's not so good, and there's none. Those scenes where he recalls his history with Mozart to the priest is especially well done. Salieri adores Mozart's music genuinely and resents his god given talent bitterly. Abraham just waves through the admiration, jealousy, bitterness, pain, self-loathe, cynicism and borderline insanity seamlessly.


                
The 1980s was unique in that twice within two years the star of a three hour historical film (playing the lead historical male character) won the Academy Award for best actor in such a picture. Normally biographical films are considered box office poison, even the superior ones like Daryl Zanuck's "Wilson" in 1944. But both "Gandhi" (1982) and "Amadeus" (1984) were box office successes, culminating in the above mentioned Oscars for Ben Kingsley in the former and F. Murray Abraham in the latter. Both deserved the award for a change - both did fantastic jobs in bringing Mohandas Gandhi and Antonio Salieri to life. By the way, if Kingsley seems to have had better roles since then in films than Abraham, the latter has had a far more interesting career on Broadway in a number of plays such as "Angels in America".Based on Peter Shaffer's dramatic hit play, "Amadeus" is a study of frustration and jealousy in art - here in the world of 18th Century music. In 1785 the leading composer in the court of Emperor Joseph II of Austria (Jeffey Jones) is Antonio Salieri. He is well regarded by the Emperor and the other leading musical figures in the court. In comparison to them Salieri really merits this high regard. But along comes a young, fun-loving, and unpolished figure named Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (Tom Hulce), or "Wolfie" to his wife Costanza (Elizabeth Berridge). Salieri is always the proper courtier - he came from a poverty background in Italy, and really worked hard at both his music (which he hoped pleased God and through God man) and his diplomatic skills until he reached his position. He first comes upon Mozart fooling around with Costanza in a break before a concert he is going to give. The unpolished bumpkin does not strike Salieri as a threat. But then he hears his music, and Salieri's self-esteem begins to crumble a bit.He tries to put it out of his mind, sensing that Mozart is his own worst enemy due to his unpolished manner. But when Costanza brings him some of the music her husband has worked on, Salieri (whose knowledge of music is really high) realizes it is the work of a genius. Sure enough, despite roughing the court's feathers, Mozart is slowly gaining massive public and court support. Occasionally there is a sticking point. When some jealous rivals (slightly goaded by Salieri) argue against the length of one of his operas, Mozart teaches them a lesson by having the orchestra not play the music during a ballet between acts. Emperor Joseph is fascinated by this odd idea and asks why no music is being played. Mozart explains that the others think there is too much music. The Emperor (in my favorite piece of dialog - which appears to be true) suggests maybe they were correct. Mozart shows the Emperor the music, and asks what notes to take out. Joseph II can't give any answer to that one.The effect of Mozart's rise is to make Salieri feel that God tricked him in their deal - he would serve God by making beautiful music. But this bumpkin makes far better music. Bitter he watches for any opportunity to undercut his rival. Then Mozart's estranged father Leopold (Roy Doltrice) dies, and Salieri sees that this has an emotional effect on Wolfgang. Building on the latter's guilt, Salieri tries to send him into a decline. And soon Mozart's health begins to decline. He has been composing a requiem, and Salieri intends (pretending to befriend the dying Mozart) to steal it and claim it as his own work. I'll leave the outcome of that to the readers when they see the film."Amadeus" is told in flashback, with Salieri having attempted suicide about 1819 (a few years before his death), and recovering in a mental institution. He has also made a statement that he poisoned Mozart. This issue is not really settled in the film, and historically it is still debated with most musicologists thinking Salieri was hallucinating. Abraham's performance is wonderful, as he slowly comes to realize he has become the symbol of the mediocrity we mostly fall into. Hulce shows the bumptious reality of pure genius in Mozart, and how fragile it all was. Berridge is fine as the loyal Constanza, as is Jones as the rather good natured but fatuous Emperor, and (in his few scenes) Doltrice as the disappointed Leopold.The historical Salieri was not the equal of the big three of Vienna in the 1780s to 1809 (besides Mozart, Beethoven, and Joseph Haydn), but he was respected, and even gave musical lessons to Beethoven in this period. His serious music will never quite be accepted by the public after the big three, but both the play and the movie reopened interest in him - his work is beginning to reappear in some concert halls.
Although filled with rather tedious scenes and occasionally lackluster attempts of humor, this is definitely one of the most remarkable movies in terms of drawing its audiences into the realm of the protagonists. This achievement is primarily brought by the carefully selected background music connects perfectly with the movies from scene to scene, but most importantly, all the background music are Mozart's compositions, and through this movie we celebrate Mozart as a great composer who can transfer his feelings not by language, but by music. And it is a guarantee that by the end of the movie, you will be so completely absorbed into this movie that you will forget to take the DVD out until the cast list is over. Unlike other movies, Amadeus requires the utmost attention to every line, every detail of the movie, otherwise you will be lost. For the same reason, you may actually appreciate watching this movie a lot more after the first viewing.


                
