To be blunt, I found AMADEUS to be one of the most Overrated and preposterous bores in all of motion picture history, and that goes back a long way now. It's not very often that I'm this clueless as to the almost universal appeal of a certain highly revered work of cinematic art, but I just couldn't help wondering just what was supposed to be so damned compelling about this very, very lengthy and dramatically vacant exercise in tedium?For openers, I just couldn't buy Tom (NATIONAL LAMPOON'S ANIMAL HOUSE) Hulce as "the" Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. From the very moment he first came on screen, groping after an equally miscast Elizabeth Berridge as his fiancée-wife, I knew I was in for a very rough ride; here I was only 20 minutes into this thing and already the leading lovers were utterly irritating ... and with 140 minutes left to go!Hulce looks like what he is - a 20th Century guy in a 1700's period white wig - and though she's actually over the age of 20, Berridge hardly appears old enough to play anything but his kid sister. Somebody should have told these two to lose their modern accents; Berridge loves to say "gonna" ("I'm not gonna marry you") and she tells someone that "only an idiot would ask Wolfie to work on that 'stuff'". Oh well. All the same, I'd imagine that speaking in a proper 1700's dialect would have sounded even more out of date while delivering such silly dialog as this:MOZART: "Here, everything goes backwards. People walk backwards and dance backwards and sing backwards and even talk backwards.GIRL: "That's stupid".MOZART: "Why? People fart backwards..." How idiotic. But this is not limited only to these two bozos; even another character uses the modern expression: "if you marry him you won't have a pot to p*ss in". It also seems like the phrase "kiss my ass" was very popular back in the days of Mr. Wolfie, too.Enough about the dialog. There is still one glimmer of hope in all this mess - and that's F. Murray Abraham (who won the Best Actor Oscar) as Antonio Salieri. What very little there is to admire in this movie is solely owed to his interesting performance, and in the character himself. Maestro Salieri's overwhelming envy of his childish colleague's superior talents, and the gradual resentment he feels toward God for leaving him in the dust of mediocrity, is the only saving grace keeping the film from total ruin. It's a pity that this angle of the story was historical fiction, though.And then there was that giggle... that ever-present, idiotic giggle...* out of ****


                
I'll keep it short as others have covered this travesty adequately, I think.Basically, take one of the most talented composers / musicians to have ever lived, make him come across as a complete bumbling idiot with a very annoying and persistent laugh, and that just about covers the central problems with this film, plot aside.I love much of Mozart's music and have read a biography about him, and as such I got the impression that I'd like him as a person. This film would've made me dislike him intensely had I not read about him prior. Try watching this film for 10 minutes and not thinking 'what an annoying idiot Mozart is'. He just comes across as somebody who can play and write music, but is pretty much useless at every other facet in life, and is very irritating with it.


                
now most classics, i can very well agree with their status, but this one i just can't understand why it's so acclaimed.. critics love bringing down any historical film down to it's artistic licences, but i'm amazed at how this one is so over-missed.. now come on Mozart speaking in an American accent, and most of the cast using contemporary dialogue.. i don't care how great the subject matter or production design is.. but really i can't overlook that fact.. A Knight's Tale having a moment where they sing Queen's 'We Will Rock You' i can enjoy, that film isn't taking itself entirely serious.. but Amadeus is!!! and there cast using american accents and contemporary dialogue in film set in Europe hundereds of years ago, is one of the biggest plot points i could think of.. i just couldn't take the film seriously, and it was pretty boring.i'm not some ignorant movie goer either.. in fact i know a hell of a lot, so don't think i'm some 14yr old movie buff wannabe.. This film is seriously over-rated. Milos Forman has made many a great film (Cukoo's Nest, Larry Flynt, Man On The Moon [all set in the 20th Century i might add!]), but this in my mind was one of his absolute worst.. it's as if he was lazy enough to just leave the boom mike in shot the whole time, and leave in sounds of the crew working behind camera. .it's just that ignorant a film.   It has enough fans (and oscars), that i don't think my blasting of it is going to hurt it one bit, but if you're REALLY serious about films, (and i don't just mean someone who watches a lot of films, but someone who thinks about films every other second of the day) don't go into this movie thinking it's the absolute masterpiece everyone makes it out out to be, it just isn't... the accents and dialogue totally overshadow what could have been a truly great film! because everything else is top notch.. but i can't forgive such easy and obvious mistakes in such a high profile film!!!


                
Admittedly this film was well timed and placed, and captured an audience hungry for depth, quality and substance in the midst of the "greed is good" 1980's. What it delivered, though, was essentially a story about life (and death) in the "greed is good" 1780's. The shallowness of Mozart's "live fast, die young" story sinks in as the novelty of the historical setting wears off.


                
