Before I saw this movie, I respected Mozart's genius, but his music wasn't my cup of tea. Beethoven was more to my taste, I tended more toward heavier classics. But this movie moved me to tears, especially at the end when they did Mozart's REQUIEM while he was working on what was to be his last piece of music. Now, I'm a Mozart fiend. This was a great movie. True, there are some historical inaccuracies. Anyone who has studied music history knows that Sallieri did not help Mozart with his Requiem. It was a student of his named Sussmayer. But it does make this story ironic, that the man who was so dedicated to the ruination of Mozart ended up helping him in the end. (I question the historical accuracy of that as well.) I recently bought the director's cut to this movie. Until I saw the director's cut, Sallieri seemed like a more sympathetic character, someone who just couldn't buy a break. Who can't identify with that? But after seeing the director's cut and seeing what I think is an important scene between Sallieri and Mozart's wife, he seemed more like a jerk. You also understand why Frau Mozart was so rude to Sallieri at the end of the movie, whereas before, you see the next to the last scene and you think, "Whoa! Where did this come from?" This was a great movie, for entertainment value only. If you want historical accuracy, watch a documentary or read a biography from the library or something. Because of this movie, I am now a rabid Mozart fan. If the movie can make Mozart converts, then it can't be bad at all.


                
'Amadeus' won eight Academy Awards with its highly fictionalized account of the life of 18th-century composer Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart... The film explores the essence of our strength and weakness, our essay on love, our darker side as human beings... Both Mozart and Salieri were born with unusual talents, but were overcome by emotions of love, faith, hate, pride, rage, repugnance, envy and falseness...F. Murray Abraham gives a tremendous performance as Antonio Salieri, the forgotten composer of Vienna who unfairly compares his own skill to a better man in the field, harboring in his heart a violent and uncontrolled anger, causing the poison of his own malice... Tom Hulce is remarkable as the over-excited genius, with a high-pitched giggle, whose unique music shows a continuous growth in expressive power...Jeffrey Jones gives a delightful performance as the 'musical king' who does not censor things lightly...Elizabeth Berridge is the perplexed and tempted woman who delivers the Court Composer a portfolio filled with her husband's manuscripts, and is horrified in hearing that 'some service deserves service in return.'Christine Ebersole is the young, high-spirited soprano, emotionally disturbed by Mozart's dramatic change...Richard Frank is the Chaplain, at the hospital, who hears Salieri's faults...Roy Dotrice is the menacing figure in a long, gray cape and dark gray hat...Nicholas Kepros is the Prince-Archbishop of Salzburg who seems quite sure that Mozart has sold himself to Vienna...Vincent Schiavelli is Salieri's valet who tries to tempt his master to open the door with a favorite dessert...Cynthia Nixon is the young maid-servant who is invited to go to Mozart's house and offer her services... Roderick Cook is the harsh and highly correct Emperor's Chamberlain who makes certain to a passionate Mozart that a little modesty would suit him better... Charles Kay is the corpulent man, highly conscious of his position as Director of the Opera, who rips out several pages of Mozart's music...Jonathan Moore is the kindly and educated Imperial Librarian who argues that opera is here to ennoble human spirits... Simon Callow is the impresario who asks the enchanted Amadeus to write for him a proper part with a couple of catchy songs, and he will guarantee him a 'luxurious triumph.'Kenneth McMillan is the prosperous merchant who treats his dogs like his own children...One of my favorite sequence is when a bewildered Mozart is received by the Emperor who is practicing a little March of Welcome composed by the illustrious Salieri... After some comments and remarks, Mozart, returns the manuscript back to the Emperor, and sits on the piano to play Salieri's musical composition demonstrating to the Emperor that he already had it in his head 'on one hearing only.' Mozart plays the first half of the march with great precision, then proceeds to modify the written score so that it turns out into a much better march... Filmed in Prague with a joyous music from Mozart's phenomenal repertoire, Milos Forman's 'Amadeus' is a masterpiece of drama intelligent and moving, handsomely filmed, competently directed, extremely well-acted, exquisitely mounted... The script gives a thought-provoking scenario that is clever, believable and interesting...
At the tender age of 26, when I still thought no film was complete without a car chase and a big explosion, Amadeus had me hooked. I went to see it multiple times back in 1984 during its initial release, back when the theater was empty whenever it played and before it was nominated by the Academy.This film is an unusual biography, and I often like to compare it with Ed Wood, since both Ed Wood and Salieri were men who gave everything they had to their respective crafts and came up short. Salieri, a contemporary of Mozart, has only one dream - to be a great composer. Predating the prosperity gospel by about two hundred years, Salieri mistakes obsessing with God over his own earthly desires with actual godliness, even being happy when his father - who objects to Salieri's musical interests - chokes to death and leaves Salieri free to pursue his musical dreams. He chalks this up to God's will for his career. Problems begin when Salieri meets a twenty-something Mozart at the court of the Emperor in Vienna, where Salieri is the court composer. Mozart is everything Salieri is not - profane, forward, and a great composer. Salieri starts down the road to insanity as he realizes the childish Mozart has all of the gifts he ever wanted and has been denied. However, Salieri is not an outright failure as was Ed Wood. In many ways he is something worse than a ridiculous failure - he is mediocre, and worse yet, he knows it.Salieri,angry at God for honoring a profane ungrateful boy like Mozart while ignoring his own one desire to be a great composer, swears to destroy Mozart. The strange thing is, as long as Mozart is alive, Salieri is the honored composer, not Mozart, though this just seems to infuriate Salieri even more. Salieri seems to be the only person in Vienna who recognizes Mozart's talent. This just begs the question - why did it never occur to Salieri that being able to recognize something as valuable before anyone else does is a talent in and of itself? After all, in 1975 the second best thing to being Bill Gates would have been to have recognized his genius and invested heavily in his success. But I digress.The cinematography and art direction on this film are outstanding. The visuals start out light and festive, matching Mozart's mood and prospects. As poverty, illness, and the guilt of his father's death close in on Mozart during the second half of the film, the mood and visuals become very dark to match what is happening in Mozart's own life. Highly recommended.


                
Not only did I enjoy watching this movie, but it also stuck with me afterward. In most respects it is well put together. The story if multidimensional and carries the viewer along well. The acting is superb; F. Murray Abraham as Salieri is flawless, Tom Hulce gives a fleshed-out portrait of Mozart's brilliance and his (according to the film) frivolous personality, and Elizabeth Berridge and the other principal actors put in solid performances too. The music works well with the scenes; my only complaint is that some of the opera scenes get a bit long. However, all in all this is an excellent piece of work. It is not historically accurate, but if one keeps that in mind, what harm can it do to appreciate its beauty?


                
Amadeus presents a heavily fictionalized, speculative portrayal of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's last years, focusing powerfully on his relationship with Italian composer Anthony Saliere, and Mozart's wife, Constanzia. My review is based on first seeing the theatrical release in the theater during its first run, and then viewing the director's cut twice. In my opinion, the director's cut is a much better film, though the theatrical release would still earn an 8 from me. Do not approach this movie looking for some objective presentation of historic fact. Do not go into this film expecting to see a tribute to one of the world's greatest composers. Do not see Amadeus in order to understand the workings of musical genius. Inasmuch as all of these are incomprehensible - probably as much to those who lived them as they are today - Amadeus fails to achieve any of these laudable goals. What is does achieve - and quite well - is the blending of elements of Mozart's personality, aspects of his historical context, and an ingenious plot which is spelled out in a very clever narrative style. The truth you get out of Amadeus - as with most good historical fiction films and novels, is the truth of the feeling of a particular time and place.Amadeus immerses its audience in Europe's 18th century, but has just enough anachronism in its script to prevent losing its audience there. Mozart is a young prodigy who struggles with his own ego, over-sensitivity, arrogance, and self-destructiveness against a world which does not really know what to make of him. Salieri (Abraham) is his most ardent fan and admirer, but harbors a deep personal and professional jealousy, as well as an overwhelming self-centered guilt, and an even deeper conviction that his own perceived inadequacies reflect on his relationship to his creator. The third character, much better developed in the director's cut than in previous versions, is Mozart's wife Constanzia (Berridge) - seemingly the only fully rational and practical person among the principal roles. The film narrates the twists and turns of fate - the intrigues and folklore - which, even today tend to crowd out the facts of this part of Mozart's life. Hulce, playing Mozart in what is easily his greatest performance to date, utters a couple of highly anachronistic and off-color remarks in the course of the film. ISince I do not hold historical FICTION to some arbitrary standard of authenticity, I can say that my reaction to these was probably exactly as they were intended: (1) Either Mozart was so creatively explosive that he occasionally happened upon 20th century phraseology through sheer coincidence and/or (2) We are supposed to find these phrases a little shocking and they are used as plot devices to give the film a sense of surreality. Either way, the films works very well as a work of art and a good story, and what some describe as problems of authenticity are, to my mind, nothing more than artistic license. Most movies are not meant to be encyclopedic recitations of 'what really happened'. Keep that in mind before you commit to watching this. The only danger with regard to this film is that it is SO compellingly portrayed that some people are likely to walk away from it believing that this REALLY is what happened. F. Murray Abraham, who almost always does well, exceeds himself in this film, and well deserved his Oscar. Hulce is remarkable and the supporting cast are easily up to the task. The directing is subtle enough to be somewhat refreshingly unnoticeable, and the script and editing are excellent (at least in the director's cut). Very little can be said about the use of period music and costume which has not been said in the numerous awards and the high praise received from critics. This is a great film. Highly recommended for adults of any age.


                
After recently purchasing the Director's Cut & viewing the film with the 20-plus minutes of added scenes, I really appreciate the character of Stanzi so much more. In the original theatrical & D.V.D. release, I believe that many people claimed that Stanzi's character really lacked depth, where as all of the other performances were great. In the newly released Director's Cut, there are a few scenes (most notably the Stanzi-Salieri seduction sequence) that add such a great deal of depth to the Stanzi character. For example, her distant behavior/bitterness towards Salieri (at the end of the film), her protection of her husband & his well-being, her humanity as a woman, etc. are so much more easily understood in this version. In the original theatrical/D.V.D. release not much was presented about her character; audiences felt that this was due to actress Elizabeth Berridge's shortcomings as a performer, when I feel that it was more of a lack of her character in the screenplay & some unfortunate cuts in the editing process. Bottom line: This could be considered the "Stanzi Edition" as she shines in her supporting role & brings so much more to the film than she ever had before... 9/10


                
Extraordinary! On the page it looked nothing! The beginning simple, almost comic. Just a pulse. And then, suddenly, high above it, beautiful music. A single note, hanging there, unwavering. Until a clarinet took it over, sweetened it into a phrase of such delight! This was no composition by a performing monkey! This was a music I had never heard. Filled with such longing, such unfulfillable longing. It seemed to me that I was hearing the voice of God. Director Milos Forman's Best Picture winning drama was indeed a masterpiece. Based on Peter Shaffer's extravagant 1980 Broadway play with the same name. The film tells a fictionalized biography of tortured genius and Viennese child prodigy Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (Tom Hulce). Also, the story was presented in a way that was very unique at the time. It was through the eyes of fellow jealous composer Antonio Salieri (F. Murray Abraham) who finds the deeply crude and childish behavior of Mozart, unworthy of such praise. Driven by his attempt to outshine Mozart, Salieri must find a way to gain the audience of the Austrian Aristocrats, before it's too late. Without spoiling the movie, too much, a lot of people had complain that this movie wasn't historical accuracy. In my opinion, a lot of this criticize wasn't needed. To the film credit, Amadeus never claims to be a true story. It's normal for films like this, to sometimes diverge from historical facts in order to explore more fundamental and universal human issues and to achieve a dramatic effect. Yet, the film had more fact than fiction than most people are willing to taken. It did a lot of homework to get, as accuracy as possible. So, when I hear, some of the main complains that the critics point out about the film. I had to question, their short-temper justice. I felt like they were misinform. Many of the so-call historical inaccuracies were somewhat true. It's true that Antonio Salieri later claims he killed Mozart. Even Mozart toward the end of his life, swears that he's believe that he been poison, but in terms of Salieri doing it; its indeed historical fiction; due to the fact that most historians dismissed his mad ravings with that of a person whom clearly had his sanity deteriorated & the fact that Mozart fell ill while in Prague on Sept 6. 1791 where Salieri was clearly not there. Another claim, these critics spoke of, is how the film, portray a masked man wanting to commissioned a requiem from him in order to steal his work. In truth, it was very likely at the time for people to anonymously commissioned requiems from famous composers and pass them as them, off; but there was no reason why Salieri needed to. After all, his music was a lot more popular at the time, than Mozart. It wasn't, because Mozart was lazy. It was, because he was a fading child star, who had drug problems which both historians and film critics fail to notice that kept him working. I thought that Tom Hulce's immature performance as Mozart was very accuracy as it was very well documented that the composer had those characteristic traits even if it's a little exaggerated. However, the ever-present, idiotic giggle does get a little too annoying at times. About the fact that Salieri and Mozart were fighting for certain imperial jobs, it was true, but the reason why Mozart was never given a position on the emperor's courts, wasn't, because Salieri's envy of Mozart, but the fact, that Mozart's music doesn't sound typical 'Galant' & he wasn't noble. There was no reason why Salieri really needed to steal his work, as he was rich enough, and Mozart's work was a little too controversial at the time for basing works on Austrian's past banned materials and not being tradition. About Mozart's constant embarrassment of Salieri, such as seducing Salieri's lover, Catarina Cavalieri (Christine Ebersole). There is no evidence that Mozart slept with her. In reality, it is very likely that Salieri slept with Catarina, as it was generally known, at the time, that she was his mistress, and if they were still together years after 'The Abduction from the Seraglio'. If anything, Mozart and Salieri were, if not best of friends, at least on peaceable terms with one another, when it comes to sexual and musical conquest. He wasn't a saint at all. He even educated Mozart's younger son Franz Xaver Mozart, after the composer death. While, yes it's true that Mozart's work outlive, Salieri. It wasn't because Mozart work was better than Salieri. It was, because German nationalism began to take shape in Vienna with the birth of Romantic nationalism during the Napoleonic Wars. Italians were often view, as scapegoat of the war since Napoleon was one; thus Italian culture like it's music was somewhat banned from most European cultures during the mid19th century. This short ban, cause hits like Salieri to be nearly forgotten. It wasn't until, the late 20th century that most of Salieri's work was reintroduce into western culture with this film. The film was well-received by both critics and audiences alike with its lavish set and period costume design, music, visuals, and its acting. If the film had any faults, it would be the fact that the movie has pacing problems. It's way too damn long. 2h 40min is too much. It could had been cut down. Ultimately, the 1984 awards were monopolized by Amadeus with eight wins: Best Picture, Best Actor (F. Murray Abraham), Best Director, Best Screenplay Adaptation, Best Art/Set Direction, Best Sound, Best Costume Design, and Best Makeup. It became the 7th film in Oscar history to win eight Oscars. Overall: It's visually interesting, has dramatic intrigue acting from F. Murray Abraham, hilarious comedy, and introduced people to a part of history that was phenomenally fascinating and surprising, mostly true. I highly recommended this film.
If you want to learn how to act, watch F Murray Abraham in Amadeus. You could not see a better exposition of the art of acting. Every gesture, expression and movement conveys his emotions in infinite detail. You know exactly what's going through his mind, and why. Tom Hulce gives a very good performance, but Abraham is exceptional throughout, and well deserved the Oscar.The only downside to this film is the director's cut edition - the additional scenes spoil the original thrust of the film, and lengthen it unnecessarily. For preference see the theatrical release.


                
Amadeus actually caught my attention, in parts. It has excellent performances from F. Murray Abraham as a semi-famous musician who is incredibly jealous yet fascinated with the prodigy Amadeus, played to utter perfection by Thomas Hulce (love that laugh). The theme of competition is one that director Milos Forman latches onto and gets enough juice and dramatic tension to pull off the epic nature of the film, both personal and extreme. Often quite good, however suffers from the overlong-ness and sometimes it is impossible to keep attention, however it snaps back every once in a while. Period detail and is to the dot. And the music makes up anything else I could want in a film. A-


                
Though Milos Forman is rarely mentioned among the greats of Hollywood directing, he has certainly left an indelible mark on cinema. Creator of at least two indisputable masterpieces, Forman's films have won Best Picture at the Academy Awards on two occasions, and he has also won the Best Director Oscar for these two same films. The film that brought most of his initial fame was the glorious 'One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest' of 1975, based on the popular novel by Ken Kesey and starring Jack Nicholson and Louise Fletcher. In the next nine years, Forman only produced another three films: 'Hair,' 'Ragtime' and 'Amadeus,' respectively.Released in 1984, 'Amadeus' is based on the 1979 stage play by Peter Shaffer, which was inspired by Aleksandr Pushkin's short play, "Mozart and Salieri," and loosely traces the lives of composers Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart and Antonio Salieri. The film opens with Salieri (F. Murray Abraham) in a mental institution, after having attempted suicide. Now old and frail, he speaks to a young priest (Herman Meckler),who has come to hear his confession. Salieri expresses bitterness that his former-talents have faded into obscurity with passing time, whilst the works of the young prodigy Mozart (Tom Hulce) have become legendary. Having known of the talented composer for most of his life, and having developed a hatred towards Mozart because of his own inferiority, Salieri ultimately blames himself for his death. Through his confession to the priest, Salieri explains how his association with Mozart destroyed his entire life.It is perhaps surprising to newcomers that Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart is not the main character in the film. As the skilled but envious Antonio Salieri, F. Murray Abraham is the epitome of good acting, delivering a dark and brooding performance that deservedly earned him an Oscar for Best Actor in a Leading Role. Abraham is mesmeric as the successful composer who makes a pact with God to be the greatest in history, in exchange for his complete and unwavering devotion. When it appears that this gift has been bestowed upon another, Salieri rejects the Lord, and makes it his life's mission to destroy the talented young man through whom God speaks His voice.Tom Hulce, despite also being nominated for Best Actor for his role, is often cited as the one misstep of the film. I completely disagree, since the idea that Hulce feels out-of-place is the very point that the film is trying to make. When he hears of all that Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart has accomplished, Salieri was expecting to meet a sombre, respectable genius, only to first come across Mozart crawling on the floor, engaged in vulgar sex-games and uttering jokes about flatulence. This is what ultimately leads Salieri to abandon his pact with God: after all his own unwavering loyalty, how could the Lord have chosen this "unprincipled, spoiled, conceited brat" through which to channel His voice? Of course Tom Hulce's portrayal of Mozart was juvenile and somewhat irritating, since it was supposed to be.Hulce based his character's annoying laugh on real descriptions of the composer, which referred to it as "an infectious giddy" and "like metal scraping glass." Also, though the historical accuracy of Shaffer's play was met with much scrutiny, it appears authentic (if slightly over-exaggerated) that Mozart had something of a vulgar and loutish personality. For example, it is known that the famed composer wrote canons on the the words "Leck mich im Arsch" and "Leck mich im Arsch recht fein schön sauber" as party pieces for his friends. However, the supposed rivalry between Salieri and Mozart is most likely completely fictional. In real life, Salieri frequently lent Mozart musical scores from the court library with which he was charged; he often chose compositions by Mozart for performance at state occasions, and Salieri taught Mozart's son, Franz Xaver.Despite running for almost three hours, 'Amadeus' is a surprisingly easy movie to sit through, helped along by brilliant performances and a brisk pace. The use of a classical musical score <U+0096> mostly comprised of Mozart's pieces, conducted by Sir Neville Marriner at the Academy of St. Martin in the Fields <U+0096> is positively perfect for the film, proving that, even though he lived many centuries ago, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart is still far better than even the most gifted cinema composers of the twentieth century.


                
I've always hated costume dramas, especially when the story is situated in 18th century Austria or Germany. There is just too much gold foil, too much ugly wigs and pompous costumes, too much over the top decors, just too much of everything that I detest.Big was my surprise when I saw "Amadeus". For the first time I wasn't trying to switch channels as soon as possible. From the first minute on it had my attention and never let me go, not even after the movie was finished. What I liked most was the co-operation between the music and the images. It all added to the drama. If a modern composer had written the music for some parts of the movie, I'm sure it wouldn't have been as great as it was now. I've never been a huge fan of classical music, but I sure can appreciate it from time to time. And there can be no doubt about how good the music in this movie is of course. It's Mozart, what more do you need? If you can't appreciate this music at all, than I'm afraid there is something wrong with your education. There is more in life than screaming guitars or techno beats.So for me the big star in this movie was the music, but I have to say that I also liked the way the story was told. I liked the flashbacks, telling the story from Salieri's point of view, the old and bitter man who now lives in an insane asylum, completely forgotten and still in Mozart's shadow. He explains to a priest what exactly had happened and why he always wanted to murder Mozart. I don't really know if all this is historically accurate, but I don't have any doubts about the fact that this is good cinema. Overall the movie was great, but sometimes there were a few details that bothered me. My feelings about the costumes, the wigs and typical architecture you already know, but there were also other things. Mozart's giggle for instance. It annoyed me enormously. I understand that it shows that this man was still very immature from time to time, that he sometimes still acted like a child, but still... Nevertheless I have to admit that this is a wonderful movie and despite some minor flaws it was almost perfect. I give it a 9/10.


                
This powerful narrative of Mozart's adult career in Vienna - largely devoted to his operatic work, as befits a theatrical event - runs about 30 minutes longer than it might have, and has the power to put attentive viewers to sleep, or into a sort of hypnotic funk.  Mozart's last days are stretched out inordinately.  Nevertheless, this film has depth, humor, and one of the greatest soundtracks you'll ever hear.  The historical facts are inseparable from the fantasy that forms the basis of the plot, so beware of citing Amadeus as an authority on the lives of Mozart & Salieri.  Mozart was not so unworldly in real life, nor was Salieri so obsessed with his colleague, at least while both were alive.  Mozart's music was very popular throughout Europe, though he didn't earn as much money from his compositions as he deserved.  While Mozart didn't die entirely forsaken, as the movie implies, he was a victim of bad health exacerbated by overwork.  Consider that modern "recording artists" like Michael Jackson, et. al. release a dozen new compositions every 4 or 5 years, while Mozart composed two full-length operas and the bulk of a Requiem mass, among other things - several hours of classic music - in a few months, while he was dying.  Anyway, about the movie - see it and fall in love with Mozart's music!


                
I wasn't sure whether I would like this film when I was about to see it but after just ten minutes I was engrossed. The life of Mozart was very interesting but what made the film so good was that the film took the perspective of someone who loved Mozart's work but hated him at the same time. This is what makes it so fascinating. The costume design was magnificent along with the directing and acting, all together it was a great movie but it didn't have the sting that I look for in movies. For instance I felt Psycho had everything with that sting but Amadeus had everything but lacked that sting. Maybe others will feel that this film is one of their favourites but despite how good I think it is I can't place it in my top 20.


                
Biographical films are all just the same. They start showing the childhood of the person portrayed, after that how he/she started to make success or to have prominence, then his/her marriage, the children and finally the very sad death- if it doesn't show the person dying, it shows some subtitles saying what happened. Of course there are some exceptions, as "Hilary and Jackie" (that is great, even following this formula) and this masterpiece, "Amadeus", that tells by flashback the story of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart.Milos Forman is a great director, and also proved that with "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest", "Valmont" and "The People vs. Larry Flynt" (also a biography). Instead of showing a light, sweet, depressing story, he decided to make a disturbing film, with some suspense and wonderful visually.Antonio Salieri is a musician who is not very recognized and for that he envies Mozart, showed as a very weird man, but also with a very recognized talent. Salieri can't stand this situation and he will do anything to get this over. With this simple storyline, the film tells a important story, about envy and ambition, both present in our world. Forman's aim was just to focus on this situation. So, yes, he may have committed some historycal mistakes, but it doesn't matter. With a great screenplay, great cast, wonderful costumes, music and scenery, he did a superb film, winning 9 worthy Oscars."Amadeus" is a must-see, even if you don't like classical music.


                
This is a spectacular film showcasing the brief life of one of the world's most renowned musical genius's;"Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart" (Tom Hulce). The story is told in flashback by one of the emperor's musical directors; Antonio Salieri (played to perfection by F.Murray Abraham). The film opens with Salieri trying to commit suicide and is quickly transported to an insane asylum. Here he starts to unburden his innermost resentments and jealousy's to a young priest who is visiting him one day. He gives the viewer such an insight into his recollection of the past; on how he first met Mozart and the contempt he had for him. Mozart was nothing more than a mere child in an adult body<U+0085>he was reckless, vulgar and childish, but the genius of the boy was inescapable.The entire production and acting were outstanding, an astonishing 8 academy awards were given to this film. The musical score by Neville Marriner gave the final touches to an inspirational, thought provoking epic. If you don't care for classical music or period pieces you will no doubt dismiss this film from your 'must see' list, but I do recommend everyone see it, regardless of preconceived opinions. I give it 9/10.


                
Amadeus is the fictionalized biography of one Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, the most famous classical composer to ever walk the Earth. It tells the story from the point of Antonio Salieri, a contemporary composer, whose name has been largely lost to history except for those that study musical history.It's an all-around excellent period drama. The costumes and the visuals are top-notch, the score of course features some of the most recognizable pieces of classical music ever made and the production values in general are without any flaw. So it would be a pretty good film even if there was nothing else to it. But there is. This is one of my favourite character studies ever put to film. The character of Mozart, played by Tom Hulce, is a fascinating one. In this film he's portrayed as a musical savant. A buffoon of a man, endlessly consumed by the vices of drink, flesh and luxury, yet within him play the bells of heaven. The arias of God himself make themselves heard through this wreck of a man. And Salieri, a man who has dedicated his whole life to God as thanks for his musical ability, absolutely despises him because of this. Why Mozart? Why not him? What glory has this man achieved to be worthy of the kind of music he's capable of producing?And yet, despite all his flaws, despite all the contempt we heap upon him through Salieri, Mozart has redeeming qualities. His passion for music is unparalleled. His ability and sheer skill is without equals. He has flaws, vices, heavy leanings towards sin. And yet, though his music, the world is a brighter place because of him. And that has to count for something.Amadeus places the story before history. There are many facts which happened quite differently. Yet it is a masterful story. Enchanting, deeply personal, philosophical and, above all else, captivating, it will make you weep for these poor souls captured in the webs of their own mortal failings.


                
Amadeus is probably the most exciting film about classical music and Mozart ever. It's so wonderfully filmed in such an extravagant way, from the costumes to the set designs to the glorious music that plays from scene to scene. It may possibly be the best biographical interpretation of any person, as the film becomes alive with fun, joy and fantastical persona's.Mozart may well be the most iconic film about any musician. The acting is phenomenal, and Mozart's laugh is something that carries this dialogue heavy film through. Despite Mozart's childish behavior, you always want him to be on screen. Though the film is long, especially the director's cut, Amadeus is a fantastic film that will always go down in history as one of the greats.


                
Peter Schaffer (perhaps better known as the writer of "Equus") has an interesting tale to tell: an annoying laugh coming from the belly of God through the mouth of Amadeus, which angers and frustrates his chief rival. Is there a historical basis for the laugh, the rivalry, or the manner of Amadeus' death? Not really, but we can just let that slide because it makes a good story.I really loved this film ,and even though it was nearly three hours long, it seemed to go very quickly. Tom Hulce, who I know from nothing else, was a delightful Amadeus. At first he was a pain, but once I adjusted and began to sympathize with him, I think he played the part perfectly. Beyond that, everyone played their parts well -- even Jeffrey Jones, who (for me) is hard to see as anything but a comic actor or a Tim Burton regular.


                
Long after his rival died at a young age and his world essentially obliterated by the Napoleonic wars, Antonio Salieri as played by F. Murray Abraham looks back on his life from the confines of an insane asylum. Everywhere the music of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart is played and hummed familiarly by even the masses. Scholars study Salieri, the people from all walks of life listen to the notes that Amadeus put down for posterity.Amadeus is a wonderful recreation of the court at Schonbrunn Palace in Vienna during the age of reason. The Hapsburgs have now become the House of Hapsburg-Lorraine as a result of Maria Theresa becoming the first female monarch of their empire. The empire and the court are now ruled by her son Joseph as played by Jeffrey Jones. What I liked about the film is that author Peter Shaffer obviously researched with great care the period this rivalry between Salieri and Mozart takes place. Jones remarks on more than one occasion about letters he got from his sister Antoinette from the French court and what she's observing, but not quite understanding.Mozart is played by young Tom Hulce and in one of the few times that two actors from the same film got nominated in the same acting category, Hulce and Abraham were both up for Best Actor and Abraham won as opposed to both of them canceling each other out. It really would be hard to live on the difference in their performances, without a good Mozart and an equally good Salieri, the film would not be the masterpiece it is.And it did win for Best Picture, Best Director for Milos Forman and a flock of other Oscars, all well deserved. Besides those already mentioned I think you will enjoy Elizabeth Berridge as Mozart's long suffering wife and Roy Dotrice as his more staid and settled father who can't cope with a mercurial genius of a son any better than Abraham can.And Amadeus brought a revival of interest in the old classical masters and that's always a good thing.


                
Admittingly this is a highly entertaining film. the historical accuracy is poor however. salieri as everyone should know by now was not Mozart's assassin. this was a tale that was bruited about for sometime without foundation. turning perhaps the greatest musical genius that has ever lived into a buffoon however is an even greater travesty. however once you have jumped this hurdle the movie offers much entertainment in its showing of scenes from some of his most famous operas. costumes and sets are superb of course and very life like. still it is many miles ahead of the pablum that was offered back in the 1940's in terms of bios of great composers. Mozart was a man of many moods. childlike in some ways. and naive of the ways of the world in others perhaps. scatological jokes were rampant however in the lives of the southern Germans (mozarts father) and Austrians (mozarts mother). you would have to read of the letters these two sent each other to know that bodily functions in the 18th century were much more out in the open than in todays much greater privacy. that would help explain Mozart's sometimes out of the norm tom foolery. it was part of the patois of the time. still you have occasion to hear some of the most beautiful music written and i suppose be grateful for that. when will we ever have a lifelike portrayal of the great composers? a brilliant spectacle non the less.


                
Externally an ostentatious and grandiose highlight of the epic wide screen cinema, innerly a complex, moral essay about the classic motive of the vain who dares to start a fight with almighty powers, "Amadeus" was an enormous success, received eight Oscars in 1984 and three further nominations which was more than deserved in all respects.The plot is half based on facts, half fictitious (especially the core of it - the relationship of Salieri and Mozart and their characterizations). In 1823 Antonio Salieri (F. Murray Abraham) claims, while being in a hospital, he had murdered Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart and tells a young priest the story about him and the superstar of the classic period. 40 years earlier, Salieri is the court composer of Kaiser Joseph II. (Jones), young Mozart (Hulce) appears in Vienna. He is a nervy, foolish, voluptuous contemporary and laughs provokingly and grossly - but above all he wants to prove that he is the greatest composer of all time. After a short time, Mozart is introduced to the Kaiser, rewrites a quick authored composition by Salieri into a little, ingenious masterpiece, which later slips into "The Marriage of Figaro". He casts Katerina Cavalieri (Ebersole), Salieri's favorite student, for this opera in the lead role. And, to complete his luck in life, he marries Constanze (Berridge) and becomes the teacher of the Kaiser's niece. Salieri, meanwhile, starts to be more and more impressed by the divine music of Mozart and gets obsessed with the idea to murder his rival. In his life he only sees the sense to destroy the muse who seems to be predestined by God in creating such a terrific music. Salieri fights, intrigues, not only against Mozart, but also against God who apparently does not hear the desperate entreaties of making himself, Salieri, the divine musician on this Earth. That's why he burns the cross and tries everything to let Mozart die.Forman stages a story of insanity <U+0096> the insanity of Mozart and the insanity of Salieri, which are so contrary as are both characters. On the one side, you see the young, agile, in love with life Mozart, who thinks he is the greatest composer of his time. He is a lunatic showing that he does not work as a musician, he lives the music. He composes every single note in his mind, hears a whole score before writing it down. He is a person who tries to escape his dominant father, who faces life so unpractically that he has found the happiness in his wife, Constanze. She loves him unquestioningly and sees to do everything so that their little family can exist and survive. Tom Hulce and Elizabeth Berridge are playing their roles enthralling and wonderfully convincing. On the other side, there is Salieri, a self-obsessive man, who has the same dream as Mozart, but inwardly doubts his own skills and talent. In prayers, he obligates God as an ally to make his dream come true. Salieri lives in the condition of extortionate, egocentric insanity. He puts himself the claim to absoluteness. A staunch ascetic who works hard and intransigent. And then Mozart appears, a goofy clown, a ridiculous twit who makes supernatural music. Ravished by Mozart's music and ravingly jealous and envious at the same time, he starts to develop grim hatred and obsessive thoughts of murder. F. Murray Abraham plays the fictitious character Salieri grandiosely complex which makes it to one of the psychologically most interesting figures in cinema's history and got him the Oscar for Best Performance of the year.The music also plays a sustaining role. There is probably barely another picture who incorporates given original material that perfectly makes Mozart's music a piece of the entire film in such an obliging way. It even takes the effect of being written only for it. In the course of the plot, one will see the core scenes of four Mozart operas: "The Abduction from the Seraglio", "The Marriage of Figaro", "Don Giovanni" and "The Magic Flute", and the staging of them are perfectly arranged and choreographed. Also captivating is the scene shortly before Mozart's death, when Mozart lies in the bed, composing a requiem in his head and telling Salieri to write down the notes to it. At the same time, music builds up for the viewer in the background, making it a seven minutes scene of impressing cinematic magic. Here is the genial mastermind of music, sick and bed-bound, and there is the clerk, staggering between awe, admiration, envy, despair, fantasies of obliteration, who holds the magnum opus, who sees the notes which he has written down but hasn't created, who sees how Constanze locks it in a cabinet after Mozart's death the next morning because she thinks that this composition has killed her husband. Salieri looks at the notes behind the glass door for the last time, a divine requiem, which, after all, is responsible for the death of Mozart. He succeeded in letting him die. Yet God took revenge on Salieri: Wasting away in a hospital, his music is forgotten, but Mozart's creation remains immortal. Forman's "Amadeus" is an epic, where everything fits, a subtle, prudential composition, just like Mozart's operas. It's a dramatic, but at the same time comical production. Decors, the costumes, the baroque splendor of the absolutism, the cast, the music, the dialogs - everything is ingeniously attuned to one another. One does not have to be fond of classical music to appreciate this film. Some even say, through "Amadeus" you can get really enthusiastic about Mozart's music. But above everything the film is a story of a struggle: The insanity of an egotist against the insanity of a genius. And this Story is told in an immensely enthusing way. The question, if it complies the facts of the historic biographies of both lead characters correctly is completely unimportant because after all "Amadeus" is a cinematic, opera like drama and not a document on history.
Historically accurate or not accurate, in any way, this is a brilliant film. Hats off. I can't tell how many times I've already seen this movie, in 3 different languages, and I'm still enjoying it! I'm delighted. Thank you, Mr Forman! And the idea of telling the story through Salieri, that idea itself deserves an Oscar! It just makes me wonder how many important people History has already forgotten about..PS> I reckon that the director's cut version is "a bit" too long, though.. PPS> Why the soundtrack CDs do not include ALL the music played in the film?? And I'm talking about the "cut" version of the movie!


                
Exclenet, there is in fact no Bad people in this film, they are all basically good people, Forman handles passion so good, that it is so close to perfection, excellent music, excellent characters, which makes a divine movie. there is also great opera sequences, which pretty much gives you an idea of how it was in that time, Costumes are also delighting. you can also find it a funny movie if you consider the battle of God with Salieri. there are no religious Critics, which keeps mutual respect, only Salieri's conviction that Mozart is chosen by god to show the world his music. the movie keeps an estethical balance at all times.


                
I've got to say that I am as captivated watching this film for the 20th time as I was the first. Shot in Prague you really are transferred back to 16th Century 	  Vienna. The film follows Salieri's quest for immortality through music and it is ultimately God who he is seeking to avenge. He does this by murdering 	  Mozart who he can see has been given just such a gift. The star of the film has got to be the music and this totally changed my attitude towards classical music. The 	  directors cut adds a few scenes that mean a few of the original scenes make more sense. This was the role of a lifetime for 	  F Murray Abraham and the rest of the cast and especially Simon Callow are excellent.


                
This film excellently combines comedy, tragedy, suspense, and romance.  It oversimplifies Amadeus' character, sure, but more than that it enhances Amadeus' true essence in a captivating light.  This film is a must-see: as rich as the film's chocolate Nipples of Venus.


                
