This was... simply put, the best documentary I have ever, ever seen! There's no other way to define it. I mean, man, where do I start? The editing is... breathtaking! The music... ohhh... what a delight. The way the stories are intertwined. Simply marvelous. You don't have to be into hip-hop to watch this. It is pure history. I'm not much of a reviewer, this is my first one in almost 12 years of IMDb, but I felt like it needed at least ONE review, since it had none at the time I wrote mine.Anyway, if you can, DO watch this! It is incredibly well done and compellingly truthful.


                
I found the documentary to be very pleasurable to watch, first of all. Gorgeously shot, and of course the soundtrack is incredible. It's almost worth it simply to relive the times and learn more about the men.It's also far from any kind of objective documentary or news piece. They mostly interview people who adore Jimmy & Dre, and negative moments are framed as exceptions or learning experiences. It's not a journalistic documentary as much as a piece made by friends and fans. So long as you're fine with that, if you have any interest in their work in the music business, it's a captivating ride, even if it often comes across as a super well-produced infomercial.


                
A masterful documentary about Dre, who I grew up listening to, and Jimmy Iovine, who I had only heard of. The work ethic of these two is beyond inspiring. The ups and downs were entertaining but their persistence and commitment to their vision kept me glued to my TV. The 4+ hours flew by. Whoever edited this did a great job. These two are the American dream and give me hope. You will not be disappointed.


                
This dual narrative about a Brooklyn pit-bull of a record mogul (Iovine) and one of the most successful rapers-cum-producers-cum-engineers-cum-executives/directors in the game, is the most stylish (and best) episode of Behind the Music ever made, and then some. It's excitingly produced, kinetic, edited so that it's taking the usual taking heads with editing that will often play one head against another (this is extremely helpful due to the business dealings with Iovine and Interscope that could become dense too), and how music flows through this with a rhythm and juxtapositions that cant be touched.I was also very impressed not just by finding out things I didn't know (frankly outside of Iovine with Springsteen on Born to Run I didn't know much about his career at Interscope), but the scope: this isn't only about Dr. Dre but the entire WORLD around him that he got into and loved at times and hated at others (he left Death Row before that imploded, so to speak). It reminds me of digging in to a really strong biography more than a typical doc. Oh, and it's funny at times too (Snoop catches you off guard sometimes).I'm waiting for Primus's doc though..PS: did Dre become the Kubrick of rap?


                
Love, love, love this documentary series. Not only is it a behind the scenes story of some of the world's best music (from Springsteen and Petty to NWA and Eminem), it's the story of an unlikely partnership that evolves and defines the future of the music industry. Even if you are not a fan of hip hop, this series is well worth watching with an open mind - looking towards learning about how art, technology, business and good old American ingenuity changed the world.


                
I approached this as a fan of Dre and not knowing much about Jimmy Iovine, who turned out to be a pretty interesting character and thought the first 3 episodes were great. Well balanced and informative. The 4th episode was the one I had most been looking forward to , knowing Eminem featured and was looking forward to seeing some insight between him and Dre, however this episode the glossed over any of the actual stories that had featured in the previous episodes with collaborators and it became an hour long Apple commercial. It was mentioned that Jimmy Iovine was a great marketer and tried to sell at every opportunity and this was one of those. Most are aware of the megadeal of Apple buying "beats by Dre" and now the deal was done, you would have presumed the need to brown nose them would have passed. It was a massive shame as this started promisingly and just lost it's way.


                
What Can i say? It is pure happiness that flows through me after watching this amazing documentary:-) We should be grateful that there are (We Have) these amazing people in the music Industry. Im proud to wear Dre, Pac, Eminem on my tattoo. Much Love To Dr.Dre & Jimmy Iovine <3


                
Never have I seen a music documentary like this, so much talent all untwined, imspirational, emotional and at times even brutal.Would recommend to any music fan.


                
Exceptional Docu series...full of great music, great artists, inspirational and utterly compelling. More please...


                
Andre Young, a.k.a. Dr. Dre, is one of the most successful hiphop artists and producers ever. Jimmy Iovine, producer turned record-company executive, has been a close professional collaborator. Together, they conceived and marketed a headphone brand that has made them fortunes beyond the already substantial wealth they have generated by making music. Their story is this instrinsically interesting, even if you're not a fan of the music itself; and even if you're not a fan, it's hard to dispute that the story of hiphop, the people who made it and the reaction it has produced, better expresses the unique reality of contemporary American life in the last few decades than that of any other muscial form. And 'The Defiant Ones' is interesting; only, it would be more interesting if it wasn't so hagiographic. It's fine, letting Dre and Iovine tell their stories, although Iovine clearly likes talking about himself a little too much; but we also get a succession of other talking heads keen to assert the greatness of the dynamic duo, but less interested in explaining what exactly it is that makes them great. The result is a serviceable series; but arguably a trick has been missed.


                
Amazing amazing amazing!!
Had my full attention at all times. I'm a huge hip hop fan and have been since around '87 and I thought I knew a lot but let me tell you, hearing the story, watching old footage, and listening to the music was magical. Much respect to all involved.


                
This is such a great music documentary. The way that the narrative flows is incredible. The pace is emotional, and keeps you on the edge of your seat from beginning to end. Also the editing of the interviews was quite accomplished as it captures reactions in a unique way.


                
I was curious about this documentary given my love for rap music. But the background of the story and the role of Jimmy Iovine simply surprised my. And also the depth of dre's character. This is a really good documentary, must watch if you love the chronic


                
Truly magnificent this series is amazing, fantastically well edited and telling an amazing story that's so interesting this series is perfect for those interested in not only rap music but the platform as a whole as it documents the insane stories of some of pop cultures most notable faces and explores their impact, worth a watch


                
Sometimes the stars are alligned the right way. And some of those times are depicted in here (and also pun intended). While this is mostly focused on Rap, there is also other musical artists who get their fair share and their story told. How did they get where they are? By not applying to the rules that were forced upon them.Defiant they are then. It is also quite in depth, although obviously you won't get every detail about Tupac or Death Row, but this is more than coherent. You get an overall picture and you get a lot of backstory and also every episode of this documentary (4 in total) get a beginning, middle and end. This is really good and anyone who likes documentaries and music will get something out of it


                
Not really a documentary and not as good as VH1's "Behind the Music" series. Comes closer to 'Real Housewives' reality television -- swap out housewives for moguls and you get the idea. This series felt like a vanity project that perpetuates the 'cult of personality' that the Dre/Iovine partnership trades on and Apple seems to need to exploit to lend credibility to all of the "Beats" product. Some amusing moments but all-in-all a disappointment.


                
This may be the most well-produced documentary I have ever seen. No overstatement. The cinematography is jaw-dropping, and the celebrities involved are staggering. BUT there are downsides too. If you want Jimmy Iovine and Dr Dre and all their buddies to sit down, you might want to portray them positively. Skip the misogyny. Avoid the negative stuff. Basically, this could have been the best doc ever with (a) a little more honesty, (b) some editing. 4 episodes? Had they made this a 2 part 3 hour documentary? WOW. So close...and yet so far.


                
Honestly this was the best documentary I have ever seen. Truly incredible. Don't have to be into hip hop to enjoy it, fantastic production, just incredible.


                
It was a great watch with nice insight into genius at play. Also good to see an environment where real recognised real.


                
Great insight on the story of how those guys and how they became who they are and their success.the Dr Dre parts are i thought the most engaging of both and really interesting, full of old original footage as well as nowdays interviews.the Jimmy one started ok but then he constantly complains about things he decided to do (with the only goal of making more money) which becomes really annoying, complaining about this thing and that thing which he himself chose to do, if you dont like raw fish dont go to a sushi restaurant, if you do go then dont complain about it because you are the one who chose to go, this is exactly what Jimmy does in this documentary so his parts were irritating.


                
needs to rethink the choices of stick with material that somebody else wrote . This is not entertaining at all. After watching this I felt like Ace Ventura after he found out Einhorn was a man. Had to vomit, burn the clothes I was wearing, try to plunger the show out of my head, and just sat in the shower trying to wash this show away. So bad. So awful. Doesn't even deserve 1 star.please


                
It was an hour long commercial for beats, how this got sold as a documentary is beyond me. It's an hour long circlejerk of some pretty heavy names that talks down competition and pats eachothers back while not really saying anything worthwhile.
It is a very good series with great content and history about many artist we know and their struggle through their life...
Direction is good.


                
This charts the career and success of two geniuses from two very different backgrounds. Some very open, honest and heartfelt interviews from Dre and Iovine, as well as accounts from some of biggest names in music from the last 40 years. This is a truly inspiring documentary that covers massive moments in pop culture.


                
