I found the documentary to be very pleasurable to watch, first of all. Gorgeously shot, and of course the soundtrack is incredible. It's almost worth it simply to relive the times and learn more about the men.It's also far from any kind of objective documentary or news piece. They mostly interview people who adore Jimmy & Dre, and negative moments are framed as exceptions or learning experiences. It's not a journalistic documentary as much as a piece made by friends and fans. So long as you're fine with that, if you have any interest in their work in the music business, it's a captivating ride, even if it often comes across as a super well-produced infomercial.


                
I approached this as a fan of Dre and not knowing much about Jimmy Iovine, who turned out to be a pretty interesting character and thought the first 3 episodes were great. Well balanced and informative. The 4th episode was the one I had most been looking forward to , knowing Eminem featured and was looking forward to seeing some insight between him and Dre, however this episode the glossed over any of the actual stories that had featured in the previous episodes with collaborators and it became an hour long Apple commercial. It was mentioned that Jimmy Iovine was a great marketer and tried to sell at every opportunity and this was one of those. Most are aware of the megadeal of Apple buying "beats by Dre" and now the deal was done, you would have presumed the need to brown nose them would have passed. It was a massive shame as this started promisingly and just lost it's way.


                
Andre Young, a.k.a. Dr. Dre, is one of the most successful hiphop artists and producers ever. Jimmy Iovine, producer turned record-company executive, has been a close professional collaborator. Together, they conceived and marketed a headphone brand that has made them fortunes beyond the already substantial wealth they have generated by making music. Their story is this instrinsically interesting, even if you're not a fan of the music itself; and even if you're not a fan, it's hard to dispute that the story of hiphop, the people who made it and the reaction it has produced, better expresses the unique reality of contemporary American life in the last few decades than that of any other muscial form. And 'The Defiant Ones' is interesting; only, it would be more interesting if it wasn't so hagiographic. It's fine, letting Dre and Iovine tell their stories, although Iovine clearly likes talking about himself a little too much; but we also get a succession of other talking heads keen to assert the greatness of the dynamic duo, but less interested in explaining what exactly it is that makes them great. The result is a serviceable series; but arguably a trick has been missed.


                
