I don't care what anyone says, this is a dreadful film.I laughed about 4 times during the whole thing. A lot of predictable, obvious, unclever slapstick, and awful lot of it really contrived or just stupid (I longed for death during the interminable scene where he goes round and round the dance floor carrying the tray).But the worst part of all was the "social commentary" aspect. This film is pure Luddite-ism. In a nutshell, Chaplin couldn't handle the fact that technology-- talkies-- was displacing him and his silent movie approach, and so he railed against all technology. NINE YEARS after talkies came in, he's still stubbornly clinging to silents; apparently these "talking pictures" are just a fad. It's the most pathetic of crusades.Oh, and it's not hard to see why people thought Chaplin was a communist. The character of the owner of the steel mill might as well have leapt off the pages of Marx himself, he's such a grotesque caricature of a capitalist, sitting around doing jigsaw puzzles, reading comics, and yelling at the proletariat to work faster.Happily, for the most part, the movie doesn't maintain this virulently anti-capitalistic tone. But its attempt to capture the pathos of the depression is itself pathetic. When the factory reopens, Chaplin exclaims "Work at last!"-- but the reality is that he's already had THREE jobs during the movie, and he lost ALL of them through his own incompetence, not because of the depression. The great moral stance that this movie takes is that it glorifies bunglers and thieves.Let it not be said, though, that I found nothing good in the film. Chaplin's stunt work (I assume that was actually him) in the blindfolded rollerskating scene is mindbogglingly good. Truly remarkable. I'd gladly trade the whole rest of the film for just that scene.
I did watch this movie and not even a bit entertained. Charlie Chaplin was a just 20th century idol. Actually I don't like any silence movies and even didn't liked "The Artist" but I did watch this movie just for checking why even young people watching his movies in 21th century with a funny looking image.


                
