This is a hard show to watch. It's not something to sit back and relax to. It kept me on the edge of my seat for several seasons. People get screwed over, raped, tortured and die like flies. There are male organs everywhere, there is excrement, puke and blood. Oz is a brave show. It brings up issues like racism, homosexuality, prisoners reality and most of all; -capital punishment. It is, in my opinion also successful in doing so, unlike for example, the single-tracked "Medium".It bored me sometimes. It had some weird story lines and they spent to much time on characters that just didn't interest me. Strangely enough, I found season 1 to be quite boring. If I had watched it while it aired I think I wouldn't have continued to watch it. I love seasons 2 - 4. Season 5 and 6 are watchable, (although I think it shouldn't be allowed to utter the words "Cyril" and "Death Row" in the same sentence)There are so many marvelous characters to root for. The old guys Bob and Busmalis, who I absolutely fell in love with from day one. Said, Adebesi, Pancamo and Schillinger, four very strong and charismatic leaders in their own way. Augustus Hill, who's monologues tied the episodes together so efficient. The staff with people like Sister Pete and Ray Mukada-also brilliant. Also minor characters that was only in for a couple of episodes or a few seasons, but left a good impression as well.My favorites are the O'Reily brothers. Their relationship was the most gut-wrenching and warmest I seen on television. If there is anything I will always remember about this show it's them. There will never be another "pairing" or what to call it, that will make me ache so much. Thats why, when the ends come for them as well, it almost hurt to much. I wish it would never have happened. I wish I had never watched it.But good one Fontana. I do recommend it.
Watching this series, I went from fascination to irritation to disappointment, especially with the final episode. I never got used to the level of violence and the constant f-bombs, but the characters kept me coming back to find out what happened to them next. Really good acting! It's too bad the writing was so inconsistent. I was frustrated with how the relationship between Keller and Beecher developed over time. It's common in prison for straight men to form monogamous relationships with other men, so that part was very realistic, but I felt the level of conflict between the two men wasn't. It just didn't seem to match what we 'knew' to be true: that Keller and Beecher really did love each other. The actors (who each have a wife in real life) did a fantastic job of portraying that in spite of the rather poor script development. With just a look or a gesture, they conveyed a deep emotional intimacy with each other. It was so genuine-looking, I almost forgot this was a romance between two men. But in other scenes the writers had them saying and doing things that just didn't fit well with that, especially Beecher in the final episode. Oz could have been so much better than it was. Other outstanding performances were given by Rita Moreno, Eammon Walker, and Augustus Hill. In fact, even the minor characters were well acted. My final assessment: watching Oz is like driving by a car wreck; you can't NOT look but it's painful and disturbing.
I usually think of OZ as the starting point of HBO. OZ provides an accurate insight into the horrifying rehabilitation systems, where nobody or nothing is actually expected to leave that rehabilitation system rehabilitated and ready for the real world out there they once were deemed unfit to live in. I also really enjoyed Harold Perrineau's out-of-character appearances ant the beginning and ending of each episode. He was something of a voice of reason, in a place where reason especially is banished.OZ has many ridiculously graphic scenes, and many genital nudity, but I think of that as one of the many reasons that made OZ, and HBO somewhat different.But, as you watch OZ, at one point, you would doubtlessly question some scenes where the writing simply lets you down. For instance:Jefferson Keane is sent to death row and executed for murdering an inmate, whereas Clayton Hughes, for instance, attempts to assassinate the governor, murders detective Johnny Basil, but he is sent to solitary.After Nappa is moved to the AIDS ward, he starts writing his autobiography "in details" while he's pretty much a long way from death. Why would a mob boss, as vicious and original as Nappa, starting writing his autobiography and ratting his comrades out of nowhere, especially that he's aware what happens to rats.Reverend Cloutier's disappearance from the prison's hospital. What a provoking scene and writing that was. Another inmate (Busmalis) is nowhere to be seen during one early morning's count, and all hell breaks loose. Whereas Cloutier disappears for almost a season, and nobody bats an eye.Clayton Hughes, a troubled ex-guard who was fired for promoting hate and violence against the governor, comfortably bypasses the prison's security with a gun, and shoots the governor.There are other many scenes when made no sense at all. But overall, OZ is good TV show, and could have been HBO's finest if some scenes or minor plots did not conclude in the way they did.
Hi To read the entire plot around "OZ" just look at IMDb here to find it.**WARNING SPOILERS INSIDE THIS REVIEW !** Oz is the a series that has not only moved me but also shows a small bit. Of the American prison system, but i have to say (judging on discovery channels program over jail) it is not really realistic.Although i got to say, there not shy, rapes,shanking (stabbing) happens allot. Still it is television, so for you ppl out there that think this is realistic wrong.There is a good degree of violence in it, and some here and there overdone scenes (plot over plot over plot) that can get pretty boring. But remember the series is almost ancient by now. So times do change as well i believe i should judge this in the time line as it came out.As the season prolonged up to season 5 it was pretty good!. Until one of the cons wins a lottery ticket of 2 million dollars, because he talked to god it struck me as "ok this is getting to the point i do not want to see this series no more" Still i proceeded! And now i just seen the episode 3 of season 6. This is were cereal gets his brain zapped and then his "mom" hold him after, while he is drooling. Then you see O Reilly cry as well seeing his bro like that (RL BROTHERS As well) Now thats by far the best scene out of the entire "OZ" series, that was real to me! Still do not read this wrong that I'm trying to crash and burn it. It is a really good series! And even now 2010 well worth a watch ! I give it a 7 because of the storyline that weakens with the season. But still a golden glove.
When this show debuted, my friends and I would make sure our schedule was clear to catch each new episode live. I have heard it accurately described as a male soap opera. Every week, something crazy happened. Network television wasn't playing anything like this. The character development available in a mutiple-season series was impossible to achieve in a two- or three-hour film.This show constantly made me wonder how I'd fare in a maximum-security prison. It convinced me to prioritize a spot in my budget for Home Box Office (HBO). With one of the Ghostbusters at the helm, a plethora of cameo appearances by hip-hop stars and professional athletes, and an unforgettable theme song, the first hour-long drama that HBO ever produced also put Harold Perrineau, Simmons, Dean Winters, Eamonn Walker, and BD Wong, among others, on the world map.Over time, especially in comparison to HBO's later projects, some of the scenes seem a bit hokey. Also, shotgunning episodes can be a little depressing, given the subject matter. Still, this series is a pop-culture requirement.For more reviews and a kickass podcast, check out: www.livemancave.com


                
"Oz" is one of the best shows out there right now,and its stands up to the countless boring reruns and cheesy newsmagazine shows that's killing prime time. Its a perfect summer retreat from the norm. In Emerald City,you'll never know what these prisoners may do next or the warden for that matter. Especially the most ruthless prisoners out there,the dreated and unpredictable Nazi Schillinger,and the extreme not to be trusted sly as a fox;the African imate Adebisi,and the security guards too are always up to some evil scheme or another. Its one of the most gripping hours worth of TV that you'll see anywhere,and with each new episode its just gets better than the next,and there's always something going on each week that's not be missed by a long shot. Always Something.


                
