I was skeptical of getting involved in this show, seeing as how it premiered when I didn't even have cable. There are some parts of it that feels a little dated, mostly on the technology front, but the characters, plots, and moral conundrums that come up still ring true. The characters are what makes this show so intriguing. Each one of them falls under the modern idea of an anti-hero, and they swing back and forth constantly between likable, sympathetic, and despicable. It's easy to get invested in this show, and I ended up watching the first 3 seasons over 2 weekends in a snowy March. This is probably not a spoiler, but there are huge amounts of violence, full-frontal male nudity, and rape/sexual abuse, so if you are squeamish about these kind of things you might want to stick with "New Girl".
I am a big fan of prison shows. I think they are a good spotlight into the human soul. The monsters society can make us and the ultimate redemption even the worst of us can find given the right motivation. HBO's Oz is more Wentworth then Orange Is The New Black if you are going by current prison TV. It is gritty and brutal and often painfully unfair. The war between Beecher, Keller and Schillenger is one of the most intriguing and long running story lines of the series. One of the most tragic involved Cyrill O'Reilly and the repercussions of housing a man with deep mental issues in a maximum security prison. This is not a show for the faint hearted or those who want a light hearted show or even a show about politics. Although politics racial, economic and otherwise run throughout. It is more the story of human nature and how it is ultimately our nature that rules us all to the bitter...and inevitable end.
At the time it was released, <U+0084>Oz" had a lot going for it. It came out during a time when one really wasn't sure what to watch on TV anymore. Most series and show had become stagnant, repetitive, literally parodies of putrid soap-operas and so one often opted not to turn it on at all and rather waste one's time with other activities; like reading books and spending time with friends and family.Then came "Oz", pulling us right back to the temple of the holy square. "Oz" gave us what we had never expected from television entertainment: not only talking violence, foul language and male nudity, but decent acting and interesting story lines. It gave us characters that literally deserved to rot in prison, psychopaths and scum that you wouldn't want to meet in a dark alley, but at the same time kept us interested and made us sympathize with them, even. In that sense "Oz" was a blueprint for "The Sopranos", which would conquer the small screen a short while later.By the middle of season two it had become pretty clear what to expect: every member of the cast would be raped and shanked at least once, get a 180-degree character-makeover and it would become abundantly clear that it was just a matter of time until he (and occasionally she) would get killed off in some imaginative way.During the final two seasons "Oz" began to reek of desperation. After all, there are only so many stories one can pull out of a prison and only so many ideas a TV-writer can pull out of a certain orifice. Rather than reinventing, the show began to copy itself, whole story lines were literally repeated, became as improbable as could be and one could literally smell the anxiety to keep the ratings up. But the avid fan still stuck with the show, always hoping for those moments of brilliance that became fewer and further in between.Even if the story would become progressively soap-operish, we could always depend on the actors: the characters, be they full-time or guest-stars, were always interesting, their background story always colourful (to put it cynical) and, as said, their demises were generally imaginative.Despite all flaws and shortcomings, especially during the second half, "Oz" was all that TV could and should be, in my humble opinion second only to iconic "The Sopranos" and certainly worthy eight points from ten.
/refers to all seasons/In general, I am not into long prison series; it is difficult to find opportunities to watch them (as they are hardly for entire family), and the conditions and background of prisoners differ greatly from the ones in the EU. But due to the Oz' fame and high score at IMDb, I decided to go for it and watch all episodes in sequence.Well, at first I was not too impressed, had some thoughts of call it quits (lots of misery, flagrancy, incomprehensible punishment and imprisonment arrangements), but then I realized that several characters excited my interest, both among guards and prisoners. In short, all the main characters are somewhat special, and so are most recurring ones, often "hiding" the script's shortcomings or inconsistencies - evidently because of multiple screenwriters... At times, it was difficult to keep records who was punished or killed and why and what were the consequences (the number of flashbacks is limited), and the inclusion of serenity and religious stuff did often contradict with the rest of events. Sometimes I felt confused because many non-White performers had similar roles in other gang or police series I have seen in recent years (e.g. The Wire, The Shield).The setup of the series is distinct, with Augustus Hill as the show's main narrator, providing witty observations and background information about the US legal system and local habits, and the main crime of most Oz' inhabitants. I often felt that the creators were against death penalty, but, on the other hand, the viewers were often deprived of the views of the people whose people close to them were brutally murdered or raped... But still, after dozens of hours of watch, I have to agree that it seems to be a realistic overview of US penitentiary scene, and to recognize that the concept of uniform US citizen is a myth as the color of skin and religion have too much impact on people's lives.


                
My favorite TV series of all time is M*A*S*H. The main reason for that is that it is the only series ever to be mostly anti-war. Also, of course, is that it was excellently done in every way, you know, writing, directing, acting, etc. One of my favorite things about that series is that most of the best episodes are multi-storied. That is, two or three significant plots going on all at once! And, in a half-hour show! So many episodes of M*A*S*H are like watching little classic films. Then came Oz, about 14 years after M*A*S*H ended. Yeah, it started out as a summer replacement show. Yeah, there are only 8 episodes per season. Yeah, the show is dead meat now, but I'm convinced it will last forever as a cult classic! Forget about M*A*S*H, when it comes to episodes being multi-storied. This hour-long drama series, most episodes of which run about 55 minutes--without commercials--seems to have about 10 stories going in any given episode. And yes, I would agree with most of the other IMDb commentators here, that the main cast is great. My personal favorite is Dean Winters. Yeah, I know he stole much of his dialog style from Clint Eastwood, but I think he is the most compelling actor on the show. I just got Season 5 on DVD. Only one more DVD release, and my life will be complete. OZ RULES!!!


                
