Oz is a great series, one of televisions underrated shows. It has a certain relationship to soap opera in that something evil is always happening, and it is the unfolding of each instance of evil that fascinates. From my discussions with people who are actually in prison, it rings true. Every interaction has some machination working in the background. Behind every action, there lies a scheme, a plot to do someone else in. I like this series so much that it is one of the few TV shows I have bought completely, on DVD.And, yes, I agree with the writer before me who commented that there are elements of satire in it. The character in the wheelchair who offers his jaundiced view of life does so with a certain bit of ironic humor.


                
I never realized what this show was all about until last season. I only wish that I could locate back episodes and watch each and every one. This show leaves you wanting for more at the end of the hour. I sometimes watch the repeats later in the week.I can't explain why I care about the characters but I do. They are basically a bunch of cutthroat SOB's but I am drawn back each week as if I know each person. Never get too attached to one character as they may not be there the following episode.Haven't seen a show this powerful since I don't know when.


                
This is possibly the mother of all prison series. It's gritty, suspenseful and the characters are all so unique. You just don't know who will be next to get shivved or pushed up against their bed in the middle of the night. Watch this in one sitting!


                
I would be a little subjective because this is my favourite "type" of a tv show, but OZ is much more than just another prison drama, it carries a certain message, with all of its characters (to the smallest part) full of uniquenes and individuality, and that message is that no matter what religion, skin color, sexual orientation, or sins makes a man what he is, value of his life is not something to be lightly taken away. The most important thing in human society is equality, no matter on what level or on what grounds. And people do change... I highly recommend this series, because it is one of those rare ones that will force you to question your believes, no matter who you are and what you believe. Thumbs up!!!


                
External shots of Oz are used only a handful of times in the entire run. We are inside to the point where the outside world becomes surreal and barely existent. When a character is released in season 6 only to return to Oz very quickly, there's a feeling that they've tasted a fantasy and are returning to "normal" life.Augustus Hill and Tobias Beecher are our eyes and ears; we are the ordinary joes introduced to Oz through them. How Tobias changes and survives is not just a reflection of his strength of character but also the lengths people must go to in order to survive. Hill's intros/outros/interludes bridge the gap between the broader issues being explored and the events inside Oz.It's a credit to the makers that they managed to give us just as vivid a picture of the staff without going outside the prison walls and into their personal lives. The political issues are well explored and I'm glad. It's as close to a vivid, realistic depiction of life in a modern prison as we could get without it being refused classification in countries like Australia (where the classification system is mandatory).The line between being a gay man and being a straight man who is gay in prison is clearly defined in Keller and Beecher (anonymous exit surveys show something like 70% of straight men form a long term, monogamous sexual relationship with another man while in prison), but the distinction isn't really explored in depth beyond that. It's put in front of us in the hope that we'll simply get it, however I suspect it may be a bit too subtle for some.I have only one real beef with the show: the depiction of prags and their "use" is pretty much limited to the Nazis. In reality this is widespread in US prisons at least, not being limited to any particular political, cultural or ethnic group. Rape generally is widespread and has been for decades.Remember, too, that dramatic licence means there will be differences between this and reality. For example, all the long drawn out boring bits where nothing happens have been edited out ;). But overall, brilliant television.(One note: Emerald City isn't an "unusual" prison, given it resembles most of the privately run prisons built since the early 90s. In 1985 such a prison was depicted in Ghosts of the Civil Dead, and at that time was considered "futuristic".)
I can't stand people who comment on this program or other HBO programs as "too graphic" or "unnecessarily graphic" or that they contain "gratuitous nudity/violence/sodomy etc".Guess what? Prison life isn't PG-13. The "gratuitous" graphic content is TRUE TO LIFE of this situation. Prison contains inmate rape/killings/drug deals and showers. If you don't like it, then don't watch the program. I'm certainly no fan of prison rape, but if it was left out of the show I'd be surprised and lend the show less credibility. If the prisoners didn't curse, it would just be silly. Sure it's gratuitous language, but that is REALISTIC.The show is good, some of the viewers....not so much, I guess.


                
From the very first episode i sensed that there is more for this show to give than to take ... I have just finished the last episode from the last season , and I can assure for anybody that not a single min of OZ is a waste of time . For anybody who is looking for a ( prison break ) look alike thriller you will not find it here , what you will face here is A LIFE LOOK ALIKE THRILLER , yes as simple as that . guys guys if you are looking for a show just to entertain your eyes , OZ is not that place , it is that place where you have to feel , think , absorb characters , and think more and more , not about OZ , about YOU , YOUR SELF , YOUR OWN LIFE , YOUR OWN BELIEFS , AND THE WAY YOU SHOULD THINK ABOUT YOUR SELF AT DAILY BASES . believe me OZ will provoke questions that you have not thought about before , it will charge you with an adequate emotions just so you can deal with your OWN PAST and sometimes it will open a little window so you can face and for the very first time your inner demons . so please watch , understand , learn , and then try to move on with your life with a very new perspective .


                
Was in my early, EARLY, twenties when this show aired. Grew up on HBO, and this being their first hour long drama, was definitely taken in and amazed with it's variety of characters and hard subjects. Watched the show in it's entirety, through the greatness and bad.Now re-watching it again, years later after seeing most of it's stars progress into programs that undoubtedly became available in result of their performance in Oz.When watching, the show is better and surprisingly more raw than from the first viewing. Of course, the acting is a bit overplayed by the high egos of the prison population, nonetheless convincing and captivating.When watching now, it seems hard to believe that Harold Perrineau was never nominated for any awards for his performance. First episode to it's finally, his narrating character carried the theme to every show, that seemed to jump from situation to next without time reference. An actor that can produce MULTIPLE , often poetic, monologues in every episode of a groundbreaking cable dramatic hour long series certainly deserved recognition from a committee dedicated to the appreciation of it's actors. Of course Rita Moreno and Kirk Acevedo, who were numerously recognized for their work, are outstanding in the series. But when watching again, Perrineau is the driving dramatic force of the series. Ha. You know I always love Ernie Hudson. J.K. Simmons is NEVER bad, and this might be his best role ever. And honestly, I don't like Harold Perrineau in most other things. But here, after coming across the series again and peaking interest...absolutely amazed he was never outstandingly recognized for his performance in Oz. I know this is long winded, and I never had commented on any piece before, but for some reason I thought this needed to be said.


                
Such a painful show. You cringe as you watch the inmates eat away at their souls


                
I recently rewatched Oz and forgot how fantastic and powerful of a show this was. Every aspect and story line is raw, honest and sometimes brutal, which is what makes this show amazing. I have not seen anything like it since, and sincerely wish there were additional seasons. This show could have gone on a lot longer, and definitely deserved to. Great work all around!


                
Gripping, unflinching, no holds barred look at life on the inside. It's not for the faint of heart.
Brilliant and intriguing characters. Unfortunately it ended way too soon.Would love them to revive Oz.


                
I've heard a lot of tales and ugly things about prison life from North American friends of mine; but one could not grasp the image of the words described to you unless you watch this show (with the exception of you going to an American prison yourself, that is...)I must admit this series is the one and only show I ever watched continuously (all 6 seasons) within the week.. usually I watch other shows bit by bit, but Oz.. I watched it continuously for a whole week with the exception of food, toilet, and bedtime breaks.From the first episode, I was hooked like a magnet. The levels of intrigue; the cynical personalities; the nightmare of all offenders is presented to your eyes by HBO. I thought Sopranos was the best thing they premiered.. turns out Oz is also something else I didn't expect!Despite the nasty gay scenes, rapes and all sorts of sexual abuse; the show was fantastic. Moreorless, all the gore presented in this show is just a bite off the cookie compared to the reality of the nightmares faced. After watching the entire seasons.. I must assume that the problems with American prisons all point towards the top.. just like any company/business/corporation/sports team... bad teacher = bad students. Bad manager = bad employees. Bad owner = bad business.The Governor in this case is the one on the top chain.. with all the wasted money on useless expenditures, actual improvement can be made with focus on the bureaucracy and the simple little details that can give inmate's lives a better chance of turning that nightmare into a regular & remorseful stay @ a prison.However, even with major adjustments & improvements cannot guarantee one's safety among the "4 walls" of these prison cells. Corruption is a major factor that destroyed the lives of many (both inmates & staff).. and corruption will continue to remain. So will prison gangs, and that's another cancer that is nearly impossible to cripple without decisive action on behalf of the people "upstairs".To back to Oz series.. the only thing I hated in this show is the fact that they made O Riley indestructible.. from the first 2 episodes I expected him to fall in his own blood, yet it was very annoying to see him go through the whole show without being touched and everything going his way.. in reality a dunken mick doesn't stand a chance, not even with all that "luck of the irish" bullcrap.Another related annoyance is during final episodes with Cyral's execution.. no one really gives a crap about his execution yet all inmates managed to lock themselves in their cells and bang on the windows like a bunch of apes? (not to mention that it occurs during their only free time during the day pffft)Overall, the final execution of Cyral was a giant relief.. since I was expecting from first season some terrible thing happens to the mick.. yet unfortunately the only thing that does happen against his favor is his brother's death, which is not enough to satisfy me!Other than that, the construction of every plot and every scene throughout the seasons was fantastic; and the whole concept of Oz series is marvelous.. I couldn't say anymore than that!
I just finished it and I must say it's a very good show, I was hooked by the first episode. It's well acted and written, even if the last few seasons weren't that good but still better than a lot of shows that are on air right now. There's a lot of nudity, sexual contents, violence but it doesn't matter this show totally worth to be seen. It has a lot of characters and all of them have their own story and sometimes they interact with each other. The plot explore a lot of aspects of the life in prison and just life, and in a very realistic way. Personally I loved Beecher's storyline, I think it has the character development and it's the easiest to follow because you can identify with him more or less. Also I liked the presence of Augustus hill who tell us with his metaphors and a philosophic and sarcastic way what's going on in the episode.If you haven't seen it yet and if you like TV shows like "The wire" , "prison break" and almost any HBO shows then you should definitely check this one.


                
"Oz" is something spectacular. At first glance the show can seem unnecessary and over the top but about within the first 10 minutes of the first episode the characters already start to grow on you. That being said, it is a drama show and if you don't enjoy drama shows you probably won't enjoy "Oz". I still however urge everyone to watch at least the first episode before making a judgement.Probably the thing that makes "Oz" stand out is how "Oz" pushes the boundaries of traditional accepted television. The depiction of raw violent human nature is used to establish the overall mood required to enjoy the show. It's something surreal. Anything going on in the show would seem absolutely absurd outside the show's context, but then again that would be true with most great shows. Even today the show would probably be reviewed as something uncivilized. I wish HBO gave "Oz" a little more love and show time, then again the scarcity of the amount of episodes was just what it needed to make it an absolute masterpiece. In Anime, generally the best shows are less than 30 episodes with few exceptions. "Oz" had the same short and sweet feel that greatly highlighted all the little things that happened in "Oz". Granted it was on for 6 years, it only aired 58 episodes and in that time fully developed around 20 separate story-lines.Unfortunately "Oz" never had it's moment in the spotlight and few would know of the show. I can't praise the show enough and will recommend "Oz" to people who love drama and are fascinated by human nature.


                
I first saw Oz about three years ago on HBO. It was nothing like I expected seeing as I had no idea what OZ stood for. I watched every episode that was aired, I watched repeats and watched them over and over.
I haven't seen the the last season as I refuse to pay cable's exorbitant prices for digital cable. I had never seen the first season and on April 2nd I stumbled on the first season tapes on VHS. I thought I was no longer hooked on the show but alas after watching the premier show for the first time, I now know I will have to see everything again. My next viewing will be Season 1, episode 2 and I can hardly wait. That in a nutshell is how Oz is; once you see it, you can't stop. Even the characters that you hate, you have a morbid interest in, wanting to know what fate awaits each one.I don't recommend it to kids, but everyone else should watch at least one season and you will be hooked, guaranteed!


                
