Very funny show! Extremely clever satirisation of cop shows.What else can you say? From the obvious disregard for mis-en-scene and realistic writing, down to the over the top performances, crappy stupid dialogue, and poor choice of soundtrack.The Shield for my money is one of the funniest shows in television, in particular for its complete lack of taste in dialogue, subject matter, and especially music.This show perfectly parodies how police drug busts are glamourised by other shows into being like Kid Rock music videos.I recommend the show to any TV fans with a sense of humour. Having just watched The Wire this hilarious take on street crime was a breath of fresh air.


                
The yearly hype on The Shield got me to try and watch it again, but sadly, the show hasn't changed.It's still trying so very hard to be hip and edgy and yet fails so miserably in its film-making that it elicits more laughs than chills.Someone should tell the producers that putting a five year-old with his dad's camcorder in charge of shooting the show is NOT a good idea. The result is unwatchable shaky images with an occasional guffaw-inducing zoom.On the same note, they may also notice that you need MORE lighting when you shoot video, not less if you want it to look professional, but then again, they are so caught up in their own hype that they probably think this amateurish look is making the show look realistic.Overall, don't bother, it's as much of a waste of time as it ever was.


                
this show it seems.I do neither,I just yawn and occasionally I laugh if I happen to watch an episode.I'm not a prude,I don't care if it's gritty as long as it's not aired before 10 p.m when kids might see it. I just can't stand the ridiculous camera work,yea,I know it's supposed to look documentary,but it looks like some network executive in his sixties has come up with what he thinks is just a brilliant,new,fresh idea.But instead it's been done to death,like "MTV-cutting".And almost always it fails.Second,Michael Chiklis is not "bad guy"-material.I vaguely remember the Commish,and Scali was a role more suited for him.I mean,just shaving his hair off,putting shades on him,making him pump some iron and dressing him up in a tight shirt doesn't make up for the fact that he's just not a bad guy type. And you might wonder if a dirty cop who almost without exception beats the crap out of everyone who dares to contradict him would really be able to keep his job? I sure hope not.


                
Good Lord.....can this garbage be so 'revered' that it lasted 8 series? Firstly...by the first half of season 2 we find out that EVERYONE who is on the police force or associated with it is either corrupt already or willing/able/or about to be corrupted due to some terrible transgression in their past. By the end of season 1 there are only 2 people among the dozen or so regular staff that 'SEEM' to be honest.... These do not include the main cops and their partners, the police chief or the commissioner.... There doesn't seem to be a solid relationship among the whole bunch and most are gay, killers, drug dealers or drug distributors and nearly everyone is being blackmailed or is blackmailing someone else from the chief down the the lowest rookie cop. Picture The Young & Restless with guns and you'll be pretty close. Perhaps it gets better after season 2 but I was unable to gag myself any further than that. Sadly it fits PERFECTLY into the standard American LA is a tough place drama and only the tough survive. If Hollywood fantasy is what you crave AND you STILL believe Road Runner could stay hovering just by moving his legs....then this is the PERFECT show for you. For those of us who prefer the 'plausible'....we'll pass on it.
