I looked forward to finally be able to watch The Shield. I am a big fan of gritty cop shows. My understanding was that the shield was in line with Homicide, The Wire and Southland. The series began with much promise. Vic and the Strike team created the dark underbelly of the thin blue line. Sadly as the storyline progressed and Vic et al had to try and cover up their crimes it dissolved into the Keystone Cops with the Strike team scurrying around to cover their butts. These scenes would be comic gold if they were intentional and had the appropriate sound track but it is not played for comedy and their is the rub. The series is not intended to be a dark comedy but that is the result and a pretty average one at that.


                
I personally think this show is very overrated! The plot is set up great but it all blows over the way how the show is shooting - acting, camera, too high paced....characters are described well but its performing by actors, even with our Vic Mackey, doesn't convince me at all! Just average TV Show good to your afternoon coffee:) I mean when I compare this to lets say LAW AND ORDER (1990) or LAW AND ORDER-SVU, both shows beat The Shield especially in how I believe characters in it, how they look more close to real people even LaO doesn't that good-bad cop conflict so much....my opinion. I mean playing by those actors in Shield just looks too casual, too innocent...when you compare it to new stars like Dexter or Boss or Suits you find yourself believe that you are watching a high quality theathre more than just a TV Show....but The Shield is just a TV Show case:)
I was hooked right away on the Shield episodes on Hulu and watched every season except the very last with avid interest. Little things bothered me. The badge worn on the wrong side of the chest, for one. The captain's bars worn 90 degrees out from the correct way. The constant insubordination from officers and detectives that would never be tolerated in a real police organization. But worst of all, the thing that ultimately turned me completely off, was the corruption, the endless lies and thievery and even murders. By the time I was into the last season there was just nobody left I felt like rooting for - I despised almost everyone in the cast. All in all, a good show that could have been great with a different story line and better filming techniques. (The hand held cameras just about made me ill, literally.)
