I have watched the first five seasons of The Shield so far and can only lavish praise on it. The negative reviews are probably not surprising, as many of the so-called viewers/reviewers admit to having watched only a few episodes. I was very nearly one of them, but the high IMDb rating persuaded me to persevere, and I am so glad I did. I agree, the Season 1 plot lines, acting, shaky camera work etc. (in the first several episodes, at least) are definitely not engaging, and you are left feeling very disconnected from and unsympathetic towards a cast of largely unappealing characters. However, let yourself continue into Season 2 and you WILL get hooked as the characters develop and the acting improves. I've been watching 2-3 episodes a night and have been totally engaged. I've found that many successful long-running series have growing pains - The Wire in particular springs to mind. You have to have some faith that the production crew and cast will get past these.


                
This show needs to be watched from the beginning. It grows into a great story about 1/2 way into the first season. It *can* be a little uneven at times (ie. I found some sub-plots pretty uninteresting)but it has some great conflicts and performances. Its a pretty graphic show and it has an unusual style. Its very different from standard TV fare but if you give it a try and like it, you will probably *really* like it.I find it interesting how people who don't like the show seem to keep watching it and continually give individual episodes bad reviews. If I don't like a show after a few episode I usually just stop watching and would not review additional individual episodes.I get the feeling the show offends some people to the point where they want to prevent others from giving it a try. If you are not put off by graphic content and unusual camera styles give this show a try.


                
I have to oppose those who diss this show because of it looking like a "camcorder" shot it.. guess what... IT'S PART OF THE VIBE!!!! The cast is great and the season with Forest Witaker is fantastic acting.As a big Miami Vice Fan I think this is a great example of taking the crime drama beyond what audiences expect and combining the back office drama with the feet on the street grittiness and showing real characters who are involved in this kind of work... and I know plenty that find this a real (or mostly, by TV terms) example of the BS you gotta deal with in the job. Great show and I hope it goes for many more episodes.


                
This isn't the best cop show around(The Wire is)but it has some excellent moments and characters. This show isn't for kids and kids shouldn't have access to it but you cannot criticise a show(as some have)just because it isn't suitable for all audiences. This show deals with maverick cops,corrupt officials,some despicable criminals and some decent people trying to survive in a less than perfect environment. Some of the characters are superbly played(Vic,Dutch and Julien for example)while some of the story lines are engrossing. Two of the guest stars(Close and Whittaker)certainly added to the mix. If you like Sopranos type drama then this is for you.If you want to avoid violence and other contentious issues then don't watch this.


                
Once you get hooked to shield, there is no going back. I started with the complete DVD set, and was through the whole 6 seasons in a month- imagine that, with my exams hollering over my head and all. What a pity my DVD set didn't have the last season, supposedly the best. This is the grittiest and most unflinchingly daring television drama i have seen in ages. In fact most series have always been too boring or too slow on the momentum for me. The only other series i have completely finished the entire seasons with loyalty is the original CSI (not the later weaker spin-offs). I always hold that was a work of genius. But Shield is even more so on a completely different level- CSI was all about the ensemble cast and good script. In Shield, its almost a one man show- Chiklis keeping you on edge forever, with other great and efficient supporting casts. Man, this is not only a career defining performance for Vic, this is almost one of the greatest achievement in characterization in the whole history of drama, TV or otherwise. Vic( I wont even say Chiklis, he looses into the character that completely) is beyond phenomenal. The curt and witty dialogs, and the superb timing that everybody delivers them, its difficult to imagine how this is a premeditated drama. This is drama at its best.Convoluted script that plays games with your mind all the while maintaining the feasibility, the down to earth characterization of interpersonal relations with no idolizing and no idealizing of anybody, dialogs that are catchy yet effective, and the intensity with which it delivers- nothing can match that. And the momentum- Shield delivers in its mere 10 episodes in a season what 'Lost' doesn't in its entire 24 episodes of its season. That says it all. It moves so fast in fact i don't even have time to look for loopholes.The vulnerability of each character is phenomenal. Dutch gaining control from being a boy everybody played pranks on to being a confident, and at times, narcissistic detective was a pleasure to watch, and his performance is only second to Vic.Of course there are loopholes, and there are moments of overdramatisation, but i am willing to excuse them all for the hell of a ride that it provides. The 'gonna give my life for the team' stuff is quite indigestible and overdone, especially since it comes down to 'i am gonna kill you' now and again. Dutchboy's psychoanalytic stuff is a little too much, yet interesting to watch. Aceveda's uptight character is interesting, especially in earlier seasons. His character starts loosing weight in each successive seasons.But the real showstopper is Vic. So much so we cant imagine anybody else in the role. That's hard to come by. And when i read people giving one star to the series on this site, i feel sorry for people who don't appreciate how much effort these guys have really put into this thing, especially Chiklis. He disappears so completely in the character, he thrills and chills and moves you at the same time with his impeccable timing of emotion and comic sense.All in all, this is going to be my all time favorite.


                
This is a wonderful show. The action feels intense and real, and it is easy to identify with the characters even when they are doing things that you abhor. It is violent and Perverse and sometimes offensive and indefensible, but so is life, and I imagine this is even more true for big city police. It has been criticized by other users as having poor production values, but this is not the case. They just don't use a steady cam, and that lends a chaotic and voyeuristic quality to the show. But the writing is amazing, the characters are incredible, and the show will shock you no matter how hard you are to shock. There are no good characters and very few evil characters, but instead every character is gray and devastatingly human, complete with greed, lust, prejudices, and fallibility. All in all, it makes for some excellent TV.


                
I can't believe how many ppl are rubbishing this outstanding look at the seedy side of life, maybe it's because they live in the bubble and never see what actually goes on around them, sure it's gritty and nasty at times, it reminds me of a UK 70's show called The Sweeney brought up to modern day and set in the USA, Sweeney is slang for Sweeney Todd - Flying Squad btw, anyone thinking of getting into this series should do asap, it's nothing like Hill St Blues or any other cop show tbh, it shows one man who knows the molly coddling of the justice system doesn't work and his approach is to use fire on fire, it has a superb cast throughout and is the most refreshing TV series I've seen in ages, not afraid to lay down to the liberals who live in denial of this world and the ppl in it, next thing you'll all be telling me how bad Deadwood is as well.


                
At least you get to see the show! In Australia unless you have Cable or Satellite you have to wait for free to air stations to broadcast the show and the channel that has the rights to The Shield puts it on at various times after 11.30 at night and doesn't play the episodes in order and has only shown up to half way through season 4!!!! I think the series is very good ... the live TV/Documentary feel with hand held cameras is a bit annoying sometimes. I like a show that is willing to kill off a main character .... that's what happens in real life. The only Cop genre show that beats The Shield in my opinion is The Wire, which also has not been shown in Australia, (I had to buy the DVDs!). I am eagerly waiting for season 6 .....


                
Bit of shaky camera n zooming.
good cast .
lots happening . 
violent at times.
like some said,, politically incorrect,womanizing and racism .


                
The Shield is an excellent show, which challenges the viewer to chose between two or more evils.The show feels realistic, not only through character portrayal but also the "simplistic" and real life camera feel. Most of the shots aren't done with a steady cam which gives the viewer the feel of actually being in the scene itself. This is all done intentional and for a director must be very hard to do properly. Many shows started using this technique of filming, in the last couple of years and some have done it rather poorly.Every season of the shield brings something extra, every show is surprising and the story lines are very entertaining to say the least.The pilot was just a real Kick-off, you get sucked into the story straight away and you won't be able to wait for the next episode to appear. all the way through to the last season its a good ride Finally a series that showed a darker side to "justice"


                
I loved the first two seasons .It was the best show on TV.This last season was horrid. I know the kids had to go to "special" school,but when did Mackey"s wife go retarded? What's with the creepy Forest Whitaker character? The incident with Mackey and Whitaker's unbalanced wife was just lame. Yeah, "Dutch" is losing his "moral compass" bearings and getting sicker by the season. A lotta gripes about the camera work but I think it's an integral part of the series and that clown Shield rip-off show on TNT is pathetically trying to duplicate it. The Shield- a great show that couldn't sustain it's intriguing intensity .Kudos to Farmington station.


                
the problem with most people like yourself is that, you feel that the show HAS to be based on real events. by saying that the show is acting like most cops on the street is complete idiocy. its a TV show, plain and simple. its entertainment, kinda like wrestling, everyone knows its fake but its fun to watch. as a cop i take offense to the fact that you state that law enforcement people act like that, everyone says one bad apple spoils a bunch, but we all know thats not true. just because a few cops have gone bad doesn't mean all cops are corrupt and act like mackey. you are a complete idiot and maybe you should stop speeding and you wont get pulled over and have such a negative outlook on the police. maybe one day you will find a time when the police can help you and then your mind about cops will change. but for now, grow up and realize that a TV show is just a TV show, nothing more.


                
Although this series is rather "old" and shown on our TV channel some time ago, I began watching it some months ago - as I have realized that, for overall picture and comprehension, such series should be watched in succession, no mixing of seasons and episodes and seeing them all. But 88 episodes take some time...I cannot say that The Shield captivated me from the first episodes: rough environment, nervous atmosphere, and a certain murder of a certain cop made me doubt how the following events and relations would resolve, how would I personally see the arm of the law fighting for "good" in complex areas of LA. True, it is mostly realistic, as the series itself is loosely based on real events, but it is so different from the issues the police in my country has to deal with. But then, gradually and soon, I began to grow accustomed, and "broke into" the characters and events, had compassion for and became disgusted, and was anxious to see how some tricky events would be settled or fade away. As most characters are so versatile and performances so strong, it was a relief to focus on them when a case became too knotty; apart from the actors I have been following a long time (Glenn Close and Forest Whitaker, for example), I took note of many others whose career and other works aroused my interest (starting from Michael Chiklis). Well, one might wonder how so many torts and felonies could last so long, with touch and go, but all in all, The Shield is a good and realistic series, depicting the problems resulting from drug use, racial seclusion, possession of firearms, and general poverty in a metropolis, particularly known for glamorous Hollywood. Not a family watch though.


                
The show circles around the most lovable corrupt gang unit in LA. For serious. You follow them around and root for them while they are stealing drugs, money, and killing and eliminating anyone who will get in their way.The addicting thing about this show is that you fall in love with the bad cops no matter what they do. Especially Michael Chiklis's character. He's like a shorter and chubbier version of Bruce Willis. The whole time I watched the show, I was in entranced with his face.With witty banter, and pure fun with the drama that is overwhelmingly addictive, this show (although 7 seasons long) is a fun and addicting show with great star guests like Glenn Close and Forest Whitaker.


                
Although I thoroughly enjoyed the series, almost start to finish, it has a heavy cloak of racism and misogyny covering it in almost every episode. Every black and Hispanic character is portrayed as weak, ineffectual, and cowardly. Blacks and Hispanics are the criminals and the whites are the good guys, even if they are completely corrupt and criminal themselves. We cheer for Vic Mackey through all of his sins, but we can't hold up even a shred of empathy for the minority characters be they cops or robbers.Hispanic David Aceveda is always two steps behind Mackey and his crew and allows himself to be raped by a thug. Claudette Wyms is impotent in the face of Mackey's abuses and ends up a weak, sickly caricature of a cop. Strapping recruit Julien Lowe is a self-hating homosexual and a bad cop. There isn't a single positive portrayal of a Black or Hispanic character in the entire six seasons. Coincidence? I don't think so. The negative stereotyping was relentless.Am I a Racist for Liking this Series? To answer my own question, I would have to say that I'm not a racist because the things I point out really bothered me and kept this series from being truly exceptional. Would it have killed them to have a couple of cool minority characters?I defy anyone to defend this show against my claims of racism.


                
They are definitely packed with action in that Los Angeles precinct of the PDLA. But it is not law enforcement they want and look for. It is nothing but cleaning up the crime they do not like too much, though that makes them earn a living. Their methods are dictated by the necessary efficiency special units bring to the department.Special units are nothing but cops that use the gangsters' methods to eliminate the gangsters themselves. They do not aim at arresting them. They only arrest the small fry to catch the big ones and catch them dead rather than alive. There is no choice in that. The top gangsters might survive if they are very, very, very lucky.The second thing is that these gangster-cops are in fact under pressure from all and in all directions. Pressure to be made redundant and no longer wanted by the chief of police, the sheriff in chief or the captain of who knows what, or even the District Attorney, the one they could nickname Old Sparks or Guillotine, but his preys are the cops who are making too many waves and do not arrest enough people who will not protest or have lawyers.They are also under pressure from the gangsters they are trying to hunt and chase. These will use all the flesh and bones they can find to create that pressure: brothers, sisters, wives, kids, you name them you have them. And who cares. This society is nothing but a permanent civil war and the end of the USSR has brought quite a few thousand extremely well trained ex-KGB officers turned gangsters and these do not hesitate at pressing the trigger or just getting rid of you if you are in their way. That's their way of dealing with obstacles: blow them up with dynamite first and then ask for their identity.They are also under pressure from their ex-wives, future wives, their future wives' mothers, their kids, autistic or not, the head shrinks of their children, their wives' boyfriends and their girlfriends' husbands, from the prostitutes on the sidewalk or the pimps in the bars, not to speak of their parents and their best friends, their neighbors and their children's teachers. Too bad boys, to be a cop is to be the focus of attention, and if you are girls, it is then even worse since you will have to accept the services the trendy nice boys in the street will offer you on a platter.This series is thus not particularly clear on the subtleties of the crimes or the crime scenes. In fact there is no crime scene, no scientific police, no lawyers, no forensics, no standard procedure, no miranda whatever it may be. There is only violence, blood, bullets and victims. And a little bit of provocative racism in a series that is trying to show that the blacks are ten times better than the white Armenians, Russians, Ukrainians or other Slavonic or not ex-Soviet citizens or is it gulag-inmates, or even maybe gulag-wardens.In one word your brain is not going to be strained by the great police work and author's imagination in this series. Not even the slightest dots or spots of dusty morals. Just from time to time some pangs of conscience just before vomiting and then getting back to the bottle neck of the bottle or is it the neck of some victim or corrugated friend? Dr Jacques COULARDEAU
