I never wrote a review on IMDb, but after reading that many bad reviews about The Shield i felt i had to do this. In fact all that reviews kept me from seeing The Shield for a long time.But now that i am through with all Lost and 24 Seasons, seen The Wire twice, had a good time with Oz it was time for something new, so i finally gave The Shield a chance.And i can tell you it's one hell of a ride, i was hooked after seeing the first episode. I would even compare the series to The Wire, it is different of course and doesn't focus so much on the social aspects, it goes more for the action.It's got all you need, corrupt cops, drugs, violence, betrayal, good detective work (homicide team) and even some hot chicks occasionally ;) So my conclusion is that if you like quality series with a persistent plot and cliffhangers like The Wire, Lost, Sopranos or Oz go for this one you won't regret it! It will keep you on the edge of your seat for a long time.And i really can't understand where all those bad reviews are coming from... go check The Shield out for yourself!


                
I only heard of The Shield a few weeks ago. I had only just finished watching a previous TV show from start to finish, and was after a new one to pass the time. I typed in "The Best TV Shows Ever", or something similar, on Google, and I noticed that this was on a few lists. I'd never heard of it, but after checking to see that it was given a very respectable 8.7 rating on IMDb, I decided to check it out.When I started, I was not unimpressed, but at the same time, I didn't really get the immediately-hooked feeling like I did at the start of other TV shows like Prison Break, Dexter and Breaking Bad, amongst others.However, unlike most TV dramas, The Shield got progressively better throughout its series. The characters were very complex and I can't think of a single main character who I had both rooted for at times, yet wanted to see their downfall in others.As I said, the series got progressively better, but in no way was I expecting the finale to be as good as it was. I've seen a fair few TV series in my time, but no series finale that I've seen has even come close to matching this one. An absolutely incredible finale of a quality that any series would have been proud of.I'd definitely recommend this show. For me personally, it was a steady 7/10 for the first couple seasons, 8//10 and 9/10 for the next few, but 10/10 for its final season. To give the actual finale a rating out of ten would do it injustice as I'm sceptical that I'll ever see one as good as that.


                
I began watching "The Shield" mostly because of a coincidence. The Swedish movie channel "Canal+" usually rerun their shows 2-3 episodes at a time on Sundays. And it was one of those times, a Sunday with heavy snowfall and nothing to do, that i sat down and watched three episodes in a row. And instantly i was hooked.The thing that surprised me most about "The Shield" is the way that it's hugely exaggerated while at the same time feeling very realistic. The documentary style in which the series is filmed, as well as the solid acting of course contributes to this feeling. And to me it feels like a series that manages to seem realistic, no matter how unrealistic the events in the plot, is truly great TV. That it doesn't shun away from harsh themes or sensitive and sometimes even grotesque subjects only increases my respect for the script-writers and makers of this show.The characters are also mostly very interesting. I have already mentioned the actors, and i must stress again how well the casting is done here. This also adds to the characters that are portrayed admirably throughout.And one thing i know for certain. Watching Vic Mackey and the other more or less corrupt cops in "The Barn" balancing on the border (and sometimes slipping across it) has made shows like NYPD Blue feeling forever redundant. This is THE cop show to watch.


                
this is one of the best TV shows that i have ever watched. no super heroes non-sense, no graphics, just good old great script, acting and a wonderful story.now, if you are one of those kids who are used to your hero flying and punching through walls.... nope.... don't watch this. it is as realistic as it can be, contains lots of adult themes and violence. even the camera view is made in such a way to make you, subconsciously, be the "eye of the watcher". it was a little irritating for the first few minutes, but then you will get over it with the immense story and acting.it is about politics around the American-Mexican borders. corruption, betrayal, drugs... you name it. all of this is put in a twisted story that will never...ever.. bore the viewer.the cast is awesome. i just cant believe how convincing all of them are. they do such a great job in being the character they are presenting. and their style never change. the make up, their weight, their hair style. everything and everyone are intertwined in a magnificent story.two things you have to keep in mind if you are going to watch this series: 1. watch the series from the start, episode one, season one, or you will never understand it and end up hating it. 2. don't skip an episode. you will miss a lot of things.highly recommended.


                
I rate this as one of the absolutely best programmes on TV.It seems it's a bit strong for most US tastes, perhaps we like things grittier in the UK, but this is a series that leaves me thinking at the end.Vic's a bad cop, but he's a great cop, the character (and those around him) are all incredibly flawed, but totally credible and the whole look, feel, writing and acting in the series is of the highest level.This is, without doubt, one of the most thought provoking and best produced TV series ever to come out of the US - It's just a shame so few people get to watch it.


                
Realistic because it captures the contradictions inherent in human nature, particularly in policing. Acting is first-rate. The use of multiple hand-held cameras is organic rather than forced (as opposed to the NYPD Blue style). Worth the price of admission just to see CCH Pounder, Glenn Close, Forest Whitaker as well as Michael Chiklis. While time is spent on the inner lives of the characters, there is also much time devoted to the conflicting agendas both political and personal of the police, the politicos and the populace. In my view it's the best cop show since Hill Street. It's worth watching season 4 just to see the last scene between Glenn Close and Michael Chiklis.


                
If you are sick of standard TV fare like those awful Orange County shows, you will love this series! Lot of negative comments here, not surprising. Personally, I never heard of this series until about two months ago. I wouldn't confuse promotion of a show or movie by the people that stand to profit from it with "hype." I rented the series on DVD, I am halfway through the second season, and it's great. It is obviously a video play, and they spent all the money on talent and location permits, not equipment or seasoned crews. But I think the crazy editing complements the storyline, and the writing is great, characters are great, plot is great, and the moral morass is refreshing. I would not recommend this series for young viewers, or for impressionable people who are disturbed by depictions of violence or sexuality. I think that is why it is rated M for Mature. Rightly so.


                
With regard to some of the negative reviews I have seen for The Shield many seem to be judging the show from its first season. For example " i suffered through the first 9 episodes" one reviewer said. This show cannot be judged from its first season because it is without a doubt its weakest season. I first got into the shield when the sixth season DVD was bought for me one Christmas i had seen one or two episodes on TV so i gave it a chance and was blown away. I purchased the rest of the seasons.Watching season 1 i realized it was nowhere near the quality of season 6 so i stuck with it knowing better quality was to come. Better quality had come from season 2 onward the bar was massively raised reaching its peak with season 5 which is the shows strongest season with season 7 a close second.I think with season one the show was still finding it's direction and there was no real season long plot and the stories were pretty episodic in nature (plus some unrealistic events such as Vic Mackey brutally beating a suspect with a phone book in full view of the captain and other cops and having no repercussions). Season 1 must be watched though as some very important events happen that affect the course and conclusion of the show mainly the events of the pilot episode. The acting in the show is top quality especially that of the star Michael Chiklis and Walton Goggins who play the shows two most important characters corrupt detectives Vic Mackey and Shane Vendrell.Later seasons had notable film actors and actresses join the cast most notably Glenn Close who Played the new police captain Monica Rawling in Season 4 and Forest Whittaker who gave a riveting performance as John Kavanaugh, an internal affairs cop who was determined to bring down Vic and the strike team for their illegal dealings in season 5.All in all The Shield is a fast paced edge of your seat thrill ride with riveting plots and powerhouse acting.Season 5 is the shows peak. The tension between Forest Whittaker's character Kavanaugh and the protagonist Vic Mackey is astounding, the season is brutal and unpredictable and ends with a Shakespeare esque tragedy.Season 7 the shows final season is a close second it is the series most tense season with the viewer wondering how it will all turn out for Vic and the strike team. The final episode in my opinion is the finest series finale of all time.Season 2 I rank third it was wild and unpredictable and was such a massive improvement in all areas over the first seasonSeason 6 is next. An emotional season full of sorrow and regret over certain characters previous actions and begins to paint a picture of how the show will conclude.Season 4 now. The cast seemed to up there game acting wise with the arrival of Glenn Close playing the new police captain. We also get to see Walton Goggin's acting shine as playing Shane Vendrell without being under the shadow of the shows protagonist Vic Mackey (played by Michael Chiklis)Now for Season 3. A solid season showing tensions rise between many characters but began to drag on in the middle of the season. It upped it's game with the last few episode being very tense and unpredictable.Finally Season 1 the shows low point to which I've already explained the reasons for.I would recommend The Shield to anyone but I will always tell them that the show only really gets good from the second series onward.


                
A lot of people bag on the show for its cinematography, violence, etc. This misses the point.The entire point of the show is to illuminate the fact that life, especially in the police world, is rarely, if ever, the bright and happy thing it's supposed to be. True, things go over the top. Vic would never get away with even half the things he does. Yelling at the Captain? I don't think so. Stealing the Money Train and getting away with it? Yeah, right.But I like the show because it's gritty, and doesn't pretend to be anything else. The character conflict and the moral ambiguity is amazing. You have Vic, who does all the wrong things for all the right reasons (putting his autistic kids through specialized schools, getting the worst of society off the street or at least get them to stop some of the killing, etc.), and Capt. Aceveda who does all the right things for all the wrong reasons (to get elected to city council). Besides that, I enjoy the characters themselves in that they're flawed. Everybody tries to do the best they can with what they have at that moment - and it's not always the right thing, nor does it always work. Aren't we all like that, at least to some degree? The camera work is unconventional, and I think does its job by adding a tension to the entire feel of the show. It's not good cinematography in the traditional sense, but it does what it's supposed to do, and that in my book is good cinematography.The soundtrack also helps out. It's a good, eclectic one that mirrors the melting pot that is LA. I might say that it is at times a little heavy on the rap/metal side, but it still retains some tender pieces at emotional moments where it's needed. Definitely one of the better parts of the show.Vic and Shane's strong characters also are fun to watch, it's very interesting to see them ply their strengths and also see their weaknesses hold them back. Lem and Ronnie's characters I think are pretty weak, and have the feel of an afterthought, however. CCH Pounder's role of Claudette Wyms on the show is highly underrated, IMHO; her performance and character in her own way stand toe-to-toe with Michael Chiklis' Vic Mackey.Lastly, it has twists. Sometimes you see them coming; sometimes you don't. That's what makes a drama.Overall: obviously made for TV, that's no secret. But it does have some hard hitting drama in there for anybody who watches it a few times. It's a show that with it's gratuitous violence and language is definitely not for everybody - but it is for me. I'll keep watching, thank you.


                
The Shield is an awesome and intense drama. After catching a few episodes on FX I found myself renting DVDs of the series from the beginning.The acting of Michael Chiklis is absolutely outstanding. He plays the fascinating character of Vic Mackie: a dangerously smart, highly competent, keenly observant, and preternaturally clever thug, who happens to also be a cop. What's enjoyable and interesting is to watch as this intelligence allows him to somehow continue to justify his actions as his moral compass inexorably turns southward.The series is very intense. I don't think I've seen a single episode in which I wasn't seriously appalled by some of the subject matter. But a large part of this revulsion is when I realize that nothing in the show is over the top, it could all be happening right now, in some dark, gritty, urban corner.In short, I love the show. It is the best police drama I have ever seen.


                
The Shield is by far the best cop show on television. The writing is superb, the acting is mostly great except for a few side characters and the look and feel of the show is perfect for representing the chaotic environment that it is trying to represent. The story lines will always keep you guessing and they aren't afraid to go places that no other television show will go. Another thing that The Shield does well is to develop story arcs over a long period of time. It's not uncommon to find people or events from several seasons back effecting current story lines in very important ways. The Shield is just a great show and I highly recommend it.


                
I personally love this show. It is very well written, the actors are excellent, and the camera work is impeccable.That being said, this is a very violent and often crude show, and should definitely not be viewed by minors. The amount of sexual content (visual and verbal) could turn some people off, but at least the visual part of it is not random, just thrown in the for kicks. It's used to build the characters and the relationships they have. Yeah, some may sleep around a bit, but these are by no means perfect, or in some cases, decent people.The story arcs can be a little drawn out, and in some episodes, not even addressed at all, but when they come together, you really see how all the parts of the story, even the parts that didn't seem to have anything to do with the main conflict, get drawn together.The camera shots they set up are some of the best I've seen T.V. in a long time, possibly ever. The camera men and women do a really good job of more of what's going on in a scene, other than just what the main characters are doing.All of those elements come together to make a show that is, in a word, real. You really feel for these characters, for good or for bad, and I dare anyone watch this show and not get attached to at least one character. Ignore the sex and violence if you must, but watch the characters, pay attention to the camera work, and get ready to enjoy a real cop drama.


                
If you're watching The Shield, and thinking that it's not a good show because of the shaky camera-work, and the poor lighting, etc... then you're not the kind of person they'd want watching the show anyway. Go and watch some stylized crap. I'll stick to a show that entertains me, interests me, and got me drawn into the characters from Day One. I'm not even a fan of most of the actors in the show... but they are PERFECT for their roles. (Although CCH Pounder WAS pretty funny in TFTC: Demon Knight.) So, if you don't like the show, that's fine... maybe you don't like it; maybe you don't get it. Whatever. I like it, and I'll keep watching. Even with the "shaky camera-work," and "poor lighting." (Says the guy that's never worked a show in his life, no doubt...)


                
Boy there sure are a lot of prudes writing about "The Shield". This is an adult TV show folks not designed for young teens or children (and you would have thought they had figured this out by now). Fox hasn't kept the show around because of sympathy. They've kept it around because it is one of the most compelling adult shows on TV. The fact that it plays on FX and that isn't a mainstream channel allows the writers/producers/directors to tackle complex adult material that might other wise not be done for TV (unless it was Showtime or HBO). It's a cop show and there are only so many variations that can be on cop shows but Shawn Ryan manages to make "The Shield" compelling television by playing with the formula as much as possible. It's a police version of "The Sopranos" with Vic Mackey (the excellent Michael Chiklis)willing to break the law to convict criminals and also not afraid to skim their profits or take kickbacks to control the street.The first season was designed to paint Mackey as a corrupt officer unafraid to tackle law enforcement his way. As the seasons progressed, Mackey (particularly during the fourth season)saw an opportunity to redeem himself and tried to but the skeletons in his closet continue to rattle away. I'm perplexed by those here who feel the show was "hyped" (sure it was...it's called getting the viewers to tune in), disappointed (maybe they should follow the show for more than three or four episodes)and horrified (this isn't a Network TV show folks--it's a cutting edge drama that continues to create complex characters and watches them suffer for their sins). Clearly I'm watching a different show than they did. I heard all the hype and was impressed with the top notch writing, direction and performances.I do wish that Glenn Close's character had been kept around longer but she only signed for the one season. Her character was a strong no-nonsense officer that had risen through the ranks to Captain and found Mackey both an important member of her team as well as a rogue officer that needed to be reined in. Forrest Whitaker has also done a terrific job as the IAD agent out for Mackey's blood at any cost. The heroes and villains of the show often cross over from one role to the other.It's a gritty series that doesn't shy away from adult content, language, situations and presents some of the most morally complex characters on television. Kudos to Ryan and his crew for moving ahead inspite of the misguided criticism seen (often)here. I'm looking forward to the changes in season seven (which will reportedly be the last season)and looking forward to the continued excellent work by CCH Pounder, Michael Chiklis and the rest of the cast and crew.
I saw the first episode and was hooked! The show dramatises the personal and professional lives of police officers of the Farmington district. From uniformed officers that walk the beat to elite detectives working high profile cases this show delves into the moral and ethical judgement of each character.From the very first moment, the viewer is given a startling shock of who the detectives are and what they are capable of. And is shown the true meaning of life on the streets where even the most principled person can succumb to committing evil for the greater good.The show provides the viewer with the fundamental question of whether the means justify the end. On one spectrum, there are officers who follow the rules by the letter and there are others who bend and/or break the rules. However each side is striving for the same goal. To serve and protect the innocent.Some may argue that the "bad cops" are only serving themselves, however these cops do have a conscious/ideal to maintain and endeavor to uphold them at personal costs.The actors contrast against each other like black and white. Nevertheless, each is drawn into the gray area which I believe everyone else lives and breathes in. While the directing may not be to some people's liking, I feel that it gives it a raw edge that concides with the script.The reason why some may not like this show is because of how some of the cast carry out their assignments. If you do not like shows which illustrates real life on the screen, maybe this show isn't for you.I have found this show is highly entertaining with an important underlining message, "How far will someone go to uphold the idea that keeps them going?".Enjoy!


                
I have no idea what the previous poster is rambling on about, this show is one of the best shows on television. Michael Chiklis and the entire cast are excellent as an inner city police station trying to dole out law & order.The Strike Team trials & tribulations are edge of your seat moments and the blend of the other officers in the "barn" make you feel you're watching a real police station.Good for Claudette Wyms getting promoted to Captain. She deserved it. Also, special guest stars Forest Whitaker & Glenn Close as John Kavanaugh & Capt. Rawlings respectively were incredible. Anthony Anderson does an amazing job as drug lord Antwoin Fisher.Can't wait for season 7


                
I can't believe that after 5 seasons there are still reviews for "The Shield" from people expressing shock at the sex/violence/moral depravity/bizarre-&-twisted-behavior content of this show. Yes, the show is shocking. It features some of the most mind-bending, stomach-churning individual moments I have ever seen on film, much less on television. But they warned you from the first, and by now any squeamish or easily offended sensibilities should have heard the buzz about "The Shield" and know to STAY AWAY from it. But for those who can stand a few moments of "Oh, {expletive deleted}, they're not really going to go THERE, are they. . .??", "The Shield" offers something truly rare in commercial filmed entertainment. It is a show that proved from the very first episode that its creators REFUSE to do the expected. It is a show that my friends and I cannot, no matter how hard we try or what far-out scenarios we come up with, predict from one week to the next. It is a show that even after 5 seasons, still finds me on the couch with the lights off and my knuckles pressed against my teeth, holding my breath for what happens next (and I truly don't know; when was the last time you watched a cop show and honestly had no idea if the show's protagonists were going to make it?). It is the only show I have ever purchased on DVD (although the August release of HBO's Rome will change that) so that I can watch it over and over again. It is a show that cannot be judged by so-called moralists and naughty-word counters. It is a landmark piece of work created by a bunch of lunatics who either have a master plan for this roller-coaster they've spawned --or maybe they're just laying the tracks down as they go. Supposedly Season 6 is the end of the ride; I suggest you tighten your seat belt. Or if you just can't take it, your TV comes with a channel changer.


                
In skimming through the reviews for this series, I've noticed a lot of recurring complaints, their subject matter ranging from the shows lack of realism to the gratuitous amounts of profanity and mature subject matter presented. These complaints carry with them one flaw however, and I believe it stems from a certain narrow-mindedness and lack of appreciation for what television drama, and all other film for that matter, really is. From the analytical perspective, it is not the critics prerogative to pass judgement on whether or not a piece is good or bad, but rather to discern what was done, how it was done and why. This however is not the "vernacular" for writing about film, nor is it what the vast majority of people want to hear about movies. Unfortunately, public demands have resulted in an oversimplified system, the flaws of which can be readily visible in the disparity between different published reviews of newly released movies every week. This public culture of labeling films and any other type of drama has resulted in an ultimatum approach. Many of the reviews on this page preach this series is Awful, or it is ruining our children, or this series is the best thing since sliced bread. My perspective is this, I liked the shield. I really enjoyed following the lives of Vic Mackey and the strike team through seven seasons. The series is full of dynamic characters, plot cliffhangers, an involving storyline, multiple sub plots and faced paced action. All of this and at the same time it poses viewers with very intense and moralistic dilemmas that seem very real in the moment. The use of occasional steady cam and cuts to gritty footage shot on what i believe is 8mm film stock (not sure about that one) serve as very effective tension builders for the show and its use of violence and sex also contribute to its relentless and gripping beat. The 9 stars I gave this show should tell you that I liked it, that doesn't mean you will too but it is virtually undeniable that from a technical standpoint the show is a standout. One of my top 10 favorite television dramas, top 5 on basic cable.


                
Plot Summary of series 1&2 (NO Spoilers): The Shield is a very modern take on the whole corrupt cop story about a dirty cop named Vic Mackey and his experimental strike team (a four/five man anti drug and gang team) fighting a brutal war on crime whilst doing whatever it takes to lookout for their own interests and keep their superiors off their backs, even if it means breaking the law themselves(to say the least). The show is shot with the camera moving freely and zooming in for effect thus making it an actor itself, it is also shot with a certain type of film which gives the show a gritty effect matching the tension which will often be felt throughout the show.With alliances with drug dealers, deals with superiors and extreme brutality the strike team make one hell of a show. As well as the Strike Team, we also have the characters of Detective Wims; a veteran cop who hates dishonesty, Dutch; a detective trying to make a name for himself and avoid looking stupid, Danny; a uniform cop teaching her sexually confused rookie partner, Julian, how to handle the streets. And last but not least Captin Aceveda, an ambitious police Captin looking to launch his political career by bringing down the strike team.Verdict: Great show; recommended to those who like crime genre and even those who don't. (Cant wait until series 3,4,5&6 are finally released on DVD in the UK)


                
At its core The Shield is the tale of the trials & tribulations of the Strike Team, a special four-men squad that has been put together to fight crime, gangsterism and drug trafficking in the mean streets of LA and which ends up doing the same things they are supposedly fighting, to improve their own economic situation, as they recognize themselves, while waddling neck deep in a sea of denial and self righteousness.As I wrote in my SOA review, it is practically impossible to judge that series without comparing it to TS; and the opposite is true. Only that in this case the comparison is not a happy one, as it clearly is in other cases like say, Cheers and Frazier, where the talent and the overall quality of the first series percolates, even enhanced, to the spin off, with good acting, hilarious plots and subplots and above all, superb writing all over. But such is not the case here. There are so many things that worked to perfection in TS and that are nowhere to be seen in SOA, that the only listing of them would take this whole review so let's just mention the most flagrant of them. The complete lack of realism in SOA, while even the smallest bit of a situation, conflict, character in TS reeks of unabashed realism, especially the last, from an always overexcited Shane to a conflicted Aceveda to bit players such as the prostitute who wouldn't bother calling the police because she had "the mouth full of dick" at the time. Or Vic Mackey dealing with the problem of having two autistic children. That is one of the things that make TS such a great series, when it comes to realism, compared to which SOA looks more like the febrile violent fantasies of an overexcited six year old or the daydreaming of a dead bored 9-to-5 office worker.(The IRA playing cynical political games with a kidnapped baby, really, Sutter?)I can't imagine one single element on which Ryan struck a note less than perfect here, from the fictional police station—a converted church of all places! where sinners/perps must tell of their sins/crimes to a priest/cop over a background of tinted glass windows!—to the lead character. I can't remember either another series where action, drama, even tragedy, meshes, so flawlessly, even harmoniously, with unabashed humor, as in those hilarious bits usually provided by bit players, generally witnesses, as for ex. the couple who had come up to give testimony on a crime and that, as the result of their unending fighting, end up instead in the cage facing criminal charges; or when Vic connects the monitor to show a nosy reporter how they could see what's happening in the interrogation room only to see his pal Shane banging a detained prostitute! Speaking of which, as Chiklis put it so many times in the DVD interviews, Vic is a man who spends his life juggling with four balls but who has to be prepared at any moment to receive the fifth one and then send it flawlessly up with the rest. It has been said many times that what characterizes the men of the Strike Team is their great capacity for denial, but in Vic's case we may add also that he is a master of improvisation. One of the things I marveled most about watching TS, which enjoyed the most also, is how he could react in a fraction of a second to a new, unexpected bit of information, presence, development, that could have surely made his entire building collapse in a cloud of guilt and damnation, yet he is always capable of pulling off his sleeve some little masterpieces of improvisation, for example when explaining to Cpt. Rawling why he didn't inform her of the Shane/Army/Antoine situation down to waving Hi to his daughter in the midst of a beating he is giving to a baddie. And Chiklis is the perfect man and body for the part—another magic touch by Ryan—not only because his oozing energy and earnest disposition but also for his physical features. He is not tall and athletic, but short and heavyset, which emphasizes even more the burdens and tribulations he is carrying for the entire series, so he'll never give us the impression of the guy who swiftly, flawlessly, takes care of business, no matter how difficult that may be, but that of the regular guy arduously, painfully struggling with oh so many things at the same time! With someone like say, Ron Perlman in the role, all that pathos could have been lost, Perlman's character would have just stared at the problem, at the people causing it, paused for a moment and then simply muttered that he would take care of it. (BTW, to be fair, in no way I am belittling him, if there is ONE thing great about SOA, that is Ron Perlman).TS must be the only one TV series of which I have watched the entire collection of DVD meetings and interviews. Of special interest to me were the videos of the meetings of the staff where they discuss future plots and subplots and the further development of current ones, like the story for example where one Armenian girl has her sister killed and they, the staff, try to put together the relationship she will have with Vic. For anyone like myself who has always wanted to know how all these TV plots and story lines come to life that was an invaluable piece of information. Thanks to the people who made this possible. And thanks specially to Shawn Ryan, for such great series.All in all, a classic, to keep in you collection and take it out to watch whenever you feel the need for a guilty pleasure. 9/10.
I think the 'Murder She Wrote' fan club have been sending in reviews for this show. Obviously, they've strayed into this show looking for re-runs of 'The Golden Girls'. The Shield is tough, uncompromising and, dare I say it, real. The acting is uniformly excellent, the story lines are shocking and risk-taking but ultimately well told and while it's obviously not for everyone, it's nice to have a show with some meat on its bones. Yeah, it deals with some very ugly issues, but have you read the newspapers recently? This is the world we live in. Vic Mackey is far from a hero, but he's no villain. He's complicated, deeply flawed and yet there is some sort of moral compass beneath that violent exterior. He challenges our perceptions of right and wrong, of justice and law. You wouldn't want him as a dinner guest but you'd probably like to have him guarding your front door. Each of the characters, to a greater or lesser extent portray this schizophrenia but it stops the show from being predictable and clichéd and keeps it fresh, challenging and controversial.


                
Here is the deal. I have had it with all of the "reviews" that are being posted by people who don't understand this show. The Shield is a GREAT police drama that should be given at least a chance by anyone with an open mind (I think that is the biggest problem by some of the reviewers here).The show is gritty and at times can be offensive, but the show does take place in a rough district in LA, so what should you expect? The show does an excellent job of character development across the board. Many of them are created multi-dimensionally and in a way that makes you care about what is going on with them from episode to episode (even if you currently are rooting against one). Vic is perhaps one of the greatest anti-hero characters around. The camera work is criticized by many "haters" but it truly does mesh the with the writing (and also the music) to create the feeling and atmosphere for the show. The writing is filled with drama, action, and some laughs as well and completely draws you in and makes you want to watch the whole series straight through without stopping. And did I mention the acting? There have been many award nominations for great reason, and if you ask me, there haven't been enough.Just make sure that you are watching the unedited version of the show (DVD or FX) to get the full experience because otherwise some editing may cause it to make no sense at all. So check it out and enjoy, there are few police dramas around that have the feel and addictiveness of The Shield (in fact, other than this show, I don't ever find myself liking police dramas), and once you watch it, you will know exactly what I am talking about.


                
I'm often confused by the people who complain about the camera work of the show, I assume that they do not appreciate the guerrilla style it is shot in and I guess that is up to the viewer to judge. I personally believe it adds an element of documentary feel to a show which is not only realistic in its portrayal of certain police officers, but also in the handling of gang warfare in urban America.The show, as most know, focuses on a renegade faction of the LAPD working out of the Farmington Satellite Precinct. But if you are only focused on Vic Mackey and his Strike Team you miss the politics of David Aceveda. You do not see Claudette Wyms, who worked her way to captain as a black woman. You miss the conflicting issues that hit Officer Julian Lowe who grew up in the neighborhood. Or the near sociopathic nature of Detective Wagenbach. The star making turn by Anthony Anderson as Antwon Mitchell in Season 4 as well as the rebirth of Forest Whitaker as Jon Kavanaugh in Season 5.While the show has changed much in its five season it has never left me wanting more. It changes and the character of Vic Mackey is not the hooligan that he was in the first two seasons. Mackey has evolved as have the other members of his team, as has the writing and even the guerrilla shooting style that many complain about has changed to make way for what looks like a much more digital still camera approach.This is real television, it is not always pretty, but it is always incredible,
This show the Shield I have watched every episode. Great acting and very good story lines. They have woven story of how to deal with drug dealers with in the law as best you can with the rogue cops on this show. Michael Chiklis has been fantastic, has improved tremendously within his role on the show. The relationship of Mackey and Shane is a bit much as I think at times they could have been lovers rather than partners in the police department with their arguments and screaming matches. Aceveda was overbearing and was tiring at times. Dutch was an interesting character but matched with Claudette slowed him down. Julien's gay character was overplayed and laborious on many occasions and finally Danny was great and enjoyed her character on the show. Great Show with action and great acting.!!!!!


                
The Shield's perfectly good hand-held camera-work seems to have provoked a slew of suspiciously similar comments on this board by people who wouldn't know a tracking shot from a still frame. Maybe their real beef is that this show doesn't see police work through rose tinted eyeglasses - it takes an unsentimental view of the compromises that society demands of its law officers - not excluding taking the law into their own hands. Sure, Vic Mackey is a monster but the tease is that he's the kind of monster you'd want on your side when the chips were down. None of us wants to believe parts of the world are as ugly as Shawn Ryan's creation shows them to be, or want to acknowledge that a Vic Mackey is the kind of cop we want manning its ramparts, but to depict all that grit and darkness and yet somehow keep alive a vein of humanity and humor through the gritty realism is the true ingenuity of this show and down to the talents of its terrific cast and writers.


                
