I must say that this is THE BEST ANIME I have EVER seen!!! It definitely is the perfect mix of romance, story, history, mystery, and all other good things all rolled into one series! I especially love it because of its strong storyline and characters. Every character has a history and this anime has been created in a way that allows them to show you that background on each character, making each character all the more interesting. I also like the subtle romance it portrays and the way that it intertwines real Japanese history with fiction - that was probably the best part, actually.Anyway, from the first episode, I was hooked...I was so hooked, I finished the series within like a month and half. Now, I'm on to reading the manga, which is just as good as the anime. This is one anime that I can watch over and over and not get bored of!


                
This is one of the greatest anime series I have ever seen. I have been introduced anime on relatively recently...1997 at earliest. In that time, I've gotten my hands on a number of really good and really bad shows. Kenshin is definitely among the best.The dynamic emotions of Kenshin himself as well as the mix of humor and philosophy of life vs. death in the show make it exceptionally entertaining and captivating.The mutual devotion between Kenshin and his friends, Kaoru, Sanoske, Yahiko, etc... is amazing to watch as it develops and is put to the test.The sadistic enemies, and the foolish ones, all provide foils that drive the plot and cause the viewer to be moved as Kenshin struggles to throw off his murderous past in favor of a life defending his honor, his friends, and the innocent.If you are a long time anime-buff, or a new fan of the genre...this series is a must-see.


                
This is a truly fantastic series... dramatic characters, a hero that is capable of huge mood swings (from goofy, to romantic, to blood thirsty), and female characters that you would swear your life to protect or swear..well... I must be civil.Great sword-fighting actions scenes, a drop of history (it takes place in the 1870s), and some philosophizing about living a life of violence versus peace make this series cover the gamut of emotions a viewer wants from any series, not just anime.I hope everyone can take notice of this story, it is not for everyone, but it hits so many points relevant to our current world order: from terrorism (bad guys attacking the fragile government), to being able to look at the world as something other than a battlefield (Kenshin vowing not to kill after so many years as an assassin).


                
This is one of the most memorable and most recognizable anime I know, with a cast of great characters and story lines and funny sub-plots, it's everything you'd want to see in an anime. It starts out as Kenshin Himura a wanderer in the Meiji era, ends with a kendo teacher Kaoru Kamiya, and he starts living with her, and eventually she finds out this is no ordinary traveler, this is Battousai, the slasher! An infamous samurai who killed a lot of people in his past. But finds him to be a sweet gentle man who is kind towards children, who wants to restore peace, and end his days as a slasher. Later more characters appear, Yahiko, and then Sanosuke, then Megumi. A great cast with very dark and dramatic backgrounds filled with tragedies. Every episode seems to give each character some background and info and their dark secrets. The soundtracks are also great, I love the one by L~Arc~Ciel in the latter episodes. The sword fighting is also cool, and unforgettable. But wait, a few characters portrayed or based on actual people, like Saitou Hajime and Aritomo Yamagata, oh my, I wonder if they were really like that in real life, I mean their personalities as seen here. Anyways recommended to all anime fans, and to non-anime fans who are not familiar with anime yet, forget Dragon Ball or Pokemon, watch this.


                
Rurouni Kenshin (the OAVs and Movie are known as Samurai X) tells the story of a wanderer named Kenshin, who used to be called Hitokiri Battousai (Hitokiri means Assassin) during the Japanese civil war, and is now trying to make up for his past and all his murders by helping those in trouble with his reverse-blade sword and by using his powerful technique called Hiten-Mitsurugi Ryu to battle oppressors of freedom and justice, yet struggling with himself and his own murdering self. During the series Kenshin joins others in his quest: Kaoru Kamiya, a young orphan girl who became tutor of the Kamiya-Kashin Ryu Kendo style; Sanosuke Sagara, a mercenary who used to bear the name Zanza and fights just with his incredibly powerful fists; Yahiko Myojin, a young boy who was rescued by Kenshin from a band of thieves and now a pupil on Kaoru's dojo; and Megumi Takani, a female doctor who was rescued by Kenshin from a band which forced her to make a lethal drug. Together they all fight those who oppress the weak while they seek their destiny as well happiness and redemption.My rating: 9/10 the Meji era of Japan may not be for everyone, or maybe some people just don't like the face Kenshin acts like a idiot in this.Rating PG 13: Nothing to bad except a little blood.
I first saw this great anime when I was about 10 or 11 years old, and by that time I didn't know what anime was so I didn't care much about this series...I mean, I liked it but for me it was just another show on TV. Now, 8 years later, I get the chance of rewatch this series again, and I came the conclusion: This is a truly fantastic series!!!! It has great sword fighting actions scenes, a hero that is capable of huge mood swings (I love kenshin's goofy faces), some real history, dramatic characters, a great story and the music is superb. One thing I did like is the fact that the main character, Kenshin, never kills the opponent and have good sense of moral. Kenshin is one of the best characters in anime history in my opinion, and Shishio, the mummy guy as some people know him, is by far the best villain in the series and also one of the greatest villains in anime history, at least in my opinion. Every character in this series has a history and this anime has been created in a way that allows them to show you that background on each character, making each character very interesting and unique.You cannot call yourself a true anime fan without watching Rurouni Kenshin, and if you like samurai and things like that you will certainly love this series. I was hooked from the first episode and I'm very sad for not be able to find the DVDs.In my opinion it is the best anime in its class, and so I give it a perfect 100/10!!!!


                
Without any doubt this is one of the best animated series ever done and my favored of all times.The way they combine fiction and real facts of Japanese history occurred during the Mei Ji era make it more interesting.What make it different from other Japanese series is that in this case the main character, Kenshin Himura, has a real purpose to fight for in order to mend all those terrible things he did in the past. Another point about it is the way they combine drama, action, romance and comedy. The backgrounds and the music are just brilliant and exquisite. There's no doubt these series has one of the best soundtracks.


                
If you're looking for a great samurai story it doesn't get much better that Ruroni Kenshin.Kenshin is just about the best samurai to ever pick up a blade, but now that Japan has settled into the peaceful Meiji period guys like him are no long needed. In fact, ex-samurai are scorned by the public in general. So Kenshin sets out to try and find a normal life for himself. In time Kenshin finds a home and friends in a Tokyo dojo but ghosts from his past keep popping up as do people out to destroy the new government. Kenshin, who has vowed never to kill again, isn't about to let anyone disrupt the new life he's built for himself. So such times come he reluctantly heads out to knock some heads.I really just can't get over how great this show is. Richly draw characters, great action, compelling stories, romance, humor and more all set against a very real felling backdrop of late 1870's Japan. RK works not only as a good anime, but historical show as well.One other thing I like about the show is the villains. RK's creator (whose name escapes me at the moment) is an admitted fan of American comics and you can see that in some of the villains. Psycho killer Jin-E bears an (pardon the expression) uncanny resemblence to Gambit from the X-Men. I've also seem elements of characters like Spawn, Wolverine, Omega Red, the Absorbing Man, the Incredible Hulk and Daredevil in some bad guys. Really cool.In short, Kenshin is a show that belongs on the shelf of anyone who calls themself an anime fan.


                
The anime is about a wandering samurai in the 11th year of the Meiji era (around 1878)who stumbles upon a dojo in Tokyo and decides to stay there, helping in and around it. He protects the weak against the strong with his sword (even when they are banned) and in the process, runs into some friends and enemies from the past. The series also has some characters who really existed in the history of Japan which makes it all the more interesting. The best episodes to watch are 28 through 62, but you will need to go through the earlier ones which are sometimes silly to really understand them. The soundtrack alone is exceptional and is worth listening to. In my opinion it is better than most animes in its class.


                
Rurouni Kenshin, is one of the best animes I've ever seen. I first discovered RK when I downloaded the first chapter of the manga. Then I became addicted to it as the story of a wandering swordsman trying to atone for his sins really got me excited and started downloading more manga issues. The first time I saw the anime version was after I downloaded the first episode. Now Rurouni Kenshin comes on my satellite dish on LBC SAT from Lebenon. I give this anime 10/10 it is an anime masterpiece that shouldn't be missed. A must see not just for anime fans but for fans of the samurai or chambara genre(Akira Kurosawa's Seven Samurais and Zatoichi) as well.


                
Ruroni Kenshin (Known in Samurai X in the US) is one of the greatest animes of all time. Ruroni Kenshin has everything  an anime fan could want: a compelling story, interesting characters, and equal amounts of bloodshed and character development. I have seen a few episodes of the subtitled version and the first two OAV's "Trust" and "Betrayal.I recommend both of them, but the subtitled version is much better.If you haven't seen it before, then buy it (don't rent) and add it to your anime collection. It is an essential anime title for the anime fan I also recommend Ghost in the shell, Ninja scroll, the Dragonball Z and Gundam series


                
Excellent!A good story,the best animation ever!I love this series.The story of a samurai who wants a new life and protect the people.The music is superb,and the action scenes are fantastic.This is a good drama.10\10


                
When I first saw Rurouni Kenshin, I was still relatively new to the world of Japanese animation. I had only seen a handful of series before, and though they all entertained me, it had yet to earn the same status with me as so many millions of anime fans claim Japanese animation to be worth. Rurouni Kenshin did that for me.The first 20 episodes or so were nothing out of the ordinary; A lighthearted comedy series, with a bit of action and drama mixed in. And even though these aspects were handled extraordinarily well, it wasn't anything remotely special. The animation was slightly mediocre, though not too bad considering, but the feel was nice. Good music, great characters and average plots, for a swordfighting anime. But with episode 28, the series made an incredible flip over. The change in atmosphere was shocking in fact, and took me completely by surprise. It was like a complete opposite of the episodes that had come before it. All of a sudden, the plot thickened incredibly. The animation went better. The storytelling of the images changed dramatically and the music went through the roof. (Well, at least for a Japanese animation newb like I was at the time)But all this was only to increase in the coming arc... The plot turned a lot darker, the lightheartedness was all but erased, and the animation increased incredibly. There's a lot of controversy about this change to the Kenshin fans. A lot of people seem to appreciate the lighthearted beginnings more. I am not one of those.. This new arc (Entitled the ''Kyoto Arc'') was indeed really masterful to me. It enchanted me. And to this day, Rurouni Kenshin ranks above the top of my favourite anime list.However, don't go rushing out and buy this; after this ''Kyoto Arc'', the series takes a dive for the worse. Apparently unable to keep consistent and on par in release speed to the original ''manga'' comic (Which was released at the same time), the animation studio had no choice but to continue with a self-created filler Arc. It was a tedious, boring and quite frankly annoying arc, which disgraced the beauty of before. Even worse: Bad ratings forced the company to shut and end the Rurouni Kenshin series, leaving the final arcs of the original manga (Which were just as powerful as the previous ones) unanimated and untouched.However, Rurouni Kenshin (Despite the mistake listed above), is truly a powerful series with a stunning storyline and great characters and I recommend it heavily. Though, if you're looking for some brainless entertainment with lots of ''cool'' action, don't go here. Rurouni Kenshin also pleases there, but you'll get a lot more out of it if you can appreciate all the series has to offer.(9/10)


                
Rurouni Kenshin the story of Kenshin Himura the ex-assassin Hikiori-Batoussai.This anime is very unique that it is why because not to many animes feature stories about samurai. This anime is very good in a sense that has lots of action, and tons and tons of suspense.The characters in the story Kenshin Himura, Kaoru Kamiya, Yahiko Mjyoin, Sanosuke Segara and Megumi Takane are all very well developed and the anime is very humorous at time, I offen find myself laughing during parts that are suppose to be serious!I find this anime to be good because first of all its already entirely dubbed in English including all the samurai X movies! Also, the fact its nice not to see as someone metioned a bunch of air-headed, big chested, overly bubbly typical anime girls or over muscular men running along. I mean look at Kenshin he's just a regular averege looking man trying to live he's life peacefully. This anime also features actually events that happened in Japan, so you get a good history lesson too! Also I think his reverse-blade sword is so cool and different too.Also I urge everyone to view the Samurai X "Trust & Betrayal" OAV I bought The Director's Cut, that has the 4 episodes altogther on one dvd. (Hey saves you money) Why should you watch because it explains alot of the plot of Rurouni Kenshin t.v series, the OAV explains, how Kenshin became a hired assassin, and most of training from his master, and someone whom Kenshin falls in love with... with this it tells of how he became the legendary Batoussai: The manslayer. Please be warned that the Trust and Betrayal OAV is very dark, and there is tons of fights scenes with lots of gorry blood scenes, where they show Kenshin murdering... Its also a big switch from the comedic series, why because there is none of the scenes where the charcters heads get big, or the other comedic aspects this is totally serious no parts to laugh at... There were scenes that put me and my two best-friends when we watched put us to tears literally... Yes, it was that good. Oh yes the animation is beautiful and very breathe-taking because in some scenes they used live-action shots! After I watched the OAV I understood the series alot better and plus you get to see the beginning of the fight with Sato, and it shows alot of other characters from the series and how Kenshin crosses paths with them...I would rate the anime on a scale of 1-10 I would give it a 9, because the music is superb especailly the Samurai X sndtrk, characters are great excellent plot. I would at least check it out, if you never seen it before.Hey because you got my guarantee that you'll like it, and if ya don't just email me and rant at me..... LOL


                
Rurouni Kenshin is an epic anime series about a wandering swordsman named Kenshin Himura who protects people with his reversed-blade sword. Rurouni Kenshin has everything you could possibly want in an anime series. It is available on DVD and VHS.


                
You cannot call yourself a sci-fi fan without watching Star Trek or Farscape. And you certainly cannot call yourself a true anime fan without watching Rurouni Kenshin. Few years ago I didn't even know the word anime, but since I accidentally saw RK I became an addict. It is full of action, fun, romance, BATTLES and most of all many COOL characters. I still can't call anyone a favourite even years after. Most of all I enjoyed the fact that the main characters are not divided into good and bad. There's just sides, which is more like in real life. If you like sword fight, samurai or just the best animes this one is a MUST-TO-SEE.


                
Where do I start? This show rocks! A lot of people have cableor satelite TV, and if you're one of them, lucky for you! Just tune in to Cartoon Network every day at five-thirty (central time) and watch this show. I'm not asking you- I am COMMANDING you! You gotta see this! It's not often that a TV show I absolutely love comes along, so please, take my word on this. I am not going to give you quotes from the show, or anything of the like. I am not going to summarize the story or anything like that. I am just going to present the facts. This show is superb. If you don't watch it... you ARE going to watch it. There is no doubt about. We have an agreement that whoever reads this is going to watch this Rurouni Kenshin. In fact, if you don't have cable and can't get it, I advise that you BUY the DVDs. Now, no more... you are going to watch this show that deserves more praise than I can possibly give it. For your sake and my own (do not cause me the pain of having to stay up late at night weeping, hoping that you have seen the goodness I can't describe). Please watch it. PLEEEASE!


                
First of all the story is iconic and timeless. The notion of a champion warrior who has killed many in the name of a cause, yet, when that cause is won, chooses to lay down his weapon and swears never to kill again is ... brilliant. It could easily be turned into an action story anywhere in the world, or even an American western, but at time of writing I cannot think of a US analog. This animated series based on the manga is wonderful. It is well written and the English voice actors do a great job. There are also a number of moral lessons buried in the stories but you would expect that. Interestingly I enjoyed this so much that I made an effort to find the live action feature based on the tale and was thoroughly disappointed. The animation is better. Entertaining for all ages.
(Hiten Mitsurugi is Kenshin's signature technique to anyone who hasn't seen this btw) This tale of our legendary swordsman Kenshin Himura aka Battousai will be considered one of the best and timeless animes of all time. Its a good combo of a story and action for all anime-lovers of any sex or age. Meet Kenshin, our red-haired traveller from Edo (whose physical features make him look younger than his age which is 29) who carries with him two distinct marks: one, his X-shaped scar on his left cheek, and two, his reversed-blade sword. The series tells the journey of Kenshin along with his friends (Kaoru, Yahiko, Sanosuke, and Megumi ) in his quest for a reformed life. Haunted by his past, he sought the ways of a new beginning. Rectifying the mistakes he committed during the time he was still known as the highly-feared Battousai during the Tokugawa era, he vowed to use his reversed-blade sword to defend the oppressed. In his desire to fulfil his promise of making up for the lives he ended, his new life wasn't easy. Along the way he meets new people, new friends, new enemies. Personally, the highlight of the series for me was the Makoto Shishio saga. Its a good sequence of episodes to build a vengeful opponent, with his team of henchmen and then proceeding to be the battle that might cost him his life and his promise.The series involves multi-dimensional characters and unsubtle themes. Story, humor, and action has been well-balanced in this series that's why it's not boring yet substantial. Friendship, love, compassion, betrayal, morality, revenge, reformation, politics, name it. They're all on Rorouni Kenshin. With some humor(as is usual in most animes) and excellent swordfights, this anime will hold your attention. Some might find this your typical man-trying-to-reform type and the usual good-vs-evil concept but still..the series has its charm to keep you watching. It is one of my most favourites and you could ask me in 20 years time, I'll say the same.


                
''Rurouni Kenshin'' is one of the best anime series that we can watch, specially if you are a fan of samurais and Japanese habits, since the story is set during the early years of the early Meiji period in Japan. But more then enjoying the anime and the manga, I think the OVAs are the best,not only Kenshin's story is much more interesting , but also we have more accurate facts. The atmosphere is much deeper and serious as well. (And Kenshin's romance with Tomoe is so beautiful and dramatic!)The series,OVAS and manga tells the story of an assassin named Kenshin Himura, best known as the Battousai, a guy who killed many men.Kenshin later grieves for all the lives he's taken, and has vowed that he will never kill again, that's why in the series he is a cute and funny person, while in the OVAS he is deadly cold and lethal.
I'm absolutely in love with this show. This show is the best anime I've seen. I watch it everyday and all the episodes of this show rock my world, it has a very good music, and the greatest special effects.
Kenshin Himura is the best character in this show and he's one of my favorite characters of this show. The best villain of Rurouni Kenshin is none other than Makoto Shishio, but the other villains like Shogo Amakusa i don't like them very much because they become good guys at the end.
Great show. I gave Gundam Wing a 10/10 but this show i give this a 21/10. Finally I can say about this show in three words. Great, Awesome and most of all the best anime ever.
Ruroni Kenshin is one of the best television cartoons ever made. Its characters are colourful and fun to watch, they're not your typical Shonen-cast of anime characters, and the fact that this series is a period piece makes it stand out from quite a lot of the other animes on the market. It's nothing like DragonBall Z, Naruto nor One Piece. THIS one focuses on Meiji-Period Japan; and a samurai who's vowed to never kill another soul again. This series is an appealing yet culturally- specific show that oddly works for a general audience. Its story is engaging, its direction fast-paced and never dull, and the voice-acting (of the Japanese cast) is pitch-perfect.This series is definitely worth a watch; even if you're not a hardcore anime fan!


                
A very engaging and fascinating series taking place in turn-of-the-century japan. I'll keep this very short, this series would be nearly flawless if it weren't mired in filler and clunky dialogue; but the show manages to make both of those normally seriously detrimental aspects and makes them extremely charming and endearing. The characters in the series have amazing chemistry with one another, and it really shows in the more serious parts of the series in the middle. Kenshin himself is great protagonist and the supporting cast all have unique and appealing personalities that mesh well with one another. Watching the film Trust and Betrayal first might leave fans of the film disappointed with the show's more comedic episodes and "cuter" art style, but when Wandering Samurai wants to be taken seriously, it is, and it is taken very well.


                
I have seen a lot of anime until now, I remember the plot and the story behind every single one of them. More or less. But this one, it made sure that I will remember it for the rest of my life. It gave me a complete image of the life of an undefeated samurai,the owner of the title as the strongest samurai alive, how he has to deal with the inner struggles he has and how hard he tries to atone for the sins of his past.Watching the beginning of the story with the OVAS (Samurai X: Trust and Betrayal), continuing with Rurouni Kenshin and Samurai X: The movie and ending it with Samurai X: Reflection, you actually live with him throughout his story and after a certain point you feel like you're now part of his story. It gives you sad/drama moments,happy/comic moments and even everyday life struggles moments, just like a real person's life is. It really worth my time. I am sure I'll be watching it again some day. All of it.
I liked a lot this anime series. It was very enjoyable to watch, and it had a very good plot (Which makes a perfect balance of action, comedy, drama and heartwarming moments) The characters from this anime were very likable and interesting, being very well developed.The animation starts being merely decent, but it gets better as the series advances. The art is pretty solid, with very cool and well made designs. The music was excellent. Despite some forgettable filler episodes, this was a very entertaining animation, with lots of virtues and memorable moments.Personally, I think that "Rurouni Kenshin" is at the same level that other great anime series such as "Trigun", "Wolf's Rain" and "Samurai Champloo".9.5/10
