"On the Waterfront" is basically the story of one man, Terry Malloy, a young dock worker with a little, and unsuccessful, experience as a boxer but not much intelligence or purpose<U+0085> He wastes his time around the docks, vaguely discontented about his life and revealing a tender trace in his otherwise tough manner as he tends his pigeons caged on the roof of his modest building<U+0085> His brother Charley (Rod Steiger), a suave opportunistic lawyer, works for the local dockers' union, headed by Johnny Friendly (Lee J. Cobb), the arrogant mob boss<U+0085> Friendly takes affectionate interest in Terry and tries to make things easy for him<U+0085> He also takes advantage of Terry by involving him in the killing of an uncooperative docker<U+0085> Unaware of their murderous intentions, Terry sets the trap for the man who is thrown from a roof top because he allowed himself to be interviewed by a crime investigating commission<U+0085>Terry's alienation from the crooked union leaders starts when he meets the dead man's sister, Edie (Eva Marie Saint), and realizes the grief he has brought into her life<U+0085> She asks his help in bringing the racketeers to justice, as does Father Barry (Karl Malden), a priest of complete goodness and rightness<U+0085> Brando's moral dilemma was superbly drawn in the film<U+0085> He's an ordinary man finding the courage to stand up and be counted<U+0085> As portrayed by Brando he is touchingly believable<U+0085> The rest of the cast is excellent:Cobb is extremely good as the brute fury boss who intimidates the workers into silence, stopping at nothing to maintain his position of power on the docks... Rod Steiger gives his finest performance as the clever and suave opportunistic lawyer who works for the local docker's union...Eva Marie Saint manages to make the blood go through Brando's valves reviving and creating a heart that never existed before... Karl Malden is hard and clear as the activist Catholic priest who continue encouraging other longshoremen to testify, inciting Brando to fight for his rights<U+0097>regardless of the cost<U+0097>rather than be a pawn in a ruthless system of bribes and killings... "On the Waterfront" is one of the great American films, not only because it bravely spreads a strong light on the violation of justice, but because it is a powerful piece of cinema, which push forward a classic study of man's responsibility to his fellow man... The film won eight Academy Awards...


                
"Im just a bum sitting in a motor home on a film set, Brando said, and they come looking for ZEUS". I think Brando was a guy who was perfect in the moment. All his power and shortcomings can be revealed in a single sentence. Other's might have been great and still more will be. But there's just something about him. For me, Brando has always been the ultimate male. Simply put, bruiting desire. Brando represents the very definition of method acting, even though he was said to have hated the phrase. Being able to reach inside yourself and pull something out that kicks everyone in the ass. He was truly one of a kind. They say sometimes beautiful people are born under a dark cloud. I think Brando was born under a rain of thunderbolts. He was powerful and tragic.On The Waterfront is basically a showcase for Brando. Everything coming together. This film is truly one for the ages. I guess the only thing really wrong with this life is time.


                
Back in the early 1950's, after a movie had run its course at the theaters, it did not go to video.  Nor did it go on prime-time TV, as that concept came up many years later.  Instead, they put it on afternoon TV, sometimes around dinner time.  Well, that's when I'd come home from high school, and got to enjoy free black and white classics such as "High Noon" and "On the Waterfront".It made a moviefan of me for life.  I remember the effect of "On the Waterfront", as I remember thinking about Terry Malloy in that final scene, "Wow, that guy's got guts!  I wish I could be like him."  Being just a typical Midwestern teen, I didn't know who Marlon Brando was, but I just was fascinated by this life of these good and bad people, on the tops of buildings and in the cold, wet streets and alleys of this far-away place near the waterfront.Now, every time I watch it, years later, I still love it.  Yes, there is definitely an attempt to make Terry into a Christ-figure at the end. That's no coincidence that he stumbles from having been beaten to a pulp, to walk and carry a hook on his shoulders, to lead others to a better life.  (In the book by Budd Schulberg, by the way, Terry disappears after testifying and what is thought to be his body is found floating in a barrel of lime.  But he has become a legend on the waterfront.)  I love the powerful Elmer Bernstein score (glaring for our present tastes, but back then, exactly what people expected to hear during a drama -- you've got to wonder what a future generation will say about the constant replays of fairly irrelevant pop and rap songs as themes during most movies today, dramatic or comedy). 
And being raised in a Catholic home, I found Father Barry to be a great dramatic figure, one of the only times I saw a priest portrayed as a gritty, brave, heroic person, not afraid to mix it up with the common folks in the parish.  He smoked, drank and slugged it out.  And he was not afraid to die for the right reason.  Folks, that's true Christianity at work.  And that's powerful.A classic.  A must-see.  10/10


                
I watched "On the Waterfront" last night, and I have seen it many times. This movie is a perfect capsule for any viewer. The actors are superb in their roles, the dialogue is raw and powerful, the staging is tight and reflects the claustrophobic nature of the characters' lives in this part of Hoboken. You have the feeling that they never leave this area of maybe a few blocks, because they feel trapped by their circumstances, poverty, grueling work, and the corruption that's endemic in this place and system.Marlon Brando is Terry, a failed prize fighter with deep regrets and loneliness, who is a low-level thug in this corrupt system dominated by the bombastic, cruel union boss, Johnny Friendly (Lee J. Cobb in an electrifying performance). He rules the waterfront with brutality and terror. To make Terry feel even more trapped is the fact that his only living relative, his brother, Charlie (Rod Steiger), is Friendly's right-hand man. Terry has no great ambitions in life, and seems resigned to this bleak path until fate, and two shining lights, appear in his life: Edie (Eva Marie Saint), a decent, loving, determined and angelic blonde woman, and Father Barry (Karl Malden), the local priest who can throw a punch, drink a beer and stand up to the mob with the strength of his faith behind him. Terry and Edie embark on a seemingly doomed romance that both actors play so beautifully. You can feel their yearning, their awkwardness, their passion for each other and their deep connection -- all without the explicit nudity and fake grunting used in contemporary movies. When they embrace, you feel their desperation and desire for each other in a profound way."On the Waterfront" is certainly director Elia Kazan's great masterpiece. The performances are all outstanding, and Brando is just a marvel of tortured pain and passion and agony and courage. One particular thing I love about "On the Waterfront" is the scenery. Every set or outdoor shot conveys the grim, cold nature of the characters' lives. There is no movie glamour and little comfort here. Only a hot cup of coffee made on a plug-in heating plate in a "cold-water flat," or a beer and a shot hastily consumed in a waterfront saloon are pleasures to these characters. Their clothes are patched. Edie's hair isn't "styled," and she wears no makeup. Terry's face is a bit scarred. Malden's nose is...as we all know. The gritty setting feels real. If you've never seen this movie for any reason, do not delay!


                
"All that is necessary for the triumph of evil is that good men do nothing." (Edmund Burke) The evil in 1954's "On the Waterfront" is the union bosses, brilliantly portrayed by Lee J. Cobb, Rod Steiger and their thugs. They are allowed to do business because of the fright, intimidation, and passiveness of an entire group of longshoremen, who either work or don't while the big shots take kickbacks and steal from them. Then Joey Doyle, who had agreed to testify against the union bosses, is set up by a clueless Terry Malloy (Marlon Brando) and thrown off of a roof. His sister Edie (Eva Marie Saint) is determined to find out what happened. But no one will talk. She shames Father Barry (Karl Malden) into taking more of an interest in what is happening on the docks, and he does. Still, no one's talking. Terry falls in love with Edie but still can't do the right thing. Another man is killed. When the killing finally affects Terry, he realizes something has to change."On the Waterfront" is one of the most amazing films ever made, directed by the great Elia Kazan. There were three Oscar nominations (Malden, Cobb and Steiger) in the Best Supporting Actor category, and the film took home the top acting awards, Kazan as director, and best film, best screenplay, best editing, best cinematography, best art direction. There was a nomination for Leonard Bernstein's fantastic score, and it's difficult to understand how he could have lost the award. This is the only film for which he wrote incidental music. It is fantastic, particularly in the tender moments between Terry and Edie."On the Waterfront" has the classic performance of Marlon Brando, a man who is loyal to his brother Charlie (Steiger) even though Charlie ruined Terry's fight career and now is part of the union corruption. Brando is sensational as a tortured young man (based on whistle-blower Anthony DiVincenzo) who knows what he should do, but the price is too high. It's his love of Edie that gives him a conscience. She's from another world and hasn't been jaded by life yet. It's impossible to believe that this role was offered to Grace Kelly, but it was. Why Kazan thought her cold beauty and finishing school accent would have fit into this scenario is beyond me. Saint is perfect - warm, strong, gentle and most importantly, comes off as the kind of girl who lives in a blue collar neighborhood.Lee J. Cobb as Johnny Friendly (based on real-life mobster Albert Anastasia) gives a bombastic, violent, and scary performance; Karl Malden is letter-perfect as the priest who fights for Terry's soul; and Steiger is excellent as Charlie, a weak man who has taken advantage of his brother to feather his own nest. Karl Malden's character of Father Barry was based on the real-life "waterfront priest," Father John M. Corridan, who operated a Roman Catholic labor school on the west side of Manhattan. Father Corridan was interviewed by screenwriter Budd Schulberg.The saddest thing in the film is the attitude of the young boy who helps Terry take care of Joey's pigeons. He's already been inculcated with the "D&D" (deaf and dumb) policy of the longshoremen.The cloudy, rich atmosphere of the story is captured by the Hoboken, New Jersey locations - although this is a fictionalized version of events on the New York waterfront.The end of "Raging Bull" is a homage to "On the Waterfront." The end of "On the Waterfront" will give you goosebumps.Evil only triumphs when good men do nothing. When those same men stand up for what they believe in, they show evil for what it really is - cheap, lousy, and dirty.


                
Still powerful after all these years, it's easy to see why this film won so many awards. Even though it isn't classified as "film noir," it might as well be, as it has the earmarks of one: gritty, downbeat with a feeling of dread, magnificent black-and-white cinematography, etc.It's certainly not a "fun" movie but if you appreciate great film-making, you have to rate this near the top of the list Not only is the direction (by one of the all-time greats, Elia Kazan) superb and the photography striking, the acting also is top-rate.Marlon Brando was just riveting to watch in here and deserved all the accolades he received for his performance. Talk about a guy with mixed emotions and a tormented soul! Eva Marie Saint, as Brando's "conscience" and love interest, proved to be worthy in her role.The rest of the characters were angry people, always shouting it seemed, always upset at someone. Even the priest, played by Karl Malden, was that way although one of his passionate speeches was remarkable to hear. How many films does one hear about Jesus Christ being everywhere men are? None I can recall, offhand. He, like Saint's character, also influenced Brando to do the right thing.Lee J. Cobb filled his bill as the angriest of them all, the labor boss who would have anyone killed who dare speak out against his illegal practices, and Rod Steiger was his normal intense self as Brando's older brother. Hey, almost everyone was intense in this film. It gets you involves and wears you out by the end.Steiger and Brando's conversation in an automobile fairly late in the film ("I couda been a contenda") is one of the most famous scenes in movie history, but I found many memorable scenes in this movie....too many to recount here.Suffice to say if you are looking for a hard-nosed drama with great acting and photography, a film that still looks and sounds up-to-date in many respects, don't be afraid to give this "oldie" a look. You'll see why it's considered one of the best movies of all time.


                
My comments here are written in light of having watching the film for a second time. While I liked 'On the Waterfront' a lot the first time round, I appreciated it even more the second time. There are some slight negative points - the music is at times overbearing and the religious side it tries to bring forth does not quite work - but there is not anything significant that I would flaw the film on.The acting is definitely the film's strongest point. Marlon Brando gives and intense and realistic performance. It is not just because of the famous car scene, or the well-known scene in the bar with Saint, that makes his performance great. It is everything that he does throughout, in particular the facial expressions that he captures on his face. Towards the end there is a scene in which he stands alone and just stares at his fellow workers. His expression is unflinching without being unrealistic. Eva Marie Saint is quite good too, also giving off a performance in which her face is central. However, there is less to talk about with her than there is about the supporting actors.When I first viewed the film, it was Karl Malden's acting that stood out the most to me. His performance and character are powerful, however on a second viewing it seems a bit over-the-top, as does the whole religious side of the film in which he is involved. On the other hand, Lee J. Cobb is brilliant as Johnny Friendly, providing a fierce performance while not letting his character turn into a stereotype of evil. Then there is Rod Steiger, whose acting, after only one viewing of the film, I did not take much notice of. He is hardly there, and until the point when he instructed to talk with Brando, he does not have much to do. Indeed, Rod Steiger has very few good scenes in the film, however he is excellent in those scenes. It is incredibly realistic acting, the way he interacts with his brother, and the way he is torn between the mob and his family.The next thing to mention is that this film could never be as effective in colour. The bleakness of the black and white prints is used well by Kazan. There are many shots of the characters, which just show their heads against a white sky: a bleak white sky. We cannot even see if it is cloudy or sunny day. The sky is as plain and as barren as what the future holds for each of the characters. Leonard Bernstein's music deserves a mention too. It is an electrifying score and often fits the actions very well. It is at times a tad overbearing (note the scene where Brando goes to Saint's house) as it has a tendency to over-ride the dialogue and the action. However, this does not subtract much from the overall picture.The sound recording is very realistic. The dock noises can often be heard, which helps to set up the waterfront atmosphere, and there is one scene in which the noise of a ship plays a key element in a conversation between Saint and Brando. In that conversation it is metaphoric, and it could even be argued that it is only heard through perceptual subjectivity. The other noises are sharply recorded too, such as banging at the basement of the church. The photography is excellent, using shadows very well to set up the atmosphere, all of which is captured well with some glides and tilts.One can praise a film for many different reasons, but it is not worth much unless one can explain what the film is about. I would say that 'On the Waterfront' is a drama about struggling against the restrictions of society, and of what it takes to stand up for what one believes in. However, I also see it as an exciting thriller about fighting corruption and the harshness of stevedore life in a community that is effectively run by gangsters. Perhaps it is about love and how relationships develop, and the events that help them to grow strong. I think different viewers will take some different out of it. And it is perhaps that, more than the artistic and cinematic qualities of the film, which makes it a great piece of cinema.


                
Gripping, powerful drama of corrupt unions for dock workers and how one man Terry Malloy (Marlon Brando) fights back.This movie is a definite must-see.  The story is pretty simple and has been done before but the script is superb and all the actors are at the height of their powers.  Brando is unbelievable as Malloy--he portrays his innocence and hurt so easily--I actually started to get a lump in my throat when he comes to grips about the corruption.  Rod Steiger is great in a small role as his brother.  The taxicab sequence between him and Brando has become a legend--rightfully.  Lee J. Cobb is frightening as the leader of it all. Eva Marie Saint (in her first theatrical role) is gorgeous and just great as a woman who falls in love with Brando.  The scenes between them are incredible.  There's also superb direction by Elia Kazan--this is possibly his best work.  The only debit here is Karl Malden as the priest--he overplays it way too much and got on more nerves.  But that's about it.This movie is one of those rare instances where everything clicked together perfectly.  A HUGE hit in its day.  Don't miss this one!


                
Elia Kazan's film is still amazing after 50 years. It's curious how it parallels Kazan's own life in the way the main character, Terry Malloy, ends up naming names to the commission investigating the corruption on the waterfront, the same way the director did in front of the HUAC committee, presided by the evil Senator Joe McCarthy and his henchman, Roy Cohn.
Bud Schulberg's screen play is his best work for the movies. It also helped that Elia Kazan had a free reign over the film, which otherwise could have gone wrong under someone else's direction.Terry Malloy, as we see him first, is a man without a conscience. He is instrumental in ratting on a fellow longshoreman, who is killed because he knows about the criminal activities on the piers. At the same time, Terry is transformed and ultimately redeems himself because he falls in love with Edie Doyle, the sister of the man that is killed by the mob.
Terry Malloy is a complex character. His own brother Charley, is the right hand man of Johnny Friendly, the union boss. Charley is trying to save Terry. It's clear that Charley is going to be sacrificed because of the way he is acting by the same people he works with. In a way, the death of young Doyle is paid back with Charley's own, an interesting twist of events, when it should have been Terry the one that had ratted in the first place.Marlon Brando had his best opportunity here. Everyone lavished praise for his performance. I don't know whether it was me, or what, but the way he played Terry, at times, is an enigma. Could it be the way he speaks? The taxi scene, when he speaks in his famous line, his voice sounds so out of character. Maybe it was Brando's take on the character, but in retrospect, he doesn't sound like a New York wise guy. Eva Marie Saint, whose made her debut in the cinema in this movie, is excellent as the sweet Edie. It's incredible she stays with Terry even though he's been instrumental in the death of her own brother. She is obviously in love with Terry and will do anything for him. Karl Malden's character is also symbolic. He represents the sanity and the salvation for an otherwise horrible person, because Terry up to this point has no conscience and he is resentful for the fact he never got to be somebody when he had a chance in the boxing ring.Lee J. Cobb, one of the great actors of the American movies gives a detailed performance as Johnny Friendly, the boss of the union local that controlled the waterfront. Rod Steiger, as the crooked brother Charley was amazing. There are a lot of minor roles such as Martin Balsam, who went to bigger and better things. Also, a non speaking Fred Gwynne who is part of Friendly's crew.This films owes a great deal to the black and white cinematography of Boris Kaufman and to the great musical score of Leonard Bernstein. Was it me, or was this film an inspiration for the music he later composed for West Side Story?One of the greatest films of all times.


                
This is the movie which is very close to my heart as I am very much infatuated by Brando's spotless acting and in this movie he has done some legendary work. This is one of the classics which I feel much honored to watch as this movie swiped 8 Oscars including best picture of 1954 and Brando got the golden trophy first time for best actor in leading role. The movie is about a guilty stricken ex boxer (Terry played by Brando) who is involved in the murder of a guy who's sister captivates him and then he redeems that by going against the underworld boss (Johnny by Lee J Cobb) and by doing that he lost his beloved brother Charley (Rod Steiger). This is a highly classed drama in which human emotions are that there very best and some finest work by the entire cast as Eva Marie Saint also got her Oscar for supporting actress in her very first movie.Elia Kazan's direction was also very gripping. This movie is one of the finest produce by Hollywood ever.


                
This is a film which has garnered a reputation as among the greatest films of all time and is fully deserving of such credit. Revolving around a ex-boxer turned dockworker, who is one of the hundreds of dockworkers under the corrupt and murderous rule of mobster Johnny Friendly and his army of assistants, he is gradually faced with the choice of continuing to waste his life under the tyranny of this system, or stand against the evil that this is. Along the way, he is helped by a girl whom he falls in love with and a priest from the neighbourhood parish.Undoubtedly one of the biggest contributions to the greatness of this film is Marlon Brando's performance as Terry Malloy, which I firmly believe is the greatest of his entire career. His performance alone would probably be a good enough reason to at least be interested in the film, as he perfectly encapsulates the anguish and inner tension that his character faces throughout the film. Lee J. Cobb, playing Johnny Friendly, the mobster in charge at the waterfront, also turns in a brilliant performance as a domineering kingpin who will do absolutely anything to cover up his evil deeds, even at the expense of other people's lives. These are just two of the many great acting performances in this film, which also included Eva Marie Saint (As Edie, a sister of one of Friendly's casualties and Terry's love interest), Karl Malden (a tough, justice-oriented priest who plays a role in motivating Terry to stand up against Friendly) and Rod Steiger (Terry's brother and Johnny Friendly's right hand man).On the Waterfront is also very well shot, not relying on spectacular cinematography or breathtaking special effects, but the sturdy, gritty black-and-white depiction of the harsh dockworkers' environment is phenomenal and helps to make the film more captivating. But above all else, it is an emotionally gripping story that leads you to empathise with the main character and the other dockworkers, as well as sensing a righteous indignation against the evil and injustice perpetrated by Friendly and his gang. You also journey with Brando's character as he is gradually led down a path of personal redemption. The iconic scene of Terry and his brother in the cab, as he pours out his heart in lamenting his wasted opportunities and regrets while resenting his brother's previous betrayal of him. This is undoubtedly one of the finest movies in American cinema that has ever been made, and totally worth watching for any film lover.


                
Terry: You don't understand. I coulda had class. I coulda been a contender. I coulda been somebody, instead of a bum, which is what I am, let's face it. It was you, Charley.So goes the most famous line of this movie. It has made an impact on a lot of people over the last sixty plus years, not least on a young Martin Scorsese, who used this same line in one of his greatest accomplishments, Raging Bull. It is a line that sticks in the minds of people for the same reasons that all regularly quoted film lines do: they work well in the movie and they are easily able to be brought out into the real world.And such is this film: it strikes a balance between living in a world that exists only in the mind of Kazan and living in the unaltered real world. It is a cornerstone of film history, almost to the point that analyzing it as a film alone is almost irrelevant. But as a film reviewer, such is my burden, and so I will away.Thus, what will not be brought up in this review beyond this paragraph are Kazan's political beliefs. There is a theory that he made this movie to justify testifying against important Hollywood directors to the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC). I could spend far more than a thousand words talking about the Red Scare's impact on Hollywood, but I for now have neither the time nor the drive to do so. So for now, I will just say that the fifties have a far more pleasant reputation than they deserve. This is a decade in which it was taught that hiding under a desk would protect you from nuclear attacks. If you weren't right in line with the government, you were accused of being a (gasp) a Communist. Of course, you likely already know this. I'm just emphasizing. But again, film is not about politics or restrictions. It's about art. So let's enjoy the art.Any experienced filmwatcher could tell from watching any five minutes of the film that is was made in the fifties. This is not a bad thing. In fact, these stylings work to the film's advantage. This is not a film about gore and stylized violence. There is a place for that (I'm looking at you, Tarantino) but it is not here. This is a film about hardship and loss and suffering and being unable to do much of anything about it. This is a film about hollowness and how it affects desire. This is a film about dreaming of a life you perhaps could have achieved if circumstances were not what they are. And this is a film about all that I have listed above making someone willing to do most anything to get out of their situation.While not dealing with The American Dream (TM) as much as, say, The Godfather, this is a quintessentially American film. That's one thing I love about older American cinema; you can tell that it was made for this country. Note that I'm not saying that this country is better than any other; just that I like film that shows where it was made, as you'll see if you read the reviews of some of the foreign films that I like.This film and A Streetcar Named Desire are the two best examples of the heights of 50s Brando. Watching him act, you can see how he inspired some of the greatest stars of the generation after to pick up acting. To state the obvious: his performance is outstanding. Brando is a man one could perhaps say is the greatest movie star of two different decades, this one and the 70s. He starred in a number of great films and delivered a number of great performances: I suggest that you check them all out.This film does not do everything right. Thematically, Brando's character should have died at the film's end. In fact, that was the original ending of the screenplay before Kazan changed it. In addition, there are a few minor tweaks here and there that perhaps would have made for a more effective film. But what the film does right, it does so very right. At some points, it leaves you as gobsmacked as you would be if Usain Bolt ran the hundred meter dash in nine seconds flat. The tone is crisp. Kazan knows exactly what he's going for and he and Brando get it right almost every time. The acting is passionate and emotionally resonant. The writing is tight and superb, elegant yet unpredictable.If I had to sum up the film in one sentence, I would say this: A film both timely and eternal, chilling and heartwarming, this masterpiece deserves its position in the halls of great cinema. Hopefully, you are not like Terry, the main character of this film. Hopefully, you can at least watch this film without obstruction or restraint. If so: do it.


                
This is without a doubt one of the greatest movies of all time! This is one of Marlon Brando's best performances! Marlon Brando plays terry, an ex prize fighter that has a brother named Charlie who works for the local mob. Terry must decide whether or not he will do the right thing and risk his life by turning the mobsters in or do the wrong thing and keep quiet. Lee J. Cobb also gives a good performance as the mob boss Johnny Friendly who practically owns all of the people that live in the small sea trade town on the waterfront. Eva Marie Saint also gives a great performance in her first movie role. The Christian message that is in this film is that you should always try and do the right thing no matter what. I highly recommend this to any fan of Marlon Brando or any fan of crime drama films. This truly is a classic film and this is a must see for any Film Buff. I also recommend this film to Christians because of the nice Christian message that this film conveys. Bravo!


                
NOTE TO READERS: Ignore the spoiler warning above, it is merely there to keep me right. This review may only contain very mild spoilers,NOTHING that gives away the film's ending, so read freely.The industrial waterfront is held in an iron grip by cruel crime boss Johnny Friendly(LEE J. COBB)and the local mob. The longshoremen are paid a pittance for their vigorous labour, that's even if they are given work. Friendly manipulates the men through fear to stop them reporting mob activities to the authorities.Ex prizefighter Terry Molloy(MARLON BRANDO)is a longshoreman. He has spent most of his life "crawling" and doing "favours" for Friendly. One such "favour" results in the death of a fellow longshoreman who "squealed". Pierced by guilt as he didn't reckon with murder, Terry befriends the man's sister, Edie Doyle(EVA MARIE SAINT).Edie is blind to Terry's part in her brother's death and falls for him. Clergyman Father Barry(KARL MALDEN) urges Terry to come clean as he too is disgusted by Friendly's methods as well as Terry's refusal to confess.However,Terry is sickened by a more personal act of mob brutality, which compels him to finally make a stand against Friendly's empire.Masterfully directed by Elia Kazan, ON THE WATERFRONT is an allegory on McCarthyism.Kazan,who formally had Communist ties, came before the House of Un-American Activities in 1952 and gave the names of 8 suspected Communists within Hollywood. This is mirrored stupendously in the film when Terry, who works for Johnny Friendly, gives incriminating evidence against the latter at a tribunal.ON THE WATERFRONT more than deserved it's 8 Oscars. The granite edged script is skilfully written and penned with serious effort. The political undertones are cleverly welded in, along with fascinating characters. The overall tone of the film I find extremely inspiring. Terry Molloy is a confused brute who finds love in the tender caress of a woman. This changes his perception of the world for good, subsequently driving him on in his fight against injustice. Although he's not one of my favourite actors, Marlon Brando was definitely Oscar worthy material. His tough,streetwise,smooth talking performance is a powerful tour de force. Lee J. Cobb is on fire as Johnny Friendly, the brutal, steel jawed, fearsome mob leader. I consider Cobb to be one of the greatest actors in classic cinema. He blisters with charisma and should have clenched the Oscar for which he was nominated. Both Brando and Cobb are at their most electrifying in the final confrontation between Terry and Friendly. Karl Malden,magnificent as Father Barry, is given some of the greatest lines in the whole film. This evident in a speech he gives. He uses poignant biblical allusions when chastising the longshoremen for their "silence". This scene is one of the potent and awe inspiring I've ever seen in a film. Rod Steiger was brilliant as Charley the gent,Terry's brother and Eva Maria Saint was equally impressive as Edie. Kazan cranks the tension all the way up to the top for the second half of the film. The scene which has a furious and embittered Terry brandishing a gun and having a heated argument with Father Barry was both chilling and utterly gripping. I could feel Terry's raw desperation and hatred in this scene as well as in the sequence where he confesses to Edie about his part in her brother's murder. This scene is incredibly shot. A ship's horn blasts in the background as Terry explains to Edie. The dialogue cannot be heard, we only seen the horror on Edie's face and the guilt on Terry's. With scorching intensity, the already mentioned final confrontation between Terry and Friendly was absolutely finger biting and again, grippingly taut. The dialogue exchanged between the hardened Terry and rough voiced Friendly was spectacular. The whole sequence blazes with suspense, there's no doubting that this is the most awe striking scene in the film. The subsequent conclusion is what I consider to be one of the best endings in the history of cinema. I would describe it as both moving and strikingly compelling. The orchestral score tightened the tension into a sharp knot. It built up suspense in the film's second half magnificently.Elia Kazan's masterpiece could only be described as a searing comment on society with tremendous bite. Marlon Brando gives an outstanding performance which may only be rivalled by his portrayals of Colonel Kurtz and Don Vito Corleone. Lee J. Cobb embodies the spirit of Johnny Friendly sensationally. He should have won the Oscar for best supporting actor, Karl Malden was definitely hot on Cobb's heels, but sadly neither of them won the award. The film is packed with stellar performances from all concerned. The robust script, rich dialogue and staunch characters and portrayals make the film an Oscar worthy effort. ON THE WATERFRONT is a raw, hard hitting, spine chilling account of the dangers of being a "contender".10/10.
This is an actor's film. What an incredible cast, led by Marlon Brando. He has more range as an actor than virtually anyone I can imagine. His face is so expressive and his method acting pristine. He is such a complex character in this movie. How do you do the right thing. We are taught to hide feelings, not betray trusts (snitch), and yet how do we help the little guy, the downtrodden if we don't. It's a remarkable film about a man who has to do what he has to do and face beatings and exclusion and a reputation these dock workers would not want. He also has few prospects as the famous taxi scene shows us. It's too bad Brando had so many hang ups but maybe that's what made him great. There isn't an actor worth his salt that wouldn't want to have given one of those Brando performances, let alone the several glowing ones he did give. As he walks down the street, bloody, barely alive, we see a picture of determination like no other in film history. In his sorry state he is majestic and unbowed.


                
The film is about Marlon Brando's dreams of becoming a boxer. But his dreams must be put aside when he must work for Lee J. Cobb on the waterfront. He takes care of his pigeons and his a normal person.But one day, Brando witnesses a murder on an innocent kid by a couple of Cobb's men. Brando meets the kid's sister (Eva Marie Saint) and feels responsible for the murder.Saint introduces Brando to the local priest (Karl Malden). Malden tries to get Brando to testify against Cobb and his men. Even though it would make him a rat. Brando gives the best performance of his career in this wonderful film. And Karl Malden and Eva Marie Saint add to the wonderful excitement that this film gives. Rod Steiger is in it as Brando's brother. He was a perfect choice. He shines in the "Contender" scene as he points a gun at Brando to stop him from confessing.The film won eight oscars including Picture, Director, Actor, Supporting Actress, Story and Screenplay, Art-Direction, Cinematography, and Editing. It was up for three Supporting Actor performances (Malden, Steiger, and Cobb) and Score.


                
It's difficult to review a film that in almost all respects comes together exactly as it was intended to. There's not much left to criticize.The plot: Brando is Terry Malloy, a dock worker on the waterfront who gets mixed up with an innocent young schoolgirl, Saint, is persuaded by her and the local priest (Malden) to rat on his corrupt union bosses, is shunned by everyone because he has squealed, is even ridiculed by police officers, is beaten to a pulp, and is redeemed.I watched Kazan shooting one of the scenes -- Nehemiah Persoff drives Rod Steiger into the basement garage -- while I was growing up in the area and thought nothing of it at the time. Gee, another movie.On its release, my friends and I were somewhat surprised at how well Boris Kaufmann's perceptive photography captured the wintry streets of Hoboken, New Jersey, and at how much the people and their faces were recognizable types.As an adult, I was -- and still am -- stunned at how closely this movie approaches perfection. It's one of a small handful to which I would give the highest possible rating.There isn't much point in listing the details that make this such an outstanding story. It would require a book or two. But I'll make special mention of the first scene gum-chewing Brando and Saint have together, walking a little aimlessly through a children's playground. The air is filled with smoke from burning leaves. Brando pushes away a drunk asking for money. They remind each other of the schooldays they shared. Saint drops her white -- her very white -- glove accidentally and while they chat Brando picks it up and fiddles with it, brushing off the dirt, trying it on. "You was a mess," says Brando of Saint as a little girl. "I remember you from the first time I saw you," Saint replies with a self-conscious smile. The ex boxer Brando pushes his nose with with a fingertip -- "The nose, right?" Unable to understand that a pretty and innocent blond girl from a convent could find him interesting for his own sake. That's all there is to the scene, but it's almost flawlessly executed. What begins with two near strangers strolling through a dismal and leafless little park ends with a young man and woman who now can imagine themselves as friends, or more than friends. It's impossible to imagine how the scene could have been improved.No movie is perfect in every respect and this one becomes a little mechanical towards the last third. The courtroom scene is the weakest, although it's hard to see how it might have been left out. It's one of the best American films ever made and to miss it is to miss an awful lot.
After three nominations for Best Actor in 1951 for A Streetcar Named Desire, 1952 for Viva Zapata, and 1953 for Julius Caesar, the Oscar was not to be denied Marlon Brando for the fourth time. Although his playing of Terry Malloy was indeed Oscar caliber stuff, the award was really for a most remarkable body of work on screen up to that time. It was also for setting a new trend in acting style and influencing the next three generations of players.On the Waterfront is also alleged to be Elia Kazan's answer to his critics of why he was a namer of names at the House Un-American Activities Committee. I don't think it was an accident that the subject of this film was labor racketeering. Forgotten by a lot of the people who defame Kazan today is that the Communist Party asked him to infiltrate and spy on not just actors, but various craft unions associated with film and theater. It was something he never forget.He's often called a friendly witness. To me a friendly witness is someone who was an unabashed admirer of the House Un-American Activities Committee and its work, someone like Adolphe Menjou or Hedda Hopper or even John Wayne, people who were convinced these people were doing a patriotic service. In On the Waterfront, labor racketeer Lee J. Cobb, a bullying loudmouth of a man, runs the longshoreman's local. He commits murder, extortion, and various other crimes at will without fear of reprisal because no one will talk because of their code against informing. Waterfront priest Karl Malden realizes it, but bangs his head against the code of deaf and dumb.Marlon Brando is a washed up ex-prizefighter who finds work on the docks through his older brother Rod Steiger who works for Cobb. Unknowingly he fingers Eva Marie Saint's brother for a hit and then he falls for her. The film is essentially Brando's struggle to find out what the right thing to do in this situation.When he's on the screen Brando dominates. He invests the character of Terry Malloy with a lot of layers and the audience really struggles with Terry in his soul searching. He starts to see Cobb and to a lesser extent his brother Steiger as more exploitive than helpful even in his own life. That famous taxi scene with Steiger who's got his own life on the line if he doesn't get his brother away from Eva Marie is one where it all comes out. Brando got his ticket to Palookaville and he doesn't like the neighborhood at all.Eva Marie Saint got a Best Supporting Actress in her film debut. She's pretty far from later characters she played like the cool blond of Cary Grant's dreams in North By Northwest. Those were more the roles she played in her career than the working class girl of On the Waterfront.Karl Malden, Lee J. Cobb, and Rod Steiger all were nominated in the Best Supporting Actor category and they wound up splitting the vote and allowing Edmond O'Brien to win for The Barefoot Contessa. The other nominee was Tom Tully in The Caine Mutiny. All three could have been winners.I remember when Elia Kazan died a few years ago and I think the unkindest cut of all for him was to be eulogized on television by Pat Buchanan. Though the left disowned him, he always considered himself a man of the left. One could fight injustice without submitting to a regimentation of the soul that Communism was when it triumphed. Something a lot don't realize today. The regimentation that Lee J. Cobb had on those longshoremen is what Kazan was expressing himself against in On the Waterfront. over fifty years later it's a landmark expression.


                
In terms of a piece of film history, it's best to look at On the Waterfront as one of those master's classes in Film acting. The scene in the cab (and the still photo seems to have been taken not during film in but during one of Steiger and Brando's "moments" in-between takes, silly gooses) is the most noted and famous take, and of course it's a great scene, so great that when it's done you still can't believe it's 55 years old. But there's other really great scenes and moments: Karl Malden with his unique spud-nose going off on the waterfront workers after the man is killed from the crates falling; Brando picking up the glove and putting it on his hand or offering the gum and then chewing it himself in front of Saint; Lee J. Cobb- nothing specific, just him period, as he pulls off an equally scummy character as well as Brando pulls off a conflicted squealer with his "conscience".Now, this doesn't mean the film isn't also a) well directed, b) compellingly scripted, c) shot with a wonderful eye for the Hoboken locations and a noir tone like Third Man lite, or d) topped with a compelling Leonard Bernstein score. But there is one thing against it, a thing that keeps it out of my favorite movies list here on facebook and elsewhere even as I acknowledge it as a given classic: Elia Kazan's real-life ratting to the HUAC taints so much of the picture it's like if Roman Polanski made a movie in the early 80s about a man who has to flee in exile for a crime which he doesn't think is, um, necessary enough to face punishment for, and it's not um sex with a minor/rape of course, but something like that.Kazan got the Oscar for the movie, and more power to him - for the movie. As a fellow, however, it sucks to think, or rather *know*, that the film is meant to be in part a testimony from Kazan about why he ratted, and what it's like to be one, and parallel alleged Communist sympathizers or Communists with gangsters strong-arming their way into the Union of a waterfront (the latter of which was an actual true story and had quite a lot of real research, but besides the point).Bottom line, it's the anti-Crucible, and the most difficult thing in revisiting On the Waterfront is knowing the context behind the picture. If one can separate oneself from it, then it's awesome and all. To Brando's ultimate credit as an icon, he makes us forget this for much of the time he's on screen. J. Hoberman compared Brando as the male Marilyn Monroe- I'd say he had a little more talent and depth, but I can definitely see the comparison. You don't want to take your eyes off this guy to see what he'll do, and as would happen later on in his career you could never tell what batty things he might do next as you look right at him. He was, at the least, "somebody".


                
This is an excellent example of a film that has no special effects and very little action, but still packs a wonderful punch thanks to excellent acting and writing. I really do think this movie along with TWELVE ANGRY MEN and MARTY should be mandatory viewing for modern film makers, as I have long lamented that modern films place too much emphasis on special effects and not enough on acting and characterizations. The bottom line is that if the characters in a film are under-written, it almost always dooms a film to mediocrity--even with bloated budgets.As far as acting goes, ON THE WATERFRONT is filled with many of the best actors of the 50s and 60s. Marlon Brando is at his best here in a simple but well-played role that isn't the least bit reminiscent of his Flether Christian or Jor-El--thank goodness. And, for support, the film includes Eva Marie Saint, Karl Malden, Lee J. Cobb and Rod Steiger--now that's a pretty powerful lineup! And, fortunately, these actors are all given excellent roles that give them a lot of chance to shine.The film itself is about mob control of a longshoreman's union. A small but ruthless group of thugs control the waterfront and the workers behave mostly like zebras--hoping the "lions" leave them alone. However, through the course of the film, standing idly by becomes more and more difficult--especially for Brando. This actually is a great film example of mob psychology. At one point, a large group of dock workers just stand by as Brando is pummeled by just six guys. No one is yet willing to stand up to the thugs and they just hope it won't happen to them next.About the only negative, and it's not enough to give this film a lower score, is the music. While the 50s jazzy tune is quite appropriate for the film, at times it is way too loud for the film--making normal moments seem way too intense and over-done. At one point, I even think it would have been best to have no music instead of the blaring violins during a seemingly normal conversation between Saint and Brando.
ON THE WATERFRONT is a film that is based on a true story about union violence and corruption among port workers. Unusual, strong and very exciting story of informers who worked for the Mafia. The head of the trade union is linked to the Mafia and happy in his control of the docks. The police know that he was behind a series of murders, but witnesses pretending to be deaf and dumb, and accept their humiliating position rather than risk shame and betrayal. One docker in the end decides otherwise ...In the film, there are ideological, religious and political aspects. However, the true drama of crime and disadvantaged workers is not compromised. The atmosphere is quite authentic. Maybe it clearly define the class division, but it is not in this case topics. The film is somewhat controversial because it casts a dark stain on the very important aspects of life. It is fascinating that, despite everything, there is a story within a story. The main protagonist in the struggle with his own conscience.The fight against corruption and romance is definitely not fit. This is evident, and Mr. Kazan has tried to replace the classic romance with a strong passion. Dialogues are honest, at times brutal and concise. Together with excellent acting, they are the strongest elements of the film.Marlon Brando as Terry Malloy in the role of one amoral, uneducated and arms worker. He knows in life only two sides. Of course will join the one that would give him a livelihood. Character that is inhibited in any way. The realization of love, awakens his conscience. The change in the character is extraordinary. Between boxing and pigeons is real life.Eva Marie Saint as Edie Doyle is an excellent choice for the role of the daughter of an old employee and sister of murdered popular dockworker. It in this film gives a feeling of true tenderness and sensitivity. Karl Malden as Father Barry is a very strong character. The voice of reason. Religious influence in the story for me is redundant. However in this case is extremely strong this moral and human effects. Religious worker who is more devoted to their community (or even individuals) rather than God. It already makes sense. Lee J. Cobb as Michael J. Skelly aka "Johnny Friendly" is an effective villain. Rod Steiger as Charley "The Gent" Malloy, only one scene is enough to find and confess all weaknesses.In any case, a great movie, somewhat suggestive and quite intriguing with many different points of view.


                
This movie has been accepted as a masterpiece. I am not going to argue. I am 76 years old and saw it when I was 14. It gets better with every viewing and I now know the script by heart. The idea it would ever rate less than ten stars plus can only show the ignorance of so many who set themselves up as some kind of critic. Far too many. Fools. There is nothing else to say apart from that Brando and Rod and Lee were at the their peak and the Kazan could be said to have taken Hollywood into a place that had not been before. A fine suggestion of reality in a world of fake people making trashy movies. Lennie's homage to Copeland is another bonus.


                
'On the Waterfront' is a tour de force that really has it all  a great script, outstanding acting, and great direction. It tells the story of a group of longshoremen who are being coerced into silence by their corrupt and mob-connected union bosses. These are tough guys who work backbreaking jobs and have a code of not ratting out others. It's this ethic combined with the threat of being denied work or killed that keeps them all in line. We're sucked in immediately when in the opening minutes of the film there is a brutal murder to silence one of them, in which Marlon Brando finds himself unwittingly an accomplice.Brando is absolutely brilliant in this movie, and it boggles my mind that he considered his performance to be subpar after he saw it. He is a genius in the big moments and in the small ones he creates. Karl Malden is also outstanding as the priest who tries to rally the workers to stand up for themselves, and Lee J. Cobb and Rod Steiger turn in strong performances as the mob boss and one of his lieutenants (and Brando's brother), respectively. It's a shame that these three were all nominated for best supporting actor but split the vote so that none of them would win, though the film won 8 others, including Best Picture.The scene in the taxicab with the brothers, where Steiger implores and even threatens Brando to remain silent, is one of the best in movie history  not just because of the fantastic script, but also because of Brando's acting. He recalls having to take a dive in a fight for a mob, and when his brother blames his manager for trying to bring him along too fast as a young boxer, running his career, he responds: "It wasn't him Charlie, it was you. Remember that night in the Garden, you came down into my dressing room and said, 'kid, this ain't your night. We're going for the price on Wilson.' You remember that? This ain't your night! My night <U+0085> I could have taken Wilson apart. So what happens, he gets the title shot outdoors in a ballpark and what do I get, a one-way ticket to palookaville. You was my brother, Charlie, you shoulda looked out for me a little bit. You shoulda taken care of me, just a little bit, so I wouldn't have to take them dives for the short-end money."Charlie: "I had some bets down for you, you saw some money." "You don't understand! I coulda had class, I coulda been a contender! I coulda been somebody! Instead of a bum, which is what I am, let's face it. It was you, Charlie." That scene of being let down by a loved one is so poignant that on its own it makes the movie worth watching, but it's rock solid throughout, even if a little on the dramatic side at the ending. Kazan provided great direction with scenery that looked realistic because it was, having been shot in Hoboken with many of the extras real longshoremen, and on rooftops with aerials and dovecotes. I absolutely HATE the idea that Kazan made the film in part to justify his own testimony to congress during the McCarthy years, but it's a sad fact about the backstory of the film.With that said, I have to put that aside and give it credit for being a great, great film. Aside from the taxicab scene, there are a couple of others that give me goosebumps every time I see them, one of which is Malden calling out the bosses in a speech despite being threatened and having garbage thrown at him ("Every time the mob puts pressure on a good man and stops him from doing his duty as a citizen  it's a crucifixion!"). This is a tough, gritty movie, about the little man overcoming intimidation to stand up for himself against evil. The theme is timeless, and the movie creates timeless, immortal moments.


                
Frankly, I don't think that it gets much better than this. There is almost nothing wrong with this film.The characters are wonderfully drawn, both by Budd Schulberg, the author, and by the uniformly excellent cast. It is quite a statement that the film one both of the major acting Oscars, and had 3 nominations in the Best Supporting Actor category. Brando is heartbreaking as the man torn apart from by loyalty to his boss/cousin and his compulsion to 'do the right thing', and delivers one of the most powerful performances seen on film.Eva Marie Saint shines in the darkness of the world that surrounds her, brilliantly innocent, pure and wholesome. She matches Brando scene by scene, her calm beauty a counterpoint to Terry's passion, and this contrast is brought out in the cinematography and costume, setting her apart.Karl Malden's priest is excellent, although almost anyone could have been powerful with the lines he is given. He brings across the religious undertones in the battle for Terry's soul in a wonderful manner, realistically portraying a good man in tough environment.Lee J. Cobb, one of the era's great character actors, is brilliant as Malden's opposition, chilling and intimidating, yet wonderfully charismatic. There is a danger that a lesser actor could slip into pantomime, but he never does.Leonard Bernstein's score is simply fantastic (how it failed to win the Oscar i shall never know), and Elia Kazan's direction is the reason, along with Brando's performance, that this film is still considered one of the best of all time. His and Cobb's involvement stemmed from being 'Friendly' Witnesses in the House Unamerican Trials, and the film deals with the stigma of speaking out against something you oppose, their passionate feelings wonderfully shown. This truly is one of the greats, and no one should miss out on it.


                
"You don't understand! I coulda had class. I coulda been a contender. I coulda been somebody instead of a bum, which is what I am." Ah, the earnest dialogue spoken by Marlon Brando in one of the most famous scenes in the history of cinema. Brando sitting in the taxi with his brother, Charley (Rod Steiger) trying to explain his reasoning why he opposes Johnny Friendly, Hoboken's most powerful man with a gun pointed to his face. This scene is so earnest, so powerful, delivered perfectly by Brando, who does fantastic by showing a sweet, gentle side to his nature despite performing the tough-guy act. As the great critic Roger Ebert quotes, "What other actor, when his brother draws a pistol to force him to do something shameful, would put his hand on the gun and push it away with the gentleness of a caress?" Before we get too much ahead of ourselves, I should at least point out this movie I'm reviewing is On the Waterfront, arguably one of the greatest movies ever made. It is special in many ways, but it is unanimously praised in how it changed the landscape of acting. The casting of Marlon Brando helped dearly. He changed how things were in a film. He made acting less predictable and did things never done before in cinema. He provided such texture to his role and in each scene he is in, you can see how he manages the line between gentleness and tough-guy act. Director Elias Kazan made a point not only Brando's acting was better than most, it was also more influential than most. He brought such a tenderness to his character and he won Best Actor at the Academy Awards in 1954, which he wholeheartedly deserved.I really found the plot interesting, and there is actually truth behind the plot. Terry Malloy (Marlon Brando) is a young man who tends to his pigeons and works on the docks for a corrupt boss of the unions, Johnny Friendly (Lee J. Cobb), while he dreams to be a boxer. One day, he witnesses a murder committed by some thugs of Friendly's. Terry becomes close with the sister of the victim, Edie Boyle (Eve Marie Saint) because he feels responsible for her brother's death. She introduces him to Father Barry (Karl Malden) who attempts to have Malloy take a stand against Friendly in order to smash the racketeering.As I mentioned in the above paragraph, this film is based off some truth. The film has an obvious political agenda, based off the HUAC (House Un-American Activities Commission) hearings. The director, Elia Kazan was called to the committee, and he named names. Names who were affiliated with the Communist Party. Critics have commented in the past that this film may have hidden, political motives, because of what he did at those HUAC meetings. I actually believe the film is based off that, but I applaud him in making the film. No one should be afraid to state what they believe in. Another part of history is the longshoremen of the Hoboken docks. Hoboken had trouble in all its racketeering, so that all plays an influential part in the movie.The main role of any director is to get the best performances he can out of his actors. Well, Kazan was certainly up for the task in this film. Everyone churned in amazing performances. I already gave my love letter to Brando, who previously worked with Kazan in 1951's A Streetcar for Desire. The film could have turned out to be very different. Frank Sinatra was originally cast as Terry, but the producers went ahead to cast Brando instead. The best move they could have done. This is Eve Marie Saint's first film role, and she eagerly rises for the challenge. A perfect foil for Brando. Her scene with Brando in the bar as they talked about feelings for each other is another priceless cinematic scene. Another important role was Rod Steiger, who played Terry's brother, also mixed up with Friendly. That taxi scene was incredible, as Brando and Steiger had amazing chemistry. Despite opposite views, the brothers very much love each other. Karl Malden as Father Barry does a wonderful job, although it feels like his acting is overshadowed by the heavyweights. Finally, Lee J. Cobb as the union boss, Friendly does an excellent job. I loved his final scenes of the movie. His fate is very deserving, and without spoiling much, I was laughing in the face of Friendly's as the movie came to a close.Overall, this is just one incredible film. If you were to say that this is the best film of all time, I would have no issue with that. This is one of my favorites , and it's one of those few films I can find no fault with. From the masterful direction to the skilled direction to the expert cinematography, there is much to love about the film. This was nominated for twelve Oscars and won eight of them. Brando and Saint took home awards and so did Kazan as director. Cobb, Malden, and Steiger were all nominated. This gripping crime thriller should be a showcase for film professors everywhere. This film changed the perspective of acting and it changed American acting for the better. The film and the muckraking articles that inspired it brought light to crime in the Hoboken streets and perhaps those streets became cleaner in the immediate aftermath. If you love movies, check this film out.


                
