After loving Brando's incandescent performance in "A Streetcar Named Desire", and conditioned by the hagiographic treatment it gets in film history, I was psyched to see "On the Waterfront". What a disappointment. Karl Malden's "acting" is wooden and banal. Brando seems constrained (almost bemused at times) and halfhearted at best. The Bernstein score is an annoying and distracting retread of "West Side Story". The screenplay is full of stilted dialog, with a plot (apparently developed with the creative consultation of J. Edgar Hoover) that was hackneyed 15 years before the film was made. The supporting characters are stereotypes from gangster movies from the thirties and forties. A prime example of a movie perhaps somewhat blindly worshiped.


                
The film "On the Waterfront" for me really didn't catch my attention and was hard for me to get into the film. i thought the plot wasn't that interesting and quite boring. The characters played their parts well but not to where I thought they were believable. They edited the film very well though, you could see a lot of different editing, match cuts, 180 degree rule. One scene that kept my attention was when Terry witnesses the murder and when he meets than man who was murdered sister, they kept my attention because of the action but that was it. I guess people in the 1950's would view this movie different than I have because that is the type of movies that they watched back then and in today's world it's different. I would probably have to see it again nd maybe I would get more involved and interested in it.


                
This is one of the worst movies I've ever seen - even "Plan 9 from Outer Space" is better than this. The story is unconvincing. The screenplay seems to have been written by a 10-year-old kid and the acting reflects it. For some unexplainable reason, the main characters - the priest and the girl - always seem to be right there whenever something happens, no matter where, what or time of day. It's also very unconvincing that Eva Marie Saint would give up her schooling - that her father scrimped and saved all his life to make it possible for her - to stay on the docks with a punk kid who was part of the gang that killed her brother.How this movie won any Academy Awards at all is a puzzle to me.My rating: 4/10 (only because I'm a nice guy)


                
