This compelling and dynamic drama is set on New York's dock where mobsters control the Union and stevedores . An ex-prize fighter named Terry Malloy (Marlon Brando who deservedly won an Academy Award) turned longshoreman struggles to stand up to his corrupt union bosses (Lee J Cobb) and is embroiled in violence . Malloy faces the dilemma of whether or not to turn informer . While his brother (it was originally offered to Lawrence Tierney , but he asked for too much money so the role went to Rod Steiger who was nominated for an Academy Award for his performance) is a crooked lawyer and he meets a beautiful ex-nun (Eva Maria Saint , Grace Kelly turned down the role of Edie Doyle, deciding to make Rear Window instead) and falls in love for her .This interesting and thought-provoking film contains intense drama with pungent lines , emotion , wonderful performances , memorable final , magnificent direction and classic musical score by the maestro Leonard Berstein . Marvelous acting by entire casting . The taxicab scene , one of the most famous scenes in the cinema, in which Brando began to improvise some dialogue, surprising Rod Steiger ; after a while, Elia Kazan told Brando to "knock it off". The problem Brando had with the scene, as he explained to screenwriter Budd Schulberg and Kazan, was that he felt he would have difficulty trying to talk reasonably with his brother with a gun at his ribs , at this, Kazan agreed and told Brando to improvise ,Kazan maintained that he did not direct Brando nor Steiger in this scene, he simply stood back and let the two actors direct themselves. The idea for the film began with an expose series written for The New York Sun by reporter Malcolm Johnson , the articles won him a Pulitzer Prize and were reinforced by the 1948 murder of a New York dock hiring boss which woke America to the killings, graft and extortion that were endemic on the New York waterfront. Budd Schulberg was captivated by the subject matter, devoting years of his life to absorbing everything he could about the milieu. He became a regular fixture on the waterfront, hanging out in West Side Manhattan and Long Island bars, interviewing longshore-union leaders and getting to know the outspoken priests in Hell's Kitchen. The leading characters were based on real people: Terry Malloy was based on longshoreman and whistle-blower Anthony De Vincenzo; Father Barry was based on waterfront priest John M. Corridan; Johnny Friendly was based on mobster Albert Anastasia. On the Waterfront is widely known to be an act of expiation on the part of Elia Kazan for naming names to HUAC during the Joseph McCarthy witch-hunts of the 1950s. What is less widely reported is that Kazan intended it as a direct attack at his former close friend Arthur Miller who had been openly critical of Kazan's actions. Specifically, it was a direct response to Miller's play The Crucible.This trend-setting film has a gritty portrait of N.Y. waterfront and stand up well nowadays and resulted to be a huge financial hit , as from a budget of just under $1 million, the film went on to gross ten times its production costs in its initial release. Film debuts of Michael V. Gazzo, Pat Hingle, Martin Balsam, and Eva Marie Saint. The last gave a debut performance that won her the Best Supporting Actress Academy Award. It's a winner all the way , winning eight Academy Award , including : Best Picture , Direction (Kazan) , Cinematography (Boris Kaufman) , Art Director (Richard Day) . Rating : Very good , above average , and a real must see . Well worth watching .


                
Terry lives in the shadow of his smart brother Charley the Gent working for a double-handed businessman of the underworld. He had his best times of his life during his boxing career, and has brought his dimes in for his brother. Charley's boss named Johnny Friendly is the man who is behind Terry's fame, but he is also the same man who nibbled his dimes from boxing.The curtain opens with Terry working for Johnny Friendly to be participated in a murder. He does his duty and the murder takes effect. The victim was a labor, whose labor leader also works for Johhny Friendly. Terry turns gloomy when he finds out that the victim has been only seeking his rights when he became a rebel. Especially when Terry meets with the victim's sister his suspects grew. She reasons with him that there are two opposite sides: Johnny Friendly's rich and still-growing syndicate versus the dependent and needy workers who are driven into Johnny Friendly's punitive sanctions. Provided that Terry finds a third side: His own.A run of the mill plot of the mid-20th century. Everybody is pretty much familiar with labor union issues. Mainly the subject gives nothing more than workers seeking out their rights. However, consider that it's Elia Kazan who ushers a new era of actors who rage the whole scenes and turn out heroes out of bums. On the Waterfront has surely inspired millions. For instance, in Robert De Niro's "Raging Bull", a prize-fighter like Terry Malloy turns out to be a stage actor and affirms Terry's speech of reproach to his brother, where no other words could describe his situation he fell into.Marlon Brando's can-do attitude created an inspirational movement, imprinting our memory, that "If Terry Malloy can do this, yes; I can do this, and yes; everybody can do this". Subsequently movie makers began to deliver efforts and accomplishments to the silver screen in order to catch viewers' appreciations. On The Waterfront, Elia Kazan and Marlon Brando are those to remember together in the motion picture history.


                
No need to echo consensus points, except to say the movie is indeed a powerhouse. Instead, I'll offer a few side comments. The production took place during the McCarthy era. Thus, I expect the catalytic role of Father Barry is no accident, appealing, as it does, to the aggressive anti- communist sentiments of the period. Apparently, initial preferences were to make the union gangsters communists instead of real gangsters. For various reasons, the communist idea was shot down and we get Johnnie Friendly, instead. Still, the religious message is spread on pretty thick by a forcefully effective Karl Malden as the working class Father.In this same political vein, Director Kazan was never forgiven by large segments of the Hollywood left for naming names before the HUAC sub-committee on communist influence in the US. Apparently, he looked upon this movie as a defense of his role before the committee. After all, it's Terry's (Brando) willingness to testify about underworld control of the union that breaks their hold. But, of course, the movie couldn't end on a bland courtroom proceeding, so we get the powerful showdown on the docks, where Terry undergoes a purifying beating for his earlier collaboration with Friendly.It's hard to say enough about the effectiveness of the decision to film on actual dockside in New Jersey. The uncompromising nature of that filming lends necessary grit to an explosive drama. Note too the ongoing sounds of the waterfront that keep reminding us.Maybe I missed something, but I can't understand why the mob killed Charley (Steiger) instead of Terry once they knew Terry would inform. After all, what's going to motivate a guy to retaliate more than killing his brother. Charlie's dangling corpse does make for a powerful scene, as does Terry and Edie's expressionist flight down the shadowy alleyway. But the choice to kill Charlie still seems murky to me.Anyway, these are a few side remarks on a much reviewed film that remains an undiminished classic, even after 60-years.


                
This Kazan-Brando collaboration (after A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE, 1951 9/10) finally granted both an Oscar along with a sweeping 8 wins including BEST PICTURE out of 12 nominations. The prestige of this monochromic magnum opus is merely indisputable so as to my sheer expectation could not be more intrigued.It is a forthright story, a bum longshoreman's awakening to his conscience and takes on a venal union boss and his heavy minions. There are several incentives for his self-morphing into a better person, his love to a girl who in turn elicits his true grit, the demise of his brother (a pretty slow-witted move to put the final nail in the coffin to urge a man at his wits' end to go to the opposite of the line), and a religious influence from a virtuous priest, whose righteous homily is spirit-lifting but cannot deliver the huddled mass from numb apathy. Against the grain, it is also an indictment of the repressed workers who is suffer from crowd conformity psychology and cowardice, the most abhorrent thing is one of the sidekick child massacres all the pigeons just to demonstrate an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth when Brando finally musters his courage to be a key witness in a murder case against the boss, it feels blatantly inexplicable and rather far-fetched. The same can be referred to the ending, a battered-up Brando (with horrible bloodstain make-up) struggles to stand up and walk towards the gate so rest of the longshoremen can be convinced that they should follow suit and disregard whatever reasons hold them back. It is a too-well calculated victory.Bad-mouthing about some uneasiness while watching this picture aside, Brando emanates a tremendous air of competence as the young loafer stranded in the underbelly of the dock, his two-hander with Eva Marie Saint comes well-handled, alternately romantic and endangered, and Saint's film debut is also a fortuitous triumph for her, a borderline leading part nabbed BEST SUPPORTING ACTRESS trophy. Wondrously, the film also holds the record of securing three slots as BEST SUPPORTING ACTOR nominees (but no win), Kazan's longtime workmate Malden emotes a paragon crime-defender as the priest, J. Cobb is the pure evil as the ringleader while his henchmen are completely imbecile and a young Steiger is the in-between as the ill-fated brother, an ambiguous image betrays great empathy in the illustrious conversing scenes inside the taxi with Brando. ON THE WATERFRONT also manifests Kazan's top-notch deployment of the camera, with DP Boris Kaufman, the close-ups and fixated angle shots run fluently without tampering the rhythm of its grim reality. Leonard Bernstein's accompanying score adheres firmly to the vascular impulse of the predictable diegesis. Thus, it is a fine piece of filmmaking and reminisces of the Golden Age with a touch of working-class bashing which may leave a small number of its modern audience nonplussed.
Spoilers herein.Though this is highly celebrated, I see too many flaws to make it work well.Some key roles are broken because the approach the actors took: Malden, Saint, Pops. It seems overtly theatrical compared to what Steiger and Brando are doing. Those two are doing something relatively new: establishing a parallel conversation over the 'ordinary' work of portrayal. It has the most obvious effect of making the characterization 'real.'Its often credited to some sort of inner connection via the 'method,' but that's not at all so. Meryl cannot; Dustin cannot. Only few have the gift: Marlon, Julianne, Kate, Sean. That's what makes this special, only Marlon's folded acting, supported by Rod's.What else doesn't work? The cinematography tries to be 'classic,' the writing is after a theatrical model that - although it has some meaty scenes - follows too simple a dramatic shape. But the biggest problem is the score. This is good music. And I understand it was key to adding jazz to the realistic cinematic vocabulary. But the personality of this music is one dimensional. Its message is purely in the direct sounds, the communication. Its as if all the conversation were in the words and none in the accompanying body language.Its okay, but Brando's work deserved something more dimensional. Only when the music is replaced by the waterfront sounds when Brando tells the girl does the composition of image and sound work. 'Streetcar' is where you need to go for a project integrated with the Brando fold.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.
"You don't understand. I coulda had class. I coulda been a contender. I coulda been somebody, instead of a bum, which is what I am, let's face it. It was you, Charley." Based on 'Crime on the Waterfront', a series of articles that won the 1949 Pulitzer Prize by Malcolm Johnson, brotherhood bonds to blood, from gunfire to grief, from rough-'em-ups to redemption, 'On the Waterfront' holds nothing back in showing what it wants to convey to its audience. The time allotted of which we get to spend with these people, do we eventually go beyond seeing them as dock workers to actual human beings with actual emotions and burdens to bear? Let's take a look."Who's going to care about a bunch of sweaty longshoremen?" So stated American film producer Darryl F. Zanuck who eventually came clean about his feelings toward Elia Kazan's masterful 'On The Waterfront' (1954). Decades later, the film has thus gone on to become a landmark of cinematic excellence. Shot in bleak black and white, director Elia Kazan wanted his actors to feel as miserable as their cold, flavorless surroundings on the docks.Some strong points in the film were probably the most memorable in the film history archives to date. One particular moment was at they true heart of the movie when Charley (Rod Steiger) begs his kid brother, a washed up post-boxer Terry Malloy (Marlon Brando) to take a job offer in the back of a cab and then threatens him with a pistol. Terry grins and slowly shakes his head, knowing that his brother would never pull the trigger on him. Terry knew Charley too well. And it is here where Terry confesses to Charley in a monologue about what and who he could have been.Another key aspect is the decision Terry makes in breaking the code of silence. As he begins to become more tormented by his awakening conscience amidst the violent acts around him, he increasingly leans towards testifying against the heinous crimes the powerful local Mob boss (Lee J. Cobb) and his goons have committed before. As the kid brother of his Mob-connected union boss' right-hand man, Terry admits to Charley, after he bribes him with a plum job and then threatens him with a gun in one of cinema's most famous scenes in film history, that the downward spiral of blame he had on himself he now placed on his brother, his own flesh and blood. Charley had been sent by Friendly to keep quiet, but Charley finally recognizes that he has failed to sway his younger brother into doing what he wanted him to do. Terry realized that violence and illegal acts should be spoken out for no matter what the punishment, as long as he knew it was the right thing to do in his shattered world. All his life he was brought up with not doing anything for anybody and not saying anything to anybody, for a stool pigeon he was not; a perfect metaphor being the many caged birds he kept on the roof in which he could relate being stuck in a slum existence yearning to fly far away from the guns and bloodshed one day. But inside he knew that there had to be a voice to stand up against what he believed was right. And all the crimes he and the longshoremen have witnessed could not keep hi, quiet any longer, despite the entire Mob nearly beating him to death near the end of the film. He may have been battered and bloodied, but he still possessed his untouchable, unshakable dignity.Also, another strong moment occurs was when a dock worker named K. O. Dugan was crushed by a load of Irish whiskey in a staged accident by the Mob, which afterwards the "waterfront priest" Father Berry (Karl Malden) shows up and delivers a fiery speech on how violence has truly gotten out of hand amidst the slums. And the big, bloody brawl near the end of the film with Terry and Johnny Friendly was yet another epic scene in the film itself as Terry barely survives it but ultimately wins. A weak part in the film is when he yells his love interest's Edie's (Eva Marie Saint) name outside her door and she tells him to go away after what he had confessed to her prior. But he eventually kicks the door open and grapples her in his arms as the couple kiss passionately.This film goes deeper than portraying sweaty longshoremen, a former boxer and Mob violence amidst a smoggy, cold oasis. It went on to become a true part of cinematic history, ultimately showing to the viewer that speaking out for what you know is right, despite trial and error, can make a world of difference and an inner peace in standing up for your beliefs.
After witnessing a mob arranged "accident" kill a co-worker, boxer turned longshoreman Marlon Brando (as Terry Malloy) contemplates squealing on corrupt boss Lee J. Cobb (as Johnny Friendly). As you might expect, Mr. Cobb isn't going to go down without a fight. "On the Waterfront" put director Elia Kazan and his favorite "method" actors on overdrive; it earned a mother-lode of accolades, including a whopping eight "Academy Award" statuettes. Not to put the picture down in the dumps, but it isn't either Mr. Kazan's or Brando's absolute best - although it is, of course, excellent in most respects.The most obvious problem is that the bombastic Leonard Bernstein-dominated soundtrack jars uncomfortably with the general tone of the piece. As a result, the realism suffers; and, the stylish direction becomes rather blatant. Still, the "Joeys Coop (sic)" rooftop segments by Kazan with cinematographer Boris Kaufman are excellent, and the performances by Mr. Brando et al are undeniably classic. Brando brother Rod Steiger (as Charley), the other man in the famous cab scene, is especially flawless. In hindsight, you can see Kazan's personal political slip showing; apparently, his was a popular position in 1954.******** On the Waterfront (6/24/54) Elia Kazan ~ Marlon Brando, Eva Marie Saint, Rod Steiger, Lee J. Cobb


                
An ex-boxer takes on the corrupt, domineering boss of a longshoreman's union in this gritty drama. The stark cinematography is well suited to the blue-collar theme of the movie. Subtlety is not something Kazan is known for, and although he avoids the showy visual effects that would mar some of his later films, he does encourage overacting. Despite overdoing the Method thing here, Brando is always interesting to watch, and nobody does blustery and earnest quite like Cobb and Malden, respectively. Steiger is fine, as is Saint in her film debut. Bernstein's score is rather strange, with sporadic and unexpected bursts of what sounds like the rumble music from "West Side Story."


                
You have to watch each film for its own value, without caring what its history is; and that's very difficult when you watch a film that's considered a classic, like Elia Kazan's "On the waterfront". But this classic is indeed a very good movie and the best way for me to honor it is writing about it as if it was any other film. However, it is important to note that, as other classics, we watch films like "On the waterfront" in a different way now.There are some moments in the movie where you feel like laughing (and sometimes you do), but you can be sure that when the filmmakers planned them, there was no intention of laugh whatsoever. So there is a mixed feeling of 'this is ridiculous' and 'this is powerful' at the same time when Father Barry (Karl Maden from "The Streets of San Francisco", as my cousin Pancho pointed out) convincingly grabs a cigarette and puts it in his mouth<U+0085>But it's not a normal cigarette. It is said that screenwriter Budd Schulberg made a lot of research about the situation of the movie; workers who don't get all of their rights because "the waterfront" is controlled by the mob men, who walk around in expensive suits while some people don't get the chance to do their job. It is also said that Schulberg put lives of real individuals in his screenplay, which led to courtroom confrontations for the movie company after the film's success.In conclusion, "On the waterfront" made some noise on the real world, because it generated some decisions and changes about a problem and because it was clearly a well-made film. The way the characters are observed throughout the ride by Boris Kaufman's cinematography is the evidence of a work of variations. During some scenes where main character Terry (Marlon Brando) is talking to girlfriend Edie (Eva Marie Saint), the camera forgets close ups and watches the actors from far away, examining the whole background with detail; when Father Barry is speaking to the workers of the waterfront in what is probably the movie's most powerful scene, a camera shoots him from above at times, rejecting the obvious move that would be shooting the workers' faces. Of course that in scenes like these, the camera uses close ups and examines emotions, but not doing it all the time is an interesting detail. In the moments when it does examine characters, there's nothing better than Brando's expressions. In some ways, his approach to Terry is not so different from his Ken in "The Men", because they both share a hidden story of redemption. It's like self-redemption due to the fact that they have to do things for themselves before proving anything to anyone else.That might not be the main aim of "On the waterfront", but Brando sure makes it look that way. Playing two characters so related on the inside and making them different on the outside is something few actors can achieve<U+0085>Brando's power here is as strong as ever, but he's joined by a cast so strong that is difficult to say he is superior. His interpretation made me understand, finally, where Stallone took the inspiration for "Rocky". It had to be from here; and you can analyze it as a great performance inspired by a great performance. The brutal honesty; the misunderstanding of the world around them is something that connects these two characters and many more...All of them iconic.The rest of the male cast is a growing delivery of emotions; going from Lee J. Cob as a horrific villain, through Rod Steiger's Charlie Malloy (Brando's character brother) and finishing in Maden's astonishing turn as Father Barry. Eva Marie Saint, in her first movie role, is not great by herself but is a better companion to Brando than say, Teresa Wright; and that's good enough.If I had to make one complaint, it would be one only and it definitely diminishes the quality of the film: the score. I had the same feeling during "The Men"; where the score becomes louder than the characters' voices and, at times, is so exaggerated that it turns to something laughable. Composer Leonard Bernstein has done respected and interesting things, but the score of this film is not one of those. It would be fair to say that movies like "On the waterfront" are not made anymore; but it's unfair to condemn the contemporary cinema; which keeps creating good movies, and Brando graced the screen in some of them too.


                
For the first time ever I just watched the 1954 classic "On The Waterfront", and I must say overall the film is very courageous with plenty of suspense, drama, and personal conflict to make a viewer feel pleased. The legendary Brando gives a fine performance as a conflicted and guilt ridden torched soul by the name of Terry Malloy. Malloy who's an ex-fighter remembers(I "could have been a contender" which is the films most famous and quoted line) anyway he now works for mob union boss Johhny Friendly(Lee J. Cobb) on the crime plagued shores of the waterfront. All along the way though the viewer can see the guilt and remorse problems of the central character as with each passing scene you want to tell Terry to stand up and face the truth and leave the corrupt world of blood money and favors. The film has a special love theme brought about when Terry falls for a young blond and becomes the lover of Edie Doyle(Eva Marie Saint) it is by the inspiration and warmth of her that Terry is pushed to see the new light and it's even more obvious when Terry's brother(Rod Steiger) is killed. Then the search for the truth and integrity is a must as a conflicted man must face the underworld head on to achieve real peace and comfort within, and most of all his conscious is set free. Really the final scenes are unforgettable with high drama and courage. Great performances are given also from Karl Malden as a concerned and fiery town priest, and Lee J. Cobb is ruthless as can be as the underworld boss Johhny Friendly. A classic film from the legend big Marl he clearly gives one of the finest and most courageous performances in film history, it proves a person must face inner conflict and let the truth shine and face corruption head on.


                
Marlon Brando is one tremendous screen presence, carrying one of the most realistic performances of the often very staged older cinema. Realism in his relationships with the rest of the characters protrudes greatly, especially in the most famous scene in the film, sitting in the car with his brother, delivering that passionate monologue to his brother, whose resistance to compassion is chiseled away. Actually, he meets his match with Lee J. Cobb, who delivers on an incredible level as the horrible union boss, creating a very raw villain that draws pure hate from the audience, additionally because of the context the story is in, as he bullies salt-of-the- earth working class people.Yes, On the Waterfront is a good film with strong lead performances, but by today's standards, as much as the masses of its generation look back upon it as one of the all-time greatest films of all time, the film is dated in the least fascinating sense. Eva Marie Saint's role is, like most of the female roles in most of the rest of the films of the 1950s, unfortunately subjugated as the love interest, objectified rather than fleshed out to make a very good film like this even more dramatic. Instead, it condescends the ability of its own sympathetic female character like the general remainder of mainstream films. In On the Waterfront, the two-dimensional drawing of the characters does not stop at women, however. It extends to the transparently token role of Karl Malden's priest, whose purpose is terribly obvious, and that is to communicate directly the film's profound moral message. He only arrives on screen to present us with monologues that rivet the sympathetic workers and frustrate the bad guys. Another role that is, at least by now, very cliché is the role of the dense, squinting sidekick to the union mob whose only line is a reply to someone asking for the posse's approval, and it is always, "Definitely."These elements that I criticize are not necessarily flaws, because the film clearly works. It's powerful, but by today's standards, the film is unfortunately weakened. The standards I speak of are not even necessarily cinematic. They are social in general. The film needs no crutch; it simply bears all the standard weak points of formula films that are designed to work for the specific point in time, which in this case is the mid-1950s. Now, the kid massacring the pigeon coup in response to a character who talks to the police would not have as much of a sympathetic portrayal as it does in this film. It certainly does not arouse sympathy in me, as I am a devout animal lover.The director, Elia Kazan, fashions a tight movie that has its great flashes of realism in terms of chemistry between people and the conditions of environment, and reveals his squealer perspective, being one of the maniacs who participated in ratting out Hollywood writers and directors on the Black List, and propagandizes his standpoint on ratting out by glorifying and commending it here, showing those who don't approve to be naive and apart of an unfortunate, insulated community that simply doesn't know any better. In the film, it works. In reality, what he did is monstrous. But as a director, he is quite good, because, all things considered, On the Waterfront is a deserving classic.


                
Marlon Brando could simply look you in the eye for a split second to prove he is a movie star. He was one of those few celebrities who really made a difference in films by bringing epic characters in a powerful and moving way. Each character he acted as gave remarkable dialogue and had meaningful motifs. By far his best performance comes from the 8-Oscar winning classic drama "On the Waterfront." Brando plays Terry Malloy, a hardened young man who dreams about being a prize fighter. While running errands at the docks for Johnny Friendly (Lee J.Cobb), the corrupt boss of the dockers union. Terry witnesses a murder by two of Johnny's thugs, and later meets the dead man's sister (Eva Marie Saint) and feels responsible for his death. She introduces him to Father Barry (Karl Malden), who tries to force him to provide information for the courts that will smash the dock racketeers. This is a story of Hollywood history. "On the Waterfront" is an ode to life in terms of the moral messages it provides. That's why this story stands out. It has a strong conflict that tests the moral abilities of our protagonists and gives a triumphant ending to satisfy audiences. Each actor gives charismatic performances. Brando does his best by showing a moral conflict through shame and redemption, Eva Marie saint is lovely as his girlfriend, Lee J.Cobb is one of the most hateful characters on the 20th century, and Karl Malden is a cinematic hero for his wisdom. The film is jam-packed with stars. Elia Kazan was one of the older American filmmakers who showed he wanted stories made that really meant something and impacted the audience spiritually. His story is directed with the 50's 35 mm format with stunning Black and White, but a vibrant range of emotions coming from rich characters created by Budd Schulberg, a man that changed the way movies were written due to his socially relevant messages prompted by his magnificent characters. "On the Waterfront" is an epic story about morality that can still inspire those who are willing to come across it. This is a cinematic icon.


                
Marlon Brando plays longshoreman Terry Malloy who "coulda been a contender". That famous line, from one of the most famous scenes ever put on film, is the thing most remembered about On the Waterfront. But this film is so much more than one memorable scene. It's a gripping, powerful drama. It's a film which presents a simple yet fascinating story, a story which can be both inspiring and tragic. At its heart it's a story of one man, Terry Malloy, struggling to do the right thing. And Brando's performance in the role is simply stunning, justifiably hailed as one of the greatest performances of all time.The plot centers on corruption on the docks where Terry works. Union boss Johnny Friendly, played rather bombastically by Lee J. Cobb, is in complete control on the waterfront. His illegal activities are not limited to lining his pockets with ill-gotten cash. Right at the film's beginning it is a Johnny Friendly-ordered murder which sets the plot into motion. Terry finds himself an unwitting accomplice in the killing of a dockworker who dared to testify against the union. That's what happens to rats and Terry's no rat. He's content to dummy up and say nothing until he meets the dead man's sister. Eva Marie Saint plays Edie Doyle, a woman who will push Terry to do the right thing. Determined to find out who killed her brother Edie enlists the help of a local priest, Father Barry, who overcomes his initial reluctance to take it upon himself to clean up the docks. But for all their good intentions Edie and Father Barry are never going to be able to make much headway unless they have cooperation from someone on the inside. And as they proceed they will be reminded all too clearly of the grim consequences for anyone who dares to speak the truth. Despite the danger, for both himself and for his brother who happens to be Johnny Friendly's lawyer, Terry Malloy begins to see what it is he must do. A conscience can be a dangerous thing. But finally Terry Malloy is gonna be somebody. He's not a bum anymore.Perhaps the film does lay it on a bit thick in its presentation of Terry Malloy as the Messiah of the docks. But knowing director Elia Kazan's own personal life story that's understandable. The statement Kazan makes to his critics with this film is quite clear. There is no denying the power of this story, a story which holds up brilliantly more than half a century later. And the cast is almost uniformly terrific in bringing the story to the screen. Brando's legendary performance obviously stands out but the contributions from those around him are key as well. Brando got his Oscar but so did Saint who did wonderfully in her first film role. She plays off Brando so well. The relationship between Edie and Terry is a fascinating one as she uses him to seek justice for her brother without really knowing the role he had to play in her brother's demise. As Terry finds himself falling for Edie the secret he keeps from her always lurks in the background. There's that conscience again.Apart from Brando and Saint there are three more major roles. Cobb makes for a terrific villain. The sense of menace when Johnny Friendly is on the screen is quite palpable. Karl Malden is very good in his role as Father Barry although he does have a few moments where he's a bit over the top. One scene in particular, with Father Barry giving a speech over a dead body in the hold of a cargo ship, sticks out as being a little awkward. It doesn't quite seem to fit with the tone of the rest of the film. But all in all Malden does well. And then, playing Terry's brother Charley, there is Rod Steiger. His may seem like a small role, not nearly as important as those of the other four big name stars. And then he steps into the back of a taxicab and steps right into film immortality. Brando and Steiger, Terry and Charley, two brothers in one of the most emotional, heart-breaking scenes you will ever see. You can feel the pain these characters feel. Brilliant acting, brilliant film-making. It's a scene which is a perfect centerpiece for a classic film.


                
"On the Waterfront" was the big winner at the 1955 Academy Awards with no less than eight trophies. The film got Best Picture honors and director Elia Kazan won his second Oscar. Brando got his first nomination in another Kazan film 3 years earlier and this time won. That film was "A Streetcar Named Desire" and brought Karl Malden the win. Here he got another nomination. Lee J. Cobb shines as the main villain and manages his first Academy award nomination just like Rod Steiger, who has only a very small part and was a complete newcomer to movies at this point. The latter could also be said about Eva Marie Saint with the difference that she did win the prestigious Supporting Actress award for her breakthrough movie. Saint is stunning and gives a truly mesmerizing performance as does Brando. This is maybe my favorite turn from him. Both were in their late 20s in this film and Brando was actually older than Steiger, who played his older brother.Really everybody nails their part here and I am always surprised what a likable presence Karl Malden has. Guess I need to watch "Streets of San Francisco" at some point. The film is packed with excellent metaphors about all kinds of stuff, including pigeons for example. It deals with (false) loyalty, love, parental disapproval of boyfriends, missed chances and careers and finally having the balls to do the right thing. I am actually glad, the film has a (sort-of) happy ending. Occasionally I felt it could end badly for Brando's character. It's really difficult to find something negative about this film, but maybe if you don't know a lot about unions and the mob in America at this point of time, you may have a hard time to understand crucial moments of the movie, including the ending. That's just a minor criticism though. It's an excellent film and I highly recommend it.
Marlon Brando and the rest of the cast did a fine job in this movie, but for me the show-stealer was Karl Malden's performance as Father Barry, a social activist Roman Catholic priest who gets involved in the fight against corruption in a Longshoreman's local. Malden was very good in the role - moving Father Barry from initially cautious about getting involved to ultimately passionate about his involvement. It was an interesting performance from Malden in a believably compelling movie depicting union corruption and the intimidation and exploitation of the workers by those who were supposed to be looking out for their interests.Brando played Terry Malloy, a young ex-boxer who's now basically a union tough working for the local president, known as Johnny Friendly (Lee J. Cobb). Terry begins to have an attack of conscience when he sets up a young kid to be killed, after he thought the kid was only going to be roughed up a bit. Along the way he meets up with and falls for the kid's sister (Eva Marie Saint) and ultimately ends up testifying against Johnny in a corruption trial. The last scene of the movie, as the workers rally around Terry after he gets beaten and bloodied by the goons used by the union leadership and Johnny is left abandoned by the workers he had previously controlled is a very moving scene. (Some of Terry's words as he reflects on his boxing career - and his use as a tough employed by a local union - obviously influenced "Rocky" in 1976.)What you have here is not especially flashy - but it's a well done movie with a good cast. (8/10)


                
Mob-connected union boss Johnny Friendly (Lee J. Cobb) gloats about his iron fisted control of the waterfront. The police and the Waterfront Crime Commission know that Friendly is behind a number of murders, but witnesses play deaf and dumb, submitting to their oppressed position rather than risk the danger and shame of informing. Terry Malloy (Marlon Brando) is a dockworker whose brother Charley (Rod Steiger) is Friendly's lawyer.In 1952, director Elia Kazan was a witness before the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC), in which he identified many alleged Communists in the film industry. That brought him severe criticism. This film is said to be his response to that, featuring another character who is willing to turn in his family and friends. The connection seems questionable, though -- in the film, people are clearly getting killed, while in real life, those wanted by HUAC were harmless, and were persecuted for their beliefs. Kazan was on the wrong side.If this film and "Angels With Dirty Faces" taught me anything, it's that Catholic priests and the mafia don't mix. Apparently, they have strong feelings on organized crime and really know how to reach the hearts of criminals.While Eva Marie Saint really caught my attention, the role of Terry (Brando) is by far the best. He's not altogether bright, but a good soul, caught up in a battle between the best interests of the dock workers, his own best interests and his family. He loves his brother, but is it right that he had to throw away a clear shot at the boxing title? I was moved by this film, and maybe even teared up a little bit. I was impressed, knowing Brando more for "The Godfather" (which, as great and memorable a film as it is, is not a strong role for him). People should give this film a chance. It is truly timeless.


                
Most obviously there is Brando. There is his "Oh Charlie" in the back seat of the taxi. There is his picking up of her glove, his seemingly unconscious fiddling with it, his putting it on his own hand, endearing us to him, softening him, opening his masculine casing to reveal some tender something inside. There is also the mythic structure of the plot<U+0097>Steinbeck said in East of Eden that there are only two stories, and that they both come from the same book, Genesis: 1) The fall of Adam and Eve 2) The murder of Abel by Cain. With On the Waterfront we have a version of the Cain and Abel story, revised though, revised by Abel (Brando), he comes back to triumph. The movie is not strict allegory. Nor should it be. But the basic thread, the testing and defining of loyalty between brothers, it is told almost as well in On the Waterfront as it is in Genesis, in a revised version of course.


                
"On the Waterfront" is a crime movie in which we watch an ex-prize fighter who know is working in the dock and he does some willings for the corrupt boss of the dockers union. Although this changes after the death of one friend of his and when he meets the sister of his friend who wants to find the killer of his brother.I truly liked this movie because of the plot which I found simply clever and brilliant. I also liked the direction which made by Elia Kazan which was outstanding (won the Oscar of Best Director). About the interpretations, I have to mention the great interpretation of Marlon Brando who played as Terry Malloy (won the Oscar of Best Actor in a Leading Role), the interpretation of Karl Malden who played as Father Barry and the interpretation of Eva Marie Saint who played as Edie Doyle (won the Oscar of Best Actress in a Supporting Role). In addition to this I believe that this movie shows us the truth behind many things and of course behind the profit. Also I think that this movie wants us to observe how some situations change in life and after that what we have to think and do in order to survive in this difficult world.Finally I believe that "On the Waterfront" is a great movie and everybody has to watch it because it shows some truths about the old times in America and especially about its docks. I strongly recommend it.


                
Brando and Kazan never cease to fail me! Pro(s): Marlon Brando's acting is filled with so much emotion but is still realistic. One of his best acting scenes in the film is when his character Terry is yelling at his brother Charley on how Terry could have become wealthy and famous. In the scene, Terry yells "You don't understand. I coulda had class. I coulda been a contender. I coulda been somebody, instead of a bum, which is what I am, let's face it. It was you, Charley." Brando's acting (in every film) is incredibly convincing and he is honestly one the best actors in the film industry. Kazan's flow of directing makes you feel like you are in the film, or even so; can make you feel like a character! In one scene, after Terry is beaten up the camera switches to Terry's point of view and actually copies Terry's wobbly moments as he's walking. The directing of the scene's really displays Terry's determination and struggle to get to where he needed to be. Kazan also uses great exuberant sound score that defines the scenes greatly. The plot itself is terrific and really makes a huge portion of the film so great. The intricate twist and turns make the film exciting but the dialogue and the actions of the characters control the film to where it has just the right amount of everything. The drama also incorporates great action and romance scenes. Con(s): One con that does somewhat hurt the film would be the long dragging moments. The beginning is definitely at first a tiny bit boring but thats understandable considering the beginning is like an introduction to the main characters. Overall the plot, acting, directing, and sound are all 10 out of 10 but the dragging moments makes this film an 8/10 instead of a perfect score. No matter what, it's still a great film that I highly recommend.
Budd Schulberg took his script " On The Waterfront " from his original novel of the same name. Interested in the story, the noted book became the basis for the movie, later Directed by Elia Kazan. It relates the story of a young ex-boxer named Terry Malloy (Marlon Brando) who is in the employ of corrupt Union boss Johnny Friendly (Lee J. Cobb). In that position he is advised and counseled by his older brother Charley Malloy (Rod Steiger) who also works for the crime-riddled organization. Not satisfied with extortion and racketeering, Friendly goes further by intimating his longshoremen into compliance which eventually includes assault and murder. The situation becomes intolerable until a courageous parish priest named Father Barry (Karl Malden) convinces Terry and a motley group of hardworking laborers to fight for their rights. This eventually puts the two forces into a collision which in the annals of Cinema has become a Black and white Classic. Indeed, it's also a foundation for some of the most memorable lines in film. Furthermore in the ensemble of the great cast members are those who have become easily recognized actors of later screen movies. Many of your own favorites are in among them. Easily recommended to any and all movie aficionados. ****


                
While "On the Waterfront" may be best-remembered by many viewers either for Marlon Brando's performance, or for the classic taxicab scene, or for its controversial subject matter, it is really a first-class production all the way around, with many strengths that fit together quite well.  The well-written story and the effective waterfront atmosphere might really be its greatest assets, since they in themselves allow for interesting characters and many dramatic possibilities.  The whole cast is good, and Elia Kazan's direction moves things along at a good pace, while putting all of the pieces together to make an engrossing and entertaining movie.Brando is usually singled out for his performance, but in reality he looks so good because the role is so well-conceived, and because the cast as a whole fits together so well.  Lee J. Cobb's bluster, Karl Malden's iron will, Rod Steiger's coldness, and Eva Marie Saint's sensitivity all fit together nicely with Brando's cocky but oddly thoughtful character.  The story makes good use of all of these, and of the settings, which create an atmosphere that is almost like a character in itself.  Aside from a few unduly melodramatic moments, the entire movie is both absorbing and believable.Wherever one wishes to assign the credit for it, "On the Waterfront" is a fine classic that capitalizes on all of its opportunities.  It remains just as satisfying even after seeing it a number of times.


                
This is probably the most well known and well loved, apart from maybe The Godfather, of all the films the lead actor starred in, and I was really looking forward to seeing it all the way through. Basically the Hoboken, New Jersey waterfront is being overrun with mobsters, and the Crime Commission, supported by Father Barry (Oscar nominated Karl Malden), is trying to cut down the underworld infiltration. Workers are being turned against each other, and without knowing it, dock worker and ex-fighter Terry Malloy (Oscar, BAFTA and Golden Globe winning Marlon Brando) gets involved in and witnesses the murder of longshoreman Joey Doyle. The murder was orchestrated by mob boss Johnny Friendly (The Exorcist's Oscar nominated Lee J. Cobb), along with other illegal activities on the dock, with the help of Charley 'the Gent' (introducing Oscar nominated Rod Steiger), Terry's brother. Terry is beginning to understand that his actions were wrong, and has his conscience turning, especially when he has Joey's sister Edie (introducing North by Northwest's Oscar and BAFTA winning Eva Marie Saint) looking for those responsible. He also wants to really make a difference on the docks, Father Barry urges him on, and it all comes to a head with a severe beating, until Terry manages to make the important change for the current circumstances. Also starring Pat Henning as Timothy J. 'Kayo' Dugan, Leif Erickson as Glover, James Westerfield as Big Mac, Tony Galento as Truck, Tami Mauriello as Tullio, John F. Hamilton as 'Pop' Doyle, Martin Balsam as Gillette, Fred Gwynne as Slim and Batman's Pat Hingle as Jocko. Brando, the youngest actor at the time to win an Oscar, is splendid as the preoccupied with bad memories misfit, Cobb, Steiger and Saint are fantastic support, the music is great, and there are enough moments to keep the pace consistent, a most watchable classic crime drama. It won the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Cinematography, Best Director for Elia Kazan (Gentlemen's Agreement), Best Film Editing, Best Writing, Story and Screenplay and Best Picture, and it was nominated for Best Music for Leonard Bernstein, it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film from any Source, and it won the Golden Globes for Best Cinematography, Best Director and Best Motion Picture - Drama. Marlon Brando was number 30 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, he was number 11 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, he was number 4 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Men, and he was number 1 on The World's Greatest Actor, Terry Malloy was number 23 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains, "You don't understand! I coulda had class. I coulda been a contender. I could've been somebody, instead of a bum, which is what I am." was number 3 on 100 Years, 100 Quotes, the film was number 22 on 100 Years of Film Scores. it was 36 on 100 Years, 100 Cheers, and it was number 8 on 100 Years, 100 Movies. Very good!
Marlon Brando has been said to be the best actor ever and..rightly so. One cannot forget his stellar performance in The Godfather. However, it is in On the Waterfront the he is at his best, his sills peak. But this review is not about Brando (not only) we will get on to that later on. This is a piece of writing that is aimed at reviewing one of the greatest movies of all time.The clue is in the very title. Brando's character, former pro-boxer, works down at the docks. How did he end up there? I do not want to give away more than it is strictly necessary but...let us just say he go involved with the wrong people. In this sense, the movie help the American society to wake up to what was going on at the docks in New York, its endemic corruption and racketeering. And we all know that once you are dragged into the mob world there is no turning back, no one is going to pull you back out of it. Or...is there somebody? When a beautiful woman comes along to shatter Brandon's life once again, this time around in a positive way, this ex boxer finds some badly-needed courage and will try to turn things around.


                
Dear Martin Scorsese, I watched your interview on the special features section of the On The Waterfront DVD. You did make some good points about how On the Waterfront was a pioneer in the way the streets of New York was filmed and looked on screen. You also stated that Brando's performance was unique and you had not seen anything like it before except for John Garfield in Force of Evil. But I was thinking about Sterling Hayden in The Asphalt Jungle. I am not comparing Sterling to Brando. But I was thinking about how both the characters were conflicted by the corruption around them, seemingly unable to escape their terrible circumstances. Brando exuded the lonesomeness and melancholy of the failed boxer trying to save his soul by standing up to the union boss who controls the livelihood of the longshoremen. I see parallels between Brando's performance in On the Waterfront and De Niro's in The Raging Bull. I also think Lee.J.Cobb's performance is seriously underrated. He upstaged Brando in some of their scenes together. Cobb's menacing certainty about his evil manipulative ways was a perfect foil for Brando's confusion. Their interactions were the best part of the film. I wish the writer had written more scenes with the two of them squaring off. I was not too impressed by the weepy Eva Marie Saint or the saintly Karl Malden. On the Waterfront tells a universal story. It is a very depressing film when you think about it. I can never forget the final scenes when Brando is being beaten up by the thugs and all the longshoremen simply crowd around and look on. The shots of them passively crowding around the brawling men like sheep was clearly used by Kazan to convey their impotence. Best Regards, Pimpin. (8/10)
On the Waterfront remains a very enjoyable movie, despite having not aged well in many regards. The highlights are the performances from Brando, Cobb and some of the other players, the cinematography and the dialogue. I'm a sucker for speeches, and there are a couple of good one in here, made mostly by the priest character. The way the workers talk with each other is very enjoyable, though I have no idea how authentic it really is. I also really loved the extras and small parts in this movie, because they all have such distinct faces.While the soundtrack is nice, but the sound mixing is quite bad/dated. Brando is good in his part, but I'm not convinced that he would attract Eva Marie Saint's character in the way that it happens in the movie. How the relationship is portrayed is easy to forgive (as much have happened in the 60 years since this movie was made), but it still takes away some of the realism.


                
