Watching On The Waterfront nowadays, two scenes stand out head and shoulders above the rest. First is the impassioned speech by Father Barry (Karl Malden) to the gathered dock workers in the hull of a ship where he tries to rally them against the mobsters running their lives. Second is the confrontation between Terry and Charlie Malloy (Marlon Brando and Rod Steiger) in the back of a taxi which ends in one brother pointing a gun at the other and Brando's now legendary "contender speech." Both of them are sequences where the characters do nothing but talk but each is a fine example of what makes On The Waterfront the undeniable classic it is; acting, scripting, cinematography, music, everything fits into one cohesive whole and the end result is a welcome addition to any film collection.The story here concerns Terry Malloy, a New York shipyard worker who finds his conscience bothering him when one of his friends is murdered. Terry at first is a tough guy with a grim outlook ("you know my philosophy on life, give it to 'em before they give to you") who despite his inner turmoil refuses to confess anything to the Police as it would make him a "rat." However, the arrival of Malden's headstrong Preacher and the victim's innocent sister Edie (Eva Marie Saint in her debut appearance) throws his deaf and dumb world into chaos. Soon, Terry finds himself falling for Edie and the Preacher's words hit home, leaving the angry young dockworker to question what's really right. The mob meanwhile aren't too happy about Terry's UNHEALTHY RELATIONSHIP and begin to pile on the pressure, especially his older brother Charlie who's torn between loyalty to his boss and looking out for his younger sibling. Before anyone can put a lid on things, the dockyard becomes a very tense place to be.Brando of course puts his heart and soul into his performance. Terry by his very nature isn't one to carry his heart on his sleeve and so the great Method Actor is left to convey his turmoil through body language alone. It is a testament to how good he is that you can tell exactly what Terry is feeling even though he hardly ever expresses it verbally. Instead his shoulders hunch with resigned indignation and his eyes spark with anger, Brando playing the part so well he more or less disappears into the character completely. While he may have taken a lot of the credit however, he is far from the only strong presence in the film as Karl Malden's rock hard Preacher is just as compelling, his depiction of the dignified man of Christ who isn't afraid to drink beer and smoke cigarettes with the Wharf rats being a refreshingly positive portrayal of a Catholic leader. Eva Marie Saint meanwhile puts in a convincing portrayal of Edie, but she is hamstrung a little by some old fashioned writing. Her pursuit of her brother's murderers give her some powerful moments but there are a couple of instances where it becomes all too clear that the part was written by a man. However, she still gives us one of the most touching moments in the film, a confrontation with Terry where most of their chat is disrupted by a tug horn that is achingly sad despite the absence of dialogue.Acting is only one half of the equation of course and needless to say, the story remains constantly gripping. The murder that opens the film leaves an instant grip on the viewer's attention and as Terry spirals further into an intricate web of half truths, things get incredibly dark. The New York tenement blocks that tower over the proceedings provide an imposing sense of claustrophobia while the rooftops are a smoke laden jungle of chimney stacks and TV aerials. However, if you look closely it becomes apparent that the crew still had some fun with the material and there is some subtle humour to be had - a wedding party degenerating into a brawl and a bar full of panicked customers emptying into the streets followed by a shot of one isolated individual desperately jumping into the bathroom.All in all therefore, On The Waterfront is a film that is thoroughly deserving of its reputation. Brando excels in his role and heads up a highly talented cast giving it their all. Most of all though, it's an engaging and captivating story of urban paranoia, filled with tough guys spitting out slang in barking New York accents. Think you're a big shot, do ya? Huh? Well do us all a favour and check this one out. Ah enough a youse guys, ged outta here.


                
IMDb Top 250: 105I finished On the Waterfront about 2 hours ago, and something strange happened. Something I haven't done in a long while, I can't for certain remember the film that caused it. When the film ended, I sat in silence for about 10 minutes.On the Waterfront is an inspiring film. There's a feeling you get watching it- movie magic. Something great is playing out in front of your eyes and you are taking in the collective effort of geniuses. Right from the start, with the dramatic score (that stays fine throughout) introducing the film, something special is happening.The plot synopsis gives the appearance of a plain film, and plain it is not. The mob, murder and romance are the stars of this show and right off the start this is apparent- like the lighting of a fuse. Then as the wick burns down, the drama unfolds. We learn about Terry Malloy (Marlon Brando), his past and present, and his conflicted thoughts. We are introduced to characters that push him down the path he has to choose. A viewer grows to care about Terry, and until he decides for himself, we have no idea what he'll do.This film is an acting gold magnet- it received 5 nominations in acting alone. I'll start with Brando's legendary performance. It doesn't matter what you think of him offscreen because for 2 hours he is at his very best, one of the best in acting ever. Terry is a fantastic character and Brando gives an unrivalled, honest performance.Wanting him to stand against his negative influences are Father Barry (Karl Malden) and Edie (Eva Marie Saint). The father is a frustrated man, furious in his quest for righteousness. Only in The Exorcist have I liked a priest as much. He gives a raging performance, at its peak with a scolding of the longshoremen. Riveting. With him, but quite the opposite in character is Edie, who falls into the plot. Saint aces her characters role, which is to mold Terry. Their scenes are tender, believable, and in a recurring theme with the film, honest. During their bar scene I thought they could've just made a romance together, leaving out all the drama.On the other side, the mob union leaders, we have Johnny Friendly (Lee J. Cobb), the head honcho, who is ferocious, intimidating, and impeccably evil to honest workers. There's also Charley (Rod Steiger), Terry's older brother who is comfortably in with the mob. I didn't notice him at all, except for 'the scene' which must've made him in the Academy's eyes.Speaking of 'the scene', the pivotal Taxi cab dialogue between Terry and Charley, you can tell as it happens this is the moment, the peak of On the Waterfront and Marlon Brando. It is the turning point of the film, where Terry makes some huge realizations that we can infer from only his face and tone. I won't even discuss his words, as it's been done by absolutely everyone. There are several other great scenes, like the 'It's a crucifixion' speech and the various rooftop scenes.Right until the last scene we aren't sure what will happen. I won't spoil it, but it's elevating. Heroic. Even enlightening.On the Waterfront is about the small speaking out against the large and corrupt. It's about going against the flow, breaking the silence. Sometime in your life you were or will be in Terry's position to some degree, and you'll either do or don't. Leave it at that, please don't read the director's reasoning behind the film. Take it for what it is: a fantastic film that will make you want to be a better person who can speak out against wrongdoers. Powerful indeed.I thought On the Waterfront would be good, but not this good. With stupendous performances, a top notch story and a strong message, On the Waterfront is film at it's best. 9.4/10


                
There is a reason this film won 8 academy awards. It is one of the best movies of the 1950's, easily. Watching Brando on screen is mesmerizing, as he is truly one of Hollywood's finest actors, in history. He may be on the actors mount Rushmore. And for a 50's movie, it's a real dark story. There aren't many smiles shared throughout this classic.One of the best parts about this movie is watching the young talent right before our eyes. You can really see the talent of not only Brando, but Eva Marie Saint. As she won her one and only Oscar for her role. Brando's character is a troubled ex-boxer who never really finds his own in the real world. He has to choose which side he's really on even with his longtime friends and brother on one side. From the opening scene of a murder the film glues you to the story. It didn't feel like a typical 50's movie at all. There wasn't any cheap romance and cheesy dialogue. Its written beautifully and is complimented with a great score. The script is brought to life by a great supporting cast led by the priest. He influences Brando to stick up for what is right even if it means ratting on his team. No wonder this movie has been number one on many all time great 50's lists. I think Rear Window and a Dial M for Murder still wins for me but this is not far behind. Very impressed with everything about this movie.My only complaint comes from the courthouse as I thought that scene feel flat. I wish we heard more dialogue and heartbreak from Terry after losing his brother. That perhaps would have made my score a 10. Nevertheless it's a great film filled with memorable performances.9.2/10
Quite simply one of the best 5 films ever made in my opinion. Brando makes a 'bum' poetic, but for me it's Malden who really shines as the defiant priest. Then again it's a flawless cast throughout. Why some of the other reviewers concentrate on Kazan's politics is pointless. Always take a film on it's own merits, and this one is pure class.


                
Every movie has the basis of a story between good and evil, and On the Waterfront is not different.  On the Waterfront however makes this competition quite interesting posing the decision between friends and good morals.  Terry Malloy (Marlon Brando) witnesses a murder and has to decide between betraying his friends or doing what's right and getting the girl, Edi Doyle (Eva Marie Scott), he loves. 	 This movie has the perfect plot line for a movie, but unfortunately with this comes much ungrateful unfitting music, forced acting and scenes that seem to be shot by a three year old having a hissyfit.  In many parts of the film the music seems like it is going to lead up to something big and then the scene ends leaving the viewer in utter disbelief that pinnacled music was brought up to a point of nothing.  When the viewer would see something important happening it wasn't accented at all by the music but followed by awkward silence.  The music throughout the whole film is not only unfitting but also very cheesy. 	Terry Malloy's love, Edie Doyle, should have received an award for most likely to not impress a stoner at his peak of intelligence instead of Best Supporting Actress.  Every scene that she was in, she forced out her words and feelings like she was being controlled by a very bad ventriloquist. Some film critics have said that they have cried from her touching performance, I think I cried after laughing so much at her awful acting. Edie wasn't the only actor whose skills seemed rather forced, Father Barry (Karl Malden), also had his moments to have his strings pulled.  Most of his speeches, like the rousing speech at the packing plant, were very well done; but sometimes Father Barry would act more like monkey on a leash rather than a priest. 	With so much jeer for the film there is probably a greater amount of cheer. Marlon Brando does a very good job of playing a former prize fighting Terry Malloy who tries to fight the mob and be himself.  Marlon Brando took the part of Terry Malloy and molded it into the perfect part to make this film a little less than wonderful.  The other great points of the movie were the scenes of the mob.  Head mobster Johnny Friendly (Lee J. Cobb) does a very good job of intimidating others and showing that he deserves to be the head honcho. 	On a ten point scale I give this movie an 8.  I loved the ultimate decision between friends and evil, which many of us come across everyday of our lives.  Marlon Brando makes a land shattering performance and the mob scenes are very well done.  The music and forced acting of Eva Marie Scott and Karl Malden brought this movie down significantly.


                
It's easy to feel ambivalent about "On the Waterfront" because, in some ways, it's director Elia Kazan's defense of his decision to name names before the HUAC. And at times, when the movie aims for universal moral significance, it comes off as preachy. But if you are able to put that subtext aside, the film works very well on a smaller scale--as a study of the growing ethical conscience of Terry Malloy (Marlon Brando), longshoreman and sometime employee of corrupt union boss Johnny Friendly (Lee J. Cobb). Helping Terry--and also becoming better human beings in the process--are Father Barry (Karl Malden), the local priest, and Edie Doyle (Eva Marie Saint), a young woman who knows firsthand what Friendly is capable of doing."On the Waterfront" is the first movie in which I really "got" Marlon Brando. He was always bold, inventive, energetic, and charismatic, but in "Waterfront" he has the most convincing inner life. A lesser actor would have assumed that because Terry is a longshoreman and former boxer, he's bound to be tough and swaggering, and consequently would have over- emphasized those aspects of Terry's personality. But Brando makes clear from the first scene that Terry is confused about who he is, has a surprising lack of self-confidence, and yearns for something better in life while barely being able to articulate that yearning. He can be brash around Edie, but only because he so wants to impress her. At one point, Edie accuses Terry of lacking any "sentiment or romance or human kindness," and these words sting, because Brando's performance reveals that Terry has all those qualities latent within him.It may be unfair, but such a powerhouse performance makes it easier to find fault with the other actors. Thus, when Malden and Saint have trouble making their characters' most moralizing speeches sound sincere and convincing, it really stands out. Still, both actors do impressive work. I like the father-son relationship that develops between Malden and Brando (especially because it's so different from their relationship in "A Streetcar Named Desire"), as well as the awkward, touching romance between Brando and Saint. Rod Steiger is also very effective as Charley, Terry's brother.Whatever Kazan's politics, he was a talented director, basically unobtrusive but with a few showy moments. The location shooting creates an excellent atmosphere--you can almost feel the cold, damp air. Kazan is obviously interested in symbolism (the pigeons, Joey Doyle's jacket, the religious overtones, etc.) but sometimes this becomes heavy-handed rather than clever.Indeed, the final scene of "On the Waterfront" falls into some melodramatic clichés, with Terry becoming an inspirational rebel-martyr, Pop Doyle pushing Johnny Friendly into the water, and Friendly shaking his fist and cursing the longshoremen. But Brando's performance again carries the day. When Terry confronts Friendly--"You're a cheap, lousy, dirty, stinkin' mug! And I'm glad what I done to you, ya hear that?"--he finally raises his voice. He is finally confident. He is finally happy. And I challenge anyone not to feel that same elation.
ON THE WATERFRONT, a classic of its kind, is one of my favorites.  The acting by Brando as Terry Malloy is great.  Supporting cast including Eva Marie Saint and Karl Malden as Terry's girlfriend and priest are also excellent.The score by Leonard Bernstein is part of this film which is often overlooked; the musical background adds to the atmosphere of the shipyard docks of a north-eastern coast city immensely.Chemistry between Saint and Brando sizzles.  Somewhat cliched as far as the ending, but a powerful film just the same.


                
Marlon Brando gives out one of the best movie performances I haven't seen in a long time in movies, in this one.The plot is amazing, its about a man. His name is Terry Malloy, an ex-boxer who works at the dock, but he is somewhat suppressed by the mafia that is running the docks.I won't spoil or say too much about the plot (you just have to watch the movie itself) but the character chemistry is absolutely magnificent, the story is dark, but not too dark nor is it too gritty. It's pretty much in between, it definitely is a strong drama. In the end, the story is just about this one man out of a thousand who has to fight the guilt of what he is doing, but he get's his last chance in life to redeem himself. But will he do it? Or will he continue just being the bum he is?


                
It's nice to find a well-regarded, 'classic' movie which is every bit as good as its reputation would have you believe. ON THE WATERFRONT is such a movie, a well-shot, compelling and perfectly written story about real people struggling to cope with the varying demands in their lives and their abilities to do the right thing.The film features a tour-de-force bit of acting from Marlon Brando as the young and idealistic dockside worker who finds himself caught up in a strong-arm criminal racket led by the completely dastardly Lee J. Cobb. ON THE WATERFRONT is a working classic epic that brings to life a story of human struggle and endeavour, and it's the kind of film that stays with you afterwards.The story is a slow burner, giving you a chance to get to know the characters before drawing them together in a spiral of increasing violence, and I found that it gets better and better as it goes on, building to a climax that's absolutely buzzing with power. Top stuff indeed and a feather in the cap of all those involved.


                
This starts with the death of Joey. His friend Terry Malloy (Marlon Brando) is an errand boy for the corrupt dock workers union boss Johnny Friendly (Lee J. Cobb) and his brother Charley (Rod Steiger). He used to be prize fight boxer, but it never worked out for him. Joey's sister (Eva Marie Saint) desperately wants to find out what happened to Joey, and befriends Terry. Everybody suspects Terry and he feels responsible. Father Barry (Karl Malden) tries to help and get rid of the corruption. Meanwhile the cops keep questioning Terry, and the union boss wants to break the rebellious people.Marlon Brando is on his way to becoming a Hollywood legend. It's amazing to see him stand toe to toe with some of the best and come out on top. Not only does he put up the one iconic scene ("I could've been somebody"). He also provide the heart of the movie. Rod Steiger is truly amazing and so is the great Karl Malden. The fact is that the movie is still compelling after all these years. It still holds up.


                
In some ways, it is a shame to think exactly how long it took the legendary Marlon Brando before he won his first Oscar, but realizing that he won it in 'On The Waterfront' deeply warms and satisfies anyone's heart with his legendary performance being praised to death. The film itself, is one of incredible style, showing plenty of talent and skill and leaves an undying message that will live forever, much like this legendary picture has.Marlon Brando stars as an ex-boxer named Terry Malloy, whose life has turned to misery and misfortune since been conned out of boxing. This is highlighted in his iconic line, "I coulda been a contender<U+0085>" which has been parodied everywhere since then. It has become such a Hollywood classic that it cements a spot in the top 5 movie quotes of all time, according to the infamous AFI. Terry Malloy blindly takes part in the death of Joey Doyle and is willing to play D & D (deaf and dumb) for his boss, Johnny Friendly, portrayed by the legendary Lee J. Cobb. At this same time, a series of murders and crime ensues as Terry meets and begins a relationship with Joey's sister, Edie portrayed by Eva Saint Marie in her debut.Every single performance in this film is incredible whether the obvious Marlon Brando, Lee J. Cobb, Karl Malden, Eva Saint Marie or even smaller roles such as Rod Steiger. Brando's performance is quite possibly, the greatest cinema has ever seen rivalled only by his performance 18 years later, in The Godfather. He brings a certain energetic feel to the film, boosting the brilliance of his performance by his speciality, method acting. Had anyone else been cast, no matter how legendary, I fear that they couldn't bring the certain endearing aspect that Brando does, the confusion, the anger, the disappointment and most importantly, portray the innocence of his character. Brando excels at each aspects of this film. He is not alone in terms of fantastic performances.Lee J Cobb plays Terry's boss, Johnny Friendly and portrays him with brilliance. He brings yet again, a rather endearing personality to it and later unleashes with an intense, dirty and evil performance. The scene towards the end of the film, where he begins pounding Terry is vicious and completely believable not only from Brando's side but from Cobb's side. He certainly has a way with playing bad guys! Karl Malden is terrific as the priest in this film and it is his second film with Brando, the other being 'A Streetcar Named Desire' He is once more, fantastic as a supporting character knocking some sense into the kid inside Terry. The scene where he objects to Terry's desperate need for murder was just brilliant. Malden brings a certain frustration towards Brando's character, some heart and most importantly, is evident that he brings some sense into Terry.Not only do we have the brilliance of Brando, Cobb and Malden but it is mindblowing to think that Eva Saint Marie won herself an Oscar in her film debut as she plays Terry's love interest, Edie. Whilst her performance may not be up to scrap with the others, it is nevertheless an absolutely fantastic performance especially considering it be her debut. The brilliant thing about 'On The Waterfront' is that it becomes so easy to get lost with the fact that there are actors acting out parts of this film due to how realistic and how grabbing the performances are.The story is an extremely touching one, full of emotion and a realistic take on crime. The film itself is an extremely inspiring and positive one sending the undying message that even the average "bum" like Terry can do good like he does by the end of the film. It realistically presents what life can be like and the addition of the two kids who are often shown present with Terry are just brilliant, resembling the innocence of the kid within Terry.At 100 minutes, the film is flawlessly written, directed and paced and keeps a certain intensity all throughout. The cinematography in this film is gorgeous and all themes tackled in this film provide us with hope in life, especially for those who are often discriminated due to various reasons. 'On the Waterfront' is simply a movie that can knock some sense and hope into anyone and it does after all, feature one of the all time greatest performances!
****SPOILERS**** The Hoboken docks were coming under the scrutiny of a major Federal Crime Commission to investigate the mob connections of local 374 the longshoreman union in the area and it's president Michael J. Skelly aka Johnny Friendly, Lee J. Cobb. It's when longshoreman Joey Doyle agreed to testify against Friendly that things started to get real ugly.Getting Joey's friend and fellow longshoreman Terry Malloy, Marlon Brando, to unwitting set him up by getting Joey to go on the roof of his apartment house, to get one of his lost pigeons, Friendly's thugs grabbed and threw Joey down off the roof killing him. Terry would be haunted by Joey's death in his being an accomplice in it. Later when he meets Joey's sister Edie, Eva Marie Saint, and falls in love with her Terry's guilt eventually leads him to do what Joey was expected to do, by the crime commission and Johnny Friendly, testify in open court against Friendly and his mobsters that are running the docks.One of the great human dramas coming out of Hollywood in the turbulent 1950's that had as it's hero a man who would do the unthinkable by testifying against his fellow workers, no matter how mobbed up and corrupt they are, and in the end almost pay with his life for doing it. Johnny Friendly and his mobsters were the reason that what Terry did what he was forced to do after he had struggle with his conscience almost through the entire movie. Terry who at first was a 100% union man and who's belief in not talking to the commission was the only and right thing to do started to see the light when he got to know Joey's grieving sister Edie and her dad Pop Doyle, John Hamilton. Being the last person to see Joey alive Terry was called to testify to the commission about Joey's "accidental" death. As Johnny Friendly got paranoid about Terry's relationship with Edie, Terry's hesitation in keeping quite about it lead to an explosive taxi cab meeting with his older brother Charley "The Gent" Malloy, Rod Steiger, Johnny Friendly's mouthpiece and right hand man. Not wanting to turn his younger brother over to Friendly's thugs who would murder him Charley in return ended up dead for not being able to guarantee his silence."On the Waterfront" brings out human emotions at their rawest with Marlon Brando's Academy Award performance as Terry Malloy who becomes an outcast from his union and even his life long friends in and out of the docks for being a rat, squealer, against those he worked with. There was a lot more to Terry's actions then trying to gain favor with the commission, which could really do nothing for him. It comes out in the movie that Friendly & Co. were anything but helpful to those that they represented by taking their union dues and then shaking them down, by kicking back a sizable amount of their paychecks, just to get work on the docks.Friendly in the end made the biggest mistake of his life by instead of laying low and riding out the storm of the crime commissions investigation of his corrupt union decided to quite anyone on the docks who was willing to testify.Terry with the support of both Edie and longshoreman fiery preacher Father Barry, Kal Malden,in the end did talk and implicate Friendly and his thugs. This only lead to Terry being beaten almost to death in the movie's final showdown between him and Johnny Friendly. The cowardly Johnny Friendly not being able to take on Terry all by himself also needed a number of his strong-arm men that included three ex-heavyweights, Tony Gelento Abe Simon & Tami Mauriello, who challenged the great Joe Louis for the heavyweight championship to do the job for him. Terry beaten to the point where he could hardly stand on his feet staggers toward the dock work area with the now admiring longshoremen, who at first wouldn't even talk to him, not willing to go back to work unless Terry was there with them The film ends with the dock workers filing in after Terry as he makes it inside and collapses.Excellent performances all around with a young Eva Marie Saint in her first movie role holding her own against her Academy Award winning co-star Marlon Brando as the sweet innocent and courageous Edie Doyle. It was Edie who saw through the fake and phony toughness of Terry Malloy in his trying to be macho but realizing that he was much tougher when he showed his true feelings in his sensitivity to those being abused, and even murdered, around him and willing to put an end, at the cost of risking his life, to it.


                
On rewatching "On the Waterfront" recently, I found it to be preachy and schematic, more like a dose of medicine than a form of entertainment. However, I think that's what sometimes happens to socially relevant films when the context in which they first appeared is long past, and this fact should not be held against the movies themselves. Despite any cracks that may have surfaced in the facade of Elia Kazan's film over the years, it still remains a blisteringly powerful movie.Marlon Brando had a singular appeal as an actor. He attacked his roles like a wounded bull, bluntly charging around the screen while letting glimpses of a vulnerable and aching center show through. I would have said that his performance here as Terry Malloy was his best -- if I had not seen the woeful "Last Tango in Paris," a dreadful movie that nevertheless showcases Brando at his highest level of greatness. His "I coulda been a contender..." soliloquy in "Waterfront" has been hopelessly parodied in the intervening years, but I hope that doesn't prevent viewers new to the film from appreciating what a truly heartbreaking and moving cinematic moment Brando creates while delivering it.Watch also the supporting players in this film, particularly Rod Steiger as Terry's brother, both stronger and weaker than his younger sibling, who obviously admires Terry even while he's baffled by him. Even though Brando gets all of the choicest lines in the above-mentioned contender scene, Steiger matches him every step of the way with his hang-dog, nuanced facial expressions. Lee J. Cobb blusters and shouts his way through his performance as the mob heavy; he serves the function required of him but grows tiresome by the time the movie ends. Karl Malden gives an impassioned performance as a local priest and Eva Marie Saint single-handedly provides the film with some much-needed estrogen. She never gave another performance to equal this one.I greatly admire Elia Kazan as an artist. I don't care about his personal actions or beliefs; he made great movies, and what he did in his private life does not change that fact. He could make virtually any material better than it would have been in the hands of another director, and what saves "On the Waterfront" today from its heavy-handedness, aside from the remarkable acting, is Kazan's fierce commitment to the material and his explosive directorial decisions."On the Waterfront" may be flawed, but it's still a classic.Grade: A


                
But before we get to Brando,let's go over the rest of the film. Kazan shows us why he's regarded as one of the best film makers of this (or any) century. The film is bleak and gritty, a study of both human evil and human decency. It shows us the terrible mob dealings on a waterfront, that prevent anyone outside the mob's inner workings from getting the light work, or a decent days wage. The characters are brilliant and engrossing. Karl Malden plays a preacher who is very much beyond the simple, weak man f God. He is strong and just. Lee J. Cobb plays Mobster Johnny Friendly, who in one character spans all degrees of evil, from greed to murderous revenge. Eva Marie Saint is possibly the weakest of the main characters as the love interest, but considering this was her first film, she's remarkably well versed and played. Rod Steiger defies all logic in that, as the brother, he manages to further, and in some places better, the man I'm about to discuss. Brando gives not only the performance of his, but all our lifetimes. As Mob Muscle and Longshoreman Terry Malloy, Brando acts dumb, violent and ultimately, beautiful. His performance is frequently cited as cinema's best ever, and there's little to deny that. He is more realistic than most real people, and his performance almost eclipses the entire film. That it doesn't is simply because the film is so unbelievably good to begin with. And by the way, I cried when he said "I Coulda Been A Contender."


                
Every generation produces a performance of such effortless standard and this for me is one of those. Brando's portrayal of Terry just shines with class. His relaxed style stands in contrast to the other characters in the movies but that's not to take away from the other actors who provide a backdrop to this no nonsense drama.I found myself seeing desperately stark parallels to the world around us. With governments taking the mantel of organised crime and Terry representing every normal person trying to find some way to understand the limitations of the world they inhabit.... I know many will rave about this movie but I can only say this.... If you only had one movie to see before you die you could do a lot worse than this.....


                
Rating-9/10On the Waterfront is a classic movie which serves as a timely reminder not only how to make a near perfect piece of film, but also how to do some top top acting. Yes this film brings with it a whole plethora of emotion and action which culminates in a euphoric feeling of movie goodness. I felt the film to be a solidly sublime movie and here below is exactly why so.The story is a good mix of thrills but also romance and a little good old fashioned straight line drama. The story is not the fastest but not many of the time were and although the running time is not too long, the plot seems to incorporate everything you feel you need to know. It really steps up a gear toward the end and not to spoil anything for a possible pre watching reader but the end is pumped full of tense scenes and you really feel what is going in the characters mind.The acting is some of the best I have ever seen, Marlon Brando is flawless and finding a better performance is hard to come by or think of. I found Karl Malden as the calm but very stern Father Barry almost as good and he really connects with Brando to create some great scenes together. I found Eve Marie Saint to be maybe not as good but powerful as Edie and she works well with both the actors above to make the cast one of the best assembled.Elia Kazan directs very well indeed and his vision is brought out with such ferocity that a seemingly slow moving drama becomes full of life and passion. Budd Schulberg co creates a script which breathes originality and he pursues the right way to script perfectly. I felt that if the movie were made now in none black and white and with a modern twist, it would still work and that is why it feels so relevant to me.It's hard to think of too much wrong with the thing but at a try the more slower scenes and over dramatic acting by some of the extras comes out. The acting I speak of is mostly confined to when large groups mass and they are poorly chosen, I will say though that the cast such as Brando can literally turn a scene into gold by just being there.I think if you like a good old film that really shows the true spirit of the main character then this is for you, you go along with Terry Malloy and feel how he feels at every turn. You may not like it so much if you dislike all the sets and of course black and white, it is a near masterpiece but I do see why some would not like it as much as others do.Overall I gave it a 9/10 and a solid one of that, not quite reaching a 10 but ever so close indeed. This is one movie where you feel it is hard to give a grade, the story gets it a certain point but then the acting and direction come in and give it so many more marks than it already has. Give it a try and you may just really enjoy it, not to mention go around telling people this is the best movie you have ever seen.


                
From the first scene, it is easy to see that he is caught in the middle of a difficult situation. Terry Malloy has joined the corruption that plagues his workplace; the docks of New York. Each day as he stands in the group of men wanting to work that day on the waterfront, he is falling victim to the corrupt bosses running the docks. As his brother is a member of the head boss' inner circle, Terry is caught in this situation. He has helped in the murder of a man who knew too much, and he didn't want it to be this way. Unlike his brother, Terry's moral compass is better calibrated, and he soon decides that he needs to end the exploitation of the workers on the waterfront. While on his journey, he meets Edie; the sister of the man that Terry helped kill. From his first glance, he has loved her; however, Edie is unaware of his dark past at first, and once she finds out, she stands right alongside Terry. Finally mustering up the courage, Terry engages the bosses face-to-face.My Thoughts In almost every list or countdown of the best performances by an actor in a movie, the performance of Terry Malloy by Marlon Brando is at or near the top. Why is that? If you watch this film, you won't see any huge, overly-dramatic scenes. What you will see is professional actors that don't need huge shouting matches or dramatic soliloquies in order to make their character's emotions felt. Brando delivers a subtlety to his role that takes his performance to that stature that it's at. Even in the famous "I could have been a contender" scene, it's Brando's and Steiger's understated expressions and body language that take us deeper into the situation and emotions felt in the taxi. This film is a great representation of how it takes one courageous individual in order to topple corruption or injustice. Although he is relatively quiet, Terry is the one man brave enough to take a stand against Johnny Friendly and his bosses. Throughout the story, we see numerous people killed by prearranged "accidents" intended to shut up a witness willing to testify against the bosses, and Terry sees these events as well. Once the final straw is pulled, Terry can't take it anymore. In the supporting cast around Brando are some great performances. Lee J. Cobb is fantastic as the malevolent Johnny Friendly, Rod Steiger plays a small (yet important) role as Terry's brother Charlie, and Eva Marie Saint is magnificent as Edie. One "fun fact" that makes the actress' performance even more impressive is that this was her very first film appearance.www.sportsandcelluloid.blogspot.com


                
Terry Malloy is a dockworker. He was a very promising boxer until, upon instruction, he deliberately took a dive. His career never recovered. The waterfront is run my Union/mob boss Johnny Friendly and Terry's brother Charley is his right-hand man. Terry tries to not get involved in the skulduggery, and also keeps his mouth shut when the law intervenes. However, his conscience is pricked when he becomes involved with Edie, the sister of a man Johnny had killed (an event Terry had a minor, non-forewarned part in). Friendly gets wind of Terry's change of heart and now Terry's life is in danger.Great movie, an absolute classic. Solid, gritty plot. Good direction by Elia Kazan.Marlon Brando gives one of the greatest performances in cinematic history - the Best Actor Oscar was very well deserved (this after being nominated each year for the previous three years). Supporting cast are great too - four of them got supporting actor/actress nominations - Eva Marie Saint, Karl Malden, Lee Cobb and Rod Steiger - and Eva Marie Saint won an Oscar.The movie itself won the 1955 Best Picture Oscar, plus seven other Oscars including Best Director for Kazan.


                
Classic drama in its purest form. What more could you want from the legendary talent of a director like Elia Kazan helming a dramatic epic with the likes of Marlon Brando and Karl Malden? On the Waterfront tells the story of Terry Malloy (Marlon Brando) a washed up boxer who wants to separate himself from his mob involvement. He works for mob boss Johnny Friendly (Lee J. Cobb) who is also the corrupt head of the dockers union Terry works for. When Terry witnesses Johnny Friendly's men kill a man he finds himself getting involved with the murder through the sister of the deceased Edie Doyle, played by Eva Marie Saint in her first ever film appearance, as well as Father Barry (Karl Malden) who urges Terry to fight against the corruption he is a part of. It is a smart, moving, and powerful story that will leave you very satisfied and stricken with amazement. On the Waterfront is a true spectacle.On the Waterfront is simply just a showcase for how to make truly good films. It is so iconic to its time period and 60 years down the line it stands as a defining film of its era. It's one of those films that just makes you go, 'They don't make 'em like they used to.' And it's true. In the contemporary world of filmmaking today you wont see films with this kind of raw classic greatness to them. Movies today have a certain updated persona to them, which is fine. It makes a classic like On the Waterfront a more important place in the classic days of cinema. I love contemporary filmmaking, so this is one of those films that will never be one of my absolute favorites, but I can't deny how tremendous of a film it is. There is no denying that it is one of the greatest films of its generation that deserves its place in the movie hall of fame. I myself loved it and I don't plan on ever forgetting about this film.It is just incredible when you watch a film like this where every aspect comes together so beautifully. Starting with Budd Schulberg's gripping screenplay and working your way from there, everything about On the Waterfront is tremendous and no aspect faults the film. Elia Kazan's direction is marvelous here. He was a director far ahead of his time and he proved it with his smooth and gracious cinematography in On the Waterfront. There isn't a wasted shot in this film as Kazan experiments with all sorts of angles and motions that aesthetically bind this film into something beautiful. Then of course there is the acting. There's a reason Marlon Brando is considered one of the greatest actors of all time. And that reason is simply because well... its a fact. So few actors can accomplish the raw natural talent that Brando displays on screen. Everything about his acting seems so fluid and visceral. Not only does he delivers lines with such an intense sincerity, but everything he does between and around his lines is equally incredible. Brando encompasses his character of Terry so well and never once comes out of alignment from the character.I said it once and I'll say it again. They just don't make 'em like they used to. On the Waterfront is one of the most defining films of its time and will forever be remembered as such. Every aspect of the film is as excellent as the next. Nothing seems out of alignment in this film. It is what great filmmaking is all about. You would be a fool not to see this film.


                
This film starring Marlon Brando was actually very good, I was surprised as Brando hadn't really impressed me up untiol the point I saw this film but I grew to have more respect for him as an actor. The film focuses on Terry, an ex-boxer who takes pride in raising his pigeons and working for the corrupt dock employers. He witnesses the death of a close fiend of his and soon enough meets his deceased friends sister who sees more to him than meets the eye. They quietly turmoil among each other and things work out for the best for everyone, he takes a stand and fights for his fellow dock workers.This film was really good, I wouldn't say that it's one of my favorites but it was good nonetheless. Brando impressed me with his role as Terry and although sometimes he was a little stiff, he made the character charming and likable.


                
Marlon Brando, undoubtedly one of the greatest if not the greatest actors of all time, gives a timeless and gritty performance as an ex-fighter who seems to still be fighting outside the ring against the unflinching mob that rules the working rules.Here, Brando has perfected his method acting style, perfectly capturing a young man on the verge of becoming an official adult and having to cope with finding his way in the world as well as dealing with the guilt and fear of a man who is key in a recent murder in the city. His romance with Edie Doyle, played fearlessly by Eva Marie Saint, is sweet and tender as well as tough to watch as we see these two people who have been close their whole lives but on different spectrums come together and find each other. Lee J. Cobb is wonderful as the antagonist Johnny Friendly, and each scene builds to one great and glorious climax.Elia Kazan is one of the finest directors America has to offer, and there is a strong argument that this is the best film he offered audiences about fighting injustice, and standing up for what is right despite all odds against you.


                
Brando with this act set a template of acting which has never been equalled in the last 50+ years. waterfront is one of the most important movies of all time. it should be mandatory viewing for movie watchers of any language, all the departments of film making jell together to form a tale so poignant and tough ( a contradiction, after seeing this movie, you will realise that poignant and tough can co exist). Jack nicholson said it best for this film - the height of any age!!From the supporting cast of Eva Marie, Kalr malden, Rod Steiger and the great Cobb, to the background score, to the gritty realistic portrayal of the waterfront and the corruption that exists there. this film is a lesson on life about when will you awaken to the call of your soulBut the best thing in this great film is the king of actors, rather the god of actors - Marlon Brando


                
Terry Malloy (Marlon Brando) is a failed ex-boxer who is now essentially working as an errand boy for crooked longshoreman union boss/mob chieftain Johnny Friendly (Lee J. Cobb). Malloy rebuffs attempts from the police to enlist him for questioning when one of his friends is murdered by Friendly's thugs, afraid that he will be perceived as a "rat" by his co-workers at the docks. However, the inquiries of his dead friend's sister (Eve Marie Sant) and the driven local priest (Karl Malden), along with the refusal of his hit-man brother (Rod Steiger) to follow boss's orders and kill him, drives Terry to do the right thing - no matter what the cost."On the Waterfront" is undoubtedly one of the great achievements of American cinema. Directed by Elia Kazan, who is best remembered for his role in aiding the HUAC investigations into Hollywood in the early '50s, the film has been read as an attempt to explain his involvement in the investigation, with the mob standing in for the Communist Party and the dock workers as his colleagues in Hollywood, many of whom were blacklisted and lost work over the investigation - and many of whom never forgave Kazan.This is certainly an interesting way to look at the film, and there is some credence to it. At first, Terry, a generally good guy who has hit a rough patch in his life, is reluctant to aide the Federal investigation because he doesn't want to betray his friends and he fears the backlash against him. But the efforts of the lovely sister of his best friend and the kindly but driven preacher drive him to do the right thing - and ultimately his colleagues stand beside him and reveal Johnny Friendly for what he is - a cowardly crook - expressing Kazan's hope that he would be forgiven for turning against Communists in the film industry.In real life, this didn't quite happen; Kazan was continually ridiculed for his role in the HUAC investigation, which, for all its excesses, was not chasing after ghosts. To be fair, unlike the (now provably real) Communists in the State Department and elsewhere in the US government/military, liberal intellectuals and artists in Hollywood who were seduced by Communist idealism weren't really a threat to American security, as misguided as their views might appear today. Nonetheless, it's something of a shame that such a talented director was so ridiculed for doing what he thought was right by his clannish colleagues.Politics aside, "On the Waterfront" still holds up very well today, in no small part due to the acting. This is one of Marlon Brando's finest performances, when he was at the height of his talent, well before he became an overweight caricature of himself. Terry Malloy is a character who, while not particularly bright or insightful, is driven by a determination that there is something wrong with blindly sticking up for his friends. Once he sees what his bosses are, he risks everything in order to do what's right. He's bitter about his failed boxing career, which we learn was largely sabotaged by his brother Charley, and his inability to connect with something greater than being "a bum". Every scene Brando is in is brilliant; this is, simply put, one of the greatest performances of all time, completely naturalistic and utterly believable.The cast is filled with other brilliant actors, with Eve Marie Sant wonderful as Edie, the girl who Terry falls for and drives him in the right direction. Karl Malden gives a powerful performance as Father Barry, a truly inspirational character who is completely honest and clear-cut in his views of right and wrong. Lee J. Cobb is wonderfully understated as Johnny Friendly, with Rod Steiger delivering the finest performance of his career (with the possible exception of "Doctor Zhivago") as Terry's conflicted brother (the famous taxi scene between the two is justly considered one of the finest acting moments in film history). Like Brando, Steiger would become a self-deprecating ham late in his career, but here he gives a truly powerful, believable portrayal of a man torn between love for his brother and serving his boss.There are so many aspects that one could focus on with the film, and I'm limited in what I can say. Skilfully directed and shot, with a wonderful script by Budd Schulberg and one of the greatest casts ever assembled, "On the Waterfront" stands today as a powerful, inspiring drama.9/10
The movie is rich with awards and recognition. The movie was nominated for 12 Oscars and won 8. Exceptional and outstanding in all the ways, the actor's performance, direction, cinematography, music etc. The first movie of Eva Marie Saint. She won Oscar for the best supporting actress. Her chemistry with Marlon Brando was amazing. The dock is ruled by a corrupt man called Johnny Friendly. The protagonist, Terry Malloy works for Johnny. Johny kills a man who stands against him. Terry is the only person who knew what happened. To add to the situation Terry falls in love with the sister of the victim.A definitely must watch movie. Do not miss this.#KiduMovie


                
It's been a while since I saw this movie and I was struck by the number of social parallels that existed then and still exist now. We still have political/organized criminal associations that are screwing the lower classes. To take a stand against it would require the courage of a lion ,(or a Brando in his prime). On the Waterfront contains the same level of ominous intensity that I find in the Godfather twenty years later. It must have been something to experience this movie when it was first released as it resembled very few films that I can think of that combined gritty realism with a relevant social commentary that is every bit as valid today. Then there's the acting! All the principals are terrific and what can you say about Brando? Kazan claimed this as the greatest acting performance ever in the history of films. While personally I prefer Pee Wee Herman in Big Top Pee Wee, it would be hard to argue against Brando here. There are no false notes in his entire portrayal.The same can be said for Eva Marie Saint (angelic like beauty , check out her range by seeing her as a femme fatal in Hitchcock's North by Northwest).


                
