When talking of Bergman, critics and viewers usually name Wild Strawberries, The Seventh Seal, Cries and Whispers ahead of Persona. While those films are all amazing and stay very high on my list of all time favorites, for me, the truly unique and inspirational s 'Persona' - Bergman's enigmatic masterpiece.The story is seemingly simple: "A nurse, Alma (Bibi Andersson), has been assigned to care for a famous actress, Elizabeth (Liv Ullman), who suddenly stopped speaking during a performance of Electra and has remained silent ever since. When they go to stay in a seaside house owned by Alma's psychiatrist colleague, the apparently self-confident nurse gradually reveals more and more of herself in the face of Elizabeth's silence, and is shocked to read a letter the actress has written implying that Alma is an interesting case-study. The two women seem almost to exchange identities, or to become one (strikingly expressed visually in a famous shot); in a dream sequence (or perhaps fantasy), Elizabeth's husband comes to visit and seems to think that Alma is his wife. Finally Alma, back in her nurse's uniform, catches a bus to go home, leaving the almost-mute Elizabeth alone."Whether Alma was able to get her identity back remains one of the film's many questions. What is absolutely wonderful in the film <U+0096> performances from two actresses. Anderson is the one who has to carry almost the entire dialog, her voice is one of the film's priceless treasures while Ullman is equally powerful in expressing hundreds of emotions through her face and eyes. Sven Nykvist's camera, the third star of the film makes two stars shine so bright.Each scene in 81 minutes long film is memorable, some of them just unforgettable. For instance, the long scene where Alma reveals her most intimate memories of a sexual encounter with two boys while sunbathing nude with another girl on an empty beach, is infinitely more erotic to listen to than it would have been to see in flashback. There is so much to think about in Persona. One major question concerns Elizabeth's silence: is it elective, as happens in Tarkovsky's "Andrei Rublyov" , or is it some kind of mental breakdown?. The documentaries about the war horrors that Elizabeth watches on TV suggest the former; the fact that it suddenly happens during a stage performance of "Electra" suggests the latter. I keep thinking about it. Why "Electra" of all plays? The story of the daughter who hated her mother and wanted her dead <U+0096> does it reflect the accusation brought up by Alma that Elizabeth did not love her deformed son and wanted him dead? Did Elizabeth become so overwhelmed by guilt realizing that her life reminded so much of Electra's story? We don't know for sure, and Bergman does not help. The identical monologue in which Alma is accusing Elizabeth is the film's resolution. We hear it twice: first time, camera is concentrating on Elizabeth's face, second time <U+0096> on Alma's. Is Alma talking about Elizabeth or herself or both? After that encounter on the beach, Alma became pregnant and had an abortion. The monologue may reflect her feelings of guilt and emptiness as well as Elizabeth's. Does it really happen? Is Elizabeth a vampire sucking the life out of her victims only to use them as characters for her acting roles? Is that the ultimate price the artist is paying for being a great artist? Does he need lives and souls of others to be able to create? Can he/she love the ones who utterly depend on them and need their love? This film and later Autumn Sonata (1978) with Ingrid Bergman as a concert pianist show famous stars as selfish women who can't and don't love their children. The same question was brought up also in the earlier "Through a Glass Darkly (1961)" - in the relationship of the writer and his daughter. Then there is the question of whether there are really two women at all; could the whole film be played out as a fantasy of one of them, or indeed of somebody else? Is there a sexual attraction between the two women? It might be or might be not. I believe, David Lynch has watched "Persona" very carefully, thought about it and used some of its ideas in his own "Mullholland Dr." There are so many questions in this incredible film that are left unanswered. For almost forty years, viewers and filmmakers alike have been trying to find the answers. One thing is obvious <U+0096> this is one of the films you want to watch over and over again. I think it should be seen by any viewer. If you've seen it already <U+0096> see it again. You'll learn something new. If you have not seen it <U+0096> you are in for a great experience. See it for Sven Nykvist's camera work, for Liv's face, for Bibi's voice, for the unique and mysterious world that is Ingmar Bergman's universe.
PERSONA may well be Ingmar Bergman's most complex film--yet, like many Bergman films, the story it tells is superficially simple. Actress Elizabeth Volger has suddenly stopped speaking in what appears to be an effort to cease all communication with the external world. She is taken to a hospital, where nurse Alma is assigned to care for her. After some time, Elisabeth's doctor feels the hospital is of little use to her; the doctor accordingly lends her seaside home to Elisabeth, who goes there with Alma in attendance. Although Elisabeth remains silent, the relationship between the women is a pleasant one--until a rainy day, too much alcohol, and Elisabeth's silence drives Alma into a series of highly charged personal revelations.It is at this point that the film, which has already be super-saturated with complex visual imagery, begins to create an unnerving and deeply existential portrait of how we interpret others, how others interpret us, and the impact that these interpretations have upon both us and them. What at first seemed fond glances and friendly gestures from the silent Elisabeth are now suddenly open to different interpretations, and Alma--feeling increasingly trapped by the silence--enters into a series of confrontations with her patient... but these confrontations have a dreamlike quality, and it becomes impossible to know if they are real or imagined--and if imagined, in which of the women's minds the fantasy occurs.Ultimately, Bergman seems to be creating a situation in which we are forced to acknowledge that a great deal of what we believe we know about others rests largely upon what we ourselves project upon them. Elisabeth's face and its expressions become akin to a blank screen on which we see our own hopes, dreams, torments, and tragedies projected--while the person behind the face constantly eludes our understanding. In this respect, the theme is remarkably well-suited to its medium: the blankness of the cinema screen with its flickering, endless shifting images that can be interpreted in infinite ways.Bergman is exceptionally fortunate in his actresses here: both Liv Ullman as the silent Elisabeth and Bibi Anderson as the increasingly distraught Alma offer incredible performances that seem to encompass both what we know from the obvious surface and what we can never know that exists behind their individual masks. Ullman has been justly praised for the power of her silence in this film, and it is difficult to imagine another actress who could carry off a role that must be performed entirely by ambiguous implications. Anderson is likewise remarkable, her increasing levels of emotional distress resounding like the waves upon the rocks at their seaside retreat. And Bergman and his celebrated cinematographer Sven Nykvist fill the screen with a dreamlike quality that is constantly interrupted by unexpected images ranging from glimpses of silent films to a moment at which the celluloid appears to burn to images that merge Ullman and Anderson's faces into one.As in many of his films, Bergman seems to be stating that we cannot know another person, and that our inability to do is our greatest tragedy. But however the film is interpreted, it is a stunning and powerful achievement, one that will resonate with the viewer long after the film ends.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer


                
I've studied Bergman's films and have seen all of them, yet Persona stands alone as his most brilliant and indeed, the most visually striking (thanks to the genius of Sven Nykvist).The story concerns a cracked actress (Liv Ullmann-Bergman's long-time lover), in hospital for treatment under the guise of a rather insecure nurse (Bibi Andersson). As the tale of care- giver and patient plays out, the nurse, Sister Alma, fills the void left by Liv Ullmann's complete silence and regression by offering a series of confessions on her own life. These confessions, most poignantly, consist of Alma's infidelities to her husband, a secret abortion and a unwanted pregnancy to please her husband. Through the course of the movie, set mainly in a summer retreat, the two women, left in seclusion, seem to drift into one another's personae. However, Bergman's dialogue turns more to first person confessional and not a tale of two women. Eventually, the viewer comes to the realization that the two women are actually two sides of the same person. Liv Ullmann represents, in pop-Freudian terms, the superego as Bibi Andersson is the ego or in other words, the 'actress' is actually the nurse and Liv Ullmann, the caretaker/observer.Elisabet Vogler is actually Bibi Andersson's persona; the one who answers to the external world, whilst shutting out the sensitive, introspective and broken inner persona, Liv Ullmann. The movie comes to a sad conclusion, wherein the actress wins out over the delicate, fractured woman deep within. As the lines in the movie say, they agree to "nothing", keeping the facade intact to the rest of her reality and keeping distant from her older husband and abandoning any attempt to love her son, born to please her husband.A line in the movie states blatantly that everyone has two personae; the one external and the one internal. This movie is one of the greatest human dramas with a psychological force rarely, if ever, seen today. Along with Casavetes' "A Woman on the Verge" and Lynch's "The Elephant Man", Bergman and Nykvist commit to film one of the most introspective studies of mortality, sanity and the human condition.A masterpiece.
When I viewed PERSONA recently, I didn't know what exactly to make of it: what was it telling me, what was its intentions, its ultimate meaning. Not being a conventional director by far, I felt that Bergman had deliberately left all this 81 minute of storytelling to me to figure out... and I may have been right, but I either wasn't getting it or this was too much of an abstract film to merit any analysis, so my review was at face value and even ended with the sentence "this is exactly how Bergman wants it." Seeing it later more emerges, and the deeper story takes place even if it still seems linear: Elisabeth Vogler (Liv Ullmann) loses her speech midway through Electra and will not speak again (except once throughout the entire film, and in an imagined sequence). There is no apparent reason as to why she has lost her speech, and the only hint is the horror she witnesses on the television as war, genocide, and destruction rage on. Other than that it is never alluded to, her muteness.Into the picture comes Alma (Bibi Andersson), the nurse who is put to her care by the suggestion of a psychiatrist. Both retreat to an isolated home. Seeing that Elisabeth will not talk, Alma fills space and time with her own erratic ramblings that take shape and form, a need to fill a void, and that void is of course, Elisabeth, who listens and listens and listens impassively yet with interest. Alma's stories are a form of confession: if Elisabeth is the mute who bears the scars of the world, Alma is the conveyor who purges inner traumas and erotic experiences, hurtful on a lesser scale. The fact she has been laid so naked to the woman she is trying to rehabilitate and the fact she learns this very woman considers her an interesting subject suddenly shocks her: from being caring, she turns vindictive. A shard of glass left deliberately to have Elisabeth step over is the catalyst: the images break, abstract images take place again, and the story re-starts. But one wonders, what if Elisabeth stepped over the glass with equal deliberateness? After all, she does need Alma. And she is an actress foremost. This moment is the one that amps up the tension between the women and even then they become closer, so close Elisabeth's husband thinks Alma is her as Elisabeth quietly allows this to happen. Is Elisabeth re-living some form of event through Alma? Is Alma the only way another secret involving Elisabeth's child can come through? Whatever the reason, Alma is clearly a conduit for Elisabeth to come forth and the merging of their similar faces is the culmination of this haunting psycho-drama that goes beyond its cinematic boundaries. No clear resolutions except the almost casual references that explain both women's return to their own sense of normalcy, but this somehow inconclusive ending is what gives it the weight of a great story and excellent Bergman. Reality here is what is so common to us: who we see ourselves as, how others see us, how self-identification becomes self-preservation through the experiences of others, good or bad or a combination of both. Pain and ecstasy are a part of our make-up, and PERSONA is the best example of the merging of the two.
Writing from a hospital bed (as he did with Wild Strawberries, two of these being films strung out from anguish), Ingmar Bergman put down almost anything that was in his head to start with (the first five minutes- some of the most startling and thoroughly symbolic minutes he's ever directed), then transposed into a story of two women, or one. This was one of the landmark 'art-films' of the 1960's, with hints of the horrors of war (in one memorable scene, Elisabeth looks at a television screen at images of death), introspection regarding sex and identity, existentialism, and what it means to be an actor. Some of the more famous directors in history have a kind of 'notorious' film, by which many people who may not know the bulk of their works know them by one particular work (with Hitchcock it could be Psycho, Lucas' Star Wars, Bunuel with Un chien Andalou, Breathless). This could, arguably, be the one for Bergman, despite a couple of others likely also holding claim to that title. In other words, this could be a good place to start with the director if you're not familiar with his films, or it might not be. But keep this in mind- it's one of his most unique departures as a filmmaker.Two of his leading ladies (and, ahem, loves), Bibi Andersson and 25 year-old Liv Ullmann, star as a nurse and an actress, who for the bulk of the film are at a Doctor's cottage as the nurse tries to help and likely cure Elisabeth of her ailment (froze on stage, silent but incredibly observant). In the meantime, Alma the nurse, in a role that gives Andersson more talking-points than any other film she's been in, goes through some hurtful parts of her past, and just tries to understand her counter-part. At one point, a vein of existentialism is ruptured thoughtfully, when Alma gets Elisabeth to say "No, don't", when she threatens her. When I first saw this film, I knew this scene would come after reading Roger Ebert's review. But I had no idea it would hit me like it did. There is such a great, compelling tension between these two that Andersson and Ullmann convey that it is what makes the film work. Any lessor actresses might fumble up the whole lot of it.While it isn't my favorite Bergman film (though it is unfair to pick favorites sometimes when it comes to someone as huge in the cine-consciousness as him), there are many things that had me come back to it after being a little awe-struck on my first viewing last year. For one thing, there's Sven Nykvist, with one of the strongest, most varying eyes in all of European cinema. In the first five minutes, of course, there is some fascinating stuff, but even in the scenes of long dialog and monologue (i.e. the unforgettable speech about being on the beach from Alma), where the lighting is so delicate and sharp with the shadows that you really feel like the weight of this situation is closing in on the characters. Or, of course, when the two actresses' faces are super-imposed, which can be interpreted in more ways than one (either as a grand statement, or as pretension, or something else). I was also very moved by the pace of the film, how it fills each minute (it's not a long movie) in ways that some movies just float minutes by.Now, this is the kind of Bergman film that can't be turned on any time (not to make it sound un-watchable, it certainly isn't). But it does ask to be viewed when in a certain frame of mind- if you're looking for a movie to show off to your friends, like it's the Euro/avant-garde version of Fight Club minus the violence, look away. It poses a good many questions for a viewer, especially one who knows of Bergman's themes he's explored before and after this film's release. How do we feel, or know we're feeling? What keeps us closed in? Why do we hurt? And are we only one person at a time? It's all the more puzzling that Bergman's climax isn't a very easy one (not as doomed as with Seventh Seal but not as cheerful as Fanny and Alexander), as Alma has another monologue with Elisabeth, about her son she hasn't seen in a long while- this famously seen from two different angles, one after the other. Furthermore, it is arguably Bergman's most self-conscious film to date (the commentary on the DVD carries it well), however it may not be as off-putting as with some of Godard.To put it another way, there are two sides to the subject matter, the film, the director, and the audience.


                
Profound studie of the human psyche. Honest story about nooks of existence and vain hopes. Anatomy of helplessness and deep solitude. Life as convention, mask for feelings and expectations.Another room of Bergman's universe. Same cruel instruments, game of flash-backs and dream sequences, visions and memories. Fight between two women as screen for interior struggle. Impact of consciences and lights of sin. Illness like armour against fake images and empty future. Confesions like way to be yourself. Like cries suffocates by silence of the other.Story about refuse and cages. About dreams and disillusions. About chaotic values and flavour of extinction. People as rabbits for experiments. The other like sign of salvation. And the question of soul."Persona" is an act of confrontation between Ingmar Bergman and God. The silence, the cruelty of letters, the cries and the confessions of Alma are only guns in a strange and ambiguous war. So, any film of this great director is a religious personal answer to permanent subtle fear. In this case, the shadow of divine presence is the Liv Ulmann smile.


                
What can I say? It is an absolute masterpiece in some aspects bringing reminiscences of antic tragedies (in terms of gestures mostly - vide Maria Callas in Pasolini's Medea). But most of all this movie, as almost all Bergman's movies, touches humanity of a man and asks us questions that hardly none of directors was able to present in such a clear manner. The story can be read in many ways, but for me the symbolic one is probably the most fruitful. Persona, the face, mask, in a physical meaning as used in Greek tragedies, the way to become someone else, depict and reenact myths. On higher level, symbolic meaning of persona in Jung's psychology together with all his theories about ego. Simply, a 100% must see for every thinking man.


                
I don't know what to say about Persona, but I know I have to say something. I can say straight out that I did not fully grasp it, nor do I believe that it is fully able to be grasped. Like my favorite film, 2001, Persona allows for a plethora of interpretations, none of which can ever be said to be correct. But I know now that I do not understand everything. And I love that about it. Jesus, it needs to be released on DVD. Criterion, are you listening??? Screw everything else for the moment, do a DVD edition of Persona complete with scholarly commentary (and not the same scholar who commented on your edition of The Seventh Seal, because he did not answer my questions). Not that I want anybody to tell me definitively what anything means, because I doubt anyone can do that. I just want some people to share my thoughts with. I want to watch and rewatch this film dozens of times. With a DVD, a nice one, I could scrutinize it extremely carefully, as I have thankfully been able to do with such great films as The Seventh Seal, The Third Man, Nashville, etc, etc, etc. Watch a scene, quickly rewind, watch it again and memorize each and every word and motion. I'm starting to feel like the main character from Antonini's Blowup! I rented this film two days ago and have watched it twice. If I had not been so tired the first night, I surely would have gone through it a second time that very same night. Doubtless, I would have done it again later. And I still have it for a couple of days, the rest of my life be damned!All I can really comment on is the artistry of Sven Nykvist, the cinematographer, always been one of the very best, and on the acting skills of Liv Ulmann and especially Bibi Andersson, who gives one of the bravest and most powerful performances I've ever seen in a movie. I would compare her skill in this film to my favorite performance of all time (that I've seen): Marlon Brando in Last Tango in Paris. It seemed to me that she was becoming extremely involved in her character. And this is where I need to just engulf myself in this film. While I cannot exactly "get" this film from a narrative angle entirely, the important thing, and the aspect of the film which will no doubt bring me back time after time (as long as I can someday get it on DVD, because, as far as I'm concerned, VHS is only for rental anymore) is the emotional aspect. While my intellect had a somewhat difficult time holding on to the text of the film, my emotions were right with the characters. It was an extraordinarily gut-wrenching film for me, and I felt, well, some weird feelings after it ended (part of which certainly had to do with the fact that certain parts of the movie boggled my mind). So my final score is without a doubt a 10/10. Few movies compare.


                
After my first viewing of 'Persona' I was unsure what exactly to make of it. Even after a second viewing, it is still hard to say what exactly 'Persona' is about. This is not a negative trait though, but rather a curious characteristic. In fact, the overall film is perhaps best described as "curious". I would not call 'Persona' a flawless film, but regardless of whether Bergman's film is flawed or flawless, it stimulates one to think, and that is certainly a good quality. I will now provide some thoughts on the film, in light of having viewed it a second time. I do not know how valid all of my comments are - they are just some thoughts on the material. Unfortunately it is hard to discuss the film without possible spoilers, so be warned: my review may spoil a fresh experience of the movie.First and foremost, I would label 'Persona' as a horror film. After my initial viewing of the film, I had it down as a psychological drama, but now I think that it not only has elements of horror, but that it is dominantly a horror film. I guess it depends a lot on how you view the twist. I have heard other discuss how the two characters, Alma and Elisabeth, share the same personality - that they are the same person, but represent two personae for which every person has: the outer self (Alma, who talks) and the inner self (Elisabeth, who listens). This is quite an interesting theory, and after discussing it with some others who had seen the film, I became convince of the theory that Alma and Elisabeth are in fact the same person the whole time through.Now, it does not quite seem so clear. Watching it again, I was on the lookout for clues. There are some hints in that direction - the way the two women interact when together at the seaside property, the way that they seem to be opposites, but yet share similar ideas. The whole time I could sense communication even though, for the most part, only Alma was talking. However, Bergman throws in a number of elements that violate the theory that they are both the same person. Often he forces us to take the third person, stopping us from entering into the minds of either character. There is a female doctor in the mix, who communicates with both Alma and Elisabeth as if they are different persons. Then, there is also some narration by a man when the two women arrive at the seaside home.Yet, another theory comes into play, and a rather satisfying one. In one of their conversations, Alma tells Elisabeth that she feels that she could turn into her. She feels that they are so alike in subtle ways that they could easily become each other. Following the announcement of this idea, we hear Elisabeth finally say something that Alma ignores, but then repeats herself. Are they starting to become one another, like Alma had just talked about? It seems as if Elisabeth and Alma were separate persons, however something supernatural, for whatever reason, occurred and they suddenly either became one person or switched personalities.I still find it hard to work out what exactly Bergman is getting at, and his encouragement of the third person approach vexes me. I would not flaw the film too much for that though. Perhaps it was meant to be ambiguous. Bergman does a great job filming the material, and for skill this definitely gets top marks. The setting is excellent, and strangely reminiscent of 'The Seventh Seal' (plus notice how Ullmann looks like Death at times!). The bleakness of the sets is captured perfectly in black and white, with many close-ups to show the intimacy of the story. There is also one brilliantly filmed shot, in which the camera pans for an unbroken half minute or more, as the two women run across the beach.Bergman's vision of the material is startling good. When Mr. Vogler arrives on set, there is some triangular framing going on, with interesting shots positioning Elisabeth in a removed position from Alma and her husband, but yet with all three of them in frame. There is also the repeated segment in which we see the reaction of Elisabeth when Alma is talking to her, and then it switches to show the facial expressions of Alma. I would not praise all of Bergman's techniques here though. Some of his shots just go on from an incredibly long time without much reason, which could cause one to wonder whether he was just trying to buff up the short running time. There is a shot towards the beginning of the film in which Ullmann stares blankly for a whole minute or more, and there is another shot which focuses on an irrelevant task of cleaning up a broken pot. Some shots like those could have been cut shorter. The other part of Bergman's vision that I am not fond of is the beginning segment. While the child could possibly have meaning, some of the other images in the montage, such animal killings, crucifixions and cartoons, seem thrown in for the sake of it. The intermission, while rather chilling, annoys me a bit too. I am not sure if it was inserted in the best possible place, or how meaningful its images are. But that's all minor stuff.One last thing to praise is of course the acting. It is the acting, not the dialogue, which makes the film so intense during its middle section. When Andersson was describing her rendezvous on the beach, I was concentrating on her face, and that was telling me more than the subtitles. Ullmann also has a very expressive face, perfect for her somewhat muted character. I wish I could say more here, but I don't set the word limit.
Overall, I did not find this in the slightest bit interesting. I do enjoy movies with an out-of-the-box concept, but this seemed like pretentious drivel. I expect a movie to pull me in and give me some sort of reaction, but by the time I finished 'Persona,' it just left me completely cold and indifferent.It seemed interesting from the get-go and just when I was expecting the movie to take an interesting turn, it didn't really go anywhere at all. I mean I do sort of appreciate the minimalist aspect of the movie, but apart from that, not much really happens in the movie to even make me care about its plot or the characters. Maybe someday I may get the feeling that I should watch this again, but as of now, I highly doubt that will ever happen.


                
I have not seen a film which is more metaphorically protean than Persona. Obviously the original title declared it an analysis of what film is. But I think Persona works on a smaller scale as well, depicting how the artist interacts with society, as well as the interplay between the various aspects of the artist's inner life. The various perspectives do blend together, but there's more here than just a depiction of what cinema is and is not.Great performances by a pair of very beautiful and talented women, Ullmann and Andersson. Great cinematography as well. I particularly enjoy the shot of Andersson with her sunglasses on, leaning back against a white wall. Also the night scene with the two doors where Ullmann walks into Andersson's room wearing a white gown. The unadorned simplicity of the various settings is also enjoyable.The more I watch Bergman the more I appreciate his analysis of the polarization of modern existence, the vast gulfs which separate us from ourselves, from others, from God, and his belief that love is what can close those gaps. Some may find him depressing, but I always come away from his films hopeful. Persona gets a very rare 10 from me.


                
Ingmar Bergman made films like "Persona" (and "Wild Strawberries" and "Cries and Whispers") that make me forgive him for making other films like "Hour of the Wolf" and "Winter Light." In "Persona," a nurse is charged with taking care of a mentally deteriorating actress, and through a series of enigmatic, dream-like scenes, we are left wondering which of the two actually exists and which is the figment of the other's imagination. It's a sort of precursor to "Mulholland Drive," and the comparison is even more apt as both films are very much about the art of acting and the art of making movies.The most stunning (and stunningly simple) moment in the film comes when one of the actresses delivers a lengthy monologue while the camera slowly zooms into a close up of her face, and then the entire scene plays out again, with the other actress delivering the same monologue. Somehow, Bergman manages to overcome some of the stifling trappings that make so many of his other movies slogs, and gives us a bracing, haunting masterpiece."Wild Strawberries" may be the Bergman movie I like the most, because of its warmth, but "Persona" is the one I can't get out of my head.Grade: A+


                
Someone who has read a biography of Ingmar Bergman would probably be able to offer an intelligent interpretation of this very personal film by the great Swedish director. Since it stars his two most famous proteges, Bibi Andersson and Liv Ullmann, and is an intense focus on their faces as though to look into their souls, and further since during the film their personas merge as one--given all this, perhaps it could be speculated that Bergman is suggesting that his perfect love would be a composite of the two. Certainly part of the erotic power of this stunningly filmed masterwork (black and white cinematography by the gifted Sven Nykvist) is the evocative display of the two Swedish actresses, who were respectively, 30- and 26-years-old, when the film was made. It is curious however that Bergman is very deliberate in downplaying their sexuality. They are never coquettish, nor openly sexual. Very little skin is exposed and that only incidentally. It is their differing power as actresses that is explored with some, no doubt, deliberate and unavoidable revelation of their real life personalities.I was particularly impressed with Bibi Andersson's performance. She plays, Alma, a young and naive nurse who is called upon to help rehabilitate Liv Ullmann's Elisabeth Vogler, an actress who suddenly stopped talking. Andersson has a beautiful and expressive voice that should be heard, so avoid a dubbed version (if it exists). It is true that the subtitles are occasionally ungrammatical and full of typos (and at one point a misleading term is used to avoid a gross sexual expression), but it doesn't matter because everything is very clear; indeed one could view this without the subtitles and without knowing Swedish and still get a fair idea of what is going on. Liv Ullmann is also brilliant in a part that has her on camera for most of the film but without a single speaking line! Nurse Alma does all the talking and something curious happens. She becomes the "patient," spilling out the intimate details of her life while Elisabeth becomes in a sense the (superior) shrink, and a "transference" takes place. This is no doubt a Bergman joke (he was no fan of psychotherapy), but it is also a statement about the power of silence. Elisabeth stopped speaking during a performance of the Greek tragedy Electra, and of course we have all heard of the Electra Complex, the female equivalent of the Oedipus Complex so beloved of psychoanalytic theory. However what Bergman's point here is, I have no idea. I do know that in the last two Bergman films I have viewed, this and Autumn Sonata (1978) with Ingrid Bergman as a concert pianist, the star is a selfish woman who does not love her children. Here, we have Alma tearing into Elisabeth with the accusation that she hates her son and wishes he was dead. Since Ingmar Bergman both wrote and directed this film, one might reasonably ask what this has to do with the psyche of the master. The fact that an older man makes love to both women is also grist for the mill of an autobiographical interpretation.However, I am Against Interpretation in this case (although clearly a film like this cries out for it) and more in favor of experience. A work of art can always be interpreted and sometimes should, but always it is essential to first experience the work. If I ever see this film again, and after reading up on the life and loves Ingmar Bergman, perhaps I will look for what Persona says about him. Meanwhile, I am content to observe that this is an original work of art, and as always with Bergman, an emotionally draining experience.(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it at Amazon!)


                
It's hard to comment on a film like PERSONA without sounding like a philosophy teacher or a self-indulgent art-house nut.  Some people have said the film is absolutely impossible to understand.  I can relate to that, because PERSONA is not the kind of movie you rent for popcorn and beer purposes.  It is usually seen in college film courses (where I saw it first) or by discerning filmgoers with a passion for foreign films.  What I see in this truly haunting film is the definition of surrealistic cinema.  Like Luis Bunuel and Salvador Dali's classic short UN CHIEN ANDALOU suggests, our eyes are about to see into a portion of the unconscious mind.  This is not to say the scenes are not connected and have no point.  There actually is a story here.  Once you begin the visual journey Ingmar Bergman puts you on, there is no turning back.PERSONA is actually a love story.  An actress goes mute seemingly because of the madness in society, or does she?  A key scene has Liv Ullman, who plays the actress, watching a TV report on the Vietnam War.  She is cracking.  A nurse, played by Bibi Andersson, is chosen to take care of her.  They go away to a secluded summer spot and become engaged in one of the most erotic and mysterious relationships in film history.  I can describe what happens in laymen's terms, but there is no way to enlighten you regarding PERSONA's visual strategy.  The nurse falls in love with the actress, and she does ALL of the talking.  A story about a sexual rendezvous on a beach is told so well and for so long, you almost feel like you are WATCHING what she is talking about.  So many of the images stay with you and your senses are put to the test.Liv Ullman is hypnotic as the "actress" who may or may not be scamming on the nurse for background research for a part.  Or so the idea is implanted by the nurse.  Sometimes you do ask what the hell is going on, but if you just relax and view without racking your brain for symbolism, you will take what Bergman is presenting to us.  This is a film for film's sake.  We are constantly reminded that we are watching film.  The film even "breaks" when the tide starts to turn between the two women.  Are they exchanging identities?  I really don't think so.  It is more cut and dry.  A love story with gentle, dream-like lesbian undertones is on-screen.Again, explaining the film in words is a futile gesture.  It is 70 percent visual.  The dialogue (in Swedish with English subtitles) is low-key and mostly said by the nurse.  There are scenes of absolute wonder, much like 2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY.  Some are easily understood, others not.  There has never been nor will there ever be a film like this again.  Ingmar Bergman starts us off with a flurry of eerie images: a young boy with his hands on the face of what appears to be the dissolved image of Andersson and Ullman's face; nails driven into a bloody hand, etc..  Enough already.  Just see this bizarre, erotic "story" of two women that is not all that difficult to understand.RATING:  10 of 10: Use Discretion and Do Not Watch With A Crowd!


                
Persona, released in Stockholm, Sweden, in 1996, raises, since the very first minutes, a concern about consciousness and willing muteness. In the film, the singer and actress Elisabeth Vogler decides to give up on talking during a representacion of Elektra, an Opera written by the librettist Hugo von Hofmannsthal and composed by Richard Strauss. This way, the spectator is invited to juxtapose not only the musical piece with the movie, but also with the plays written by Euripides and Sophocles during the last decades of the fifth century of the ancient era.The opera's premiere took place at the Semperoper in Desden, in 1909. The event, registered in the local media as an episode of dissent, was a renowned confrontation between the conservative and liberal intellectual elites of the pre-war period in Germany. The comments exceeded the merely musical appreciation issues and, in several times, were discussed as a moral concern. Elektra was an inconvenient and uncomfortable piece to watch for a part of the public of the first decades of the twentieth century, which may have had fresh in mind some distressing cases that would disrupt not only the european politics, but also one of its fundamental pillars: the institution of family. In the piece, the homicide of Clytemnestra and Aegisthus is device by Elektra and Orestes, both children of her with Agamemnon. The story was commonly referred as barbaric, primitive and unprincipled; but, at the same time, it was not far away from the reality of the european monarchs of the period, especially those related to the Habsburgs. Some events, such as the Mayerling case, may have given some signs of degeneration to the subjects about their own rulers and social institutions, calling also into question the foundation of their own social constructs.At that time, It has been already three decades since the publication of The origin of the family, private property and the state, written by Friedrich Engels; an openly critical work which those institutions. In this text, Engels quotes Jakob Bachofen, a swiss philologist from the nineteenth century, who dedicated his studies to the ancient matriarchal societies and who also worked on the greek myth, but this time from the reading of the Oresteia of Aeschylus. He points that the privilege given to the father압 mourning, during the trial leaded by Apollo and Athena described in The Eumenides, is the transitional point from the matriarchal to the patriarchal society. The grief suffered by Clytemnestra, produced by the sacrifice of her daughter Iphigenia in hands of Agamemnon, is considered inferior to the one suffered by her daughter and son, who mourn their assassinated father. During the trial, due to the equality of votes emitted by the areopagus, Athena decides to absolve Orestes from the punishment of the matricide committed by him. "Father right has gained the day over mother right. The "gods of junior lineage", as they are described by the Erinyes themselves, are victorious over the Erinyes, and the latter allow themselves finally to be persuaded to assume a new office in the service of the new order", says Engels. Both, the interpretations of Engels and Hofmannsthal, will be a preamble of Freud's psychoanalysis theory, a direct critic to the main institutions of bourgeois western society. His ideas will be fundamental for the social movements of the second half of the twentieth century, releasing time of Persona.The sixties were nested within a political and cultural revolution, which vitally demanded a structural change of the western world, through an overhaul of its main pillars. The french structuralism, based on the studies conducted by Claude L封i-Strauss a decade before, pointed tacitly the margination of woman inside the patriarchal structure of western society, the repression of the Dionysian inside the bourgeois order, the consideration of language as origin of society and also its ambiguous quality, the crux of political accion, the undersides that compose identity and representation, inter alia. The disturbance caused by Strauss's Salome and Elektra could reflect the physiological constraint and decadence of western society, a determinant factor for the protest of the sixty-eight and the political relevance of Bergman's Film.The figure of Alma, a nurse assigned to take care of Elisabeth Vogler, is intrinsically transgressive. Once back in the greek myth, the reader will come across the Erinyes, justice embodiments and guardians of the family order, who will pursue Orestes due to the committed matricide. They are personifications of the greek morality. Alma, an Erinyes, torments and harasses Elisabeth throughout her silence. What mutes sooner or later begins to take shape. Alma, empathetic and sensible to her patient압 calamities, shares a memory that inflicts on her a huge sufferment, becoming a detonating episode for the outpouring of frenzy between the two characters. Frank Gado, a Bergman압 film connoisseur, sees in this particular relationship an exploration on the architecture of schizophrenia. In this manner, Alma is the incarnation of the failed and unfinished Illusion, of a could-have-been, of an intimate hallucination. Thus, this bout could arouse the close relationship between isolation, psychosis and language.In her poem The three oddest words, Wislawa Szymborska prompts a pertinent ambiguity: "When I pronounce the word silence, I destroy it". Elisabeth pronounces this word and seems to destroy something therewith. The provenance of her muteness, as described on the script itself, is due to the hopeless dream of being; not seeming to be, but being conscious and awake at every moment. The feeling of vertigo and the constant hunger to be unmasked, once and for all. A neighbouring position to death, but at the same time distant from invoking it. To hear the echo of Nietzsche in ineluctable. The impetuous project of the Transvaluation of values of the german philosopher, as epic as almost every utopia, finds its execution on pieces like Bergman압 Film and Hofmannsthal, Freud, Engels and L封i-Strauss texts. They stand an invitation to query about our social constructs, to become detached from the illusions of language and to dispense ourselves.
The movie is close to perfect, it makes you wonder of the world art can be, and the technicalities achieved as perfection, with such simple elements, like light, direction, camera, location, and 2 peopleThank you Bergman.


                
Long before "Muholland Drive" there was another masterpiece that left viewers confused and awestruck. It also dealt with two beautiful women. "Persona" is a film that kept me glued to the screen. It has to be Ingmar Bergman's best film. I'm not just saying that because every critic has said that since the mid sixties. I'm saying that because it is a surreal mind puzzle that made me dive into my subconscious. "Persona" is filmed in gorgeous black and white and at an 85 minute running time it never wears out it's welcome. The montage in the beginning is sooooooooo bizarre, don't sit to close to the screen you might hallucinate. The story concerns Alma (Bibi Anderson), a nurse who is taking care of Elizabeth, played mysteriously by the sexy Liv Ullman. Elisabeth refuses to speak, she stopped talking in the middle of a play. For some reason Alma feels very comfortable around her and starts to tell her personal things. She even moves in with Elisabeth to help out. Alma explicitly talks about a sexual escapade that her and her friend experienced on the beach. The scene shows nothing sexual, but the vivid language and sexy Swedish dialog turns this moment into one of the hottest most arousing scenes in cinema history. (something almost popped up for me... spring-boing!!!) Elisabeth still remains silent. There characters eventually merge as one person. Alma also finds out that Elisabeth has betrayed her when she reads a letter she wrote telling a friend about her personal intimate secrets. Oh no! This is when the film turns into a crazed decent into madness as only Bergman could bring you. He even films one scene twice but at a different angle. Now if only Bergman was more optimistic; poor guy. All kidding aside, Persona is an amazing experience that breaks the fourth wall between film and reality. Images are only representational of life, Bergman shows viewers this as the camera runs out of film. This is just my interpretation. Oh heck, I think I'll have two watch this a couple more times, and not just for the explicit conversation about Alma's orgasms. I think both "Persona" and "Muholland Drive" would make a great double feature. I don't think there is any film that is like "Persona". In fact there probably never will be. This ones a must see.


                
Profound studie of the human psyche. Honest story about nooks of existence and vain hopes. Anatomy of helplessness and deep solitude. Life as convention, mask for feelings and expectations.Another room of Bergman's universe. Same cruel instruments, game of flash-backs and dream sequences, visions and memories. Fight between two women as screen for interior struggle. Impact of consciences and lights of sin. Illness like armour against fake images and empty future. Confesions like way to be yourself. Like cries suffocates by silence of the other.Story about refuse and cages. About dreams and disillusions. About chaotic values and flavour of extinction. People as rabbits for experiments. The other like sign of salvation. And the question of soul."Persona" is an act of confrontation between Ingmar Bergman and God. The silence, the cruelty of letters, the cries and the confessions of Alma are only guns in a strange and ambiguous war. So, any film of this great director is a religious personal answer to permanent subtle fear. In this case, the shadow of divine presence is the Liv Ulmann smile.
Film historian and professor Thomas Elsaesser once said "...writing about Persona has been for film critics and scholars what climbing Everest is for mountaineers: the ultimate professional challenge." I completely agree with him. Despite being under 90 minutes, this film is probably one of the most complex films I've run into in years. After I finished it, I didn't even know where to start when attempting to analyze it. However, after thinking about it for a little bit, I formed a basic summary for it, and things kept going uphill from there.A nurse named Alma is put in charge of a mute actress named Elisabet Vogler. She talks to her numerous times without ever receiving an answer. Eventually, the 2 go to a beach house. After living with each other for a little while, the story twists into a bizarre and complex story beyond realism.Many of the analysis's that I've read argue that either Alma is Elisabet's persona or vice versa. Those are interesting interpretations. However, I think that both women are personas of the boy we see at the beginning and, briefly, at the end of the film. In the movie, we learn that both Alma and Elisabet got pregnant and had an abortion. We also learn that Elisabet's baby survived, and she gave him away to a nanny. I think that that is what happened to the boy. When I was first introduced to him, I got a slight vibe that he's being mistreated at his current home since his bed looked really unappealing. He wasn't given a pillow and he only had one thin bed sheet. He also didn't have much clothes on. I felt like he could've been slightly insecure due to his seemingly poor treatment (this explains some of the seemingly random imagery at the beginning and the middle of the film, although I'm not sure about the film reels).With that being said, I think that the personas of the 2 women represented the boy's depiction of his mother. He likely has a negative opinion of his mom since she abandoned him and left him in a dull environment. It seems like he's punishing both of the women initially. Elisabet is being punished as he's not allowing her to talk. Alma's initial punishment is a little harder to figure out, but it's possible that the boy finds her having to watch over an insane patient (Elisabet) as a punishment since they become isolated with each other. After Alma tells of how she got pregnant, we can assume that the boy is especially upset at her due to the different things that happen to her. We see that Elisabet is trying to mail Alma's sex story to the public, Elisabet gives her a bloody nose in a fight, and Alma is negatively effected when Elisabet attempts to leave her alone at the beach house (she breaks down crying at one point). This goes on for a little while, but we see the boy change his focus after Elisabet reveals a similar story which seems more plausible since we learn that she was unable to abort her baby. This scene is famously repeated in the film, which could mean that the boy is trying to confirm that it really was her.Bergman usually nails cinematography really well in his films. Bergman also handled the visual aspect expertly in this movie as well. It is, quite possibly, the most visually impressive of his films. Images of the beach and cleverly lit rooms are beautiful to look at. There are also some scenes which have a somewhat surreal quality to them. The movie is able to use simple camera movements to create these. An early example of this is when Alma is talking to the Doctor near the beginning. The camera is usually pointed at her for most of their conversation, and on the 2nd time she meets with her, the camera is only focused on Alma, and we just hear the doctor's voice. There are several of these shots throughout the film. I also really liked the surreal imagery at the beginning of the film. It made that sequence really memorable, and it informed me of the complicated film that would follow it. Also, on my re-watch, I noticed how the movie constantly focused on hands. There were numerous shots which seemed to draw attention to hands almost like it was a motif. These shots tended to stick out quite a lot. It's possible that those shots were supposed to represent reaching out into the unfathomable depths of someone. This fits in with the scene at the beginning pretty well when the boy reaches out and touches a screen with both women's faces on it. I think that Bergman was sort of giving us a clue as how to go about interpreting his film.In conclusion, this movie is a masterpiece. It's incredibly complicated with a lot of obscure imagery and set pieces, and it has great visuals as well. It's always great to see a challenging film which requires you to think every now and then. This movie, however, feels incredibly complicated and more so than other complex films that I've seen. I didn't enjoy Bergman's "The Seventh Seal" that much, but this movie was definitely worth my time. I'm going to look into Bergman more in the future.


                
"Persona" is a movie set in the time it was made, circa 1966. It opens with an alienated, existential clang banging up against a sense of the interconnectedness of humanity. A woman actress in Sweden, decides that she won't speak anymore and this happens at a most inconvenient time, during her performance of "Electra". She's taken to a hospital for observation and eventually farmed out to a nurse who is to take care of her at a secluded beach house on the Swedish coast. The nurse (Bibi Andersen) has almost all the dialogue. In this state of near solitary confinement, she confesses much to the actress (Liv Ullman), including a rather bizarre sexual encounter and her philosophy of life. Why has the actress given up speaking? It has to do with her perception that the world has become so cruel that she wills disengagement from dominance/submission and contamination..... She has given up the hope which her nurse still embraces. But has she not been contaminated by this cruelty which so disturbs her? Check it out. My all time favourite Bergman effort. It stands the test of time.


                
A master piece! Considering that Bergam is the director, is over saying the geniality of this movie. Is impressive how does he takes you to feel what each character is feeling and sometimes both of them; how it takes you from peace and joy to a complete nervous breakdown. The photography is simply breathtaking and the illumination is perfect, in my opinion his best job. If you think you know anything about movies you'll be blown away, just extraordinary.The best thing about Bergamn and persona is that it makes you analyze your life and makes you want to be a better person. Its a great theme, the dialogs are simple and yet effective, the actresses are doing the roles of their lives and its a living prove that good cinema can be made.


                
Persona is absolutely perfect from start to finish.  Poetic, haunting, and intriguing, this film is quite possibly Bergman's most amazing film. INGENIOUS!  Bibi Andersson gives an amazing portrayal of nurse Alma, and although Liv Ullmann barely speaks, her performance is equally spectacular.


                
To really comment on a film like Persona there would first have to be written full, a dictionary of completely new words and terms.  Verbal language simply cannot describe the emotional piano Persona plays.  Along with 2001: A Space odyssey, it is the single most disturbing and mind opening film I have ever seen.    While in the middle of performing the last act of Electra, Elizabeth Vogler suddenly freezes, and from then on ceases to speak.  She is in perfect health both mentally and physically, but for reasons unknown has simply retreated into herself.  Sister Alma, a young nurse, is sent to look after her.  They go together to a small remote Island, where Alma attempts to nurture her out of her silent facade.  At first, due to her silence, Alma cares for Elizabeth like an oversized doll.  But then, with the opportunity of real conversation, Elizabeth becomes to her an empty vessel into which she spills her soul.  And Elizabeth, hollow, becomes a sort of vampire, constantly taking in Alma, but at the same time giving herself up as well. Nestled together, without the interferences of the world, their personas begin to mesh, as they become the two sides of a single personality, one soul living amongst two bodies.  However, as a human body warns off a foreign intruder, the personas of Elizabeth and Alma become allergic to each other, engaging in a fierce battle for identity. Throughout, as if testing his own skills as a seducer, Bergman tries to remind his audience that it is just a movie they are watching, not experiencing.  But true to his form it becomes of no use... Persona is an experience.  Alluring, compelling, mind opening, and disturbing, Persona is all of these things.  It is a film that works on a multitude of complex levels.    In a sexual sense, not a stitch of clothing is removed, and yet the film permeates with eroticism.  It is on many stages completely surreal, but you don't realize that.  You don't realize anything... you simply experience. And then afterwards you sit in awe, trying to recall what has just gone on.


                
This, what could be Bergman's 27th effort as writer and director, is a film I've gone back to over the years, because over time I wish to work out what it truly means. Everything that we see in its way of communication, its dialect, its structure of implications are completely apparent. Its only mere evocations are of hidden realities, and we lose hope of finding them. It is about motherhood, or abandoning it. It is about existentialism, or a sensation of bewilderment and loss of nerve despite a deceptively vain and futile world. It is about being known too well for comfort, or whether or not that is possible.Elisabet, played by Bergman's girl Friday Liv Ullmann, stops speaking in the middle of a performance, and never again does. A psychiatrist thinks it might help if Elizabet and Nurse Alma, played by Bibi Andersson, spend the summer at her remote beach house. Seized in the same enveloped period of interval, the two women in some way fuse. Elizabet says nothing, and thus Alma feels free to talk at length, professing her hopes and her worries, and in time, confessing a truly sexy experience during which she was absolutely blissful.Bergman emphasizes the two actresses' resemblances in a disquieting shot where he merges halves of both faces. Soon after, he overlays the two whole faces, like a transmutation. Their visual amalgamation intimates a more entrenched intuitive pull. Elisabet, silent and seemingly in poor health, is a stronger presence than Alma, and in due course the nurse feels her psyche being permeated by the other woman. There is a very real instance when her bitterness channels in the arcane passages of her soul in the juxtaposingly sun-drenched patio of the lodge, where she gathers the shards of a broken glass, and then calculatingly leaves a piece where Elisabet will presumably stroll by. Elisabet cuts her foot, and we feel Bergman's familiarity with this sort of subterranean vindication as the execution of the act itself seems so unsuspecting, but still this is in effect a conquest for Elisabet, who has driven the nurse to forsake the order of her job and, literally, bring to light a failing of hers.At this second, Bergman lets his film to appear to shred and smolder as the picture goes bare before restructuring. This echoes the opening of this otherwise fairly straightforward movie. Both times, a projector lamp blazes, and there is a medley from the very dawn of cinema. The midpoint punctuates with the camera tightening in on an eye, and even into the veins in the eyeball, as if to penetrate it to the extent that a camera can.The beginning sequence could maybe imply that this self-reflexive picture is starting from scratch, with the origin of movies. The rupture in the median would then mean it returns and originates yet again. When the movie ends, the celluloid comes to a literal end and the lamp goes out. Is Bergman intimating that he has harked back to primary theories. Just before the end there is a shot of the actual movie crew, almost as if the film's central theme of merging is having a universal effect.The images and descriptions of the monologues in this sequence of variants on the subject of replication and coalescing is so commanding that Bergman truly reveals how ideas produce perceptions and certainty. One would have to be certain of what one is revealing in a film in which the plot changes through a noncausal order, entirely lacking the reverse cross-shooting audiences have grown so accustomed to in most films, replaced with simultaneous angles and point-of-view shots.When I think about it, there are only a couple of truly existent, or impartial, encounters in the story, the film altogether, each punctuated by rupturing the film, as if everything else is assembled by beliefs and feelings. Elisabet and Alma are only two or three times capable of infiltrating the trances that are their lives. The largest part of one's self-image is not complete familiarity with the rest of humanity, but a psychological transmission, like a movie, prepared by thoughts, dreams, recollections, media, interactions, jobs, faith and uncertainties. Elisabet opts to be who she is and Alma is not firm enough to elect not to be Elisabet.


                
