If you are one of the sheep who believes an Ingmar Bergman film must be a masterpiece because you've been told they are, then by all means watch this pseudo artistic piece of baloney.On the other hand, if you prefer a film that actually has a plot, a definite ending, some point to it, explanations for why the characters behave as they do and where something happens - skip this one.In the opening, prior to the title, the film just jumps around from meaningless image to meaningless image, mostly centering on a scrawny young boy running his hand over the close-up of some woman's face, accompanied by music akin to fingernails on a blackboard.However, once the title is shown then the film settles down to center around two women.One is an actress, Elisabeth Vogler who has gone mute, the other is Alma, who has been hired as her nurse. Why she needs a nurse is unclear, since physically she is all right--and the nurse does nothing to aid her psychologically. Neither does Ms. Vogler's doctor. Instead, Ms. Vogler, accompanied by Alma, is sent to stay at the doctor's beach cottage, in a rather isolated area. How this is suppose to help her condition is never explained, beyond resting.Since Elisabeth does not speak, Alma more than makes up for it by talking at her endlessly.We are teased by undercurrents of lesbianism on the part of the two women, but this comes to nothing--just like the rest of the film.Eventually, Alma confesses an unbelievable, graphically described, rather disgusting sex scene in which she was involved, and reads a letter Elisbath leaves unsealed, which the actress wrote to the doctor. The letter makes Alma mad and she rants quite a bit at Elisabeth. I think this is the one time Elisabeth does speak--gets too scared not to, I suppose.Alma also rants at Elisabeth about Elisabeth's feelings in regards to her young son. How Alma would know any of this, is never explained. In fact, she does the same exact scene twice in a row--why the director decided to repeat this, like everything else in this film--unknown.There is also an odd scene where Elisabeth's husband visits. Although never said, I assumed he was blind since he was wearing black glasses. He seems to think Alma is his wife and she goes along with it for some unknown reason, while nimble-wits Elisabeth merely stands by watching.Even a blind person would know their own spouse, so this scene is absurd and completely unbelievable.The film comes to no particular conclusion.Although Alma is shown driving a car at one point in the film, it ends with her getting on a bus as if she has no other transportation, nor do we know where she is going.2 stars is being generous.
I am a lover of Bergmann films, most of which I'd seen more than 20 years ago. This one got by me somehow, but because of all the glowing reviews I've read here and elsewhere, I decided to rent the DVD. It was a complete waste of time: pretentious, dull and hollow. The only part remotely interesting was when the nurse describes an erotic beach encounter with some voyeur boys. Flashbacks, apparent dreams, repeated scenes, unexplained images. None of it worked for me. About the only thing that held my interest was whether or not Liv Ullman would ever speak a line. The answer to even this question remained ambiguous.This is the "Emperor's New Clothes" of all art films, as far as I am concerned. There is nothing there.


                
I loved the one nugget of much needed humor somewhere in the middle of this pretentious one-way talkathon. It's the scene where Bibi Andersson breaks something then sweeps it up with a broom and dustpan. She sits down nearby and spots a shard of glass that she missed. She deliberately leaves it there for barefooted Liv Ullmann to step on. Sure enough, for one brief respite, hilarity ensues, along with the one word of dialog that Ullmann had to memorize. I could have done without the remaining 84 minutes of glum posturing and dated pseudo psychology. I also wasn't thrilled by the callous use of the famous Holocaust photograph of a young Jewish boy being marched away by the Nazis. Bergman should have known better, but this was before political incorrectness became a capital crime.
