To quote Colin Mochrie of Whose Line is it Anyway, "it's CRAP"!!! To put this into perspective, I love foreign films--and I'd rather see them than most Hollywood films. I have seen perhaps as many as two thousand foreign films--and most of the "must see" films of directors such as Bergman, Truffaut, De Sica, Kurasawa, Fellini, Bunuel, etc. So, my strong opinion is not without some experience--I am not just some jerk who knocks Bergman's films because they don't have explosions or toga parties!!!! My contention is that SOME of this wonderful directors (or at least some of their films) are incredibly overrated, and are seemingly above criticism. Well, not from me--I love to stir the pot of controversy and call it like I see it. Check out some of my other reviews--I had ADORED some foreign films (such as The Umbrellas of Cherbourg) or directors (Akira Kurasawa) yet been unimpressed by other films (Such as several of Fellini's films--Satyricon and Juliet of the Spirits).So, on to Bergman. My favorite film he made is The Seventh Seal. It wasn't exactly my favorite when I first watched it, but found that the more I thought about it (with its originality and intense performances), the more I was impressed. Scenes from a Marriage, Through a Glass Darkly, Fanny and Alexander and other movies of his were excellent, but not great films, as they had flaws which prevented them getting higher ratings.Persona is the only Bergman film which I gave a really BAD rating. It is hopelessly bleak, choppy (when it purports to be artsy by including repellent seemingly random images in portions of the movie) and silly. The mentally ill central character (Liv Ullmann) does not talk throughout the movie but the dialog is spoken by her nurse (Bibi Andersson)--who increasingly becomes irritated with Ullmann for her silence. I felt much the same way about half way through the film. All this excitement(?) is set in a seaside vacation home. I guess many found it shocking or sophisticated--all I felt was bored and amazed with how unimpressive the film was.So, maybe you should see it for yourself and make your own decision. Maybe all the critics are right and I am just a hopeless crank! My wife would tend to agree (that I am a bit of a crank, that is)!!
Just hear me out. On a Bergman high with The Seventh Seal I went on a rampage to see the first Bergman film I could find - guess I have to look at what the film is about before I start searching.The movie starts with flashy images, I don't mind art-house movies but I prefer them when they have focus more on what it's trying to say through plot (which this doesn't). I was like "well that was pointless - hopefully it gets better", No it doesn't. The movie continues with a nurse helping an actress regain her speech. They end up being alone together on a beach house. It's just one person talking, and talking, and talking, and talking... Just when Bergman almost pushed me over the edge midway - HE DID. By having those same flashy images there.If you want to sit through one woman talking with flashy images then I suggest this to you. I have seen Bergman do SO MUCH BETTER THAN THIS. Watch a movie like The Seventh Seal instead, at least that had a running storyline that was easy to comprehend and wasn't just there to add depth to nothing.


                
An actress who has stopped talking is cared for by a nurse. Perhaps disturbed that Fellini and Godard had overtaken him for the title of the most pretentious filmmaker in the world, Bergman shot back with this much-praised drama. The film opens with random images of a movie projector, a cartoon, an animal getting disemboweled, an aroused male organ, etc. that leave most viewers bowing to the pure genius of Bergman. The film was probably cathartic for Bergman, saving him some money on therapy sessions, but viewers should not be subjected to such heavy-handed nonsense. Andersson and Ullmann are good actresses and the only reason for watching this.


                
Spoilers, probably (although I watched the film in an increasing state of confusion, so what I believe to be spoilers might not be<U+0085>) I was quite warming to Bergman until I came to this, possibly his most revered piece of work (and what a piece of work it is). This was my fourth Bergman flick after some forgettable comedy, then The Seventh Seal, followed by Wild Strawberries. I was beginning to think that all this talk of the dour, impenetrable moodiness of his films, the obsessively introspective behaviour of his characters, the self-indulgent self-analysis, was clearly untrue. Until Persona, that is.Bibi Andersson plays Alma, a nurse who is given the task of caring for Elisabeth (Liv Ullmann) an actress who has suffered some kind of breakdown and refuses to talk. Against her better judgment – she fears that Elisabeth's mental strength will prove too much for her – Alma accepts the job. While Elizabeth recuperates in a summer house, Alma jabbers on endlessly, baring her soul, and discovering – too late – that her fears were spot on.Bergman's film starts with an explosion of discordant images and sounds following the switching on of an arc lamp. Film starts, clear your mind of extraneous matter, presumably, because I can see no other interpretation. Ten seconds in and I figured I was probably still ahead of the game here. The boy was a mystery, but I figured him out later, and for ten minutes the film followed a fairly routine path. Only when the ladies retired to the summer house and Alma embarked on her prattle-athon did things become a little murky.Lying down in a darkened room with a cold flannel on my forehead after watching the film, I tried to figure out what I had just watched. Presumably, given the way their faces blend together to form the image admired by the young boy at the start of the film, Elisabeth and Alma are one and the same person, and what we have watched is some kind of internal struggle in which Elisabeth's bruised mind attempts to come to terms with her trauma. The house itself might even be a representation of Elisabeth's mind (a common trick of the subconscious when dreaming). Now, if I'm right, telling the story in such a dense, impenetrable and oblique manner is sort of – I was going to write forgivable, but I suppose understandable is more appropriate. After all, you can't really tell that kind of story in conventional fashion.One thing at least is clear, and that is that Bergman has real issues with the fact that he was an unwanted child. That's understandable, I suppose, but I wonder what he is trying to achieve by returning over and over to the subject in his films. A kind of exorcism? An attempt to justify and rationalise? I don't know, but there's perhaps something not right when a filmmaker's motives for making a film are more interesting than the film itself.
Ingmar Bergman's "navel gazing" just doesn't stand the test of time. It's not enlightening, it's just painful to watch. The collage of images before the opening credits are somewhat grotesque and particularly "nonsequitur" such as the graphic depiction of crucifixion. Midway through the film the description of a casual sexual foursome on a beach just seems out of place and nonsensical in the story line. In the 60's all of us naive movie enthusiasts were maybe taken in by Bergman's ground breaking departure with conventional movie styles. But, today, many writer/directors can run circles around him for introspection with content and meaning.... Pedro Almodovar and Kenneth Lonergan to name a couple.


                
It is almost impossible to praise this movie without sounding smart and cultured and it's almost impossible to criticize this movie without sounding like a bit of a philistine but...yeah, I don't like it.Now, I'm all for stylized cinematography, when "If" switched from color to black and white for no obvious reason I was so impressed because it's the kind of movie that can do that.But here I don't feel it works because, firstly, it makes the whole thing kind of risible, especially given how stone faced the tone is and secondly, the essence of the thing kind of gets drowned in bizarre angles and sudden blurriness.It could have been a fairly effecting exploration into the way, despite superficial differences we are all alike, and part of the same universal journey yet still determined to analyse others. It's ambitious in being mostly just 2 characters (one of whom is almost mute by choice) but ambition doesn't equal skill.I don't think I totally missed everything the movie was trying to say: we see the nurse as the one who has it together and is so different from her but then we see that she is more like simply being at a later stage in her life with elements of her being already visible in the Nurse with her problematic relationship with her fiancé. Or maybe that's tripe but it's the impression I got.And the motif of film: the literal film reel and that she's an actress...the artificiality of the persona...we get it. Oh, and one of them is called "Alma". Seriously.But ultimately I'm a bit "so what?" about it all. There's a tendency for the characters in Bergman's movies to be complex but in the way a psychiatric case study is complex without any relatable human qualities or individuality within except for what is strictly and obviously relevant to the plot or central themes; a tool for movie rather than someone I could meet. So the incites the movie has may be intelligent but also a bit pointless and irrelevant.And while I won't reveal the ending, I didn't even realise it had finished when it did because I saw it with ads on Film4 and there are no credits. So when I found it had finished I was like "wait, is that it?"It's a dense, not very accessible piece of "arthouse" cinema that really exemplifies what people imply by "arthouse" though of course all films are art. It may have been good if it had been half the length and one third the stylization. It has some great atmosphere, the sense of the cold desolate Nordic beach is intensified by its creepy arrhythmic score. The acting is quite stilted, it is first year performing arts academy stuff. Kind of interesting but that doesn't stop it being dull and giving every impression it's convinced of it's own genius. Really just for cinematic curiosity.


                
I kinda made my wife watch this, mainly to the lack of other options at the time.
It was my first time watching it too, and based on the previous reviews, I thought it would be worth a while.
I was mistaken.
We never finished it.This was by far the most ridiculous movie in the history of the universe!
It is also plagued with ridiculous interpretations and reviews!
It's Haruki Murakami's 19q4 drivel all over again!People should stop searching for a meaning behind this movie, because there is no meaning! They're no better than Christians torturing themselves trying to squeeze different meanings out of a very obvious bible verse!This movie is like a canvas where someone splashed some paint by mistake, and then it was sold for 2 million dollars and people started blabbing about how it represents the apocalypse
Except that it's more like cat vomit in this case!


                
