The only reason I am writing this review is to contradict all the positive ones, which made me fall for this... trap.The highest rating this motion picture deserves is a 4 out of 10, and this only for its cinematography/technical part. The way the filmmakers use lighting to enhance the emotion conveyed by facial expressions is remarkable. The acting itself is, well, OK.And now for the negative points: As others have pointed out, any pervert with a camera can film male genitalia and animal slaughter and animal intestines... And I say this having no problem with nudity or other graphic scenes, as long as they have their place and use in the plot. Well, these do not. For all I know, they made me feel even more detached, and as a result, even more bored while watching the rest of the movie. Don't get me wrong, I am not a viewer who judges a movie according to how many explosions, gunshots and "cool" pick-up lines it incorporates... I don't like that kind of stuff... But...The greatest achievement of Bergman in this film, is indeed that he managed to turn an 85'-long film into boredom. Whereas, from a purely visual and technical point, the film is captivating, even though it's B&W, the plot was utterly disappointing and self-repeating. The nurse was supposed to become "absorbed" by her patient's personality and lose her own... well, this was poorly carried across the film's audience... I didn't feel that the nurse underwent anything like that... to the contrary, the nurse was being a total, insensitive "female dog" to the actress/patient.Having watched "The Seventh Seal" and "Cries & Whispers", I was rather hopeful that I would enjoy this movie (given that Bergman himself considered it to be one of his finest). I was particularly entertained as well as provoked by "The Seventh Seal", and reading positive reviews here as well as other sites, I decided to give it a go. I was let down. It was rather nice as an artsy film, but nothing more. Rather similar to Aronofsky's "The Fountain", which tried to construct a plot but failed (but, from a visual point of view, was marvellous, at least in my opinion), so to all viewers out there: if you didn't enjoy the Fountain, you won't enjoy this.


                
Good. Psychologic. Exacting. Pretentious. Boring. What can I say; all cineasts seem to adore Bergman. I certainly find him very overrated. Sven Nykvist's photo is good. I like the first 15 minutes or so; the a long shot of Liv Ullman's face, when Bach is played on the radio, made my cry. There are also a few interesting statements about life and death and angst. But that doesn't save the film as a whole. I really had a hard time trying not to fall asleep. (I'll probably get nasty e-mails from Bergman-fans after this) It's sad that I can't give this film more than 5/10.


                
An IMDb commenter say like that about Persona. I share the same feelings with him.(((((Good. Psychologic. Exacting. Pretentious. Boring. What can I say; all cineasts seem to adore Bergman. I certainly find him very overrated. Sven Nykvist's photo is good. I like the first 15 minutes or so; the a long shot of Liv Ullman's face, when Bach is played on the radio, made my cry. There are also a few interesting statements about life and death and angst. But that doesn't save the film as a whole. I really had a hard time trying not to fall asleep. (I'll probably get nasty e-mails from Bergman-fans after this) It's sad that I can't give this film more than 5/10.)))))) In addition to these sentences, the film describing two women's inner world will get me far away from Bergman's films. A famous actor and a Nurse(Alma)'s conversations are very boring.I think this will be my first and last Bergman film I have ever seen.
have very carefully given it 4 out of 10. the reason is I cant decide if I liked it a lot or didn't like it at all. I read some 15 reviews and realized I am not the only one who has no clue. Then I read Bergman also had no clue about this film. I think I liked this film in parts. Thankfully it was 81 minutes long and I just fast forwarded all great cinematography and Great poetic Jazz. I just concentrated on the story and finished the film in 45 minutes.I think story is good. Don't think there is any great or profound message in the story. Don't think its about duality or exchanging personality etc. because we don't know their original personalities forget about the new ones.Think its a simple story about 2 different people stayed together for sometime and got together for a while and after sometime began fighting. The conclusion is girls fight even if they cant talk. That's the only profound interpretation of the film.find irritating to see a film where director doesn't want to explain anything. This film reminds me of the incident where John Lennon after the recording of 'I'm the walrus' said "go figure out that one". Lennon had a reason to call people idiots but I don't owe anything to Mr. Bergman and so I will call it a 'personal gratification' and let it pass. It has a lot of junk so just fast forward it. Not worth 81 minutes.


                
For some reason Bergman is considered by many great directors & critics as one of the greatest directors of all time. After having seen The Seventh Seal (1957) and this one i can definitely declare that statement null and void.There's no doubt the black and white photography and the visual imagery are beautiful, and there is really nothing wrong with Bergman's skills with the camera itself, as he uses brilliant closeups and wideshots combined with great cinematography to create a visually impressive film. But these kind of factors need to be combined with the context of an actual story to truly make an impression on its audience, since simply showing pretty images all the time isn't what cinema is about. It's about a combination of technical expertise and relatable human emotion to create a great immersive experience, but this film only has one of these traits.I suppose this movie is generally well liked mostly by pseudo intellectuals who think themselves very smart for liking such an incomprehensible film. The first forty five minutes of the film are pretty linear and straight forward, and do not seem to be anything out of the ordinary. Now these first 45 minutes weren't very good either, but atleast it was coherent and it seemed to have an actual plot. It still never made any sense that the connection between the nurse and a mute actress became so strong so quickly and that she would tell her about something so sensitive that she never told anybody before, but atleast Bergman seems capable of telling a story for some part in a film. However, after the 45 minute mark is where it gets considerably worse and its final 30 minutes focus solely on muddled and repetitive dialogue, weird editing & just a complete mess of a conventional narrative structure to make sure you will have no idea what's going on. Totally seemingly irrelevant images of a spider, a nail being driven through a hand, a boy reading some book are seen throughout the film and all of them are designed so the film can appear to be intellectual, while in reality it isn't. It's easy to say that the film isn't meant to have a conventional narrative structure or an actual cohesive plot because of its ability for pseudo intellectuals to 'Open your mind', because that would make it a whole lot easier to create an actual good film since there is no need for a story, characters, character development or creating a coherent experience in films like this. These kind of experiences are never immersive, because we do not feel connected to the main characters in any way because their connection built in the first 45 minutes feels so wobbly and fake.So, in terms of visuals and camera work there really is nothing wrong with Bergman's way of directing, but it's the messy plot structure and the disconnected editing and sometimes addition of irrelevant images is what turns this film into a pretentious jumble.


                
