In the early '60s, Bergman's visual and narrative style became ever more austere in focusing on tormented souls seeking guidance and comfort from an empty heaven, thus paving the way for a stark foray into extreme close-up in the enigmatic "Persona." A modernist masterpiece, the film initiated an introspective trilogy about the ivory towers built by artists as a defense against the horror of existence<U+0085> It was Bergman's first completely innovative work, acknowledging itself as artifice through the regular insertion of non-narrative images such as projectors burning, film breaking, fragment of silent movies<U+0085> "Persona" depicts the vampiric relationship between a talkative nurse and an actress who refuses to speak or work after a traumatic realization of the futility of creation in a loveless world surrounded by war<U+0085> Psychology, philosophy and social comment are mixed to brilliant effect in a complex, clear interrogation both of filmic illusion and of the illusory values of modern life<U+0085>
Ingmar Bergman's "Persona" begins with a montage that deliberately assaults the senses: a sequence of flashing images, visceral, grotesque, unexplained. Since I had expected a psychological drama about two women, my first thought was that something had gotten mixed up and I was watching an avant-garde Surrealist film from the 1920s. But eventually the title "Persona" appeared and the film settled down to introduce its characters and situation. Elisabeth (Liv Ullmann) is a famous actress who is mute, by choice, following an existential crisis; Alma (Bibi Andersson) is the young nurse assigned to care for her. Both actresses are superb, and the camera captures all their myriad emotions. Ullmann rises to the task of portraying a larger-than-life personality without a word of dialogue; incredibly, she was an unknown at the time. But I think I prefer Andersson's performance<U+0097>rather than playing a mute, otherworldly figure, she begins as a sweet-natured, effusive, "normal" young woman, gradually reveals her desperation and sadness to the ever-listening Elisabeth, and then comes to despise her patient. During her complex character arc, she perfectly delivers two bravura monologues, one about a sexual encounter on a beach, and another accusing Elisabeth of being a neglectful mother. After this speech comes the famous shot of a composite face, half Elisabeth and half Alma, suggesting a blurring of personality or identity between the two women. In this composite image, Ullmann and Andersson's facial features match up quite well, but in the beginning of the film, the two women look very different (Andersson's features are sharp and perky, Ullman's solemn and a little swollen, as if from crying). It's as though the sheer force of the women's acting changes the appearance of their faces to match their characters' internal changes.But while I love the acting, the script, the cinematography, and certain metaphorical effects like the composite face, I remain a bit resistant to "Persona" as a whole. The reason for this is some of Bergman's other directorial choices: the montage at the beginning, a similar one halfway through the movie, and an annoying shot of the filmmakers themselves near the end. Critics have justified these choices by saying that they remind us that what we're watching is only an illusion, adding another layer to the film's themes of what is real and what isn't. But how necessary is this layer? "Persona" is already stylized enough that there's no need to shout "Look, it's a movie!", and ambiguous enough that, even without those montages, it would still be difficult to determine what "actually" happened."Persona" succeeds very well at psychological drama (propelled by Alma's lyrical, powerful speeches) and at dreamlike ambiguity (propelled by beautiful but disconcerting images of the women's interactions). But, not content with this kind of thoughtful and subtle film, Bergman assaults us with montages full of images like penises and slaughterhouses. They make me take the movie less seriously, since they seem to exist out of an adolescent desire to shock and alienate us. And that desire, I think, is what people refer to when they call "Persona" pretentious, as if the film thinks itself so special that it can get away with anything. While that's not possible, "Persona" does much that is wonderful and impressive, and six days later, I'm still thinking about its unanswered questions.
My Rating : 8/10In Bergman's sensual psychodrama, a nurse, Alma (Bibi Andersson), takes care of stage actress Elisabet Vogler (Liv Ullmann), who has recently been struck mute.However, their personalities change completely and irrevocably by the film's finale, in which they are depicted as distrustful, angry and consumed by their own shortcomings.David Lynch's Mulholland Dr. was inspired by this and I love it so much.'Persona' is one of Bergman's most accessible films after 'The Seventh Seal' and is a must-watch.


                
It's not hard to see why this film is considered one of the best in the history of cinema. Two masterful performances from the two lead actresses and Ingmar Bergman at his best. There isn't a single wasted frame nor a single wasted line of dialogue throughout the whole film. Some of the most iconic shots in cinema come from this movie.


                
Persona was too confusing or vague or you could say deep to give a straight forward comment about.  Since it was so vague it leaves itself open to many interpretations.  Well here's mine.  I think Alma and Elisabeth were the same person.  Elisabeth suffered a psychotic episode on stage and was hospitalized afterwards.  There she developed another personality of a young nurse named Alma.  Her Doctor figured that some peaceful isolation at her cabin would help Elisabeth integrate the split personality.  At the cabin Alma/Elisabeth talked out the mental issues causing the split. The scene with the glass was a realization by Alma/Elisabeth that the behavior she was engaging in was destructive and it caused a crisis.  After the glass scene the conversations turned to arguments, the mental split disintegrating, that culminated in the soliloquy about her child.  The child and Alma/Elisabeth's reaction to it was the thing causing mental anguish. That realization, by both personalities, caused the two personalities to merge into one, Alma's. OR, Alma may have had a psychotic episode and developed a older, wiser personality of Elisabeth.  Either way the end personality was Alma seen cleaning up the cabin, putting things in order, physically and mentally, and leaving on a Bus back to society OR, away into another mental world.  What was so great about the movie was the multitude of interpretations available. The inclusion of the film effects were meant to remind us that we all play roles.  Alma and Elisabeth were just two roles of the same person.  Some lingering thoughts still entertain me. Was the child a result of the beach episode? Did Alma feel guilt over the beach scene? Was Alma abandoned by the father of the child?  Did Alma feel used by men who couldn't see, (the dark glasses), who she was or what was going on inside her?  The movie has stayed with me, affected me, as a good movie should.  The photography was wonderful with a beautiful use of light on the actresses faces.
I first saw Persona when I was a teenager, and then again recently (some decades later). Both times, I was impressed by its originality, the performances of Liv Ullman and Bibi Andersson, the precise camera angles and cinematography, and the fascinating Gordian knot of its psycho/philosophical "meaning." My take on the latter had changed a fair amount over the years, and I was curious about how other people understood the film. After reading a number of film reviews and a lot of the comments on IMDb, here's my impression: A number of commentators offer what they insist is THE correct interpretation of Persona. They often make eloquent cases, which vary from Freudian to Jungian to Existential to Post-Modern Deconstructionism, et al. But it seems to me that Ingmar Bergman created Persona not as a philosopher but as an artist. Instead of making a statement, I think he was trying to present a heartfelt quandary about art and the human condition. Taken as a work of art, Persona is a film that has many possible interpretations, each one valid if it is meaningful and enlightening to a given viewer.This time around, I took the title in the most general sense of the image through which a subject interacts with others. The "persona" of most films (and most works of art) is the fake reality we willingly pretend is real. But in the bizarre opening of Persona, instead of establishing this reality, the film seems to aggressively attack it. The confusing, disconnected images give us nothing to form a relationship with -- either emotionally or intellectually. We can only react with visceral responses. Without its "persona," the film seems just a jarring, incoherent process with no purpose.Then, we're into the fake-but-convincing reality of the story of the two women. The nature of their identities becomes more and more ambiguous as the story unfolds, and occasionally the story itself is discarded by the film. Are there two women, or is there only one? Which woman has imagined herself as the other? Or are they both imagining themselves as each other? Which scenes are "really happening," and which are delusional? Is this film a story about the two women, or is it something else? If it has no clear identity, can it be art? If one or both of the women have no real identity, can they be human? What are human beings behind their personae? If they have no fixed identities, are they even real? I think Persona is unique, brilliant, thought-provoking and unforgettable. Nevertheless, it is not my favorite Bergman movie. While I'm fascinated and often moved by the story of the two women, the avant garde techniques in which the film undermines the reality of the story seem to me more annoying than effective. They strike me as self-consciously "clever" instead of profound.One last impression I had this time around (which I doubt Mr. Bergman would have agreed with): from a religious or spiritual perspective, the story of the two women can be taken as a depiction of the hopeless artificiality of human identity when it is egocentric and based only on itself. If we ourselves are actually the product of a more fundamental reality ("God," "the Tao," "the ground of being," "the Atman," etc.), then perceiving ourselves as the center of reality by which all else is determined ("cogito ergo sum") is the ultimate delusion. By cutting itself off from the source of being, the ego becomes nothing more than an idea about itself. In that case, the absence of a real identity behind the personae is not a consequence of the absurdity of human existence, it's the consequence of a false relationship with reality.
"Persona" is art house cinema defined! The loose plot centers on a Scandinavian-Freudian ego/id struggle going on simultaneously in two very complicated and classically beautiful Swedish women. One woman is an actress (played by famous Swedish actress Liv Ullman), in seclusion during a nervous breakdown, the other woman is her nurse (an explosive Bibi Anderson). The women bond into a volatile co-dependent relationship that has (at times very) vague lesbian (is it so controversial to say this?) undertones but is mostly expressed in long slow sequences of dialogue that escalate to volcanic displays of emotion.What makes this movie such a great classic is the magnificent cinematography, and the innovative screen shots and cinematic effects used throughout the picture. Additionally, the original musical score is used to important effect and the editing and direction are flawless. The total visual effect of "Persona" is one of the best examples of cinema as "art". The clarity and composition of all the camera-work is simply superb. And don't let the plot summary fool you -- this is a hard film to describe -- there are plenty of surprises and it remains very modern to this day!


                
Effective, expressive psychodrama, muddled somewhat by its director's self-conscious approach.  Throughout `Persona,' Bergman seems to be taking aim at some vague statement about art: Mrs. Vogler comes from an artistic profession, the plot is based almost entirely upon storytelling and role-playing, and, most important of all, the director draws our attention again and again to the artifice of the cinematic form, with his film breaks, sudden `subliminal' images (usually, it should be noted, of actors in cheap costumes), and sudden shock-horror chords on the soundtrack.  No doubt this stuff will appeal to a certain breed of viewer, but Bergman never really clarifies his statement for us, and the artiness distracts a bit from the psychosexual character study that is his true focus.  But what a rich study that is!  Whether we interpret the two women as two parts of a single whole, or whether we resist Bergman's frustrating tricks and read the story more straightforwardly, the film is beautiful, frequently cruel, occasionally salacious, and always engrossing.  Symbolism junkies will find several days' worth of argument fodder, but Bibi Andersson's virtuoso performance as Sister Alma is reward enough even for the casual viewer.  Recommended.  8.5 out of 10.


                
An avant-garde opening sequence of images, some disturbing, immediately sets the tone for this movie, as Bergman seems to say he will challenge us with 'Persona'. The story is relatively straightforward, but discerning what's reality may be a little challenging. As with many (all?) of Bergman's films, the script is fantastic, with real weight to it, and it's a cerebral film. Ostensibly, an actor (Liv Ullman) has had an existential crisis while on the stage and suddenly stops speaking. It seems to be because of her feelings of the falseness of life (and indeed, 'Persona' in Latin means 'mask'), heightened by events in the world (we see a film clip of a Buddhist monk in Vietnam who set fire to himself in protest of the war, as well as a picture of Nazis holding guns on women and children). She withdraws from her husband and young son. Doctors can find nothing wrong with her mentally or physically, and put her in the care of a young nurse (Bibi Andersson), who takes her to the seaside. Andersson has almost all of the lines in the film, talking to Ullman about her own life in quite candid terms, both about a sexual adventure she once had on the beach (which is quite graphically described!), falling in love with a married man, and her guilt over getting an abortion, but Ullman does a good job with her part, conveying a lot with just her facial expressions. As the story plays out, Andersson gets a little unhinged herself, and the two then start to mingle together, either in their thoughts and dreams or possibly in reality. In one fantastic sequence, the reason for Ullman's guilt about not easily assuming the role of motherhood is revealed, shot first with tight shots of her face as Andersson speaks, and then shown again, verbatim, with the camera on Andersson. There is a doubling here, and Bergman emphasizes it with this sequence. The movie can be interpreted in different ways which makes it interesting, but it's not so far out there that you won't take anything away from it at all; Bergman seems to get the balance right on that front. He takes us to a beautiful place – the seaside – and includes fantastic shots such as the one of Andersson looking at her reflection in a small pond, and later following Ullman down a long stretch of the shore – and yet also tells us things are not always what they seem. His ending will have you thinking, for example, whether all of this has been a dialogue within one person's mind. But even as we're unsure of 'reality', I found it empowering to women, who discuss philosophy, acknowledge their sexuality, and acknowledge what is perhaps even a bigger taboo – that assuming the role of motherhood is sometimes very difficult. And, in a larger sense, he signals that even though the world is beautiful, to exist in it can be horrifying. We're all ultimately alone, but must hold on to one another as best we can.Some quotes<U+0085> On marriage: "You've taught me that we must see each other as two anxious children full of goodwill and the best of intentions but governed by forces we can only partially control."On existential crises: "You think I don't understand? The hopeless dream of being. Not seeming to be, but being. Conscious and awake at every moment. At the same time, the chasm between what you are to others and what you are to yourself. The feeling of vertigo, and the constant hunger to be unmasked once and for all. To be seen through, cut down<U+0085>perhaps even annihilated. Every tone of voice a lie, every gesture a falsehood, every smile a grimace. Commit suicide? No, too nasty. One doesn't do things like that. But you can refuse to move or talk. Then at least you're not lying. You can cut yourself off, close yourself in. Then you needn't play any roles, wear any masks, make any false gestures. So you might think<U+0085>but reality plays nasty tricks on you. Your hiding place isn't watertight enough. Life oozes in from all sides. You're forced to react. No one asks whether it's genuine or not, whether you're lying or telling the truth. Questions like that only matter in the theater, and hardly even there. I understand you, Elisabet."And this one, quoted from a book Andersson is reading on the beach: "All the anxiety we carry within us, all our thwarted dreams, the inexplicable cruelty, our fear of extinction, the painful insight into our earthly condition have slowly crystallized our hope for an other-worldly salvation. The tremendous cry of our faith and doubt against the darkness and the silence is the most terrifying proof of our abandonment and our terrified and unuttered knowledge."
Yet another attempt at watching an art movie. My last attempt at watching an art film was not interesting(Cache) and quite a chore to sit through. So I was quite wary of watching this movie. But I wasn't disappointed. The one special thing about this movie is the detailed depiction of its characters. That is the speciality of Bergman. In his own words, he wants the audience to feel passionately for his characters. Unlike other "art" movies where the characters leave you cold, his movies have a certain humanity to them and the characters in his movies are usually disturbed individuals who can connect to the audience. The whole movie is like a character study with the two women going through a variety of emotions as they deal with each other. We understand the reasons for their behaviour and begin to empathise with their problems. So I would place this movie above other art films I have seen till now, except maybe 8 1/2. This is not to say that this movie has no negative aspects. But these negative aspects are common to most art films. For example the long takes at certain parts could have been avoided. They don't contribute anything to the story anyway.There are only two characters in most of the movie. An actress, Elizabeth Volger, has been admitted to hospital after she has totally stopped speaking to anybody. The doctors are skeptical about her "illness" and a nurse, Alma has been asked to look after the actress. They then move to a beach house in the hope that the actress will open up to the nurse. But the actress instead induces Alma to open up to her and tell her secrets about her personal life. Alma's behaviour to Elizabeth changes after she sees letters Elizabeth was going to send which contained Elizabeth's opinion of Alma's secrets. This then influences the attitude of Alma towards her for the rest of the movie.It is fascinating to notice the interaction between the two women and even the audience is drawn to the personal battle between the two. The lives of the women are then intertwined and we don't know if we are watching Alma or the actress at some parts of the movie. Alma gets confused and begins to act like the actress. The scene where she gets angry at the actress is a highlight of this movie. The performances are top notch in this scene. Bibi Anderson as Alma has done a great job and her performance was one of the best I have ever seen in art films. This is because most of the characters I have seen in art films don't really behave like regular people. But Bibi Anderson's performance was so true to life and depicted a woman exasperated with the behaviour of Elizabeth. Liv Ulmann is also quite excellent in her performance as the mysterious Elizabeth Volger who seems to have some past issues which has caused her present state. Her performance is quite creepy, to say the least. The cameo by Gunnar Bjornstrand(a regular in Bergman's movies) is also quite good. He seems to the right person in a creepy movie such as this, with his stony expression. The best aspect of this movie is the background music. It is quite creepy and is one of the best background music I have ever heard in a non-horror film. The background music adds to the creepy atmosphere for this film. This music must have been the influence for most Hollywood thrillers of next few decades. It is now the standard style in Hollywood thrillers today.The camera-work is topnotch and the scenes where Alma's face merges with Elizabeth are done quite well. Also, the scenes where the screen disintegrates in certain scenes are also well done and this is what sets it apart from other art films. The camera-work is used as a tool to describe the mental state of the characters.Well the negative aspects might be,as I mentioned, the long takes at certain parts. I have no patience with such scenes and this seems to be a recurring feature of art films. Thankfully though this movie has less of them. Also some of the scenes like the long boring monologue by Alma regarding her sexual behaviour is boring but this scene is important in the movie's progression. But the length of the monologue could have been shortened.Overall rating 8/10. I don't think I can find much fault with this movie except that art films are not really my kind of thing but this one is one of the best in its genre.


                
The movie starts out with a weird scene that seems to be completely unrelated to the actual movie. It'll make more sense once you identify the real premise of the movie. What I found really interesting about the movie was the fact that there was basically no film score (with the sole exception of the opening and ending scene; they used aleatoric atonal music for those scenes which is quite avant-garde). It worked pretty well with the psychologically intense ambiance of the movie. A film score would've diverted attention away from the scenes in which the tension between the two protagonists manifested itself. Another thing that is worth mentioning is the almost dreamy nature of the movie. It seems very bizarre and surreal at times. Don't be fooled however. This was done deliberately. The movie is trying to tell you something. Which is ultimately the reason why this movie won't appeal to everybody. Unless you decipher its true meaning it'll appear to be quite nonsensical in nature, I assure you. As far as execution is concerned this movie is in a class of its own. I've rarely seen such a well-executed movie about such a complex topic. Exploring the subtleties of human psychology in a visual way without being too artsy fartsy.p.s. When I saw the movie for the first time I was quite confused. I didn't quite get it because I took it literally. After some research however I learned that this movie is actually a very clever metaphor and things started to make a whole lot more sense all the sudden. Since I don't want to spoil the movie I'll say this much: the title of the movie is really fitting because it's a clue as to what is actually happening in the movie. Just not in the "physical" sense. All of this happens in the protagonists head. Maybe this'll help you to figure it out.


                
Ingmar Bergman made the film possibly most associated with his name, Persona, in 1966. The story explores a woman's life and awakening as her personality begins to merge with another woman. Starring Bibi Andersson and Liv Ullmann, Persona opens with disjointed images of camera equipment, animal slaughter, and a boy in a hospital bed next to corpses, which pulls the audience in immediately. Initially, the audience has no idea what's going on, which is precisely my kind of film. The film seemed to have touches of the emerging French New Wave, which was also fun for me, as that is my favorite film genre. Having seen Mulholland Drive before Persona, I couldn't help but see the many similarities the two films share. An experimental romp with Ingmar Bergman, Persona is undoubtedly one of Bergman's most well-known films and it is easy to see why.


                
The movie opens with a series of unconnected and somewhat disturbing images - the shearing of a sheep, a nail pounded into a victim's hand a la the crucifixion, dead people on slabs in a mortuary. Quick edits over the opening credits additionally lend a surreal flavor to the picture, so that we have no idea what's coming. If one were to view the opening montage once again after the picture concludes, one might be willing to connect the teenage boy to Elisabet Vogler (Liv Ullman) as the son she bore who she wants no part of. One will have to decide.It seems to me this is the kind of film that's open to one's interpretation in the most personal of ways. Having read a few of the reviews for this movie, there are multiple thoughts on the film that appear just as valid as mine might be, some that even contradict each other. For this viewer, the dynamic between Elisabet and Sister Alma (Bibi Andersson) forces the caretaker to confront her own insecurities about life. In Elisabet, Alma foresees for herself a failed marriage, children she doesn't want, and abandoning a job that she likes for the sole reason of fitting into a society that expects those things from a woman.It's interesting how Ingmar Bergman's direction offers ambiguity in various scenes. When Lisabet tears up the picture of her son, does Alma witness that or not? When Mr. Vogler arrives he speaks to Alma as if she were his wife, leaving her in a state of confusion. However one of the principal ideas coming out of the film, that the personas of Lisabet and Alma are somehow merging together is one that never crossed my mind, even with the camera tricks of melding the two faces together. As I say, one will have their own thoughts and ideas about what occurs in the story, and who's to say that any one or another is valid or invalid? It's all open to interpretation.What elevates the picture to the rank of pure cinema can be found in it's artistic style and bold cinematography. Notwithstanding the early garish images, the film remains austere throughout with minimal backgrounds. The hospital room and the summer beach house are starkly furnished, as the camera focuses principally on the two women throughout. The story is an existentialist expression of it's director, and if one concentrates on the observation of The Doctor directly to patient Lizabeth, one might catch Bergman's elusive goal, to capture "the hopeless dream of being, not seeming, but being".
Wow, this film really left me behind with ambivalent feelings. On the one hand, it offers excellent acting and truly beautiful black&white shootings of both landscape and human physiognomies, but on the other hand, there are so many obscure scenes in it that even studied psychologists have a hard time in explaining the meaning of it all. It surely was also in the Intention of director Bergman to leave space for interpretation but one should be careful not to overburden the spectator.I truly enjoyed the first two thirds of the movie, which are quite straightforward apart from the first five minutes of seemingly unconnected and quickly changing film sequences (one of them being a young boy longing for a big motherly face on a screen). A young nurse is assigned to a new patient, an actress, who seems to be healthy apart from the fact that a few months ago she fell into speechless silence. To support a better recovery they are both sent to a house on the beaches. The young nurse tries to fill in the gap of silence by telling stories of her own life. This is a bit like the situation on a psychiatrist's couch where the patient keeps on talking as an answer to the doctor's simple comments or even silence, only that the roles in this case are turned upside down, because the nurse takes over the role of the patient and the mute patient takes over the role of the psychiatrist. Her admiration for someone being an actor and appreciative smiles make the nurse become more and more trustful until she even makes confessions about sexual experiences and an abortion. She is wondering why sometimes she does not live up to her own standards. These monologues are in fact more entertaining than expected. They never really become too long and are supported by great acting.Then the nurse gets to read a letter written by her patient, in which the patient is passing on the nurse's private confessions and describes her as interesting to watch. From this moment on, the nurse feels betrayed in her affection to the patient and her behavior changes to hostile. I especially liked the scene where the nurse leaves a piece of broken glass on the floor hoping that her patient would step into it and when she does the actress for an instance is breaking her silence with an Ouch.Oddly enough, despite the tensions, the nurse, in the last third of the movie, starts more and more to project her own thoughts and fears (of being a bad mother unable to love her own child, maybe the boy from the beginning?) onto her never dissenting patient and seems to get one person with her. When the patient's husband is visiting, the nurse is even mistaken by the husband to be his own wife. In how far the nurse's projections meet with the patient's reality is hard to tell as the patient remains quite an unreadable book. Then in one scene, we see the nurse waking up, so probably all the oddities from the last third of the movie can be explained by being a dream reflecting the nurse's subconscious, which tells her to be lost in very much the same way as her patient.Is it about not being able to cope with the dishonesty and harshness of life that leads us into speechless isolation? Is it about all of us having more than one personality and normally showing only one of the many as a disguise? Is it even about behind this disguise being nothing? Or is it about not being able to help each other, since in the end, the patient still does not speak and both the nurse and the patient leave the house separately.Finally, I was sitting in front of the credits knowing to have seen something substantial but feeling a bit dizzy at the same time. Still, the positive impressions clearly predominate and therefore I give it 8 points out of 10.
I don't think that anyone was ever able to get the full message of Persona. Even watching it a few times doesn't answer all the questions that come to mind. There are so many different intertwining images in this film that it's really hard to grasp what Bergman wanted to communicate through them. On one hand, it seems like it's packed with various metaphorical, spiritual and philosophical connotations of utmost value. On the other hand though, there is a possibility that one should watch the movie and look only for the simple literal meaning of its storyline.Juxtaposing those two contradicting viewpoints may seem like an impossible job, so I would quietly concentrate on my personal feelings and on those aspects of this picture that I gathered to be the most interesting.Persona is an extraordinaire achievement in the field of cinematography. It starts with a few disturbing images: an old horror picture, some tramp, a cartoon with an old lady in it, etc. And all of this is surrounded by an aura of burning film reel. This is supposedly an attempt of connecting Persona to a vivid notion of the origins of cinematic culture. In the story, a young and inexperienced nurse Alma has to take care of a well-known actress Elisabeth, who stopped speaking without a specific cause. Right from the start she says that she shouldn't get this assignment, as if she knew that her weak mentality wouldn't let her cope with the strangeness of this situation. It all starts in the hospital room, the first meeting and first conversation, or should I rather say – first monologues. The prime clue about why Elisabeth doesn't want to speak comes at night. She watches television. In it we see brutal images of a burning protester and ferocious riots. Are human poverty, violence and hatred the reasons behind her decision? Is it some kind of a psychological strike against all of the evil in the world?After a few days the girls move to a beach house. This is where the tension starts to build up and the aura encircling those two women becomes thicker and thicker. Something starts to change in Alma's perception of reality. It all seems like a lucid dream that she can't wake up from. We hear a powerful monologue that actually is so explicit that all of the images come alive in the viewer's mind. The ideas create the visions, and that's the greatest achievement of Bergman's conceptual style. After some time it seems that Elisabeth's silence is the key to Alma's realization of her true nature. She becomes angry, loud and even violent at times. She is mad at Elisabeth, because her perception of a relationship between the girls vastly differs from the one implied by her patient. She just wants to listen and embrace all of what Alma has to communicate. In the meantime, she also starts to turn into a shadow of the nurse. Even more, she becomes HER. This is beautifully implied by the most memorable camera shot when the faces of the two women melt and convert to a unity. When Elisabeth's husband arrives late at night (or is it just a figurative dream? The viewer can't be sure whether any particular scene in the movie is real or not) he takes Alma to be his wife. At first she screams and denies, but after Elisabeth places takes her hand and places it on Mr. Vogler's cheek everything changes. She realizes that the unconscious transformation is in the process. She might even adapt to the situation that the altered reality is actually the one that is becoming more and more clear and full. Dreams collide with daytime events.Then comes another disturbing monologue, its intensity increased with the fact that it's stated twice, by the same woman, but from two different angles. It's about the burden that Elisabeth has to bear, a sick child that she never really wanted. The horrible images come alive once again, as the viewer hears the cruel truth about a cold-hearted mother (another clue that this may be the reason behind her forced muteness). By doing it two times Bergman probably wanted to tell it from the view of Alma, and then Elisabeth through the voice and mind of Alma, to put an emphasis on their especial fusion of personalities. As the title suggests, we actually deal with a persona. Just one. Whether the two women were really there or was it just a psychological insinuation deliberately placed by Alma on herself will never be known. The final scene can only be a hint to this puzzling and unusual, yet unearthly magnificent movie. Persona is a station in the history of moving images that no one can omit. It's striking imagery and uncanny atmosphere, combined with distinctly creepy music, provide for a picture that will let everyone a little shocked and perplexed.


                
Persona was my first Ingmar Bergman film and it certainly makes me curious to check out more of his work. As an enormous fan of 3 Women, which Robert Altman openly admitted he drew a lot of inspiration from this for, it was a natural way for me to introduce myself to Bergman, and the parallels between the two studies were evident almost immediately. As with Altman's film, Persona explores deep themes of female identity, utilizing the contrast between it's two characters to draw out a fascinating study. The set up is brilliant, as nurse Alma (Bibi Andersson) is tasked with caring for actress Elisabeth (Liv Ullmann), who has voluntarily given up the ability to speak. This simple act of making her mute creates that contrast between the two that Bergman uses to it's fullest capacity.As their time together begins, Alma finds herself opening up to the silent Elisabeth, speaking about things that she never imagined she would tell another soul. You can see her world begin to open up, finally releasing burdens that have long plagued her, and Elisabeth sits listening. The seclusion of these two was an intelligent design, restricting them to one another and allowing Alma's appreciation and personal admiration of Elisabeth to slowly influence her more and more as time goes on. While at first the ability to speak and be listened to was a relief for Alma, she begins to grow desperate for conversation, finding herself lashing out at Elisabeth and the dynamic begins to shift. Alma gradually becomes more and more like Elisabeth, or at least what she begins to perceive Elisabeth as, cruel, selfish and arrogant. Even with this though, Elisabeth remains silent and unresponsive to Alma's change in demeanor.It's a fascinating idea, having one character completely emotional and responsive while the other is eternally reserved, almost as though Alma plays the entire film against a mirror of herself. She never gets a response, but she draws her own opinions on Elisabeth through herself. She begins to resent and despise her and this rift between them furthers through a deeply disturbing visit by Elisabeth's husband. It's a finely crafted study that I feel will become even more rewarding upon multiple viewings, but even on the first go around the work with these characters gave a lot to admire and reflect upon.One thing that I did particular notice of was how Alma's clothes change as she goes through the different stages of her personality evolution. When we first meet her she is in her nurse's clothes, the ultimate symbol of someone who lives not for themselves but for others. Then when the two first go away together she decides to be lazy and stay in her pajamas, the ultimate symbol of someone living for themselves with no real regard for others. As she becomes more and more a mirror image of what she perceives to be Elisabeth, she begins to dress more as a reflection of her, until eventually she breaks free from this trap and reverts back to her original uniform.The performances by the two leading ladies drive the film under the watchful eye of Bergman, and they present as strong of a contrast as the characters themselves. Andersson is an emotional powerhouse, seamlessly evolving from open and warm to an almost schoolgirl like playfulness all the way back down to the anguished and bitter Alma that will eventually grow out of their interactions. Ullmann meanwhile is the stable rock, never speaking and barely being responsive, but you can often see a little something in her facial expressions to give you an idea that there is still a person there. Whether it's a slight smile or a deep sadness in her eyes, Ullmann makes sure that this is never a one woman show.


                
PERSONA is Bergman's seminal work, an identity shifting psychological study centres on two women, nurse Alma (Andersson) and actress Elisabet Vogler (Ullmann), the former is assigned to take care of the latter, who is seemingly suffering from aphasia, but later one might argue, it is a voluntary unresponsiveness towards the exterior world.From its opening scenes with sharply interjected montages, PERSONA signals to be one of the most experimental and recondite work for Bergman, a minimal narrative entirely thrusts between Alma and Elisabet, one is talking obsessively while the other is selectively mute. Firstly, a hovering question is: what is wrong with Elisabet? Not until we realise her silence may out of her own volition, being an actress, she is intensely aware of the deception of words, not only to others, every time one says something, it is also a betrayal to one's id, which could be a tentative reason behind her behaviour. Then, the focus changes towards Alma, she takes the job as a challenge to sway Elisabet's resolute, bring her back to norm, she befriends her, ministers to her daily life (from the ward to a seaside cottage), involuntarily divulges the most personal secret to her (about her sex adventure, a ménage-à-quatre fling behind her boyfriend's back), only to illicit even a glimpse of her responsiveness.All the apparent harmony shatters when Alma reads Elisabet's letter to the hospital, in which she finds out that herself is subjected to a "specimen" for Elisabet to study, a sudden feeling of disappointment and betrayal sends her act aggressive and hostile towards Elisabet, from there, Bergman tranquilly strips the story off any normal procedures of coherence, daringly obfuscates the concrete distinction of reality and imagination, where Alma's conducts become more and more irrational and frantic, glass shards, boiling water, harsh confrontations, role-playing and the repeated elucidations of the anguished relationship between Elisabet and her son, until it comes to a bang when Alma and Elisabet's faces merge into one, everything is absolutely perplexing, through the juxtaposed close-ups, the ethereal cinematography and the out-of-context words, it is simultaneously frustrating and scintillating, a trademark syndrome from Bergman school.Starring Bergman's two muses, PERSONA signifies Ullmann's rising and Andersson's waning in Bergman's oeuvre, nevertheless, Andersson is still getting the upper hand here, thrilling in dissolving herself into various emotional states, then absorbing all in with unflustered apathy, as if nothing happens, competently consummates the dreamlike structure which keeps viewers wondering. Ullmann's no-lines arrangement effectively underpins her childlike visage, soul- reaching gaze and fragile state as a woman distraught with some unnamed grief.Upon a first-viewing, I must be honest and keep my reservation to this accepted masterpiece since instead of getting a soothing catharsis, my mind is clobbered with too many question marks, and a feeling of malaise, I shall give this another try in another time.


                
One of the most disturbing films ever made. Considered Ingmar Bergman's greatest, this film stars two women (Bibi Andersson and Liv Ullmann), one of whom (Ullmann) never talks.No you won't be bored because it also has detailed descriptions of hot sex on the beach.As the story progresses, Andersson unravels while the Ullmann sits there silent, already knowledgeable of the tortuous, disturbing conclusions that true introspection brings one to.Persona is not just about an awful person understanding another awful person, it's also about our wider inability to truly conceptualize great tragic things. It's like trying to envision the pain and regression we will go though over the next couple of years under right wing control — a virtually impossible task. Something about us wants to truly understand, empathize, and come to terms with the tragedy, but something else in us prevents it.If all this sounds high-brow and academic, you should watch it just because Bibi Anderson is about as hot as it gets for women in the 60s.For film buffs, there are techniques used in this film that I have never seen before. I am sure glad it is available on Netflix, as I want to watch it again and again.


                
***SPOILERS*** During a scene in the play "Electra" well known Swedish actress Elisabeth Vogler, Liv Ullmann, seemed to have gotten an attack of stage fright and refused to go on with the play. Elisabeth from that point on never said as much as nothing during the entire film! It's decided by Elisabeth's doctor, Margaretha Krook, that she be treated for her sudden attack of "cat bit her tongue" illness by being sent to her cottage on the scenic Swedish coast to recover her voice with the help of the nurse assigned to her Alma, Bibi Andersson.Alma a big fan of Elisabeth as an actress at first takes the job of looking after her as a big plus for herself personally a well as professionally. It's later that Elisabeth's silence starts to get to Alma with her not Elisabeth doing all the talking which was supposed to be, in curing Elisabeth muteness, the other way around! Without at first realizing it Alma starts to reveal to a very interested, by her facial expressions, Elisabeth her most personal thoughts and experiences. This starts to unnerve Alma in that these are things that she want's to keep only to herself not a mental patience that's she's been assigned to look after!It's later when Alma accidentally reads a letter, that was left unsealed, for Elisabeth from her doctor-Margareth Krook-that states that she found Elisabeth to be completely normal in mind and body that she starts to suspects that there's a lot more to her silence then just a slight, or major, case of stage fright! Doing her best in getting into Elisabeth mind Alma morphs into her and soon comes to the shocking conclusion to what's really behind Elisabeth's very strange and unexplainable actions that has baffled everyone who came in contact, including Alma, with Elisabeth in trying to cure her!***MAJOR SPOILERS*** A very dark and hidden secret had in fact came to the surface earlier in the film about Elisabeth's mental condition that Alma and the audience had completely overlooked. It was something from Elisabeth's recent past that had driven her almost insane in how it would effect both her career as an actress as well as her relationships with her husband Mr. Vogler played by Gunnar Bornstrand. A secret, in how Elisabeth reacted to it, that has driven her to detached herself from the harsh reality that she faced in confronting it!P.S Director Ingmr Bergman's striking black & white photography as well as the his trademark morphing scenes between Alma & Elisabeth are just a few of the reason for watching this ground breaking, in the study of split-personalities as well as one being in serious denial, film. There's also the "Boy" played by 15 year old Jorgen Lindstrom whom we see in the beginning and end of the movie that's seems to be, what I feel, the real reason for Elisabeth's sudden attack of muteness as well as her detachment from living in the real world. The "Boy" that Elisabeth had been suppressing in her very troubled mind ever since she lost her ability to speak!


                
From Swedish director Ingmar Bergman, being given five out of five stars by the critics, and featuring in the book 1001 Movies You must See Before You Die, it sounded like it would be good. Basically young nurse Alma (BAFTA nominated Bibi Andersson) is put in charge of looking after actress Elisabeth Vogler (Liv Ullmann), in good health but is completely mute. As they spend a lot of time together, Alma talks to her, mostly about herself and her opinions, never receiving an answers or replies from Elisabeth. Alma eventually decides to confess some secrets to the seemingly sympathetic Elisabeth, and she slowly finds she is submerging into Elisabeth's persona. Also starring Margaretha Krook as The Doctor and Gunnar Björnstrand as Mr. Vogler. Filled with some intriguing and nearly confusing flash moments, and good performances, this foreign film may have been a tiny bit confusing, but it was very watchable. Very good!
This film was a lot more forceful than Bergman's other works, it felt like a really perfect balance between subtle silent acting and violent emotional performance. The imagery at the beginning immediately grabbed my attention and the film held it the entire time, as all of the images integrated themselves into the film later. The music was perfect for this film and kept up a horror film's sense of suspense the whole way through. All and all it was haunting, challenging, and definitely worth another look. There's a lot of "theories" floating around about this film and methods for analysis, and normally I'm all for that, but this is one you can go into cold and still come out the other end intact. A great story of identity, loss, and perception as only a director like Bergman can create.
A nurse (Bibi Andersson) is put in charge of an actress (Liv Ullmann) who cannot talk and finds that the actress's persona is melding with hers.Ingmar Bergman made great films throughout his entire career, up through the 1980s and "Fanny and Alexander". But his real strength is in his use of black and white, from "Virgin Spring" to "Seventh Seal" and beyond. This film is again a triumph of black and white, with the most striking shots absolutely necessary in this form. Color would ruin them.Some have called this "modernist horror", and that is something I can see. More interesting, though, is just how visual this film is. Sure, we have talking (including some sexual language that may offend sensitive ears), but the bulk is just art. Visual art.


                
CONTAINS SPOILERS. Bergman has such a daunting reputation that for many of us it's perhaps a leap of faith just to even chose one of his movies. The expectation is of something deep, brooding, obscure and rather slow. Comedy sketches have been written around the silences and menacing composition that are perceived to form the backbone of his films. There's a lingering aura of Bergman being 'only for the intellectuals'. Maybe some of this is, at times, true. Maybe not.It's a personal choice for each of us but the rewards for taking that leap and staying with a Bergman movie are well worth anyone's time and effort. None more so than PERSONA which combines a few famously bizarre surrealist sequences with a phenomenal piece of claustrophobic two-handed acting by Ullman and Andersson, the like of which I cannot honestly recall elsewhere. Their beautiful faces, often shot in ultra close-up are lit to emphasis every pore and minor blemish as if to highlight that however gorgeous as they are, these are human and imperfect faces on flawed personalities. The slightest twitch or tremor is given significance, the quasi-lesbian relationship they appear to develop is treated with an intense but chaste sensuality and the turns in the story are arresting and unsettling. The fact Ullman remains mute and Andersson does all the talking sounds like a recipe for some chronic naval-gazing. Not so. Introspective it is, self absorbed too, but Andersson's character has a secret or two which her initial prim, starched appearance belies. Her graphic description of a pivotal liaison in her past is truly unexpected in a movie of this vintage. It must have seemed alarmingly candid when first shown. It still does. It's also poetic and rather beautiful. I can only recall seeing one other movie, LAST YEAR IN MARIENBAD,in which so much of the dialogue stems from just one of the characters and at times the direction PERSONA appears to take(or not, as the case may be)emphasises this similarity as do the striking monochrome photography and the exacting use of composition. Surrealist sequences aside, PERSONA is the more real of the two films, the least fanciful and at the denouement probably the more satisfying. What does it all mean? Well thats the rub.As you'll see from the discussion boards on IMDb it's up for constant re-interpretation and perhaps because of this more than anything else it's a film that stays in your head long after the final credits.
Don't think I really realized this before but while watching this movie I kept thinking to myself how incredibly influenced Stanley Kubrick must had been with Ingmar Bergman and his movies. The style, the pace, the compositions, the use of music, the use of visuals and overall cinematography, real comparisons could be drawn between the two film-makers.But as far as Bergman movies go; they are also being a bit harder to really get in to, due to its themes and approach. You have to be in specific mood for them, so to speak and not have any other distractions around you. But once you really invest yourself into his movies, they are often very rewarding.All of that can be said for this movie as well. It's minimal with its setup but complicated with its themes and characters. You could say that this is also really being a movie everybody will get something different out of, since everyone shall interpret things in their own way, which also truly makes this movie you simply have to experience for yourself.The one shall enjoy it for its mysterious and mystique story, characters and environment, while the other shall appreciate it more for its underlying psychological themes. Either way, everybody should be able to get something out of this movie. I really did see this movie as one that was focusing on the human psyche. Bergman tries to dissect the mind, breaks it down and builds it up again, by letting the characters go through some transitions, supported by some beautiful- and at times also somewhat psychedelic visuals.Not that the movie feels all that weird or pretentious. I mean, once you really get into the movie and its characters there is very little strange about it actually and you can see and understand what the characters are going through and where the movie was aiming for. Yet another greatly unique movie by Ingmar Bergman, that is great to watch, if you are in the right mindset for it.8/10 http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
I've just watched the movie for second time. There is not point in trying to explain the meaning of the movie because it is open to multiple interpretations. I've read many reviews about the movie and no one seems to truly have the right answer this"puzzle".What for some viewers seem to be a dream for others is the reality. And I wondered: what do I care? the plot may be confusing and obscure but in this movieI don't care about that. If there ever was an art-house movie,an avant-garde, a thought-provoking movie this must be it. I am a big Bergman fan and even though this is not my favorite Bergman film I must say this movie has something special.Bergman, Sven, Bibi, Liv, Max Von Sydow, etc... Can a movie get a better cast?


                
