Persona is a commendable movie by Bergman. It's not a simple movie to be seen just one time. This film should be commented in many aspects: cinematography, acting, directing, and lightening besides the theme. In this film I could see so much about visual elements of film making. You can easily mute this film and understand the scenes without the monologues. On the other hand you can just listen to the monologues of the nurse (Bibi An.) without watching the movie and that is also admirable. Here I just try to focus on main theme of the movie.I have seen this movie for many times and after each time I changed my mind about the interpretation of this movie. Finally I found that Alma and Elizabeth are actually the same. Instead of considering two separate characters, Alma and Elizabeth, I saw Alma as the conscience of Elizabeth. The leading role of this movie is Elizabeth, even though Alma is the one who speaks during the whole movie. We know that Elizabeth has some kind of problems with herself. She is not sick because we know that she is mentally and physically normal. Her problem is the chasm between what she is to others and to herself. These two sides of her characteristics have been gathered in Alma. Therefore Alma is not a separate character from Elizabeth. She is Elizabeth's inside. Alma in the nursing dress is the good conscience of Elizabeth who tries to correct her, but Alma in other appearances is exactly Elizabeth's characteristic as it is shown to the others, mostly seen when they are in the summer place by the sea.To support my notes I will refer you to some scenes of the movie; first of all, the scene that Elizabeth's husband comes to her but the one who encounters him is Alma, however he thinks that he is talking to his wife. We also see in a marvelous scene, where the husband is talking, the camera zooms to Elizabeth's face which gives the sense to viewers that Elizabeth is addressed by him. But we see that Alma is talking instead. Thirdly the scene in which Elizabeth takes Alma's hand to her husband's face and touches it, can also be considered as a support to my note. Another supportive gesture is the scene in which Alma imagines Elizabeth beside her when she is looking to the camera and then they put their heads on their shoulders. This scene has been repeated for three times during the whole movie. The scene in which Alma thinks that Elizabeth has said: "You should go to bed now, otherwise you'll fall asleep at the table." And the day after that Alma asks her these two questions:"Did you speak to me last night?"," Were you in my room last night? " Doctor in this movie is the one who knows everything. She wants to correct Elizabeth by the nurse which as we said earlier is Elizabeth's good conscience. Elizabeth remains at the hospital in the whole movie and she just imagines that she goes to that summer place. Actually the struggle between Elizabeth and the good conscience happens in her imagination.Elizabeth gradually got closer and closer to her good side of conscience during the movie although she didn't show any tendency to it at the first scenes. And finally we see that she totally follows her good conscience when she repeats the word, nothing, said by Alma to her. This is where the mission of Alma is completed.In my opinion there are some vague scenes in this movie which I will go through. I saw an erect penis, a spider, a sheep, a nail in a hand, an old woman, an old man and a little boy in the beginning of the movie which raise some questions, i.e. why did Bergman use these elements in the beginning of his movie? What is the relation between these elements and the whole story? I just can give my understanding about penis element. Elizabeth hated to have a baby. Since penis can be considered as the source of making baby therefore it is involved in the first part.I have seen some films directed by David Lynch, and I have found that Lynch's movies have many things in common with Bergman's, especially they both have taken scenes with seemingly irrelevant elements (such as a penis, a spider, a sheep, a nail, etc in this movie which we talked about them above) to the general trend of the movie. And also both tend to take surrealism, insanity and depression to pictures. It seems that Lynch has been affected by Bergman's movies, even stepped further.It's important to notice that the movie starts in the view of the little boy. Elizabeth didn't want to have a child. While she is playing the Electra she decides to be silent. It seems that Elizabeth's silence is mainly caused by her problem with having child. So that's why Bergman depicts the boy in the beginning of his movie. The film starts with the boy watching and touching a picture of a woman which seems to be his mother in his imagination. The picture becomes clear by touching more and more. We have the same scene at the end of the movie, but at this time the picture vanishes (becomes white) when the boy touches it, and this means that the Elizabeth's problem is solved."Shaveh Kaham"
Elisabeth Vogler (Liv Ullmann) is an actress who became mute in a play. Her doctor (Margaretha Krook) says that Elisabeth is mute by option, in a kind of sophisticated suicide, and decides to send Elisabeth to her house on the beach with the company of the nurse Alma (Bibi Andersson). While together, Alma initially worships the actress, opening her heart and secrets to her. Later, she feels betrayed, after reading a letter of Elisabeth and then she changes her personality to act like Elisabeth. This movie is open to the most different interpretations and it probably is a marvelous essay for those professionals and students of psychological area. As a lover of cinema, I really appreciated the usual outstanding direction of Ingmar Bergman and the stunning performances of Bibi Andersson and Liv Ullmann. This theatrical film keeps the camera basically all the time focusing the two lead actresses, and Liv Ullmann, even performing a mute character, offers to the viewers magnificent expressions. Unfortunately, the quality of the VHS released in Brazil by the Brazilian distributor Continental is a shame, having subtitles in Portuguese on (covering) the English subtitles. Further, this is the unique option we have in my country to watch this film, since it has not been released on DVD or in restored copy. The title in Brazil is simply ridiculous! My vote is nine.Title (Brazil): 'Persona <U+0096> Quando Duas Mulheres Pecam' ('Persona <U+0096> When Two Women Sin')


                
With an extreme beginning, even for a Bergman film, this fil testing the boundaries of the art, remains my favourite of his films.What can I say ? This film has it all: gorgeous camerawork, completely mesmerising mixture of editing and score, and all done more efficiently than in most other films, especially considering its age, brilliant performances, a terribly haunting plot. But the direction by Bergman is the true mastery of the film, which is subtle well terrifying beautiful yet paranoia inducing. It is these dynamics that Bergman masters to its full in this film.It is very so clear to see how this film has influenced others. I am certain that this film will continually inspire future for him as it has with just the past decade in the form of "Shutter Island" and "Ex Machina".


                
This is a wonderful yet scary movie.  Can those with mental illness really transfer their illness to their carers?  In the unusual situation set up in this film, the answer is yes.There's lots to think about in this film - for example I still cannot explain the scene when Vogler's husband comes to visit and mistakes Alma for Vogler.  Does Alma simply imagine this scene?  Or does she really sound and smell like Elisabeth Vogler by this stage.The special effects merging Alma and Elisabeth's faces etc. are low tech compared with modern efforts but the impact is still there.Difficult to describe why this is such a gripping movie - I suggest you see it and work it out for yourself.


                
As I watched this film, I was simultaneously perplexed and stunned. The meaning of the film (if there is one) seems very allusive and shrouded in symbolism. The movie is very bleak and despairing. It seems to say that life and art are ultimately futile and disconnected, commonplace themes, or anti-themes, for post-modern expression. That being said, the movie is beautifully shot and intelligently constructed. No director is better than Bergman at composing shots. This movie to me was like a T.S. Elliot poem. I wasn't sure what he was saying, but I enjoyed the way he said it. There seems to be hundreds of shades of white and black and gray throughout the picture, all used to the utmost effect. This movie could be considered a study of the human face. I have not seen a film that better utilizes the close-up. I detest movies that use extreme close-ups for no reason other than because they can. Bergman shows more human emotion in one close up--the shot of Elizabet listening to the music on the radio toward the beginning, for example--than in all Jerry Bruckhiemer-produced films combined. It certainly helps that the actresses perform with uncanny realism. This is a stunning film, one that haunts you for days following


                
This movie is one hell of an experience.  It is not so much about the narrative of the film, but the experience.  The narrative is very loose to say the least, but look deeper into the movie, see if you can see Bergman questioning existence, God, and identity itself.  Just remember to keep in mind that this is an experience, and not a normal film. 9/10


                
I don't find a better word then GRIM but on the same time I must say an extraordinary movie. To fully understand the movie I have to watch it two times and still lingers here and there and trying to find what exactly being said.Movie starts with nothing special, just a patient who more importantly looks healthy enters a hospital complaining about her mental health and then she was joined by a nurse name Alma (if you the meaning of Alma then it is certainly going to help you understand the movie all the way). They shifted to a remote house on a beach. Till here, nothing special, and there enters the story of a life time. Patient, who was a former actress and suddenly stops talking and nurse start sharing their past experiences and in doing so nurse thing that she is losing herself so as the actress and this is done remarkably. There are many things which are told just to elaborate the past of the two characters. One thing which needs special praise is the sequence in which the actress told her story, how she become mother, first by camera focusing on her with the voice of Alma and then the camera on Alma with the voice of her own, showing that both characters are becoming shadows of each other, merging into each other and losing their identities.Movie is disturbingly grim and dark yet grips you, haunts you and makes you linger in the memory of the movie.A must watch but specially for Bergman's fan.9/10


                
I love Ingmar Bergman, even when I don't get him. He was a master of imagery, symbolism and gorgeous cinematography. Persona didn't register fully for me at first viewing, and as of now I can't consider it one of my favorite Bergman films - I didn't enjoy it half as much as I did The Seventh Seal the first time around. This is likely to change after a second viewing though; and that's one thing that marks Persona as a good film to me - that I really do want to see it again. It's beautiful and intriguing enough that I truly want to "get" it completely.Even with nothing else the 9 star rating is well-deserved for the imagery and cinematography. The beautiful black and white draws the viewer in from the very eerie beginning, and never lets go. The story and characters are fascinating and complex, and everything in the film hints at layers of symbolism and nuance beneath the immediate psychological interpretation. A true work of art, both sensitive and very intelligent.


                
PERSONA is a psychological drama that, with a strong emotion examines the relationship between an older mental patient and her pretty but lonely nurse. This is a film about the identity, self-centeredness, sex, lesbianism, motherhood and madness. The characters are very intimate, so that, a boundary of reality, in longing and despair, becomes a nightmare and a distorted picture in the mirror.The story revolves around a young nurse named Alma and her patient, a well-known actress named Elisabet Vogler. Elisabet is a stage actress who has suddenly fallen silent and still, although the doctors have determined it is not a result of physical illness or hysteria, but willpower. Alma is somehow fascinated with her patient. The doctor decides Elisabet will recover better in a cottage by the sea, and sends Alma and Elisabet there. A very strange relationship develops between the two women in this isolated environment...Mr. Bergman has put a very complex problems in a relatively simple framework. The research of an identity starts from the elemental drama, through visual poetry and dark fiction, to modern psychological analysis.The beginning of the film is outstanding, Mr. Bergman has managed to disrupt an illusion of reality with some dark symbols including a crucifixion. It is important that impressions are different. That is the point of this melodic game between the desire, repression and insanity. The atmosphere is in an opposite contrast with the environment.Liv Ullmann as Elisabet is the silent patient. Her reactions are a distorted reflection on her beautiful face. Her lips analyze and test. Bibi Andersson as Alma is a nurse who often leads monologues in which she lacks at a word on the other side. Just one word uttered by her patient will scare away the fog that slowly descends between them. However, words slowly dying, while her lips move in fear of a truth.


                
Famed actress Elizabeth Vogler suddenly goes silent during a performance, perplexing specialists in search of its cause. They put her under the care of Alma, a nurse who is to monitor her therapy in an isolated house along the rocky Swedish coastline. With Alma doing all the talking she soon forgets boundaries, revealing personal intimate details to the mute actress whom she has grown to trust. When she finds out her trust has been betrayed Alma lashes out.I'm not certain how much of Swedish film director Ingmar Bergman's highly personal work I understand. The film opens with a prologue of sorts, a dream sequence (Elizabeth's? Bergman's? Both?) that for me become puzzle pieces which for the rest of the film I attempt to fit into the narrative. Confusing as this is Persona is a fascinating watch of beautifully lit scenes and some of the the most devastating use of close-up since silent film. Bibi Anderson's Alma gives one of the finest performances of the decade as she is run through a full emotional gamut by the enigmatic Elizabeth, played with an incredible haunting silence by Liv Ullman. This is achieved in large part by the masterful camera work of Sven Nykvist whose ground breaking work in Persona astounds to this day.Worked into Bergman's requisite death and desperation templates there are nebulous undertones of adolescent masturbatory fantasy and artistic self loathing as well as physical and emotional sadism. His use of jarring music in tense moments has a thriller mawkishness to it but with Nykvist documenting his vision and Anderson and Ullman performing it Persona is a startling piece of cinema.


                
I love looking at IMDb message boards for films such as this and seeing things like "turned it off after 30 minutes," "couldn't get into it," "awful," etc. I can guarantee you those were written by 20-something young men, or, at any rate, from a generation unused to this type of movie. This is the same group that, on the board for Gandhi, wondered if he was a real character, and on the board for "Thirteen Days" thought the Kevin Costner role was fictional.Sorry for that diatribe because in fact, I don't totally understand "Persona," though I am a fan of Ingmar Bergman and of the luminous Liv Ullmann.Therefore, I can only write what I think. There are films that are nothing but the Emperor's New Clothes, no there there, and people write tomes about them, observing deeper meanings that to me, don't seem to exist. This isn't one of those films; nothing done by Bergman is one of those films.Bergman sets up the movie by telling us, with various cinematic images, that this IS a movie.A nurse, Alma (Bibi Andersson), is assigned to Elizabet Vogler (Ullman), an actress hospitalized after she stopped speaking during a performance of "Electra." At the doctor's suggestion, Alma accompanies her patient to the doctor's home by the sea. There, Elizabet begins to take walks, write letters, and photograph the scenery. But she does not speak.Alma speaks, confiding her deepest thoughts to Elizabet, who listens and whose face encourages Alma to continue opening up to her. On her way to post some letters, however, Alma reads one written by Elizabet that is unsealed. She is crushed to read that Elizabet is "studying" her and that she thinks Alma has a crush on her which she finds "charming." On returning to the cottage, Alma becomes angry and belligerent toward her charge, even at times violent.The big question here is, are these two people or are they one person? Is Bergman showing us two sides of the same woman? Or is he showing us that underneath our masks, our personae, we are all the same, and that indeed, we are always "acting?" This is open for discussion.The photography by Sven Nyquist is brilliant, giving us a morphing of the two women's images, and often photographing each actress with half of her face in shadow. In one stunning scene, Elizabeth pulls Alma's hair off of her face, the way that Elizabet wears her hair, as they look out, their faces close together.Symbolically I think we are looking at one person who has a "shadow" self, each self beautifully portrayed by Andersson and Ullmann, making for a rich and thought-provoking experience.


                
Originally some the earlier Bergman films harder for me to get into, because most of the Bergman I saw first were from late in his career and far more 'naturalistic' – 'Fanny and Alexander', 'Autumn Sonata', 'Scenes From a Marriage' etc. I don't think I understood that for much of his great career he was as much an experimentalist (at times) as David Lynch, or Fellini, or Kubrick or Godard. Now that understand that, it's easier for me to get excited by the earlier experimental work. Also, with 'Persona' the experiment seems more subtle and complex than in some of Bergman's other early work. The themes are right out in the open but there's much less literalness in the questions. The whole FILM is a series of questions, but posed in a poetic way – what is identity? What is acting? What is film? What are the boundaries between people? What is reality and what is a dream, both in this film, and in our own experiences?This is a haunting deeply disturbing work, and part of it's very effectiveness is it's 'unexplainability', ala '2001' or a Magritte painting. Like a Koan, it forces you to try and make sense of something that has no simple answer. On first viewing there were a few times when things felt a little on the nose, or my feeling of 'huh?' was the bad kind, not the good one.But this is a fascinating film, that combines some of the most truly dreamlike sequences I've ever seen with what seems a conventional narrative, only to curve in on itself into obscurity yet again. It is ultimately the kind of puzzle that art does best – it makes you ponder things both consciously and subconsciously at the same time. The two lead performances by Bibi Anderson and Liv Ullmann are extraordinary, and Sven Nykvist again creates a series of unforgettable images (now with the wider palate that Bergman started towards in 'The Silence' – more camera moves, more 'cinematic' angles.). But the nexus of this film, isn't the acting or the photography (though the film would fail miserably without both being great), this is a film about the inside of the filmmaker's mind, and by extension the inside of all of our minds as we fight to make sense of the lives we lead.It also has the single most erotic scene where nothing physical happens I've ever encountered. And it's that kind of paradox that 'Persona' is all about. I know I will get more from repeated viewings. The film begs for it. It's also impossible to note how many films since have borrowed its techniques and images. Indeed, after the rare moments I felt dismissively 'we've seen this idea before', I'd realize 'no we HADN'T seen it before Bergman made this film'.


                
Bergman films often have - and this is partly due to the director's history as a playwright - a very stagy look to them with talky characters and little action, even though one can be assured that what happens on screen is meticulously constructed and technically brilliantly executed. The drama that unfolds however has more to offer than what is apparent on the surface. Frequently it constitutes an introspection made explicit with the elements shown to the viewer catering effectively in support of this basic idea. This approach might make Bergman's film less accessible and look dated to modern audiences despite an interesting theme at the core, regardless of the obviously commendable cinematography, the exquisite lightening and direction. But as so often with a master of his craft, it pays off to dig deeper and look closer, especially at a multilayered work like "Persona".The film is seemingly easy to summarize: "Persona" follows the nurse and her patient, and the viewer accompanies them as they try to get to the bottom of the woman in trouble. Which is not to say that we can easily penetrate to the source of it all, assess the consequences deriving from our observations and come to an eventual clear resolution in this mystifying work of art. The film undoubtedly is a highly psychological study, irritating, disturbing in parts, even right from the start confronting us with shocking images, constantly occupying the mind. It is a mix of reality, fantasy, dreamlike and surreal moments - and of course there are those question marks... While the picture is open for different interpretations, it falls never short of generating a strange fascination and suggests new angles on repeated viewings. As such "Persona" constitutes a challenge and intellectual enjoyment - and if you're willing to go that path it doesn't look dated at all.


                
'Persona' is a Swedish film with an Italian title. The movie is as minimalist as the title itself: a simple plot, simple cinematography (although not without some beautiful Scandinavian scenario), short in length (less than 1 hour and a half), with some very quick takes (so quick that you hardly have time to see them or understand them) and bits when it breaks apart (screen flashes white, scratch marks appear up and down the image, sound rises and screeches, and the film appears to unwind as brief flashes of the prelude reappear for fractions of a second each), a low number of actors however focusing mostly on the two main actresses and one of those actresses (who ironically portrays an actress) speaks so little that you can count by your fingers the total number of words she delivers.It's strange to watch a film with practically only two actresses, a fact that only gets stronger considering that one of them talks all the time to break the silence, while the other one is completely silent and impenetrable. In fact, her silent is so heavy and deafening that it creates more tension than if she was talkative.This is a strange film in a mostly psychological way. There is, however, some strong and disturbing content, particularly when the movie opens (scenes that aren't pretty to view).Overall, an interesting concept of film, with psychological impact, well directed and very well acted by the 2 lead actresses but thanks to some controversial scenes it isn't a movie to be always seen. That is its only let-down. Therefore it creates mixed thoughts.


                
'Persona' was my first introduction into the films of Ingmar Bergman, so as you can imagine the experience evoked such authenticity in it's surrealism that i was quite compelled to this story of two women. The story follows a nurse who is put in charge of an actress who can't talk and finds that the actress's persona is melding with hers.The opening sequence is surrealism as it's most audacious, as Bergman depicts a dream sequence that is no doubt baffling but still symbolically powerfully in representing a disturbing mind-state of the individual, which, like most art, visual constructs meaning of the human Psyche.The film is riddled with beautiful and disturbing symbolic imagery that includes the juxtaposition of the two women to produce a quite obvious surrealistic image of the conveying persona and a monologue from alma that is so superbly written in conveying it's eroticism, that it allows the audience to use their imagination in interpreting alma story.As i assume, this film will not confine to everybody taste and while i appreciate the film i have no doubt that repeating viewings is essential to understanding the films buried messages, however for film-goers who appreciate the intellectual and the use of film as an artistic form of subconsciously expressionism of individuals thoughts, visit 'Persona'
The movie that exemplifies Editing and Cinematography.Ingmar Bergman loves to tantalize the audience with his method of making movies by introducing figments of imagination to bolster the story that leaves us with a thin line of difference to differentiate fantasy from reality.The movie doesn't have much of a story but the editing of the movie is what left my jaws wide open. Elisabeth is an actress who seems pretty healthy physically, though she has some psychological problems which get exacerbated by the television footage of Thich Quang Duc's self-immolation. She is under the care of nurse Alma, who is chatter box. She finds it had to receive replies to her never-ending questions but that doesn't stop her from being loquacious. They travel to an island so that Elisabeth might show some improvement. The bond between them strengthens all of a sudden.The movie culminates with a scene in which Bibi Anderson and Liv Ullman, who do not have the slightest resemblances, has a frame of their faces mixed and it's hard to make out who's who. Such is the editing!
"Persona" is one of Bergman's most praised and talked-about films, so I was enthusiastic about watching it. While I certainly wasn't disappointed, it did go in a completely different direction than I had imagined. This is Bergman "unleashed", if you will.From the opening display of seemingly random images (a mix of the gruesome and the shocking) to the moments of strange-but-effective artistic choices made throughout the film, "Persona" wraps itself around your mind and isn't always clear about what it's trying to convey. I'm sure I don't understand all of its metaphors, implications, symbolism, and perhaps even the overall theme (that will require a re-watch and maybe the commentary) but what I've taken out of it at first viewing is how dangerously close and reliant we can become to others and how psychologically fragile this can make us. This is a film about vulnerability and exposing one's true feelings and emotions, and the consequences of doing so. Of course, it's also about how we can see ourselves is another to the point where we forget who we are individually. There's a lot going on in this film, and don't expect to understand absolutely everything at first (unless you're a psychology major). However, I don't want to give the impression that the film is confusing or disengaging. It's very intense and shocking, and never lets you look away. Certainly Bergman's most unapologetically "revealing" film.


                
Bergman's 'Persona' is probably the film which most deeply explores the human nature that i've ever watched. Nothing really comes close. The psych of the characters are so present that you can almost feel the fear and shame which they are feeling. Of course, both fear and shame are two frequently explored subjects in the film. Mostly shame. Being said,it's not recommended for weak people. It can be very disturbing at times.The script is basically build upon long monologues. But it is never boring, because after all, is what about the film is made. And notably, we have a very hot description of a orgy in one of these monologues. This may sound weird for some, but it makes totally sense into the film context. But i hope you aren't going to watch this film only because of that scene, if is that your interest. It has also very surreal moments,precisely in the last 20 minutes. Such scenes seems to be totally random and nonsense, but in the reality, these surreal moments are what explain everything in the film. Simply fantastic. So, highly recommended for those who have 'stomach' and do appreciate 'deep' films.. 8.6/10
Elisabeth Volger, an actress has stopped talking following her performance in 'Electra'.A young nurse called Alma is put in charge of her.These two women become very close.Alma finds she can talk about anything to Elisabeth, including a sexual act in her youth.At some point Alma starts merging with Elisabeth.Ingmar Bergman (1918-2007) was a Swedish master who's been praised by many fellow directors.Persona (1966) is known as one of his most important films.It's not an easy film.It shows us a poem in images as Bergman said.It's not a beautiful poem but more a disturbing one.The two women in the lead are fantastic.Bibi Andersson plays the part of Alma.Bergman's muse Liv Ullmann is Elisabeth.I can't say this movie is for everyone.It will be quite an experience for those who decide to watch it.


                
Persona, Ingmar Bergman's 1966 black and white film, reminds me of Herman Hesse's novella Siddhartha. Not in the subject matter, but in that both works of art perfectly marry their messages with their forms, and both say so much with so little a narrative spine. In that sense, both are great works of art that transcend any of the discomfit their often dubious artistic and social claims make. Persona has only four main actors, two of which dominate the film, and only one of which speaks. That would be a 25 year old nurse, sister Alma (Bibi Andersson), who is hired to take care of a famous stage actress who has had a nervous breakdown and refuses to speak. This is Elisabet Vogler (Liv Ullman). The other two actors who appear and speak are Mr. Vogler (Gunnar Björnstrand), who makes a brief hallucinatory appearance late in the film, and the doctor of the asylum where Elisabet is housed and where Alma works (Margaretha Krook)<U+0085>. The title, also, given that Elisabet is an actress, has been endlessly argued over, even though it's perhaps the most manifest part of the film. In his defense, I think Bergman realized that he could not make too long a film out of this material, lest be charged with filmic narcissism, so wisely it only clocks in at about an hour and twenty minutes, for there are loads of people willing to overpraise this film for Bergman, without relying on himself to do so. That said, Bergman does give a little bit of narration, to most manifestly inject himself into the proceedings, as he does in shots where Elisabet is his surrogate, physically guiding Alma in her scenes with Mr. Vogler.Bergman takes the usual smug swipes at artists- that they are selfish, lazy, narcissistic, etc., but these are rather hollow moments, as true as they may often be. So are those moments involving pain, ecstasy, truth, ego and superego, and their critique. The real core of the film comes from the most artificial of the artifices. That Bergman acknowledges that art is all artifice (they come from the same Latin root, as I've long championed) it can never be reality nor truth, therefore, what the film really declaims is that all human pretensions to the nobility of art and truth and suffering are just that, pretensions. That so few people and critics have not realized that Bergman is not attacking the 'deep' questions of existence, in this film, but affirming the immediacy of the shallow, is part of the film's brilliance. And this is true, whether or not Bergman claims it so, because the intent of the artist is meaningless. Once the art is completed, he or she has no more claim over it than any other interested percipient of it.That all said, the film is a technical tour de force due to the stellar camera work of cinematographer Sven Nykvist. The composition and lighting of every scene is breathtaking, heightened by the black and white (mixed with multiple grays), which is the true coin of the dream state, which this film fully exploits. Also, other than Alma's speaking, much of the rest of the film works as a de facto silent film, recalling to me the great Carl Theodor Dreyer film Vampyr, or Roman Polanski's Repulsion, which came out a year earlier. Both films are superior to Persona, for both have better tales, and are less self-conscious. Repulsion was set in a real world setting, and took off from there, while Persona is all artifice, with experimentation at its core. But that fact does not deny Persona its own form of greatness. There are numerous scenes which blatantly and slyly reference vampires, and Persona seems to have lifted much of its imagery and symbolism from Polanski's film, and Bergman's own earlier The Silence. Persona is indeed a horror film, in the sense that all horror is based internally, not in monsters manifested externally.Many critics refer to this film as deconstructive or Postmodern, but they are again missing the point. Those terms are merely inward terms, gawking at the art. That is only the veneer of this film, the toolkit used, as it gazes outward at the viewer. The film, however, is a small film, in every sense of the term, which holds up a mirror to the viewer, not the art it is. In that sense, it is anti-deconstructive, for the art is what it is, and the viewer is the subject matter under examination. The acting by Andersson and Ullman is consummately fine, especially with Ullman's realistic and hyper-realistic acting without words. Only four decades into the talky era, she has utterly shed all of the artifices silent films' acting required, and the acting and visual virtuosity of the film are more than enough to cancel out the hollow psychology, and dated artsy clichés.Persona is self-conscious, narcissistic, and not too psychologically deep, for there is no real reason offered for Alma's identification with Elisabet, nor her breakdown, but it is the ultimate style over substance film, and as such attains its true greatness, despite the visual sleight of hand that leads many to be sucked into its hollow posturing as some source of great depth. But, more so, it's a grandly entertaining film, more than it is a deep one, giving the psychologically naïve much to talk about as Bergman deceives the viewer into deep thought over the shallow. As such, it was most deserving of its Oscar for Best Foreign Film in the year of its release, but I urge every viewer to ignore any reviews of the film beforehand, even this one, for a naked approach to it is the only way to fully plumb its essence. Good luck.
This one stands alone among the all-time great works of cinema. It has a purity, grace and simplicity that brings to mind some words from reviews of another masterpiece by another cinematic legend: "A perfect film . . . I ask that you give yourself over to the experience." -Persona- is the ultimate art-film. Haunting, mysterious, and wondrously enigmatic, but as filmic expression goes, it is unsurpassed. As entertainment-film, it succeeds by being as engaging as any great film, period. Liv Ullmann is unforgettable in her beauty and her silence. Given how it stands alone, it is exceedingly difficult to recommend other movies to those who love this one, but other personal favorites that possibly bear mentioning include: -Mirror-, -Solaris-, -Nostalghia-, -Woman in the Dunes-, -2001: A Space Odyssey-, -Barry Lyndon-, -Eyes Wide Shut-, -Mulholland Dr.-, Bergman's own -Cries and Whispers-, -Hour of the Wolf- and -Wild Strawberries-.But words really don't justify -Persona-'s greatness; you will just have to experience this for yourself.


                
I was unfortunate to see this movie with subtitles of woeful quality (white text on white background).  I was fortunate enough to read the excellent script long before seeing the film. The movie is about roles we choose to play. The choice is not always conscious.  Also this movie has one of the most arousing monologues put on a film.  9/10.


                
(Flash Review)There is a canyon of depth to a fairly minimal plot. The film opens with a style of an experimental film with seemingly unrelated imagery abruptly flashing across the screen. From several minutes of quick cuts, the film launches into longer and calmer scenes that explains the core story. During a presentation, a famous actress, Elisabet Vogler, suddenly becomes mute and has been put in the care of psychiatric nurse named Alma. Sent to recover at a seaside house, Alma tries to break Elisabet's silence by talking to her. During her long solo conversations, she talks and shares very personal stories and the more she seems to unearth the more she works through her own emotions. Her dialogs seems to be with Elisabet or is it really herself? The film has highly symbolic cinematography that leads the viewer to wonder if Elisabet is real or is the film personifying Alma's internal thoughts and struggles? Two actresses carry the film and it is really unique to have one portray such emotions with uttering just a couple words. This is certainly a film worth studying and rewatching.
A nurse at a psychiatric hospital, Alma, is given a new patient. Elisabet Vogler is a famous actress but has suddenly become apathetic, lethargic, mute and prone to fits of laughter at arbitrary, innocuous things. Alma does her best to engage Elisabet and get her to talk but the more Alma opens up to Elisabet, the more she empathises with her and becomes like her.Written and directed by famed Swedish director Ingmar Bergman, Persona is a superb, mind-bending study on identity and personality. Well, to me it is, mostly. Every time I thought I had the movie figured out, it would take a different tack. Reading what movie critics and psychologists think it is about, there isn't a single, unifying interpretation. So, if you say you know exactly what it is about - you're either lying or weren't concentrating. Basically, every person will have their own interpretation, dependant largely on their own background and perceptions. Isn't that the definition of art?And it certainly feels like art. Bergman's cinematography is excellent, the soundtrack adds to the intensity and he uses symbolism extensively, and jarringly (maybe a tad overused - I didn't find it all necessary). Liv Ullman's minimalist performance - she utters only two words during the course of the movie - and the psychological aspects, especially, add to the sense of this being something more than just a movie. Quite profound, even without knowing what the profundities are (!).I found it difficult to give this a 10, due to not understanding it fully (and believe me, I tried!) and feeling like I could have done with a more complete conclusion. However, as mentioned previously, maybe confusion / uncertain interpretation was Bergman's aim.


                
I am waking from a dream. And as I look out the window it seems I should see the ocean.Not much feels right as the memory of what I've seen fades.Light and the absence of light control my face as it did hers. One pale one unseen.To what to wonder. What a wonder too.I am still stuck.


                
