Last year I was very lucky to catch this on the big screen. This film is meant to be seen on the big screen! It was also the first time I saw it at the theaters and I was very impressed with the visuals.In this film movies are switching over from being silent to being "talkies". However the film is a spoof of the turmoil that afflicted the movie industry in the late 1920s when movies when the change over went from silent to sound. When two silent movie stars', Don Lockwood and Lina Lamont, latest movie is made into a musical a chorus girl is brought in to dub Lina's speaking and singing. Don is on top of the world until Lina finds out.This is such a great film that if you ever get the chance to see this at the movies then DO IT.Gene Kelly and Debbie Reynolds made an awesome team.


                
I don't like musicals. They never made any sense to me. Don't get me wrong, I love music; it's an important part of my life. I love movies also, and while the two often compliment each other, sometimes I'm repelled. It's probably the dancing. A person breaking into a complicated dance number, seemingly unaware of their surroundings, or worse yet, in complete synch with a complete stranger is like making fun of the movie, as if to say, "Please don't take us seriously, we like to sing and dance." Or even more ridiculous, "Let's not fight, let's settle this dispute with a song and dance." Forget about suspension of disbelief.This film however, I manage to enjoy. I once was given the task of my film teacher to watch the film and keep track of all the cuts in the film. Well, sometime after ten minutes I lost track because I was so wrapped up in the story. It really is an interesting period in the history of cinema, told well, and with well placed song and dance numbers that at times drag on, but that seems to be more of an excuse to show off the technicolour than anything else. They build you up to it slowly. The first few numbers don't break out at an inappropriate time. It doesn't last though, but by then they've got you.With such memorable tunes as these, it's hard to imagine them going wrong. When Gene Kelly sings the title piece, somehow time stands still as you're swept up in one of the most memorable scenes in film history. Just reading the title in print has likely caused you to hum a few bars, or sing a few words. Or maybe, just maybe, walk out without an umbrella when you know it's raining. One thing's for sure, if all Gene Kelly did was choreograph the dance numbers, he more than deserves the co-directing credit he has.They simply don't make films like this anymore. Which in some ways is a testament to the film's theme and narrative. The business of show is constantly in a state of evolution. The narrative portrays a time period when silent films were being replaced by "talkies" with sound, yet the musical genre itself has almost all but disappeared with the exception of animated films with musical numbers, and rare live-action pieces.One might speculate that Hollywood overdid the musical. Personally, I can't get into them. Most of the time it seems like a drawn out affair, but this film is something special. Considering my feelings about musicals, it would have to take a film of this one's caliber to make me sit up and take notice.


                
Everybody remembers the scene. It's the one where he walks along the street, dancing, and singin' in the rain. The musical sequence has yet to be surpassed by any film -- even my all-time-favorite musical, "Grease" (1978), doesn't stand a chance. In fact, there's another great musical number in "Singin' in the Rain," with Donald O'Connor throwing his body around like a rag doll. Even though the singin' in the rain number is the infamous trademark of the film and musicals everywhere, my personal favorite is "Make 'em Laugh."Not many people know, however, that Gene Kelly had a 103 degree fever during the filming of the infamous scene -- a dangerous thing to do, in retrospect, considering that he was flailing about and working up a sweat in pouring water with such a high temperature. But even then, not many people know that the "rain water" pouring down on the joyously cheesy street was actually composed of water and milk. The milk was added to the mix in an effort to achieve the effect of raindrops showing up on screen. (Mel Gibson noted once that most of the time during the filming of "Braveheart" it was raining around them, but it was basically impossible to notice any rainfall in the film since the sheets of liquid were so thin.)"Singin' in the Rain" can probably be called the greatest musical of all time, even though my guilty pleasure is "Grease" (how outdated the film is, and yet how amusing it remains!). Every serious filmgoer knows this movie, and just yesterday as I watched Britain's countdown to the greatest musical ever made, I noted that "Singin' in the Rain" was high on the list ("Grease" was no. 1, although any list that posts "Buffy the Vampire Slayer: The Musical" higher on a list than "Singin' in the Rain" can't be trusted).Don Lockwood (Kelly) is a silent film star in 1927, an ex-musician living an on-screen romance with Lina Lamont (Jean Hagen) and letting the publicity take their screen relationship to a whole new level (think Ben and Jen's recent tabloid romance). The press loves to think that its two biggest stars are the nation's cutest couple, but in reality Lockwood despises Lamont, and Lamont -- having read trashy magazines -- believes their relationship to be factual. "Oh, Donny!" Lina cries. "You couldn't kiss my like that and not mean it just a teensy bit!" Lockwood: "Meet the greatest actor in the world -- I'd rather kiss a tarantula." Lina: "You don't mean that." Lockwood: "I don't? Hey Joe, get me a tarantula!"When the silent film studio begins the transition from silent film to new "talkies," it means that Lockwood will have to take acting lessons in able to learn to truly be able to act, and Lamont -- a squeaky-voiced young lady -- will have to learn to learn proper grammar. (Some scenes with a grammar instructor reminded me of "My Fair Lady," truth be told, although it was filmed 12 years afterwards.)Lockwood meets a young girl named Kathy Seldon (Debbie Reynolds), who refuses to fall victim to his Hollywood charm but eventually learns to love the guy after he gets her out of a tight squeeze or two.Meanwhile, Lockwood's pal, Cosmo (O'Connor), suggests that they start to stage film musicals instead of feature "talkies" -- that way, all Lockwood needs to do is sing and dance, something he already excels at. ("Make a musical! The new Don Lockwood: he yodels! He jumps about to music!")But people want Lockwood and Lamont, not Lockwood by himself, and the prospect of losing money is not a bright prospect for the film company. So Lina is filmed in the musicals with him, and towards the end of our film, sweet young Kathy dubs over Lina's voice and is given no credit for the task. Lamont is too embarrassed to admit that she can't sing, and so she blackmails the film distributor -- if they credit Kathy at the end of her new feature film, she'll take legal action.And so comes the climatic finale on stage as Lockwood reveals the true singer behind the film (ironic, since it was Lamont herself who dubbed over Reynolds' voice during the sequence). As Roger Ebert noted, the scene where Lockwood bursts onto stage and fingers out Kathy from the crowd of onlookers is corny, but it's sweet and exactly the time of emotionally uplifting moment that is rarely made nowadays.Gene Kelly's notorious cruelty on the set of "Singin' in the Rain" has become a sort of folklore, and it's true. He berated the actors if they messed up a single dance number. O'Connor later admitted that he was extremely frightened to make a single mistake, afraid that Kelly would lash out at him.That strictness doesn't shine through Kelly's character in "Singin' in the Rain." In fact, many of the dance moves (such as the frantic splashing in the puddles) look quite haphazard, but they were all choreographed to an extreme.Is that why the film is highly regarded as perhaps the definitive American musical? That probably has something to do with it. I think it's mostly the joy of it all, though -- bright, cheery, happy, and uplifting, the film is one of the most purely fun films of all time. It doesn't demand anything like some films, but it gives a lot back.The ads for "Singin' in the Rain" promised a glorious feeling, and in that way the film lives up to its slogan. It is fun and bright and glorious and entertaining. It doesn't take itself seriously, but it offers the viewer a chance to experience something quite rare -- an all-around great movie.
What a glorious feeling, indeed.5/5.


                
I was decided to watch this movie, because I knew and already watched the famous sequence of Gene Kelly singing in the rain .(what makes the movie very famous and also gives the name of it). After watching it, I can say that it is a delightful movie with also a pleasant story: They are in 1927, and Don Lockwood and Lina Lamont are famous actors in Hollywood, who always make a couple in their movies,making many rumors emerge about their real relationship. The problem is that the movies now are not mute as a year ago, and they couple of actors have difficulties, since both need to take new acting and speech lessons. Lina, however has a horrible voice, needing to be dubbed by Kathy Selden, a young actress who has a beautiful voice, and makes Don fall in love. It's very funny to see the difficulties of the producers of that time, like when they put the microphone in Lina's chest to record her voice, but they also record Lina's heart beats.
"Singin' in the Rain" is considered by many to be the greatest movie musical of all time. It's hard to argue that point. It's got everything, a solid cast, great songs, glorious Technicolor and solid production numbers.Don Lockwood (Kelly and Cosmo Brown (Donald O'Connor) are vaudevillians in the 1920s. They are not doing so well and decide to try Hollywood. Lockwood becomes a stunt man who graduates to starring in adventure films with co-star Lina Lamont (Jean Hagen). It is the time of the introduction to sound and it is discovered that Lamont does not have a voice suitable for sound. One night after being mobbed by adoring fans, Lockwood meets Kathy Selden (the still teen-aged Debbie Reynolds), an aspiring singer/dancer. Love at first sight. Kathy is trained to dub Lamont's voice in the studio's first sound film. It is a big success. Lamont arranges for Kathy to be contractually bound to continue dubbing her voice. But Lockwood, Cosmo, and studio boss R.F. Simpson (Millard Mitchell have other ideas and...................................There are several memorable performances in this film. O'Connor performs the comical "Make 'em Laugh", Kelly of course performs the title tune and appears in the "Broadway Melody" production number with a cast of thousands and the lovely Cyd Charisse with whom he has a couple of dance numbers. The stars do a delightful "Good Mornin" song and dance as well. Jean Hagen almost steals the film as the deceitful Lina Lamont.MGM dusted off several of their old songs for this film. "Good Mornin'" for example, was sung by Judy Garland in 1939's "Babes in Arms". The song, "Beautiful Girl" is ably performed by Jimmy Thompson who received no billing or acclaim for his effort. Wwatch for Rita Moreno as Zelda, Lamont's scheming ally. "B" western bad guy Douglas Fowley turns in a dandy performance as the frustrated director and Kathleen Freeman and King Donovan turn up in minor roles as well.This would by Gene Kelly's second of back to back successes following "An American in Paris" a year earlier. Sadly the movie musical was on decline and both Kelly and O'Connor would soon be searching for alternatives. The diminutive Debbie Reynolds was just getting started and would go on performing on stage, film and TV for the rest of her life.
"Singing In The Rain" is unique in that the song actually inspired the movie. It is set in Hollywood in the mid-1920s. Gene Kelly, 39 when it was made, stars as Don Lockwood, silent film star. Donald O'Connor was 26, played Cosmo Brown, Lockwood's long-time sidekick. And 19-yr-old Debbie Reynolds, in already her 6th film, plays Kathy Seldon, aspiring legitimate (stage) actress set on going to NYC. Lockwood met her initially when he was escaping overzealous fans and leaped into her car from a streetcar top. Also, they later met again when she jumped out of a cake at a party. She obviously needed work!However, the character who really makes the whole story possible, and the movie fantastic, is Lina Lamont (Jean Hagen), Lockwood's silent screen co-star, who also happens to be a totally self-absorbed person with the most irritating voice possible. Hagen is absolutely perfect in this role, and I understand she received an Oscar nomination for it.   In 1927, the first "talkie", "The Jazz Singer" with Al Jolson, changed movies forever. Suddenly the "talkies" were making all the money and the Lockwood/Lamont team had to follow or close down. No amount of diction coaching could get Lamont to sound good, and the audience could only laugh at the test screening just 6 weeks before scheduled opening. Cosmo had a great idea - Kathy would dub in her voice over Lina's. Also, the serious "Dueling Cavaliers" would become a musical, "The Dancing Cavaliers."
The new musical is a big hit, Lina gets coerced by the live audience to sing a song, but it was Kathy singing behind the curtain. Midway through it, they raised the curtain to expose the truth, Lina was put in her place, and the new team of Lockwood and Selden was a hit, on and off the big screen.Except for an extended surreal dance scene with Kelly and Cyd Charisse, which seemed to break the continuity of the story, the movie is almost perfect. I rate it "9" of 10. Of course Kelly was choreographer, and co-director, so I suppose he just wanted that number in. The several energetic dance numbers with Kelly and O'Connor are simply great, as are the two individual solo numbers, "Singing in the Rain" by Kelly, right after Don leaves Kathy's apartment, realizing he is in love with her, and "Make 'Em Laugh" by O'Connor, which includes his running up two different inclining walls and back-flipping off them. Who knew Debbie Reynolds could dance so well, and hold her own with Kelly and O'Connor??  Well, she couldn't until she was cast for the part, and she literally worked herself to bleeding feet in rehearsing for the production numbers, and all her hard work shows. She became a dancer for this role.I love music, and I love good dancing. I cannot watch a film like this without mentally comparing the two great dancers of 1950s film, Gene Kelly and Fred Astaire. I suppose Astaire was the greater "pure dancer" of the two, with always perfect positions and movements that would just glide over the floor.  Kelly, however, is my overall favorite of the two. Not only is he a superb dancer, his more athletic build and dancing style, combined with good looks and singing voice, make him more believable in the musical film roles they both starred in.


                
*SPOILERS In The Rain* Two actors, Don Lockwood (Gene Kelly) and Lina Lamont (Jean Hagen), find themselves in trouble when somebody invents 'talking pictures'; Lina more than Don, because she has very bad grammar, a bad character and a terrible voice.She is also 'in love' with Don, who doesn't love her, because of what is written on the gossip magazines, making Don's life more hell than it already is.But thanks to the help of his best friend Cosmo Brown (Donald O'Connor) and of Kathy Williams (Debbie Reynolds), his true love, Don manages to stay on top, while the vain Lina gets what she deserves.If you want to watch the perfect musical for everybody, ages 2 to 100 (RHPS is perfect, too, but not exactly kiddie material), 'Singin' In The Rain' is the perfect choice, with great acting, ingenious scriptwriting, a nice choice of song (I'm partial to 'Fit As A Fiddle', 'Good Morning' and 'Moses Supposes' myself) which came from MGM's archives, and very good choreographing and directing.A deserved success! Singin' In The Rain: 9/10.
Singin' In The Rain quite possibly one of the best movie musicals of all time. The dancing is unforgettable and fantastic, mesmerizing the audience until the credits are done.  Gene Kelly and Donald O'Connor are perfect in their roles.  Kelly plays Don Lockwood, a cocky and handsome superstar in the 1920s who just made a bad talking movie with his romantic leading lady, Lena Lamont (Jean Hagen).  Donald O'Connor's character, Cosmo Brown, is the absolutely hilarious best friend of Lockwood, who sings his famous "Make 'Em Laugh" number and cracks jokes from beginning to end.  Kathy Seldon (Debbie Reynolds) enters the plot as Lockwood's love interest and Lena Lamont gets jealous.  "Moses Supposes", "Singin' In The Rain" and "Broadway Melody" are fantastic and classic numbers that will make you want to become a dancer yourself! Each time I watch this film, it gets better and better.  I can never get sick of it. ***1/2 out of ****


                
Let me start off by saying, I hate musicals.  Hate them.  I have little respect for a genre with such patently bizarre conventions as the musical. Of course, there will always be a place in my heart for The Wizard of Oz and The Sound of Music, as they are films that are more rites of passage than actual entertainment, they are part of the American cultural landscape in a way that makes them almost unavoidable.  I also, much to my chagrin, like Grease and Hair, but for different reasons.With all that said, I love Singin' in the Rain.  I love it.  It is one of the finest films that I have ever watched and I can watch it again and again.  SitR is a fun movie, that pokes fun at its own conventions and explodes them in strange and wonderful ways.  Gene Kelly is simply too cool.  He is one of the few men that project cool while doing goofy and graceful dance steps (Billy Joel could pull it off sometimes too).  Gene Kelly is a damn cool guy with the chops and credentials to make nearly any role legitimate.  SitR is no exception. Especially the bizarre, Bernhard-esque dance number at the end, which Kelly choreographed himself.  Fantastic.Donald O'Connor, though, is one of the main reasons why this film works.  He is damn funny.  His hyperkinetic Make'm Laugh skit still gets me rolling today.  He is beyond brilliant in this film and really makes his scenes work.The plot itself is interesting, it is a musical about the origins of musicals.  It is a romance, a comedy, a history lesson and a some of the best dance numbers ever all rolled into one.  I don't really know what else to say about this film except... wow.


                
And what a glorious film ... #5 film in AFI's Top 100 movies, #1 musical, #16 romance and #16 comedy, "Singin in the Rain" doesn't celebrate Hollywood, it defines it through a range of emotions, so rich that you can't finish this timeless classic without shouting : "Now, that's entertainment!" If there is ever a movie for which the word iconic takes its full meaning, "Singin' in the Rain" takes the cake, and an appetizing one where you can expect the beautiful Debbie Reynolds jumping out of it. With Donald O'Connor and Gene Kelly, she forms the so lovable trio that sets the cheerful mood in the opening sequence : holding their umbrellas, wearing raincoats, they enthusiastically walk and express their joy to be simply 'singin in the rain'. Indeed, the title itself, beyond its reference to the most memorable song, embodies the film's main feeling, something so positive it's impossible to write a review without using up all the synonyms of 'happiness'."Singin' in the Rain" incarnates a quite hedonistic philosophy of life, inspiring the most positive emotions even when the natural elements don't help. While many people try to run for a dry spot, afraid to get wet and catch a cold, Gene Kelly's let himself getting rain soaked while his heart is basking under sunshine of love. He savors the moment with a total carelessness, inviting the rain to come at him. This part doesn't only work because of the communicative aspect of the 'glorious' feeling, but also as an incredibly inspirational moment in its sheer simplicity. The image of Kelly swinging on the lamppost, is the eternal allegory of happiness that only Cinema could have illustrated, a happiness going through every possible stage, delight, pleasure, enchantment until it becomes a totally jubilant moment where Kelly literally splashes on a ocean of joy, until he faces a cop, whose presence puts an end to this orgasmic mayhem, and the melody can finally end <U+0085> leaving us with these immortal lines "I'm dancing and singing in the rain"This is one of these magical sequences that immediately penetrated people's hearts and, once and for all, our universal heritage. No one can imagine this film without immediately thinking of the rain, the lamppost and Gene Kelly's illuminating smile. I can't evoke the film, I can't watch it or live it without it bringing me back to my childhood memories. I discovered the song through one of its countless parodies, and it stuck in my mind right away. Once, my dad saw a documentary about the film and immediately called me to see if I that sequence rang a bell. Another day, still as a child, I saw a documentary about Hollywood MGM Golden Age, only waiting for the 'Singin' in the Rain' part <U+0085> and when I got to see the film, I finally surprised myself by enjoying the comedy more than the musical, and "Make 'em laugh" by Donald O'Connor, became my favorite part."Make' em Laugh" is another amazing achievement that works alone as an efficient antidepressant. Donald O'Connor accomplishes an impressive acrobatic number, extending his comedic performance to every single element of slapstick, with a natural goofiness and perfect timing that makes it look like a spontaneous act of virtuosity and makes you forget about the rehearsal this would have probably taken : you just open your eyes, and admire the performance. He laughs, smiles, makes funny faces, gravity-defying moves with one motto, no ... not "dignity, dignity" but on the contrary trading any sense of dignity in order to make the other laugh, or giggle, or smile or at least feel good. O'Connor is the perfect clown without any ounce of sadness, the scene-stealing comic relief of a rather hilarious comedy! The movie doesn't disobey the implicit golden rule that there's no better comedy than one with a heart, and the heart of the film belongs to the exquisite Debbie Reynolds, whose character has the merit of having 'inspired' the iconic rain sequence. She's extremely poignant in her lack of confidence and her will to help her friends that we automatically feel for her, as he would do to a Disney Princess. This analogy is not fortuitous and probably explains why I enjoyed the comedy more than the romance, the funny musical numbers more than the serious ones, the villain more than the princess. What a villain by the way, hard to imagine the film's success without the incredible Lina Lamont, played by Jean Hagen who provides perhaps more laughs than O'Connor in the comedy department, with her voice, speech mannerism and hilarious "What am I dumb or something?" catchphrase.My last comment didn't intend to diminish the merit of the romance but I don't really see it as the movie's highlight although it features many memorable scenes. When Kelly as Lockwood says to Lina : "I don't like her half as I hate you", I think he sums it up quite well, as many fans probably love the romance but not as much as they adore the comedy. And count me also among those who fail to see the relevancy of the whole 'Broadway Melody' sequence that kind of deviated from the intelligence of the plot and weakened its 'vis comica'. "Singin' in the Rain" had to keep on the clever homage to that crucial transition to talking pictures and self-reflexive celebration of the genre that consecrated the triumph of talking pictures, the genre that probably best incarnates the bright side of Hollywood : musicals. As flashy, flamboyant and enjoyable as it was, the scene could've been shorter, end up with a kind of punchline or at least respected the "Make' em laugh!" motto.I rated it a 9 because of the Broadway sequence, but the rest of the film deserves a 11 as one of the greatest comedies and the greatest musical ever, even better than "Guys and Dolls" put together.


                
Singin' In The RainAn epitome to a musical genre feature where choreography, production design and background score blends into the perfect combination in a poetic tone. The journey and the transition depicted in here of all the characters; as they aren't palpable to their surrounding anymore, is written explicitly on paper by Betty Comden and Adolph Green. And the rest of it is left to Stanley Done and Gene Kelly; the directors, whose enthusiasm and affection towards the musical acts is crystal clear and they fortunately are able to apply it all in here. Gene Kelly has done a decent work on performance too with Debbie Reynolds and Jena Hagen as a supporting cast but the real game changer is Donald O'Connor who is flat out hilarious in his portrayal. Singin' In The Rain is one of those rare art that just happen to have everything in the right place and if accounted into one big musical opera there lies a genuine soul in it.


                
The Broadway dance sequence is quite phenomenal, but I always thought it was inconsistent with the rest of the movie.  It's pretty impressive for a 1952 musical, but not the sort of thing you'd expect to see in a 20s era studio's first talkie.  The movie (Singin' in the Rain) is about the making of a talkie about a dancing cavalier, but this modern sequence suddenly pops up unexpectedly.  And where's Lina Lamont who's supposed to be the star of the movie?The Broadway sequence is a joy to behold, but it really doesn't fit.


                
There are a very small, select number of films, which stand the test of time and will live on forever. One such film is 'Singing in the Rain'. Made in 1952, much of the Hollywood satire found in the film is still relevant to the star system and studio structure of Tinsel Town today. Gene Kelly puts in an unforgettable performance as the all-singing, all-dancing, Don Lockwood.The story follows a group of Hollywood filmmakers, making the transition from the silent movies of yester-year into the new age of talking-film. With a little help from his friends Lockwood turns a terrible formulaic studio picture into a show stopping musical.This is one of those films that everyone should go back to and watch again. It is a fantastic reminder of how the musical genre used to be, and should be! It also struck me as surprisingly historical, charting the introduction of the talking-movies and the initial public and professional reaction to it. Watching this film will remind you of the heart-warming, lifting feeling that many modern films just fail to deliver. If anyone can resist the urge to smile and laugh during Donald O'Connor's fantastic performance of 'Make 'em laugh' then it would be a very sorry day indeed! If it is an achievement to get your audience on the edge of their seat then this film surpasses that achievement because I was very close to dancing on mine!!!


                
Not being a fan of the Musical genre, when I come across a musical film that I enjoy, it's pretty much an anomaly.  `Singin' in the Rain' is one of those exceptions, because it is not only immensely enjoyable, but it is sarcastic and intelligent as well.  `Singin' in the Rain' stars Gene Kelly, Donald O'Connor and Debbie Reynolds and is a romantic comedy about the advent of the talking picture in 1920's Hollywood.  While a lot of the jokes are over the top and biting, one can't help but imagine that this is probably a fairly accurate portrayal of the hysteria over talkies and the scramble by the studios to compete.  Probably the most striking thing about `Singin' in the Rain' is the unbelievable talent, particularly the performances of O'Connor and Kelly. When they start dancing and doing their shtick, I'm suddenly ten years old again and grinning like a fool at the screen.  There are few films that make me laugh out loud, and often, but this film is one of them.  One of the very few criticisms I would have about this film is the scene with Gene Kelly (`Gotta Dance!') toward the end of the film that is about twenty minutes long and pretty much grinds the film to a screeching halt for me.  Until this (unbearably long) musical number, the film is moving at a really quick pace, but it takes a few minutes after this scene for the film to pick up steam again in time for the hilarious conclusion.  I'm not sure what the reasoning was behind the decision to put such a long and displaced number in the film, but if the intent was to show the irony of Hollywood, etc. I'm sure they could have been a bit more concise about it.  (And still showcase Cyd Charrise's amazing legs!)It takes a lot for a comedy, and especially a musical comedy at that, to turn me into a drooling fangirl, but `Singin' in the Rain' does that every time to me.  This is a feel-great movie that is truly a fantastic classic.--Shelly


                
Best musical for songs, laughter, comedy. The cast couldn't be better and the story, while slim, is funny. The talent of three stars shines bright and captures our hearts and spirits. A joy of a movie. Whether this is really the hey-day of Hollywood is debatable but this must rank as one of the best MGM ever produced.


                
The first musical i watch in my life and i love it. It is perfect to EVERYONE, funny and critic.


                
I'm not that much with the classic movies, but (Singin' in the Rain) was great.
The storyline is simple.The music was cool.


                
Singin' in the Rain is considered one of the best movies of all time. Although, only two Oscar nominations prove that movie wasn't that highly appreciated when it came out in 1952. It was directed by Stanley Donley and Gene Kelly who is also the main star of the movie and it tells a story about a silent film transition to sound.To be honest, despite being a huge movie lover, I am not really into musicals. During these types of movies I often lose focus because of overlong singing and dancing scenes which I believe are created for theatre, not for cinema. That's the reason why I've seen only handful of musicals. So when Singin' in the Rain started I didn't really have big expectations. Don't get me wrong, I knew that I'll be watching a classic movie, that's why I decided I'll give it a chance.All I want to say is that I'm very happy now that I've seen this film. It has both interesting and educational story. As you would expect, the acting is great too. From the technical standpoint Singin' in the Rain is flawless, the use of color and long shots is very impressive. I was really surprised how funny this movie is, even almost all of the singing and dancing scenes are hilarious. I am really glad I've seen this great movie.


                
"Doot Doot Do Doot Do Doot Doot[<U+0085>]" this joyful hum sung and danced its way into America's hearts in the 1950s, and even though the 21st century is well under way, this glorious film continues to put smiles on people's faces. Singin' in the Rain is a 1952 musical comedy which starred Gene Kelly, Debbie Reynolds, and Donald O'Conner. The film was directed by Gene Kelly and Stanley Donen and produced by Metro- Goldwyn-Mayer or MGM. The movie premiered in Radio City Music Hall in New York City on March 27, 1952, and was released in theatres on April 11, 1952. It made over 7 million dollars in the box office and was one of the highest grossing movies that year. Just to summarize the film a little bit without giving away too much of the plot, the films opens on a movies premiere at the renowned Grauman's Chinese Theatre in California. The crowds have gathered to see the star studded cast including Don Lockwood and Lina Lamont arrive for the premiere of their new movie. When the premiere had finished, Lockwood finds himself in a situation where he is running away from female fans that are chasing him. Lockwood hops into a car where he meets Kathy Seldon. Not realizing who he is at first she screams and tries to get him out of her car. Finally a police officer sees them and instantly recognizes Lockwood from his movies. Seldon feels a bit embarrassed, but continues on the conversation. They get into a disagreement over whether what Don does in his movies is really acting or not. Kathy believes that just looking at the screen and miming the words is not really acting. There needs to be spoken word. Later after having run into Kathy again, he becomes infatuated with her and tries to track her down but is unsuccessful.A few weeks later Don walks onto set for his new movie and the producer of the company approaches Don with a crisis. The talkie The Jazz Singer had become a huge success and the public no longer want to see silent films but wanted to see talking films. The rest of the film deals with the struggle of transforming a silent film into a talking motion picture as well as inner character conflicts resulting in the iconic film that we all love today. Being slightly on the biased side because I am a geek for musicals whether it be on the stage or on the screen, I think that this film deserves all of the recognition that history gives it. While I can understand that it was seen as just another movie when it was released, Gene Kelly made his roll iconic and his scene Singin' in the Rain is one of the most recognized movie scenes in history with his swinging around the lamp post holding his umbrella. This film does a great job portraying the transition that production studios and companies had to go through when the element of a sound system was introduced to the film industry. When the films were silent, they did not have to worry about what the actors' voices sounded like because no one could hear what they sounded like. This film has the perfect balance of humor woven in with desired romance while portraying an important period in history for the United States. While this film may not have been revered during the time of its release, it certainly has made its mark in film history, and if you are in for a good laugh and love musicals, or if you just want to watch a great film, Singin' in the Rain is definitely a film to pick up and watch. It's going to make you want to get up, walk outside and skip around in the summer pouring rain, because we need to "let the stormy clouds chase, everyone from the place" and "come on with the rain[<U+0085>]"
"Singin' in the Rain" is a musical that explores the transition from silent to sound films. It also features the story of actor Don Lockwood, who is famous for his on-screen romantic pairing with Lina Lamont. Lina expects Don to marry her, but Don is more interested in Kathy Selden.Gene Kelly, Jean Hagen and Debbie Reynolds are all excellent in the lead roles. Hagen is especially amusing and her screechy voice functions perfectly as an impediment in the transition to sound films.There are not surprisingly a lot of musical numbers, which are generally well-made. Especially good is the title number as sung by Gene Kelly while meandering through a street. The only number that seemed out of place was the extended "Broadway Melody" number toward the end of the film, which looks nice, but is disruptive to the flow of the story.The storyline exploring the tumultuous transition from silent to sound films and the relationships between characters were clever and amusing. It helped that I watched "The Jazz Singer" (1927) shortly before watching this one, as the film makes reference to its role as the film that ushered in the sound era. It is not essential to view it before seeing this, but it may help to learn of the song "Mammy" from that film since some of the jokes in this film make reference to it. "Singin' in the Rain" is not my favorite musical, but it is certainly one of the better ones I have seen.


                
Just to get the record straight, I don't really like musicals. Whilst I'm fond of most cinematic genres, the musical has been one to which I have been rather averse. Perhaps it is the sheer absurdity of a character suddenly breaking into song at the most inopportune moment, or maybe it is the films' tendencies to have a flimsy story connecting the numerous song-and-dance numbers. In any case, it is the mark of a truly great musical when it makes me completely forget that I don't really like musicals, and 'Singin' in the Rain' is certainly one example. It must also be telling that, after seeing the film, I spent the rest of the day treading down the rain-soaked paths and singing the title song to myself, and I continued to do this for at least the next three days, even after any traces of precipitation had long-since cleared.Following the great success of 'An American in Paris' a year earlier, 'Singin' in the Rain' was co-directed by Stanley Donen and Gene Kelly, and is set in 1927 <U+0096> appropriately, the year of cinema's transition from silent films to "talkies." Don Lockwood (Kelly) is silent cinemas biggest star, featuring in a string of monumental financial successes for Monumental Pictures, usually opposite the glamorous Lina Lamont (Jean Hagen), who can't comprehend that Lockwood only acts affectionate towards her for his films' publicity. With the release of 'The Jazz Singer,' every studio is eager to cash-in on the demand for talkies, but Don and Lina find themselves with a problem: Lina's shrill New York accent definitely does not complement her glamorous public image.After their share of difficulties <U+0096> including one hilarious, trouble-plagued test screening for Don and Lina's new film, "The Dueling Cavalier" <U+0096> a possible solution is happened upon. Don's energetic best friend Cosmo Brown (Donald O'Connor) and pretty, young Kathy Selden (Debbie Reynolds, just 20 years of age when the film was released) suggest turning the disaster of a movie into a musical <U+0096> "The Dancing Cavalier" <U+0096> with Kathy dubbing all of Lina's dialogue and singing. Of course, not everything goes quite to plan, particularly when the selfish and arrogant Lina finds out about this and tries to have Kathy stripped off all the credit for her excellent work. What sets 'Singin' in the Rain' apart from almost every other musical is the story. Whilst it's obvious that most of the songs were selected well before the plot was formulated <U+0096> sometimes the musical numbers go off on an unnecessary tangent that is irrelevant to the story <U+0096> no true fan of cinema can go past a film about Hollywood itself.The actual storyline is genuinely engaging, and Lina turns into quite a loathsome villainess by the end of the film, especially when her selfishness threatens to destroy the career of one so innocent and promising as young Kathy. Gene Kelly is great in the main role, his superb confidence and boyish charm, coupled with flawless singing and dancing skills, helping to make him one of Hollywood's most fondly-remembered stars. Debbie Reynolds was also very good, despite reportedly having a difficult time on set, her underdeveloped dancing skills often incurring Gene Kelly's frustration. Donald O'Connor, who I can't believe I've never heard about before, is absolutely phenomenal throughout, his every appearance funny, energetic and memorable. Likewise, Jean Hagen savours every moment as the dim but influential Lina Lamont, earning an Oscar nominations for her troubles.Of course, the true highlights of "Singin' in the Rain' are the musical numbers. Whilst very few of the songs are original to the film (for example, the title song was taken from 'Hollywood Revue of 1929'), the use of each is so inspired that they now forever associated with it. I'm not particularly a fan of the slow, romantic love songs, but some of the more lively tunes appealed to me greatly. "Singin' in the Rain," performed by Gene Kelly on a rainswept nighttime street, has now becoming legendary, superbly demonstrating how Don's love for Kathy has eradicated all of his troubles and left him blissfully happy. O'Connor's energetic rendition of "Make 'Em Laugh," in which he somersaults off the walls of a movie set, left him in a state of extreme exhaustion. "Good Morning," a catchy little tune performed by Kelly, O'Connor and Reynolds was also nice to watch. Perhaps the film's centrepiece, Kelly's "Broadway Melody Ballet" has little to do with the plot of the film, but it is such an astounding flurry of colour and excitement that I am willing to forgive its running a bit overlong. For fans of musicals, 'Singin' in the Rain' is a treat for the eyes and the ears. Indeed, even for people who have little interest in watching musicals, you shouldn't give up on the genre until you have at least seen this one.


                
What a great musical absolutely brilliant and i can easily say to someone who has not seen this that this is a movie you much watch before you die. This is Gene Kelly at his very best and was his best by far but his other films are still good to watch. But let's not forget Donald O'Connor's performance he was just as good but like many others will never be as good as the great Gene Kelly. The songs were catchy and is something that would suck in the audience and make them sing along. Gene Kelly's dance when he sings singin in the rain is just fantastic and leaving me wondering how on earth he can dance like that. Even though Goodfellas is my most favourite movie of all time, i would still have to put singin in the rain up there on my list, but would definitely be my favourite musical as nothing compares to this. It is authentic and has some funny moments in it too but anyone who has not seen this PRETTY PLEASE i beg you to watch this movie.


                
SPOILERS It was once said that "Everyone loves a musical". Whilst not completely accurate (there are those who just can't get their heads around the genre), there's no denying that the majority of people across the globe love the beauty of a true musical. Often brightly coloured, sometimes with spectacular dancing numbers, and always with a soundtrack to die for, these films have made generations smile for a long time now. The most famous, and perhaps the finest musical ever made, was "Singin' in the Rain". Starring Gene Kelly and Donald O'Connor, the film made a dancing heroine out of newcomer Debbie Reynolds, and aside from one irrelevant period where Kelly dances through a 1920s setting, it is the most well constructed and well known musical of it's (and any other) generation.Don Lockwood (Kelly) and Lina Lamont (Oscar nominated Jean Hagen) are the favourite silent movie couple of Hollywood. Unfortunately though, with the rise of the talking picture, with Lamont's squeaky voice, their days look numbered. That is until Lockwood accidentally meets Kathy Selden (Reynolds), an unknown with a beautiful voice. Now, putting the screen presence of Lamont and the voice of Selden together, Lockwood might just have a way of saving their careers.Everyone able to watch television will have seen or heard about Gene Kelly's scene in the rain. It's a scene of legendary status, and worthy so. The film itself though is so much more. With songs like "Make 'em Laugh" and "Good Morning", there are more musical gems in this film than you could ever want. All sang by either Kelly, Reynolds or O'Connor, you hear these songs and you find yourself singing them back weeks afterwards. There's just no way to criticise them.On acting and dancing fronts as well, "Singin' in the Rain" is as good as it should be. Kelly and O'Connor were already dancing geniuses when they agreed to star in this film, but Reynolds was a complete newcomer to the art. This obviously didn't stop her as she not only manages to perform brilliantly, but she more than equals the abilities of the two male leads.Aside from the three main actors, Jean Hagen is more than worthy of her Oscar performance as the infuriating Lamont. She screeches and grates throughout the entire film, despite the fact that the actress herself actually has an amazing voice (and even ironically provides the voice in the musical that Reynolds is meant to be providing for her). Hagen is the ridicule humour in a film of good intentions. She's the bad guy who everyone likes to see suffer, and she does it exquisitely.In fact, despite it's slow start, "Singin' in the Rain" would be the finest film of all time, if not for one key flaw.About two thirds of the way through the film, we are whisked away to a musical number where Gene Kelly is a young talent in New York. Trying to make it big, he dances his way along singing "gotta dance". Eventually, a woman becomes involved, and he makes it big, and all manner of events happen, but we just don't care. The scene is completely irrelevant to the film and does nothing but ruin it's flow. The scenery is too bright, the clothes are ridiculously colourful, and basically the scene feels like it goes on for hours at an end. If they wanted to feature the scene, it might have been tolerable for a tiny period, but by putting the whole piece in, it destabilises the structure of "Singin' in the Rain" and ruins what could well have been the perfect film."Singin' in the Rain" is without a doubt the finest musical ever made. It's songs, it's dancing, it's acting, it's cinematography, everything is perfect. That is, except for one woefully inappropriate scene. The film is more than worthy of any praise it might get, but until we witness a version without that scene, it won't quite make it as the greatest film of all time.
A truly funny movie, fun to watch. A must have. On a very personal note, I particularly enjoyed the scene where Gene first laid eyes on a certain classy lady wearing a silk cape-like scarf - and in his mind he sees a whole different picture...This scene with the extremely long silk scarf is so very unusual, it is burned in my mind for ever... :-)


                
This is one of the best movies of all time, and possibly the best musical ever made. Prepare to enjoy the music, the gags, the story, the colors, the romance...I won't say much more about this classic. I guess everything has been said yet.9-10 out of 10.


                
