Now before I go into the review, I must say that I WAS a Dragon Ball fan and I love every minute of it when I was a kid. But now that I have grown up I realized that in truth Dragon Ball z is an underdeveloped piece of work with some of the worse plots, boring fight scenes and a mediocre cast of a lot of underdeveloped characters.Now I'm going to explain why this is.1.Characters: first start with character development. This series has very little character overall as the cast is overshadowed by Goku endless screaming and transformation. Anime is art, and so is film, animation, movies or TV shows. This type of art needs to tell a story about the characters but the story is very dull and repetitive. The characters have very similar traits, either are blond saiyans, super muscular and nothing else. It would seems that the series is overloaded with these types of characters and what's worse is that the series only focuses on how Goku is screaming and left the old characters behind, characters like Yamcha, Tien, Bulma even Gohan are left behind with no actual character development. Also on a plus I gotta talk about Bulma. Bulma is considered the oldest member of the series, she was Goku's very first best friend, she was there for him the entire way, never left his side and in the end who did Goku ended up with? Chichi, a chick who we never cared about in the first place and had very little development. Also on that matter let's talk about the villains of this show, they are absolutely pathetic since they are all the same muscular beast who just wants to be the strongest in the universe with no backstory whatsoever. Take Frieza for example, he was the strongest in the universe but why did he become evil? Why is he evil? There's just not backstory. Cell is basically another copy of Frieza and as for Majin Buu, he's literally a brainless monster, that's it. Villains CAN be menacing without a single muscle ya know. A good villain toys with the heroes' emotions and uses their wits instead of their fists. 2. Plot: While we're on the matter let's talk about why we have no smart villain it's because the plot, season after season with the same repetitive storyline of generic bad guys come to earth and generic good guys fight and win, that's it. Each villains is just literally an atomic bomb who just comes to earth and "vows to destroy it" with no motives or backstory whatsoever.3. fight scene: now the fight scenes I admit has had its share of good fight scenes but things gets very repetitive once you get to the Buu Saga since at this point everything is just rinse and repeat, just punch, kick, beams and that's it. No specific martial art, no pressure points, and NO weaknesses. Since each character's weakness is dependent on how the author and the fans wants him in the story and their weakness can be simply countered with just more training, which is very repetitive.In conclusion, Dragon Ball used to be a series of good fun but nowadays in retrospect it seems dull and repetitive, and since this is the series with the most fanboys in the world, it's not helping much.
It has boggled my mind for 20+ years how anyone could like Dragon Ball Z. I can't watch 5 seconds of it without wanting to slit my wrists.How can anyone enjoy LISTENING to characters talk about doing stuff more than actually SEEING characters do stuff? Honestly, HOW? I really don't understand. 90% of this show is just listening (not WATCHING mind you, but ONLY LISTENING) to TERRIBLE voice actors talk about stupid-as-hell, nerd- talk fighting crap that means absolutely NOTHING as far as from a story-telling perspective goes. It's just stupid fracking dork-talk for no purpose whatsoever except to jerk-off complete the dweebs who made it (and their no-taste fanboys) and who think having a bunch of stupid geek-rules in their stupid geek-universe is a substitute for being able to TELL and SHOW a GOOD STORY. Dragon Ball Z is one of the worst things ever created by man. Utter crap.


                
Even tho it's one of the first and most known animes in history, it has absolutely nothing to make you watch it. The animations are probably the best thing this anime has, that's why I'm giving it two stars. The story is boring and uninteresting, way too overpowered characters and every episode has huge unnecessary fillers.This is a torture to watch. When I was a kid, I was watching because everybody was talking about how cool it is and everything. It was not even close to what they said. It's like the Battleship of animes: Boring and retarded story, uninteresting characters, linear as hell and huge explosions that keep you entertained for the moment.Now, I'm sure every single Dragon Ball Z fan out there (and there are many) are gonna get so mad for this, but this is the truth. There is nothing and absolutely nothing that you can say to make this anime as "awesome" as everybody says it is. Even if I tried my best at explaining how "awesome" it is, it would still sound like sh*t.Final conclusion: Most overrated piece of cr*p I have ever seen.


                
I argue with my mentally ill equipped friend about this trash...it was awful, boring, stretched out poorly done.This was one of the cartoons that got a cult following from the first, which I never saw, but this was popularized by Cartoon Network in America who claimed it was the "Greatest Fighting Cartoon Ever," and mentally challenged kids of the 90's ate up that one line and believed it.I will describe a typical story line, Goku is the best, Goku fights someone good, Goku is going to lose, some how Goku turns Super something and gets more power and wins....that;s it! If anyone has any mental processing, the above makes an awful Cartoon, I mean Anime.....no idea what people saw in this one....till this day I do not get it.


                
Mindless fights, shitty Plot, Over-Powered Characters, Bad English Dubbing.It should be given the title of the most overrated bad anime. Fighting scenes are so bad that they just keep looping for so long! WOW! THEY CAN EVEN DESTROY UNIVERSE! WOW! Why not destroy whole universe and dump the idea of Dragon ball.Collect 7 balls from around the world just to give a dead person Life!, LOL! And these DBZ Fanboys! I hate them! Keep talking about a shitty anime like if it is the best! THE WORST ANIME EVER!!This is the most bad Overrated Anime in the history!


                
