I know a lot of fans of the show are obviously not going to agree with me about the above statement, but I have my reasons to say that it is so I am just going to ignore the hype in this review. I'm not saying its the worst anime or very bad, but its just very corny. Everything also takes so damn long to happen... Take the classic Namek-saga for example; supervillian alien Frieza puts some kind of time-bomb-mechanism inside the planet that will supposedly blow the whole planet up in 5 minutes or so. Then a few episodes ahead, the planet is still there and our hero Goku is still fighting Frieza in a battle that seems endless by this time. Its just filler to stretch the duration of episodes and to keep people watching the show. I know that this particular scene was stretched to let the manga keep up with the show, but its still no excuse I think. So if you are going to watch this, you are going to have a lot of patience, especially for the later seasons.The later seasons is also where stuff becomes really predictable... It was up until the Buu-saga that I was starting to recognize a pattern in the show. Its almost literally the same stages towards victory every season, and thats the reason why I have quit watching. Sure, it was a very influential anime and I have to admit that the show had a great start, but I think that every real anime-fan like me knows that there is better stuff out there then DragonBall Z. The fights are also a bit flat to me. What interests me, is to know what kind of attacks characters have and what they exactly do. In DragonBall Z however, the attacks all look like random color energy-beams or balls and even though there are different names to them there is no real distinction which was kinda boring to me.If you are new to anime, then you could give this a try though. This show is very easy to get into and that is what made this so popular. However, if you want to see more 'complicated' anime's then you should look elsewhere. This is not a bad show, but its a no-brainer that kinda repeats itself in the later seasons.


                
Dragon Ball Z is undeniably culturally important. It produced more western interest in anime and created a formula followed pretty closely by most shonen anime in the following years. I will not deny that the show is important or influential. I will deny that the show was good, however.Looking back on Dragon Ball Z, it was more tiring than anything else. Good shows grip you, and you feel compelled to watch the next episode. I would argue that Dragon Ball Z never had that. I was never anxious or concerned or even interested in seeing what would happen next. Why? Probably because the show wore you out. In its 23-minute episodes, very little would happen to advance the plot. Meaningless shouting, boring banter, flat humor, and lots of charging-up and reaction shots were its forte. Your senses are bombarded by fights and action that the creators only plan to upstage in the next episode. When you upstage yourself every time, it starts becoming meaningless.I will give the show props for character and world design and a fine plot. It just drags so slowly. The English dialogue is mostly stilted and unnatural, and the fights seem to have meaningless stakes. The plot, while flowing and natural, is so unbearably predictable. The characters are all shallow caricatures, and have little to no development, the humor is flat, and the only saving grace (the action) is yawn-inducing and almost never suspenseful.I'd like to add in one caveat to this review: I have also read the Dragon Ball manga, so I could move at my own pace. That probably added to my frustration at the excruciatingly slow pace and meaningless stakes of the show.Looking at Dragon Ball Z honestly, please tell me that it was very engaging, and that you felt deeply for the characters. You can't. I won't deny that Dragon Ball Z is great because of its cultural impact and legacy, but I can't say it's good, simply because it wasn't that good.


                
When it comes to the 2-D animation effects of 1996's "Dragon Ball GT" - I, for one, certainly don't have any real complaints to beef about there. Nope. Visually speaking - This TV program delivered some really satisfactory anime, for the most part.But - On the other hand - When it came down to the irritating, pipsqueak characters who (unfortunately) dominated a good part of Dragon Ball GT's story-lines - That, of course, was another matter. Indeed.Man-o-man - These snivelling, irksome, little rugrats continually grated on my nerves, big-time.By the overall immaturity and incessant whining and bickering that took place amongst these juvenile brats, it became plainly obvious (from my perspective) that Dragon Ball GT was, indeed, geared to an audience-mentality so infantile that I just couldn't relate to it on any level, whatsoever.And, so - (Because of this total annoyance) - I just gave up on watching Dragon Ball GT after viewing only 4 of its episodes.


                
In my opinion, DragonBallZ is not the greatest anime of all time. It feels strange to say this because DBZ was my childhood. It was the very first anime I ever saw, and I've been a hard-core DBZ fan for years. I watched every single movie, collected the action figures, owned just about every DBZ video game and watched every episode. As I grew older, my tastes changed and I decided to re-watch the series from a new perspective.I began at DragonBall, the prequel to this series. Goku is a little kid with rapidly developing martial art skills, and he journeys not only to find the dragonballs but to grow stronger. In my opinion, DragonBall is the anime that deserves all of the recognition because it's a show that teaches lessons and has role models for kids, like the eternally humble Goku ,and the benevolent (but perverted) Master Roshi. But it was the little things that made the show special, the stuff that wasn't in the manga. The sequence that stands out to me the most was when General Tao came into town to get a new outfit. Two guys wanted to take Tao down for a huge reward so they tried shooting him from behind. Tao flipped his slipper behind his back, which caused the bullet to bounce back towards the assailants, and the slipper rotated above Tao's head before cozying back onto his foot. He didn't lose a step or turn around the entire time! The greatest part of Dragon Ball was the epic showdown between Goku and Piccolo Jr. They were at each other's throat from the start and kept going even when both were losing tons of blood. In the end, Goku barely won by ramming his head into Piccolo's chest. Goku's hard-fought victories culminated to make the entire series into a true triumph of the human spirit.I noticed a huge difference between DragonBallZ and its predecessor. For one, as the series progresses, DBZ worsens in multiple aspects, especially in the amount of character involvement. In the beginning of DBZ, everybody had some kind of importance but, later on, most of them aren't even there and the ones that are present take a backseat to the almighty Goku and his gang of Super Saiyans.The other issues I have with DragonBallZ is that there's way too much screaming (lowlighted in the moment where Goku shows his friends the Super Saiyan 3 transformation and yells for at least 4 solid minutes), too much movement when the characters are fighting (we can barely even see them) and an overall lack of a deep story. It's humorous how there's spoiler alerts for other DBZ reviews when there are no big spoilers or plot twists of any kind in this show. The early sagas had their powerful moments, when Piccolo saving Gohan from destruction in Saiyan Saga because that was his only friend, and the emotional speech Vegeta gave to Goku before he died in Frieza Saga. But, as DBZ progresses, there's a lot less of those moments. There's some semblance of a plot in Cell Saga, when a bitter Vegeta selfishly allows Cell to do what he wants in order to defeat him later and get his pride back...or something.The same elements that made DragonBall special are absent in DBZ. For one, you already know the good guys are going to win because the Z Gang is way too overpowered to worry about anybody. The fights in DBZ are way too drawn out( I think Goku vs Frieza took up the majority of Season 3 and the worst part was you already knew the fight was over a long while before Frieza exploded.) and I'm getting really tired of the 'falling over backwards' routine the characters always do. Perhaps the worst thing about DBZ is how the producers insert scenes that weren't in the manga to get more money from the series. At least the added scenes in DragonBall (like Goku's training around the world and the Goku vs Master Shen fight before the tournament) was worth it. The extras in DBZ (multiple scenes of Super Buu eating sweets at empty stores and Dabura talking to Videl, Bulma and Chi-Chi about love) were trash.When I finished watching DragonBall, I felt like something special left my life. When I finished watching DragonBallZ, I felt like I endured a twenty-five mile race and I never wanted to run again. I used to love DBZ as a child and I don't feel the same way now. I think that the show is more appropriate for children who don't really have high standards for shows in the first place. In order for DragonBallZ to be the greatest anime of all time, it requires a little more than 'Kamehameha' to make it worth anybody's time.
