''Dragon Ball Z'' is the story of Son Goku already an adult. Piccolo is a friend, among other fighters that in Goku's childhood were enemies, and in the first episodes Goku shows Gohan to them. In the beginning, Gohan looks to be a weak kid, without any kind of powers : but when Goku needs to fight abroad the Earth, Gohan is going to be trained by Piccolo. (Who eventually will have an affection for the boy) Dragon Ball Z is the long-running sequel to the anime Dragon Ball. The series is a close adaptation of the second and longer then ''Dragon Ball''. Goku, with his companions, needs to defend the Earth and many other planets against various villains, much more powerful then the first Dragon Ball.We have new characters, like Vegeta and much more action. Gohan will be older in the series too, and Chichi and Goku are going to have another son, Goten.In my opinion this is the best version of the series.
DBZ is not an easy show to judge.There are a few things folks need to take into account. Dragon Ball is a comedy. A parody of an old Chinese legend. This is not a philosophical thought invoking show.Dragon Ball Z was drug on to capitalize on popularity. The author of the Manga Akira Toriyama wanted to end the show at the finale of the Frieza saga. But big money and a deal made him go on producing a series when he had already finished the story. Note the extreme increase in repeatedly overused animations for fights.. Longer screams during power ups. Not to mention the episodes at the end of the frieza saga that do not match up. (Goku far away from frieza';s ship as the planet goes boom, Vegeta fighting gohan then later them not having fought.) This is where the change happened.After this..this point the show is over as far as any entertainment is consented.So my 2 cents. Watch tail Namek blows up.. drop the rest, or watch at your own peril.
I've never watched the original Dragonball series or read the comics. This wasn't a problem at all for understanding Dragonball Z. I can't really tell why DBZ is that fascinating, it's principle is quite simple: Most of the time the heroes are fighting evil forces. So I can only guess. It must be the mixture of these features: Highly detailed drawings, simple but very individual characters, and finally, I think this is the most important point, the message of an unconditional belief in the good in mankind: DBZ is not a sequence of loosely connected tales but tells the story how Goku's greatest enemy, namely Vegeta, becomes an indispensable ally. This and some other aspects adds real depth to the plot of DBZ.Because DBZ is designed as a series primary for minors, there are some scenes that might seem quite ridiculous to the elderly audience.In my opinion, it's the leak of this or a comparable message in Dragonball GT, the sequel of DBZ, that caused it to become just "average", but not "well" at all.
I can't stand people who badmouth DBZ. In fact if it wasn't for Z many people wouldn't probably know what anime is. It's thanks to Dragonball Z that anime is where it is today. Anyways on to my real review: I love Dragonball Z. In fact it's the series I've loved the longest than any other series anime or not. The fight scenes are pretty cool to watch but the plots take FOREVER. One example is when Namek was going to blow up. Goku had 5 minutes to defeat Frieza but it took more like a half hour. Aside from the long plots. Oh and I counted the episodes in all in the Buu saga: It's 73! No joke. This show is actually a fun watch.In short even if you don't like anime you should check out Z. That or Fullmetal Alchemist. Either one's good.
WARNING: POSSIBLE SPOILERSThe legendary Dragonball Z now has underrated dubbing galore!"The animation sucks": Huh, watch another episode of Medabots or G Gundam. You will no longer think that this has crappy animation, once you see those the two shows."The Dubbed Music sucks": Excuse me, but, the music in the undubbed version has its ups & downs, too. Suspense wise, the music that they played before Kid Buu died was awful, it sounded like something you would hear from The Little Mermaid."The dubbing has the worst form of vocabulary": OK, that's usually a load of crap for the newer episodes. I usually hear a lot of words in the dubbed versions that most kids wouldn't understand (e.c.: incompetent, dismay, pry, kamikaze, debacle, Oh yeah, ascend, etc.) Besides, I own a Kid Buu DVD with the dubbed & undubbed versions & I must have heard/read Goku say "ain't" at least a dozen times, once I switched it to Japanese!"The dubbed voices suck": Um, I don't know about you guys, but, I'd rather Goku sound like a (ahem) stressed out wrestler than a 50-year-old women who screams like a banshee every five minutes!"It has the lamest villains": What the crap!!! These villains are never to be judged by their looks, OK, Ghetto superstar, have you even seen Majin Buu in action, he's a ruthless killing machine! He also becomes a hero, gets rid of his evil side & then gets eaten by his evil side. The evil Buu then transforms into Super Buu (a huge, beefed up monster, whom is no longer "a big pink guy in a diaper." NOTE: That wasn't even a diaper to begin with, it's just funky-looking pants). Whom then uses his "Human Extinction Attack (a.k.a. Mankind Destruction Attack)" to kill almost every human on Earth!Yeah, there was a time when it had the crappiest dubbing around, but, let's just face it, people: that was then & this is now! The dubbed versions have really changed in the past couple of years. The grunting noises that the characters make when they fight don't sound as annoying as they used to. During the Saiyan saga, they all sounded like power rangers trying to impersonate ninjas. Sometimes, in the Frieza Saga, they sounded like a bunch of rappers trying to mimic record scratching. When Piccolo & a beefed up Garlic Jr. fought, they sounded like a bunch of bulldogs going at it (bite his ear, Piccolo!!!). But, now it's not that bad anymore. The voices have improved, too. For example, Goku has gone from a cross between Tai (from Digimon; NOTE: I haven't heard this guy's voice for months, heck, I don't even watch the show, I've seen bits of pieces of it) & a Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle to a more hero-like voice & Vegeta's voice has gone from a Mexican mad scientist's to a raspy & deep voice. The down side to Dragonball Z is that once the Frieza Saga came along, they started to have about half a dozen different styles of animation in it. Each style is shown in different episodes. But, they never air two episodes back to back (e.c.: 150 & 151) with the same style. Some styles are very creative & really make the facial expressions more noticeable (e.c.: the classic "I can't believe it" face; the episode: 'Saving the World' has this style of animation). While other episodes have crude styles of animation that fall into the 'Lupin the 3rd' category (The episodes: 'Trapped Forever,' 'Old Buu Emerges' & 'He's Always late' have styles of animation like that). But, because of the amount of action in these episodes (except for 'He's Always Late') you can forgive them for that. There is ONE thing about the dubbed versions that bothers me little bit, too. And that is this:The some of the actors & actresses don't express enough feeling when the characters Yell, cry, or gasp (while they make the classic "I can't believe it" face). For Example, in the episode were Vegeta knocks out Trunks, Goten is horrified and asks Vegeta why he did such a thing in a half - plain, half - upset tone. OK, if I were Goten & just saw Vegeta knock out my best friend, I'd be screaming like crazy at him! But, it's very rare that actors like Chris Sabat do that (he plays the voices of Vegeta, Piccolo & Yamcha). All & all it's a great anime, in & out of dub. Unfortunately, the show aired the final episode in dub last month. Luckily, however, I hear that FUNimation is planing to re-dub the first two seasons because of all the mistakes they made when they dubbed it before (NOTE: There's even a scene where they censor Gohan's tears!). I personally hope that they don't edit the original Japanese music for these episodes, because I don't want to spend 20 bucks just to hear the original music. Besides, Dragonball's music isn't dubbed, so, what's the problem. Hey, wait a minute, do you think FUNimation deliberately sabotaged the music so more & more hard - core fans could buy their DVDs & increase their publicity?! NAAAHHHH!!!!!!!


                
I really don't get what everyone is so excited about. To be sure I didn't miss anything, I watched all the episodes up to the Cell games. I was not impressed. All everyone does is boasting about how they're the strongest. There is actually very little more to it than the fighting and the preparing for the next fight. Although I do admit the story itself is pretty clever and original, actually watching the show has proved to be boring. The characters act dumb, the humor is lame, and there are endless moments where nothing at all is established. It's also pretty inconsistent regarding the power of the characters. Overall I'd say the story is worth reading, but actually watching the show isn't worth it at all.


                
I am a girl who loves the Dragon Ball series. I grew up watching the original Dragon Ball and was eager to watch this series blossom, unfortunately it never quite made it for me (also DB GT is not worth even mentioning in the same sentence as these two great shows).While the first Dragon Ball show had a varying plots and an interesting story line, DBZ was more of a lets see how many epic battles we can come up with show. For most guys this makes this show a 10 star show, and I will admit that some episodes were truly amazing, however with some battles going on for hours I found myself sometimes wondering if the battles were ever going to end. Though I do admit I love watching Goku kick some evil butt, I miss the humor and story lines of its predecessor Dragon Ball.I give DBZ 7 1/2 stars. It gets 10 stars for action, but only 6 stars for story line and character development.If you are new to the Dragon Ball series, go back to the beginning and watch Dragon Ball then delve into this fast-paced action series Dragon Ball Z!!! (dont forget to skip DB GT)


                
Dragon Ball Z was the first anime I ever watched, setting the standard for what anime is like and what it should be. I've gone on and watched more anime since, and that standard has long since been surpassed. Nevertheless, Dragon Ball Z will always hold a special place in my heart.Despite this, Dragon Ball Z is still far from great. The length is my biggest issue. Maybe its just me, but I like to be done a series in twenty episodes. Of course, I make plenty of exceptions, but that's my preference. At the time, I thought all anime was just one hundred plus episodes and that I just had to deal with it. Either way, Dragon Ball Z is just too long. The fights drag on and never change, and by the end of an episode I always feel like nothing has been accomplished (and this happens a lot). I was rarely excited by the fights because of this, and that really took away from the enjoyment of watching them. The show's story isn't great either. Sure, this is a show about fighting, but it never changes. Apparently every evil alien in the universe has the same life goal in mind. The show starts to get really stale by the second story arc. The characters for the most part are done well enough. The only major growth seems to be in physical strength, but occasionally we get a character like Vegeta who shows incredible development through all nine seasons, making him the real star of the show. Still, his character struggled in terms of life goals, considering it never changed. Overall Dragon Ball Z is a classic example of a really, really long anime. In the end, I wouldn't say it was worth it. I wouldn't suggest you watch this show (unless you've already started it/watched it). It's not that it's bad or anything, it's just not worth it in the end. Sure, Vegeta's journey throughout the show is great, but in the grand scheme of things, it wasn't worth it. Despite my rating, I wouldn't recommend Dragon Ball Z. But if you want to watch it still, then go right ahead. It's better then plenty of other shows that I've seen, but easily worse then a lot of others. If you loved it, then I can respect that, but it just wasn't my cup of tea.


                
