A great series indeed with compelling characters and arcs it's so enthralling but isn't free from issue either certain drawbacks related to power and originality etc. Regardless the development of character over the whole dragon ball series is impressive and done to such a great degree


                
The sound is fine. If you're watching the show in English FUNimation has given the show a brand new 5.1 surround sound mix, which sounds excellent on a surround sound system. If you're like me though, and prefer to watch the show in it's original Japanese language track, you'll find the same mono track that was presented on all the other single disk releases of the show. With (what surely sounds like) a fatal flaw when it comes to the viewing of the show, many of you may be wondering why you'd want to bother with the show at all. Well, two things: Picture and price. Yes, the display of the show may be the biggest problem for this show, but the restoration is also one of the brightest things about the DVD. While not perfect, "Dragon Ball Z" has never looked this good before on DVD. The colors are mostly perfect, and the tone is very consistent, with only some grain to be found in certain spots. Regardless what you think of the widescreen presentation, the look of the picture is excellent.Then there's the fact that this DVD set retails for $50 and contains the first 39 episodes. I remember spending $20 on a "Dragon Ball Z" DVD with three episodes on it. If you bought the single disk releases on sale for $16 each (and this is being generous, as most single disk "Dragon Ball Z" DVD's will cost you $20 easily), then you'd spend around $250 by the time you got up to episode 39. Considering you can get "Dragon Ball Z: Season One" on sale for $30-$35 at most places, this is the cheapest "Dragon Ball Z" has ever been on DVD. At this rate, $250 will get you the whole show. All 291 episodes for what you would originally pay for the privilege to own 39 episodes. Despite the issues with the widescreen, it's hard to argue when the savings are that huge. Whether or not the widescreen issue is enough to scare you away from this DVD is entirely up to you.Re-watching the show again after I hadn't seen it for several years has made me see it in an entirely different light. It no longer seems to be the greatest action show I remember it to be. Some of the fights are rather silly looking, there are stretches of time that contain way too much filler, and several episodes early on in the show seem to wasting time while they are waiting for the story to come around. That said, when the show is good it's very good. Character development in these early episodes is excellent, there are many heartbreaking moments, and to actually go back to when Goku wasn't a Super Saiyan is a revelation as it shows me that it was more interesting to see these characters grow stronger then it was to watch them...well, BE stronger! It's not a perfect show, but a good portion of the episodes on this set do hold up quite well, and there's a reason we'll still be watching "Dragon Ball Z" several years from now. . For now though, I think I can live with these sets. On that note though, why is Vegeta on the cover for Season One while Goku gets banished to being on the cover of Season Two?


                
This Tv show is my childhood
I grew up watching characters like son Goku, Vegeta, Piccolo , Frieza, Son gohan and many more
It was always and it will always be my favorite Tv show


                
I've been a Dragonball (Z) fan for a while now and as such I have quite a bit to say about this show so please bear with me. This legendary anime is is one of the most well known animes in the world with lots of fans and haters alike. While it does have a fairly thin plot (which is why a lot of people hate it), the show's other aspects are carried out well enough that you can forgive it for that.For instance, the music is superb. It goes well with the feel of the show (a fantasy/action-oriented epic) and has a lot of range and emotion to it. When there's action occurring, the music elicits a feeling of excitement, when something terrible has happened, the music elicits a sense of sadness/terror/despair, and when something funny is happening, the music elicits a feeling of humor. Basically the music complements what happens in the show very well.The voice acting is also superb. The VAs fit their characters very well and put emotion into their performances. When they're supposed to sound sad, they really sound sad and when they're supposed to sound angry or frustrated, they really do. Their performances are very convincing and inspire emotion just like the music does.Finally, there's the action. There's just something cool about people that can fly, fire energy beams, and level entire landscapes fighting each other. The action is often very intense and epic and usually doesn't get boring though it can drag on in some spots (notably the Freeza fight). Certain fights are very involving and memorable thanks to the previously mentioned elements. In spite of a shallow plot, the way things play out is what makes this series great.Now what I just described was the original Japanese version of this show.The English dub of this show is inferior and just down right horrendous when compared to the original Japanese version. First, the music. The synthesizer stuff Funimation made for this show is (for the most part) bland, uninspired, and emotionless. And it never stops. While the Japanese music actually stops from time to time (and all you hear is the blowing of the wind or nothing), the English music never lets up and drones on throughout the entire episode without stopping at all.The English voice acting is just flat out inferior to the Japanese performances. Many characters got horribly inappropriate voices that didn't fit them at all. For instance, Vegeta sounding like he's constipated all the time when he sounded regal and arrogant in Japanese, Freeza sounding like a middle aged female smoker when the Japanese Freeza sounded like an elegant (and at most slightly effeminate) male, and Fat Buu sounding like a mentally challenged two-year old on helium when the Japanese Fat Buu had a fairly deep voice that sounded like that of a jolly fat person. And the performances of the English VAs usually don't sound as natural, intense, or emotional when compared to the Japanese VAs, they just sound forced and amateurish.Lastly, the dialogue. While the translation got better as the series went on, the writers at Funimation decided to take their own creative liberties with the dialogue and story. First the writers frequently add in extraneous dialogue where there was none in the original, this is usually done through "ventriloquist dialogue" in which extra dialogue will be added in for a character when their mouth can't be seen (usually done to eliminate any instances of silence).Lame jokes and American pop culture references that only a 2 year old would find funny are frequently added in to punch up the humor which usually has the effect of deteriorating the feeling of suspense in certain scenes and making the show seem sillier.And finally, certain story elements are altered. For instance, in the dub Vegeta went Super Saiyan because he stopped caring about being better than Goku when in the original he just got extremely angry at himself for being so weak. The most annoying thing about these changes is that most of the time they are not necessary and only serve to dumb down the show.In closing, despite a thin plot, this anime is very entertaining. It's not the best anime ever but it does what it does very well. If you want to experience the greatness of this show, definitely check out the original Japanese version because the English dub only has about a tenth of the original's quality.
DBZ is an amazing action anime and is one of my all time favorite Anime series. Though as awesome as this show is it has its fair share of problems. It's really long. This anime goes on for 291 episodes. On top of that it's a sequel to the 153 episode, Dragon Ball. To fully understand Dragon Ball Z you have to watch all of those episodes. So if you're a casual anime fan then this show is not for you. There are also numerous filler episodes that were meant to keep the manga ahead during its original airing in Japan, and long drawn out battles. In the end, this anime makes me glad to be an anime fan. If I never saw this show I would not like anime as much as I do now. The episodes never get old, the characters "grow" on you, and there is huge character development for every character.Here's what I think of the Japanese version and Funimation's dub.Japanese: No complaints. I like this show way better in Japanese than English. All of the voices are better. People actually sound like normal people. And all of the voice actors here can actually act. (Rant) Everybody that complains about Goku's voice in Japanese is very, in a word, ignorant. One, he does not sound like a 4 year old girl. He is played by a woman but her voice is very deep for a female. Like it or not, she sounds like an alto/soprano sounding male in Dragonball and in real life. Two, Akira Toriyama handpicked her to play Goku in Dragonball, the series that half of Funimation's dub fanbase have never seen because it "doesn't have enough action", or is too "kiddy". Then she stayed around for DBZ to continue playing Goku because there was no need to replace her. Three, she does a much better job of capturing Goku than Sean Schemmel or any other language dub actor for Goku has ever done.(/Rant) The music here is better than the dub's music. Why was it changed in the first place? I don't know, but it's apparent that Funimation can't handle silence, tension, and good music in their dub of this series. The music here gives this show more of a, "martial arts adventure", feel more than the dub which gives a, "TV show to sell merchandise", vibe. All I can say about the Japanese version is the one to watch and is way more legitimate than the dub. 8/10Funimation: I simply do not, and will never, like this dub. I have heard DBZ English fandubs of this show that are better, and almost every language in the world has a better dub than Funimation. One, the music's replaced. Every fan of this dub wants to believe that the music from the original, that was made before half of them were born, sucks. People, THIS REPLACEMENT MUSIC SUCKS. There's nothing good about it. I can't begin to tell you how many people think this tacky, talentless music is good but apparently there are people, excuse me, blind sheep(that's better), who like it. Standalone, the music feels cheaply made and sounds like it was created with the talent of an average 3 year old. During the TV show, it conveys no emotions whatsoever. Funny thing, out of the entire 222 episodes that Funimation dubbed of this show with that music, the fans that like it can only find less than 10 moments where it was actually good. Now if this music is so good, then why are the fans of this music only able to name less than 10 moments lasting less than 3 minutes in defense of it? Overall this music sucks, it just sucks. All of the dubbed voices are either meh, bad, or horrifying. The only good voice in this entire show is Perfect Cell. He is on par with the original Japanese actor. But, Vegeta, Bulma, Yamcha, Goku, Piccolo, Every Kai, Freeza, King Cold, Cell's first 2 forms, Recomme, Jeice, Oolong, Fat Majin Buu, Krillin, #13, #16, and #19, are some of the worst voices I've ever heard in any anime that I have ever watched. What's funny here, is that the same people who would complain about Goku's Japanese voice being voiced by a woman always overlook the fact that Freeza sounds like a woman in the dub. Well, Freeza sounds more like an 80 year old woman in the dub, but then again that's ignorance and it can't be helped. The dubbed voices make all the male characters sound like 1980's pro-wrestlers or some other bad male stereotype and the female characters sound like valley girls, hookers, or some other bad stereotype of women. In the end, nobody sounds like a normal human being. The closest attempt to a normal sounding voice in this dub is from a character named Trunks, for everybody else, they sound ridiculous. The acting is just forced, there are no good performances whatsoever. And all subtly is gone so everything's "in your face". The script is 70% rewritten from the original dialogue. Every word is changed. Important information to the plot is taken out and terrible jokes are added. When there's no dialogue in the original, there's dialogue in the dub. Everything is seems to be tailored for kids between the ages of 4-7, even in the uncut dubs, which are advertised 13+. And character personalities are altered. This dub the same class as a 4kids' dub but uncut. Because you have, bad and terrible voices(yep.), a terribly rewritten script(yep.), and replaced music that has no redeeming qualities or value(yep.). This dub is painful and I don't recommend it at all. If you want to see what a real dub of this show should have been like, watch DBZ Movies 1-3 dubbed by the Ocean group. The Funimation dub is just terrible. Here's a fact. Wonder why people down this show? It's because of the crappy Funi dub. 3/10.


                
"Dragon Ball Z" is one of the best manga-adaptations into anime (cartoon). Of course, I'm only speaking about the French version, I don't know the other ones.The manga by Akira Toriyama is one of the best mangas, so it deserved a good adaptation. The adaptation is good but there are a few faults nonetheless. The draws aren't as good as in the book (quite normal in 1989...) and it's a little censored in the French version (but a lot less than in "City Hunter" thank God !). By the way, as far as the French version is concerned, the introduction songs are awful !!! Fortunately, now, we have the Japanese introduction songs, which are fantastic !There are also other qualities. The plot is respected, the musics are great, the French voices are rather good, ...To sum up, the DBZ fans won't be disappointed !


                
-THE FOLLOWING CONTAIN SPOILERS THAT INCLUDE CHARACTER BACKGROUNDS/AN ENDING REGARDING 'THE CELL SAGA'. YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED-First off, dragon ball z to me was the best show ever when i was a kid. I mean, for a girl with 3 brothers and an older sister who was away at college most of the time, what else was there to watch? -lol- anyway, the show was addicting because of the action. That's it. The show, for me, was only a huge hit because of the non-stop-well-drawn-out action sequences. The story itself made the action cool. You know the simple, 'your-an-evil-guy-so-i'm-gonna-kick-your-ass-for-it', is all kids need to know for a show to be good. Looking back now, i see some flaws here and there. Mainly because of one character no one can forget. GOKU. I mean, yes I'll admit i loved the fact he always saved the day. But that's just it...HE always saved everyone. When will it be trunks turn to shine, or vegeta the saiyan prince to become the king and beat the baddies to be known as the hero? In every season, it's always goku that saves the day. -with the minor exception of the 'cell saga' where his son took the credit of killing cell, only he had some HUGE help from goku; where even after that season gohan went from cool strong kid to wimpy weak adult- So long story short, i give the show 8/10 because of two reasons that made it miss out from 10/10.#1: GOKU continuously saves the day,making everyone else in the galaxy/planet look like weaklings even though they train and work hard to become strong. (it does get tiring when the same guy saves the day. Sort of like 'oh hey, the world is in trouble just get goku over here.'#2: *For a show with lots of guys that are strong....where were all the ladies that could kick ass!? the only one that did was android 18, and she was a villain turned female hero. i wonder why exactly, or was it because the creator realized there were no gals on the winning team? Aside from that, the show had some huge fan bases of women, so the least they could do was make a girl just as strong as the guys. I mean really, was it that hard to draw up a woman with saiyan powers, or did the creator only like it when the guys turned platinum blonde with their long hairs? -lol-Overall, a great show to watch that set the standards for anime. -my personal opinion of course-
I used to watch this show when I was a kid and this show always got my adrenaline pumping. Pretty much every character in this show had so much intensity in their faces. If you were an angry kid you could take it out on Dragon Ball Z. And I always loved the theme song Cartoon Network gave for the first 2 seasons (Rock the Dragon). My favourite moment in the series was when Trunks sliced Frieza in half. The only thing that annoyed me was when Goku took all episode to make a big ass spirit bomb but still wasn't able to kill Frieza. This show really helped me vent my frustration and I hope it did the same for everyone else.
