I'm no expert on anime aka Japanese animation but I like the genre. Dragonball Z is by far my favorite anime. Toriyama's dragonball saga are the king of anime. It's no doubt the most iconic anime ever or at least in America. I think Akira is a very talented writer and is master at developing stories and creating characters but I do think that he sometime disregard characters and plot points to suit his story. Also a lot of people say how the fight sequences are way too long, which is true but they're also well crafted. This is different from it's predecessor dragonball but makes for a good sequel. I like how in the dragonball series we get to see Goku, his friends and family grow up unlike most cartoon characters like Charlie Brown and the Simpsons who never age. In dragonball we see Goku as a kid, in Dragonball Z(dbz) we see Goku as an adult and dad and in Dragonball GT we see Goku as an old man and granddad. I like how dbz is split up in sagas then seasons and I think that's the best way to review it. The series begins with the "Saiyan Saga" that takes place 7 years after dragonball. The star of the series is Goku a kind-hearted martial art expert who lives in the woods with his wife Chi-Chi and his son Gohan(named after his step dad "grand pa" Gohan) and he meets his old friends from dragonball like Bulma, she is one of my favorite characters and possibly the 2nd most important character in the series. Krillin, Goku's best friend and comic relief. And Master Roshi, Goku's and Krillin's former martial art teacher and pervert. Then we meet earth's biggest threat up until this point, the Saiyans an race of ruthless, bloodthirsty alien warriors who act as mercenaries, invading planets and destroying it for other aliens. Thus, we meet one of my favorite villains from dbz, Raditz. Who comes to earth looking for his younger brother, Kakorot who is Goku! So we find out that Goku's an alien. Later we meet the super strong Nappa and Vegeta, the prince of all saiyans who will become the breakout star of the show. But the good thing is their home planet was destroyed 20 years ago so only 4 are left but earth is still in great danger from the 3. This is the best saga in the series, I love the plot twist that Goku's a saiyan, it fits perfectly. I like how someone as good natured as Goku could come from a race of brutal killers. The saiyans make for great villains. I love Raditz, he's ruthless and his sonic the hedgehog like hair style is awesome. It's a shame he pretty much disappears after this saga, I wish he would of came back or at least be mentioned in future sagas. I also love Vegeta who is a really menacing villain and who's more evil then the others. But I don't like how Akira disregards Piccolo's(a villain from dragonball) back-story. He was Piccolo Jr. the son of the evil Piccolo, who's spirit lives within him but all of that is forgotten as Akira turns him into one of the good guys. Next is the "Namek saga" where Bulma, Krillin, and Gohan go into outer space to planet Namek, there they meet Vegeta and worst yet his boss, Frieza an evil planet conquer who has the reputation of being the most powerful being in the universe. Frieza is my favorite villain in the series, he's like a cross between Satan & Adolph Hitler. He's the most important villain in the story and I like his right hand man, Zarbon. In the "Ginyu Force saga" we meet Frieza's special forces who are a great group of comical but deadly warriors. In the "Frieza saga" Goku comes to Namek and faces off against Frieza and we get to see Frieza's true power and Goku turns into a "super saiyan" and defeats him. This one goes on forever, it's way too long but still great to watch. In the "Trunks saga" we see Frieza is brought back to life by his father, the evil King Cold. They come to earth but are killed by Trunks, Vegeta's son from the future. This one starts off good but I don't like how quickly they killed off Frieza but I like the introduction of Frieza's father but they don't explain much about him like why is he called king? and they said he was stronger then his son but they never showed it. I like Trunks but I don't like how Vegeta went from being pure evil to a good guy with a bad attitude, didn't make sense to me. In the "android saga" we meet half human half robots killers. I like Android 17 & 18 who in another time line wrecked havoc. I like them because they're teenagers out to have fun not conquer but they're idea of fun is mayhem. In the "cell saga" we meet a special android who's made up of the cells of great fighters. I like him because he's cool, sophisticated and calm. But by this time we get too many "super saiyans" with Goku, Vegeta, Gohan and Trunks all becoming "super sayains". In the final saga, "Boo saga" we meet an indestructible villain, Boo. The saga goes on for too long but I like the 3 Boos, baby boo, evil boo and kid boo. Unfortunately some of the characters from dragonball like Yamcha, Tien, Chazu, Parr, olong and Launch get overshadowed by the super saiyans and the villains. I love the comical moments. The fight scenes are the best ever any where! Goku is one of the greatest heroes ever! DBZ and it's predecessor dragonball are my favorite anime of all-time.
To me Dragon Ball Z is one of the most fantastic anime ever. I prefer the English version to the Japanese version. I have seen all the story and it's just great, an incredible story, they even made movies that are cool to, not to great but still good. The bad side was that they had to much power and when they where fighting, for example, Kid Buu, I think with all the energy blasts they throw should have destroyed the planet but didn't, but I did't care because it was really awesome. I fought the story would never end, and when I saw the end of GT I was just so sad it ended, but it was an incredible anime that I think that if somebody watch it until the end and like it, well, he or she will never forget that boy that had an amazing adventure.I think I will never forget this epic story!9/10


                
"Dragonball Z" wasn't the first anime I got introduced to. But is the first series that made an impact on me. I never could have dreamed that a cartoon with (what seemed like) so many goofy characters could move me so much. The first thing that I noticed that was so different from other shows were the epic battles. It took several episodes for a battle to finish. When I saw the battle between Goku and Frieza on Cartoon Network I got hooked immediately. At that time there wasn't a show that was as exciting as "Dragonball Z". This was a show that had great action,a lot of comedy and even drama. "Dragonball Z was full of surprises and you didn't know what to expect. OK,after a few seasons the story may got predictable but it still had the best action ever seen in a cartoon. But the most important thing as should be in every show were the characters. Even the most clumsy and useless characters managed to do something that made you care for them. I have re watched some episodes and they still are very effective and exciting. "Dragonball Z" is here to stay forever,a true classic!


                
Dragon Ball, and especially Dragon Ball Z, is quite a love or hate show. It's one of the longest series ever produced, with the plot that is ALWAYS about an evil guy coming to destroy the Earth and the good guys stopping them. So there are people who might not find this interesting. But if you "lived" the Dragon Ball legend, you can't object how amazing Z is. In fact, despite some big flaw, it's hands-down the best series of the Dragon Ball universe, with some scenes that are ought to go down in the history of television.The whole series starts where the first Dragon Ball ends - Goku and Chichi marry, and now they have a new son, Gohan. But a mysterious Saiyan, who later turns out to be Goku's long forgotten brother (Radish), notices that Goku did not do what he was asked for - kill the earthlings. Therefore, he gets Gohan as a hostage to make him change his mind. This starts it all, with some unexpected alliances, and some extremely lenghty enemies. Many situations are actually extremely famous by now - Vegeta-saga, Frieza-saga, Cell-saga, Buu-saga, they're all well known. This is because, despite the similarity of the stories, they're all exceptionally written.If you like these kind of super-fights, you can not miss Dragon Ball Z. But it has many aspects from the 1st series as well, like the characters being very charismatic, and the humor, which is now a lot less, but it's still good. The drawing style is good, you always understand what is going on the screen. And while in the bottom of your heart you always know that in the end the good guys will win, but there's still plenty of suspense.There is some bad side of the series though. There are many fillers, the pace is slow, and there are plot-holes (well, no wonder, in so much time it's easy to forget details) - but even considering that, Dragon Ball Z is amazing. It knows full well the limits, and it doesn't even try to sell this thing as a big romance or anything. This is massive fights with some humor in it. Nothing else. But the way it's done, is fabulous, because you'll remember "OVER NINETHOUSAND" good scenes and good characters who will keep you entertained for the whole time! Easily the best part in the Dragon Ball universe, don't miss it if you like animes.


                
I love this anime to the core. The plot can seem ridiculous when they manage to surpass the power levels of their foes when their life is at stake, but it has taught me in real life that whenever a powerful foe/circumstance arises, I must Look to God first of all but to also look within the wonderful mind He has given me to overcome and work out how to defeat every opponent.


                
If you've seen anime,but haven't seen Dragon Ball Z,then you sir,are committing a grave mistake..Very,Very Grave!!! If balls to the walls action is what you desire,Dragon Ball Z delivers it in spades and then some.Hell,it's the anime that started the whole anime craze in other countries..That should say a lot to you. Based on the adventures of Goku and his friends,Dragon Ball Z is one hell of a ride from start to finish..It's got great characters,awesome villains,Ballistic fights that still are the pinnacle of anime..Even to this day,DBZ is famous what with it's sequel and games still going great guns(Dragon Ball Super,Not DB GT,that one was mediocre).Long story short,just watch DBZ..It's worth it!!


                
I personally think some people who haven't watched DBZ and say "It's just childish stuff and pointless fighting" are wrong. If you NEED to be deep you aren't going to enjoy this, because I'm telling you, Dragonball is just plain fun, it gets lessons straight without having to use discouraging morals to make it interesting, and it keeps things from being dark, it's just what it wants to be and it ends up topping over ambitious works that tries to be too huge. With great balance between action and comedy (Don't believe me? Go see Vegito VS Buu, or maybe even the Buu saga), and the fighting is epic, it has inspired countless media in the action genre to follow it's footsteps. Unlike what many people seem to think, moral lessons can be learn from the show if you have an easy-going and simple mind. Never give up(How they always pulled through), Good wins over evil(Again, how they made it), Don't be a racist(Frieza was one), There's nothing wrong in fighting for the right thing(Gohan turned SSJ2 after he stopped holding back), always at least TRY to see good in people even if they're mean(Vegeta becomes very useful after he started cooperating), there's nothing wrong with you but your mind holding you back, train hard, give it your all and you'll be surpassing elites. "Now, Give him the biggest Kamehameha you got! I know you can do this!" - Goku, Final Kamehameha battle between Cell and Gohan
Dragon Ball Z is most likely the greatest anime of all-time.An amazing series that delivered a stunning story,awesome action,and good explanation for all events and characters.The Story:It starts with Goku's father,Bardock,who is trying to defeat Freiza/Freeza.Freiza is the man who destroyed the Sayian race(Goku's race)and its planet,Planet Vegeta.Goku is send to Earth ,the events of Dragon Ball happen(Pilaf uses Dragon Ball's,Red Ribbon Army,Piccolo and Piccolo Jr. events).After 5 years after the events of Dragon Ball, Goku's brother arrives on Earth to tell him his reason on Earth.It leads to Vegeta and Nappa coming to Earth,the battle against Frieza,and the Super Saiyan transformation.It Ends up leading to the Androids awakening and the Cell Saga.The last saga is about the Boo's/Buu's taking on the Z fighters.Overall I give the story line a 8/10The Characters:There is a diverse amounts of characters in Dragon Ball Z.Some very cheerful and others like Vegeta are serious.There are childish characters too.My favorite character is Goku.The villains have a back- story that you will eventually understand.You can get to know the characters and connect your life with theirs.So I give the characters a 9/10.Conclusion:Dragon Ball Z is one of my favorite T.V shows.Dragon Ball Z was very good and I think Dragon Ball Z deserves a:9/10Thank you for reading!
If you remember 1996, you probably heard of Dragon Ball Z a break through Japanese anime that aired between 1989-95. Well then chances are you heard of Dragon Ball Z. A Popular anime series continued off from the original Dragonball by Akira Toriyama. The story continues the journey of the main character Goku and his quest to save the world. The show wasn't that massive until it's popular 1998 move to cable television as Funimation Studio's took over dubbing of the popular series from the Original Pioneer Studios in Canada. The show only got better and by 2000 it reached it's peak during the Cell Saga. However because of Cartoon Networks freakishly long breaks, and months and years filled with re-runs the show ran out of steam and by the time of the Buu Saga began the show was a little to repetitive and not as entertaining as the First Few Sagas. Despite this the great fighting sequences, the pretty good story-lines and of course the Super Saiyan Power-Ups make this a definite action show. Even though the show ended in April 2003, it still has it's mark on pop culture as one of the first anime's to make it big in the US.
