Some guy takes off in a hot air balloon as a bunch of people are coming up to him in boats. Are they after him? He floats for a while, then he floats over some boats (are they the same boats?), and then crashes. End of scene. Does he die? Who is he? Then 3 guys are leaving somewhere; they are painters (you find out later they are also monks). They stop at a stable full of unfunny jesters to escape from a storm. Some guys come and take one of the jesters away and bash his head into a tree. Then they smash his balalaika. Why? Who are they? Then a church painter asks one of the monks to be his assistant. The monk says only if he comes to the monastery and asks him in front of Andrej Rublev (a famous painter). Why? The church painter sends someone else to the monastery to ask Andrej Rublev to be his assistant instead. Why? This pisses the monk off and he disses everyone in the monastery, then takes off. His dog follows him, so he beats it to death with a stick. Why? Then a monk and his assistant are wondering in the woods and they come across some old guy who has ants crawling up his legs. He slaps the assistant. Why? Then some people are in the woods and some guys ride up on horses and gouge their eyes out. Who are these people? Then Andrej is very upset and smears something on a wall. It is after the people have had their eyes gouged out, so is it blood? (This is a b & w movie.) It looks chunky on his fingers. Paint? (He is supposed to be painting the wall.) The some woman comes along and touches the stuff on the wall and smells it a few times, then starts crying, then smears it around with her hands. Who is she? More disjointed, slow-moving, confusing scenes such as these and no character development. I didn't watch the second tape (yes, there's 2 tapes of this stuff). I had to force myself to watch the first tape all the way through. It didn't even have beautiful cinematography. On the box it says dazzling, a masterpiece, beautiful, harrowing, mesmerizing, soaring, majestic, an adventure, hypnotic beauty, a wild epic... What? Sight and Sound calls it "one of the top 15 films of all time" I will never take their advice on anything.
Presumably, the people rating this movie so highly have seen the cut version of this film.  I just saw the 205 minute version and was taken aback by the animal cruelty depicted in the film.  This is actual cruelty: not special effects.  A herd of computer generated burning cattle may be amusing at the beginning of Mars Attacks!, but this film contains an image of an actual cow having been set alight and jumping around!  Worse still a horse is, for some reason, shown falling down a narrow staircase and then actually stabbed to death with a spear, all for the camera!  And these are only the worst examples!  What kind of a disgusting mess is this?  Thank God that such things are not allowed to happen in movies today, as a matter of course. Disgusting!!!  There is literally no excuse for this!
I cannot endorse this film due to its blatant hypocrisy. Here we have director Tarkovsky, moralist extraordinaire, attempting to tell a moral tale of righteousness and spiritual depth. But fans of this movie overlook the disgusting fact that Tarkovsky committed horrible, ghastly crimes in order attain his "righteous vision".Tarkovksy lights a cow on fire. Tarkovsky throws a horse down a flight of stairs. Tarkovsky has that horse speared to death at the bottom. These are not special effects. These are genuine acts of depravity. How, then, can this film POSSIBLY be applauded for its moralism? I much prefer the gratuitous animal killings in CANNIBAL HOLOCAUST, because at least in that film we're under no premise that the director is sending us a lofty message of spiritual purity. Please, if you are a true art lover (meaning: one who interprets the depths of art to its very core), save yourself the horrible disappointment, and skip this flick.


                
Tarkovsky set out to make a landmark expression of cinematic art. Instead this movie will forever be known as "that movie where the director shot a horse and lit a cow on fire".Future filmmakers of the world, let this be a lesson to you. Don't let your arrogance get the best of you to the point that you start committing crimes against life. Josef Mengele, I'm sure, was an intelligent man with a thorough knowledge of medicine. But, like Tarkovsky, he'll forever be known as an arrogant psychopath with a thirst for blood.Suffice it to say that neither I nor any of my enlightened friends enjoyed this movie in the least. If you are intelligent enough to understand the words I have written here, then I guarantee that you will be just as repulsed by this film as we were.


                
Warning: animal abuse, actual animal killed. Tarkovsky lights a cow on fire. Tarkovsky sets a bunch of dogs on each other. Tarkovsky throws a horse down a flight of stairs, breaking its legs before killing the horse on camera. There's also a disturbing scene with a young child. If this sort of Russian snuff gets you hot & horny then by all means enjoy the flick. If, on the other hand, you give half a damn about innocent creatures, you might want to avoid this movie. Whatever you choose, don't be one of those hypocrites who says "Oh I love animals, but it's OK to abuse them in horrific ways for the sake of art. So excuse me whilst I watch another Bergman film where he hangs a dog by the neck." *golf clap*


                
