From director Andrey Tarkovskiy (Solaris, Mirror), this Russian film was another of the titles featured in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, I hoped it would be another good choice to be included. Basically this story, divided into eight episodes, charts the life of the famous iconic painter, artist Andrei Rublev (Anatoli Solonitsyn), who lives in 15th Century Russia. The film is essentially a study and insight into the meaningfulness and importance of art, religion and faith, and how these ideas are challenged with the events played out. The historical events that occur include an attempt at the first hot air balloon, the decoration of Cathedral of the Annunciation in Moscow, and of course the Tsardom of Russia, which included the invasion by the Tatar people. Starring Ivan Lapikov as Kirill, Nikolai Grinko as Danil Chorny, Nikolai Sergeyev as Theophanes the Greek, Irma Raush as Idiot Girl (Durochka), Nikolay Burlyaev as Boriska, Yuriy Nazarov as The Grand Prince / His Brother, The Lesser Prince and Rolan Bykov as The Jester. In the leading role Solonitsyn is a good noble character with a keen eye for his works, being set in a medieval period the most memorable scenes for me were the battle sequences, a crucifixion, the unearthing, raising and ringing of a large bell, and a short breakaway from black and white to colour to see the real works of Rublev, I will confess I found it hard to understand what was going on, but for the imagery, such as costume and sets, this is a worthwhile biographical drama. Very good!
Andrei Rublev is a celebrated 15th century Russian icon painter. This is a series of vignettes related to his biography. Honestly, I wouldn't have watched it if not for its inclusion in the top 250 list. It's definitely an academic necessity for any film fans. The first part has an adventurer test riding a hot air balloon while a superstitious mob rush to stop him. It's surreal and sets the tone of this movie as an ongoing tragedy. The second part is just as tragic. Andrei and his friends are traveling. They take shelter in a village where they are entertained by a jester. Soldiers arrest him for his dissident material. The third part is where I faded. While the first two parts laid down the tone, it doesn't explain our main characters. By the third part, I lose the thread to these characters. I'm not connecting with them. The movie gets epic in part five. It's definitely big and I think a horse gets killed for real. There are some eye-opening scenes and true devastation. Overall, this movie gives a general feel of the era. It lays out the never-ending Russian tragic sensibility. The missing part is that I lose the characters. I don't feel for them. If Russian cinema is your thing, this one is a must.


                
The life and times of Andrei Rublev, Russian iconographer of the early-15th century. Over seven periods in his life, spanning 1400 to 1424, we see the history of Russia, the power struggles, the role of the church and religion and Rublev's dedication to his calling.A bit difficult to review this movie. It is clearly the work of a master craftsman: the exquisite cinematography, the sheer scale of the subject matter and time period, the themes, the obvious adoration director Andrei Tarkovsky has for his subject. Yet it is often quite a grind to watch: clocks in at well over 3 hours and moves very slowly. Several scenes will go by without development in plot or theme. Furthermore, the separate time periods don't necessarily form a narrative. They often just feel like things happening, with no connection between them.While acknowledging that the film is well made, I fail to see how it is so highly regarded. I did not come away feeling that I had just watched a masterpiece, something incredibly profound or moving.


                
... But I don't want to give it 10 stars just for this reason. Undoubtedly, I love Tarkovsky. His Stalker is the highest form of art I can think of, but that's not to say I have to love all his films. Andrei Rublev undoubtedly carries a very specific feeling along with it. The monologue of the old monk was very touching, the confusion of Russians as the Tatars entered was shown greatly through the perspective of their art as if, and the collapse of young Boris, whose father died a bit too early.One thing I did not like about Andrei Rublev was its lack of organization. There were chapters, sure, but sometimes I failed to feel the dynamic of the film. While with Stalker, for example, I was on an emotional journey along with the characters, Andrei Rublev did not manage to accomplish this because I don't think the length proved itself necessary. I would gladly cut a chapter or two.One thing I loved about this film was the texture of it. The mud that Boris touches made me feel a certain way, the feet of the people being sunk in the dirt... all this imagery felt like a painting at times.I could also see Kurosawa in this film, especially his Ran, with all the horses running and "big budget" shoot. But honestly, I like Tarkovky's low budgets way more.


                
(Minor spoiler in the last paragraph, though it doesn't really matter for this film).Now, it's clear that a lot of people really love this film. If you find their reasons compelling, then nothing I say should stop you from seeing it. It's a tour de force of film-making. But I will present another viewpoint. ;-) I found both the photography and the development to be excessively murky. Grand scenery at times but you can't see much. (This is watching the DVD on a high-resolution computer monitor. I also saw it in a theater in 1984 and had the same impression.) Apparently to figure out how the parts fit together, you need to delve into Tarkovsky's philosophy of art, and pick up a lot of symbolism, and it helps to have much more than the average American's knowledge of medieval Russia.I don't mind that it's slow, or that it has no clear plot line. Slow? One of my favorite movies is Stranger Than Paradise. I just watched Once Upon A Time In The West, which is almost as long as Andrei Rublev and even slower (and made within a couple of years of AR). AR depends greatly on symbolism, which it seems to substitute for facial expression. Facial expression is almost totally lacking, especially in extended facial shots; I find extended shots of several expressionless faces to be more than a little on the pretentious side. OUATITW also uses extended shots of faces, but the faces reveal their characters through the expressions. OUATITW builds a story with facial expression; AR builds a story with symbols represented by people. The latter fits very well with icon painting and so is another symbol in itself -- a good example of how the film builds on symbolism.(********* minor spoiler follows -- description of the end of the film *********).So if a lot of symbolism appeals to you and you enjoy working out symbolism in a movie, and no realistic human characters or facial expression and a lot of medieval war violence don't bother you, then by all means see Andrei Rublev. Otherwise watch the last 15 minutes or so, the color part, which is a stupendous presentation of one of Rublev's most famous frescoes.
You must be patient to appreciate the greatness in this film. It's long, but portions of it are as majestic as any film even made, there is some astonishing camera work, and, yes, some of it is trademark Tarkovsky, ponderous and with seemingly superfluous imagery and dialogue.I like "Solaris" more (in fact is one of my favorites), if only because the bafflement of the characters in "Solaris" at the alien presence is more perfectly matched in that film to Tarkovsky's often baffling style. But if "Roublev" is your favorite movie, I'm not going to argue with you. Roublev's, his brethren filmmakers', and, occasionally our own, struggle to create great things speaks powerfully from this film.


                
This film requires significant intellectual investment. In a perfect world we could see it in a theater and give it our full attention. At home, viewing the DVD and tolerating the inevitable distractions, I needed several nights to get through it. It's a peculiar film in that it softens the viewer up with long, frankly dull (but beautiful) stretches, only to suddenly shock him or her with very intense scenes. I can't say that I loved this movie, but that's probably because I'm not smart enough. (For a more thorough analysis, google "albertnet andrei rublev" and select the first search result. Note that the albertnet article includes spoilers.)


                
