How to Train Your Dragon offers no practical dragon training information. NONE. Zero stars.To be honest I am not impressed. The title clearly suggests that instructions would be provided on how I can train my dragon. Clearly this was just marketing hype and false advertising. I am surprised that others have given a positive review. Surely I'm not the only person who thinks that a book titled "How to Train Your Dragon" would over at least SOME practical training information? Terribly disappointed. I would like my money back.


                
How did this rubbish get to number 156 on the IMDb charts ahead of classic movies such as Ben Hur? Must be a bunch of monkeys voting.As soon as I heard the Scottish accents of the adults and then, inexplicably, the kids speaking with American accents I knew I would hate this movie. At least try to make it *somewhat* realistic so I can suspend a miniscule amount of disbelief. But no, they decided to go with the stupid accents instead. Very predictable too. It's a typical kids movie therefore zero suspense and zero surprises. The Incredibles is ten times better than this yet it's nowhere in the IMDb top 250. Go figure.


                
I think this deserves a rating of 7. Gave it a 1 because the rating was way too high in my opinion. When i watched it, i liked it. Good animation, that's the best about this flick. The story is mediocre, nothing exciting there. Don't misunderstand me, it does work! But let's be honest, it's not that exciting.... The soundtrack is what you expect it to be, nothing new/innovative there... So: Excellent film for your kids or for an adult who wants some excellent waste-time. But nothing exciting, innovative, surprising... If you're looking for something to rock your world, there's a lot of better animations out there (try Howl's moving castle, Princess Mononoke, ....)


                
This movie was pretty lame for the following reasons; The characters were crappy, annoying and forgettable (I only remember the names of Hiccup the protagonist, and toothless the dragon), the story was a boring generic fantasy viking genre, dialogue was pointless, music was crap, .The movie was good for the following reasons; The animation, voice acting, marketing and the title.So what I take away from all this is while the movie was crap at LEAST I saw it. I didn't just prejudge it, I saw it, thought it was crap and was able to write this comment it the first place.


                
I would have given it higher reviews if it had not been called this and the characters have not been called what they were. I don't even think you guys read the books. I do think the actors did a good job, but the books were nothing like this.The dragons weren't hunted, they were befriended by the young viking BOYS. There weren't any girl vikings, they were in a different tribe. Toothless was small and green and the most "common common or garden dragon" and everybody teased him for being small and skinny. Oh, and Fishlegs was skinny and squinted and had asthma. Snotlout, unfortunately, was the one everybody liked. Oh, and Astrid didn't exist.I hope for the second movie, you actually glance at the book.


                
I get that this is a children's movie, but why do the older Vikings have Scottish accents while their offspring chat as though they've just left the mall, with American accents and rampant clichés? The main character wants a girlfriend and is sad that he'll probably never get to go on a date ... wait, what? For that matter, why do ANY of the Vikings have a Scottish accent? o_O And did *any* female Vikings *ever* leave their homes and hearths, or whatever? Also, how come the dragon knew so many human gestures when he'd barely spent any time around the main character, or any other human? He's gesturing with his head at the fish, indicating that the boy must eat it, and mimicking the act of swallowing. Really, watching this you'd think there was nothing but a language barrier between humans and reptilian creatures. This movie's just ... silly. Way too childish. If you're over the age of 10, go watch Shrek again instead.


                
this film is just awful... this could be easily the worst movie i've ever saw!! i can't understand how this film is best quoted then cars or the lion king. my only explanation is that thousands of four,five year old kids asked their parents to come and vote perfect to IMDb. Open your eyes! if you didn't saw this film, you haven't lost anything because this film doesn't teach kids to have values, it only satisfies small girls who believe in santa claus and in the future they will end up with their prince charming. there are so many kids movie who deserve better quotation then this awful movie. Camon IMDb change the quotation of this film


                
You can't really say you've seen a bad movie until you watch this one. Basically the story goes like this Hiccup, the awkward son of the village chieftain, Stoick the Vast, whom he looks and acts nothing like, dreams of killing a Night Furry, which is said to be impossible. When he actually does, no one believes him. He is too much of a pussy to kill it, so he trains and befriends it. He suddenly learns to train other dragons which other people think he is really tormenting, which makes him a hero. Not everything about this movie is dreadful, the animation is pretty good, but the idea of vikings going against everything they know and domesticating dragons is both blasphemous and dull. It contains lames jokes that are extremely dry. Basically, you will hate this movie, with the notable exception if you are a pasty-face nerd who wears glasses and spends his free time playing world of Warcraft. When it first came out it received positive reviews for some reason, but like most over-rated movies it will be forgot about in a few years.
The message of the film is great: even the seemingly evil dragons are actually not evil but just like you - they have also feelings like you, need also food like you, and so on. This is a great message for a family movie and I enjoyed the first half of the movie a lot. But the end ruined it all and this is why.
In the end, the maker of the movie simply created a bigger dragon which is told to be the actual reason for all the problems described before and this big dragon is truly just evil. And this is such a stupid thing to do because it implies that there are just evil beings that must be killed. But the message of the film was actually supposed to be the opposite! That were actually the beliefs of the vikings that the boy prooved to be wrong! And in fact the message of the movie applies to the bigger dragon, too: the bigger dragon simply needs food and this is why it eats the other animals. We are doing the same. But the vikings and dragons start attacking the big dragon, hit it in the eye which hurts it a lot (so the bigger dragon has feeling just like is, too), burning it with flames and eventually killing it. After that horrible scene it gets even worse: once the bigger dragon has died, there is peace and harmony. This is such a terrible message for a family movie and, again, it totally contradicts the message the movie is supposed to have, because in the end all this movie is telling you is: find the evil, kill it and everything will be great. The analogy to human thinking and the reason for wars is obvious and in this sense the movie supports the idea that a war is a good thing since it destroyes the evil. So this movie pretends to have a lovely message and I have neither understanding why the makers included this big irony nor why so few people see this obvious contradiction. To me it was just painful to watch how the boy shows that the seemingly evil dragons are just like us and later they all attack the bug dragon, hurt it a lot and eventually kill it. This is a terrible movie and I give it only one star.
