I watched How to Train Your Dragon about 5 times now, and it never gets boring. It actually keeps on getting better and better with with more and more views. This is a huge accomplishment for DreamWorks Animation, it might actually be its Best Animated Feauture it yet. It is an amazing experience to watch this film in Cinema. The 3D is amazing and at times Breathtaking. I may of had the most fun that I've ever had in Cinema watching How to Train Your Dragon.The script is really good and is has a lot of dramatic depth. This movie is for everyone. Adults and Kids will enjoy it equally and will love it at the end. This movie will probably become a series like Shrek. But I'm hoping this film doesn't get bad sequels like Shrek 3 and Shrek Forever After. Anyways this film will be most recognized for its beautiful animation.10/10 Highly Recommended


                
I saw the trailer and I enjoyed it but I was afraid that all the good parts from the movie will be there and that will be all, like it was with many films lately. That was certainly not the case. There are way better parts that were left to be discovered and I definitely congratulate the choice.I didn't read the book, so I don't know the story, witch might have suffered, as stories usually do from books to picture, but I think a writer couldn't hope for a better image, better portraits of characters, especially the black dragon who one definitely falls in love with - the mimic and the gestures and the face expressions, so complex and real. I agree it's not the kind of movie that makes you keep thinking too much once it's finished bot it's not meant to be. It's just lovely, from the beginning to the end, I really laughed and I was anxious for the characters when they suffered (and I'm 22). The film wasn't too long, it didn't have stupid lines whatsoever and it put to silence the annoying child behind me from the first five minutes or so, which I believe says it all.I don't know if I will actually go to the cinema but I definitely want to see it again. Great special effects and, again, a very lovely dragon.


                
I saw this film in early March, of 2010 in Indianapolis. I am one of the judges for the Heartland Truly Moving Picture Award. A Truly Moving Picture "<U+0085>explores the human journey by artistically expressing hope and respect for the positive values of life." Heartland gave that award to this film.It's in 3-D and it's gorgeous animation. But what really matters is the story. And it's a good one. At first it seems the main story is about a Viking colony equally distant from nowhere, which is being constantly attacked by a wide variety of marauding dragons. It's a full time job trying to keep the dragons at bay and the Viking warriors are often out on their boats hunting their wily and ferocious opponents.But really the story is about a father and chief of the Vikings who has a young son, Hiccup, who is small and who is a slick, sarcastic talker and who doesn't take orders well, but still seeks respect from his impressive father. At first, his Father will not let his son be a warrior Viking, but later relents to have Hiccup train with the other youngsters. But the young boy gets sidetracked and instead of wanting to kill dragons, the boy befriends them and seeks to understand them.A young and inexperienced son seeking approval of a strong father is an often-told tale. Sons often act foolishly trying to impress their fathers. And fathers often ignore the strivings of their sons. In this case, there is honor and courage on all sides and it is inspiring to watch the father and son wrestle with their relationship.And yes, about the dragons – they ARE ferocious and talented and aggressive warriors. But their motivations are a mystery that unfolds slowly. And that's the fun of this film.FYI – There is a Truly Moving Pictures web site where there is a listing of past Truly Moving Picture Award winners that are now either at the theater or available on video.
If this is done following the same old beat up formula that Hollywood sticks to with regards to animation, then the dragons will be yakking non-stop. Thank goodness that this film, directed by Dean DeBlois and Chris Sanders, avoids this like the plague, and Jay Baruchel voices Hiccup, a viking kid who happens to be more brains than brawn, more scrawny than buffed, and this of course sets him apart from the rest of his warrior clan folks, who are battle scarred from the constant defense of the village pests - dragons who come from afar to plunder their livestock and setting their houses on fire, so much so that every house on the block is relatively brand new. Wanting to help out in any way he can, he's deemed more of a liability than an asset, especially when even his dad Stoick (Gerard Butler) cannot appreciate his unique, technical talent.In a stroke of uncanny luck, Hiccup downs a flying dragon in the heat of battle, and his compassion meant to set the dragon free, rather than trying to prove himself to be a worthy viking man by killing it. And it's a rare specimen of a dragon too, which would have brought him instant glory. So a bond between man and mythical beast gets struck, and christened as Toothless, this is one pest who slowly grows into a pet, with Hiccup's secret rendezvous resulting in growing appreciation for the species, despite what the knowledge that his kinsman had compiled into a Dragon compendium which details facts all ending with an advisory on compulsory annihilation.The story here is the strength of the film, being witty, smart but never condescending nor insulting the intelligence of the audience. While most characters are caricatures, especially Hiccup's peers, a lot of effort have been put into creating the leads as multi-dimensional and full of heart, and I enjoyed how the characters are so open to their emotions, that it becomes a lot more real than the photo realistic 3D animation and effects. Sure there's the usual father-son misunderstanding and expectations, and how a zero turns to hero, or even the theme of fearing something that we don't fully comprehend, but it's the manner in which the usual got delivered, that made all the difference. Especially so for its anti-war stance, that all it takes is a little step back from the common battle-cry, and instead seek to be understood, by holding out an olive branch, and to understand first.For those who enjoy the mythology of the dragon creature, there are a number of ideas thrown up in the film that would make you nod in appreciation how these got conjured up for the film, and they worked wonders, even though they may be a tad predictable plot wise. And I'm betting that a lot of folks out there will take to Toothless, thanks to its "stitch"-ish design similar to Lilo and Stitch (since it's co-director Chris Sander's previous work) and huge saucer like eyes, plus a lovable demeanour built into the character that's always apprehensive, and mischievous. Being the creature that has no track record also helped, since it ropes you into a journey of friendship, bonding and discovery with Hiccup as to how powerful his new found friend can be, not to mention how symbiotic their relationship will evolve into as well.Action junkies will find the action sequences in the film faultless, and the 3D got specifically crafted for certain set action pieces that really had me ducking for cover, for once. Fights are incredible, and always accompanied either by humour that worked without the feeling that it was deliberate nor just tried too hard, coupled with the comedic voice talents such as Jonah Hill and Christopher Mintz-Plasse.How to Train Your Dragon is similar to last year's Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs - Long titles, great story, beautiful animation and a total delight. Highly recommended, and it goes into my list as contenders for best films of this year!


                
Warning: this beautifully animated tale is highly addictive! As soon as it's over you'll immediately want to watch it again. I'm a grown man, but somehow this movie managed to ignore all the layers of cynicism and fake toughness we grown-ups tend to build around ourselves to cope with life; it cut right through to the wide-eyed, adventure-loving boy in me, right through to the heart. It's impossible not to fall in love with this movie, with these characters - especially if you love wild animals. This beautiful story of a very unlikely friendship between a boy who's a bit of an outcast and a dragon is just so well done; it's never cheesy, yet full of passion, and there's simply not a dull moment in it.And although it's very funny, this really isn't just an accumulation of gags and one-liners loosely held together by a paper-thin story: this is a great adventure and touching coming-of-age tale where the protagonist has an actual arc; it tells an intelligent and compelling story about people who are not just one-note characters, and they're wonderfully realized through the great voice-work of such actors as Jay Baruchel, America Ferrera, Gerard Butler and Craig Ferguson. The animation is fantastic, and there's so much playful creative energy at display in the design of the characters - especially in the design of all the different dragon species - that it's simply a joy to watch. 10 stars out of 10.


                
Hiccup a young Viking befriends Toothless, a young dragon. This is the best movie I've seen since the "Lord of the Rings" trilogy. Virtually everything about it is wonderful. Rarely have I been so drawn in to an animated movie. The 3D aspects are thrilling and the movie has a great story, amazing animation, non stop action and a positive and constructive message. It made me want to go out and get a pet dragon. This movie is perfect for people of all ages. Now I know what a feel good movie is. This movie will make everyone feel good. Congratulations to all who contributed to this amazing film. It will make toy dragons a popular gift item. Hope to see it again and again. 3D at it's best.


                
This has to be one of the best films I've seen with my family.The characters came to life and was instantly hooked.I've young children and they hardly flinched throughout. The draw to the screen was virtually magnetic.A definite must see for all the family, and the 3d version bought it to life, totally!!The story was well written, even though I must admit the start was a bit slow, but all in all well done dream-works. You've another winner on your hands here.p.s. can't stop talking about it, and its been a week since I've seen it- I can see Oscars in the not too distant future.


                
There are a lot of excellent reviews out there, I will just discuss a single point. What got to me the most in this movie is the message I got out of it, I got it from a single line uttered by the hero and it just burned in my memory, it's about how when we look deep in the eyes of our enemies -the ones we fear the most- we will see that they are afraid of us just as we are afraid of them, we might realize their humanity and that they are not what we thought, monsters.This is definitely one of the best 2 animation movies this year, with Toy Story 3 being the other one, tough job for the academy awards this year, and hope this is the case every year.It's nice to see beautiful animation movies challenging Pixar's, it definitely benefits the viewer the most. How to train your dragon - Highly Recommended.


                
This was one of the moments, when you feel so overwhelmed by a movie, that you want to see it again immediately.And when i think of how the whole movie-going began-a theater, full of annoying, noisy kids, 3-th graders mostly.But in the end, you realize you haven't spent any time listening to them, because you are so fascinated by the movie.You feel you are alone in the otherwise overcrowded theater.This feeling is very precious and when you realize it, you know you loved it.The whole idea is very interesting-alternate Dragon-fighting times, an era of vikings and so many kinds of winged creatures.The main character, Hiccup, is the son of a mighty Dragon fighter-Stoick, who is the vikings chief as well.He wants to teach his son the Dragon fighting ways of the vikings, but the boy befriends one of the Dragons, a very rare kind, almost impossible to find.He names it Toothless and they are in for a lot of adventures.The movie is very fresh, but solid and strong as well.And considering it is an animation, the voice performances are very good.That is also important.But the truly strongest sides of the movie are the heart of the movie-it is really a moving picture, but i think, that the level of maturity of the movie is higher, than DreamWorks's previous efforts like "Shrek".It is more meaningful, and although it is a Dragon-fighting story it is more real than most of the studio's previous tries in this genre and definitely a step up in animation.The feelings, the emotions, that were expressed throughout made this animation such a memorable experience, and i'm sure, i won't be able to forget it, at least not soon."How to Train Your Dragon" is a new, fresh, different start in the animation genre, with a lot of heart and emotions.I think, that's one of the best animations ever made.I recommend it to everyone-from parents with children to more experienced moviegoers and for the more mature audiences as well."How to Train Your Dragon" is the best movie this year so far, and a honestly moving picture.An animation masterpiece!*****/*****


                
I read the book before this movie ever entered theaters. I could tell right from the start that the storyline of the movie had nothing to do with the storyline of the book (except for the names of a few of the characters involved). I am surprised the book even mentions that it is now a "major motion picture" considering you can hardly even compare the two.In the movie, the Vikings must defend their food and land from attacking dragons, and the young Vikings are trained to become dragon slayers. Hiccup, the chief's son, is a weakling and a screw up who desperately wants to show his father that he is worth something.When Hiccup ends up catching the only dragon no Viking has ever caught or killed, a "Night Fury," he is unable to slay the dragon and instead ends up training him and keeping him for a pet. His dragon, whom he calls Toothless, gives him insight into how dragons think, and he is then able to defeat all the dragons in the sparring ring quite easily without slaying them.Of course, when it is discovered that Hiccup is now able to fight dragons because he has one for a pet, he is ostracized from the clan. His father, who wants nothing more than to find the dragons' lair and slay all dragons, uses Toothless to find the lair. Little does he know that there is a very large dragon living there, and they must now defeat it, aided by the very dragons he grew to hate. In the end, Hiccup is victorious, gets the girl he loves (Astrid), becomes a hero, gains respect from his peers, and changes Viking life as they know it by making pet dragons commonplace.The book is called "How to Train Your Dragon" because the characters must do just that. In order to be considered a true Viking, the characters must go and get their very own dragon from the dragon lair and train it. Only the chief's son (Hiccup) is suppose to get a "monstrous nightmare" dragon, however, one of the other characters gets one just to spite him.In the book, the characters learn that the only way to really train your dragon (that the Vikings know of) is to "yell at it," and Hiccup tries everything imaginable to train his dragon, all while being taunted and humiliated by his peers. Dragons in the book are ornery and decidedly un-loyal, and are also small enough to perch on shoulders.Toothless in the book is a whiny, annoying character who refuses to be trained, and is called Toothless because he IS entirely toothless. In fact, Toothless in the book is the most pathetic dragon anybody has ever seen; scrawny with no teeth (and is also a "common green" type of dragon, which is the most basic dragon any Viking can have). Hiccup makes up a new species to call him so that he is not made fun of, and assures everybody that he has the rarest type of dragon anybody can have.In the ending of the book, the characters must fight two huge dragons (much like in the movie) and their trained dragons aide them. Hiccup becomes a hero by coming up with and executing a plan to slay the large dragons. There is no female character in the book called Astrid, and the other Viking children are much more developed in the book and play a larger role.Overall, both the movie and the book are thoroughly enjoyable, but anybody who has read the book must not compare it to the movie unless they want to be disappointed. The movie has a slightly cookie-cutter and predictable plot (hero messes up, hero wins respect and girl in the end), but is triumphant and humorous with likable characters and lovely animation. There are several tear-jerking moments in the movie, as well as many laugh-out-loud, witty jokes. Overall, this movie is one for the DVD shelf, and will be liked by both children and adults.I think anybody who saw the movie without reading the books will be in for a surprise if they pick up the book series, and anybody who read the books and sees the movie can appreciate both.
It's far better then all those Shrecks, Toy stories, Ratatoulies, Puss in boots, Mega-minds and other "renewing" concepts. Why? It's simple and honest. This movie doesn't TRY to be funny, modern, super-wise, and "for all". It's not one of those "hey-let's-make-a-movie-about-cat-who-is-a-super-spy" concepts. This movie JUST tells the simple yet very good story in the most proper way.I have seen a lot of 3D animated movies - American, European, Asian. This one hits 10 in my opinion, because it's by far the most complete vision enclosed in a 3D animated form. But - in addition - it's a pure fairy tale in the core. And I mean PURE - from the cores of fairy-telling, which is the most polite, elegant way of TEACHING important stuff. I think that 3D movie is not only craftsmanship behind creating artificial environment, animating believably, lighting sets with care, etc., etc. Like any other movie - it should be a well told story, which will left you ...CHANGED a bit (that's what fairy tales do, right?) Only those kind of stories will matter in your life. Rest is just "fun".'How to train your dragon' is a modern fairy tale. It's modern because - like other mainstream 3D movies - it's excellently crafted. We have here great animation (Toothless, the dragon is "made of life", so to speak - you actually just want to HAVE one), lighting and cinematography (splendid flight scenes, which take your breath away, and make you climb your chair), effects, etc.... But it's a fairy tale because - above all that - we have here a master degree directing by Dean DeBlois and Chris Sanders too. All those decisions made by them - from very basic (like the look of Toothless and other characters, or editing), to more important (like balancing the amounts of fear, sadness, seriousness and fun tones in the story) are marks of wisdom. And those decisions made a difference between this movie and "the rest". Those decisions crafted a SOUL in it. And achieving this "soul level" should be a goal of every director.Summing up: great movie in at least two aspects. Technically (character design, animation, cinematography, editing) and emotionally (great simple story with surprisingly 'non-hollywoodish' wise moral, fantastic heart-touching score by John Powell, and mature directing which guide you to be changed a bit after watching).Best achievement in 3D storytelling since Euclide :)


                
What can i say, superb film: heads and shoulders above anything else I've seen this year. The 3D works brilliantly, you'll come out of this film truly believing that you can fly.The animation is excellent and the cinematography is so appropriate for this slightly darker animation.The opening sequence is brilliant - setting up all conflict, characters and setting at breathless pace and then quickly moving onwards to develop what becomes a surprisingly involved story of friendship, acceptance, love and believing in yourself!However, the dragon: "Toothless" is a standout feature of this film.. go to see it just for the scenes where he and Hiccup interact.SPOILER: One scene that stands out is where they learn to fly, the kinetic energy of that scene is unbelievably empowering, one of the few truly great examples of amazing cinema action in recent times.Some people complained that the side characters were underdeveloped, but I strongly disagree; if you watch closely, there's a lot more depth to them than you would have first thought.Only other complaint was that the vikings were Scottish, and their offspring American. But otherwise a fantastic feel good movie... I'll shut up now, leaving you to go see it (In 3D of course)
I remember watching the adorable Disney flick Lilo & Stitch at the theater back in the summer of 2002, after a truly exhausting week. The film - which tells the story of a small girl that befriends a wacky alien she mistakes for a dog - managed to put an enormous smile on my face, and made me forget of all my other worries for a while.While watching Dreamwork's new masterpiece, How to Train Your Dragon, I couldn't help but think about the similarities between both it and the aforementioned Lilo & Stitch. Toothless, the lead dragon character from the new film resembles the alien Stitch in shape as well as in behavior. Hiccup, the main human character which befriends Toothless despite warnings from his fellow Vikings, is a semi middle-age teenage version of the character Lilo. A trip visit to IMDb cleared things up for me - Dean DeBlois and Chris Sanders, the same people who directed the 2002 wonder (L & S) are behind the new and awesome How to Train Your Dragon.Fortunately enough, the similarities end here, and this is not a carbon copy of that film - even though the bottom line (tolerance toward people who are different, etc.) is the same. However, this new film takes place in the middle ages, in a small village which is repeatedly attacked by seemingly vicious dragons. Stoick (voiced by the almighty Gerard Butler) is the head of the village, a pumped up manly Viking who leads the counter-attacks against the fierce dragons. His teenage son, Hiccup (Jay Baruchel), however, doesn't quite fit in. Unlike the older Vikings, who speak in an Irish accent, he sounds like your average American teenager. He's also skinny and small and not exactly the material Viking warriors are made of.After a nightly battle between Vikings and dragons, Hiccup discovers Toothless, a supposedly lethal dragon, which has lost its ability to fly after being injured in the fight. Without anyone knowing, Hiccup slowly gains Toothless' confidence, and the two gradually learn to know each other. After the primal fears disappear, they realize they actually have a great deal to learn about one another – and that friendship is always better than hostility. Soon enough, Hiccup trains Toothless and learns how to approach dragons in general, something that doesn't quite fit in with his father, friends, and the society he lives in in general. But when a greater threat reveals itself, the Vikings and the dragons discover their only hope is to put aside their prejudice thoughts and fight together – with Hiccup and Toothless being their best hope for victory.Bottom line – How to Train Your Dragon is a major victory for the guys at Dreamworks. The film is truly inspiring, with a story that feels self-contained and complete, one that doesn't need to rely on pop culture references to succeed (unlike many of their other products). After a long period of mediocre products (in my opinion) that pale next to their Pixar counterparts, Dreamworks Animation finally came out with the winning formula – which contains just the right amount of relatable characters and true emotions, stunning visuals (including Nordic landscapes and various species of beautiful dragons) and a 3-D element (that uses InTru technology) that really works for a change.Despite the similarities to Lilo & Stitch, I came out feeling that Dean DeBlois and Chris Sanders actually managed to improve on their winning hit, and create the best 2010 release I've seen so far – and one of the best animated films to hit theaters in a long long time.


                
Dreamworks Animated movies were usually silly funny, crazy, not serious, heartless and forgettable like "Monsters vs. Aliens", "Shark Tale". but sometimes there are movies that are great, sometimes serious and memorable like "Kung Fu Panda". "How to train your Dragon" is one of those great movies. The voice casting was perfect, the animation was awesome, great screenplay and music score. it has a lot of action and exciting scenes. "How to Train your Dragon" is the best Dreamworks Animated movie ever. "How to Train Your Dragon" is better than d' book. The action scenes were awesome, The movie is funny too and the cinematography was amazing. The part when Hiccup was riding on Toothless is better than Jake Sully riding on Banshees from "AVATAR". This movie is fun especially in 3D! Gerard Butler was perfect for Stoick the Vast. Jay Baruchel was good. but America Ferrera's performance was bad. This is better than "AVATAR" and "Monsters Vs. Aliens". "How to Train your Dragon" is the best animated movie i watched this year. and this movie gave me goosebumps.


                
There's a reason why I watched How To Train Your Dragon 7 times when it was still playing in theatres. No, it wasn't because I was young and didn't know how to better manage my money (although to be honest, it was a little bit of this). It's because HTTYD had a unique way of unfolding its story. A story about an unlikely relationship that truly moved my heart--between the now very well-known dynamic-duo, Hiccup and Toothless.Throughout the movie, you see each of them grow in awareness about one another, but also in awareness about themselves. This, I think, is what makes their relationship so much more than what meets the eye: before they even know it, they are accepting themselves for their own insecurities and learning not to judge others by first glance. To top off the many hidden lessons, the screenplay is nicely paced and super quirky/funny (a lot of laughs in all the right places). I also think John Powell did an excellent job with the soundtrack (and when I'm not watching the movie, I sometimes just listen to the soundtrack--yes, you could say I'm just a little obsessed). Ever since I was little to today, I have always managed to feel the same childish wonder and magic that I felt that first time I saw HTTYD in a movie theatre. And I can honestly say that I don't think that feeling will ever go away.


                
Beautifully animated and scored. The voice cast was well chosen. The sound design for Toothless in particular is excellent.Friendship developments are nicely paced and heartwarming. The characterization of Toothless is really well done.The 'test drive' scene is captivating. The score syncs wonderfully with the visuals.One aspect of this picture that appeals to me is observational inquiry and trial & error. It's a great message to send to kids and adults alike.Fuel for the imagination. Wonderful in all respects.


                
Great, loved it so much. Amazing Good voice acting Loved the books Great author. Great story and other stuff. Animations was good, relate able characters and histrionically accurate. Captures the time of the great and wonderful empire of the vikings. One of the best movies of recent years


                
it's still managed to make me smile, laugh, tear up and excited every time. And I can still watch it a hundred more times, even at this age loooong past my teens, and still be as entertained as the first time round. This has the perfect dosage of wit, humor, drama, action, scattered bits of suspense and...the perfect team of the six riders. The twins never cease to bring that giggle back, even with their old pathetic jokes. I mean, who would've thought to make a voice cast of Jay Baruchel...which has now become almost iconic! Such a perfect amount of time spent on the build-up; especially the bonding; and the climax. It has one of the best (thought through) story lines. Congratulations to the Dreamsworks team on a job well done. And of course to Cressida Crowell for her creations.


                
No story is truly original. That is a fact when it comes to writing. Each film you watch, every novel you read, every song you hear, all can be likened to similar tales from any medium. Of course, some stories are more common than others. None of this is an issue, once the execution is done right. It is rarely you see a film that tells an age old tale in such an inspired way, that it feels new again.This is the case with How to Train Your Dragon. Based *loosely* on the book of the same name, the CGI adventure is directed by Chris Sanders and Dean DeBois (Lilo & Stitch), and tells the story of a Viking teen named Hiccup (Jay Baruchel). Hiccup is weedy and nerdy, which ostracizes him from his peers and his father, Stoic (Gerard Butler), who happens to be the chief of their village. Berk, the aforementioned village, has been plagued for years by dragons, who steal livestock and burn down buildings. In order to gain the respect from the village, especially his father, Hiccup invents a machine to take down the most feared and rarest of all dragons – the Night Fury.Naturally, Hiccup manages to capture a Night Fury, but finds that he cannot kill him. Instead, he sets him free, and decides to study him. Meanwhile, Stoic tries to help his son mingle with his peers and gain confidence by enrolling him in dragon training. Hiccup meets the dragon in secret, and slowly befriends him, naming him Toothless due to his retractable teeth. The pair soon develops a strong bond, with Toothless even allowing Hiccup to ride him, with the help of a new tail fin that Hiccup makes. It is due to his friendship with Toothless that Hiccup realizes that everything Vikings believe about dragons is wrong. He now faces uncertainty when he becomes top of his class due to his sudden surge of dragon knowledge, and has to kill a dragon in front of the village, including his father, who knows nothing of his new friend. The story soon lies on a precipice; will Hiccup be able to forge a new era of peace, or is the life of his best friend in grave danger? What we have here, is two very common stories; the boy and his dog story, and the underdog tale. Such stories are so well worn, that not only are they staples in family entertainment (see Old Yeller, My Dog Skip, Teen Wolf, and many more), but they have been done so much that they can form a predictable narrative, and several clichés. However, the crew behind How to Train Your Dragon handle the story in such a way, that it feels like a new, crisp bed sheet. The characters are well rounded and wholly enjoyable, even Hiccup, with his nasally voice may poise an irritation for some. The other kids in the village are all voiced by massive talents, from T.J. Miller to Oscar nominated Jonah Hill, each who add so much character and life to such small roles. Gerard Butler is in fine, Scottish form as Stoic, and you can understand his plight with the dragons, and with his son; he lives in a culture where stature and strength is a major factor, he is the head of a village that is being bombarded by fire breathing beasts. The strained relationship he shares with Hiccup is one of respect and longing, and the time that is spent on them is just enough to show how much care and love is hidden.However, the most poignant relationship is between Hiccup and Toothless; the time and passion dedicated to nurturing their relationship is a wonder to behold. Their bond is obvious, and needs very few words to describe; the majority is done through the masterful animation, character interactions, John Powell's powerful score, and the perfect amount of pacing. It is clear to the viewer that boy and dragon have forged an unbreakable bond, and that is one of the film's most lasting and endearing points.A marvel on his own is the dragon himself. Toothless is the star of the film, with his Stitch like features and expressive eyes, and qualities that fall in tandem with mostly cats and a handful of dog, Toothless is a wonder of character and animation. With his little purrs and rumbling growls, and unique little mannerisms and movements, Toothless is a fine example of how one needs not a witty script to be one of the most memorable characters of recent memory. In fact, Toothless is rather funny in his own way, which is all done through his character animations and vocalizations.The animation still looks astounding today, six years after the film's release. The fire effects, flying scenes, the way Toothless spreads his wings, still amaze me. The only film that trumps it is the sequel, which eats this film's dust. But that's a review for another time; let's just say that both films are things of beauty, and represent how much animation has evolved. The music is stirring and emotionally breathtaking. Each dragon has its own personality, that even with short screen time, each feel like a real character. It is clear that much thought went into the overall feel and look of this film.How to Train Your Dragon is a fine example of how, when in the right hands, age old stories can be told anew. With a clever script, and emotionally resonant relationships and relatable circumstances, DreamWorks managed to produce what is easily a near masterpiece. This dragon doesn't just fly high, it soars.Rating: A1.
Whether you are an adult looking for a good movie or you are looking for a fun, clean movie for your kids, How To Train Your Dragon is the movie for you. Its combination of side-splitting humor, beautiful music, fascinating storyline, heart-warming characters and events, and exciting adventure make it entertaining from start to finish. Moreover, Toothless is adorable and the animation is great :-) The only (allow me to repeat- the only) problem with this is that the Vikings have Scottish accents. But, hey, you're dealing with a cartoon that has dragons! It's not meant to be accurate or realistic! :D I would give a more in-depth review of this masterpiece (and I don't use that word lightly), but I don't want to ruin your viewing experience by revealing the storyline.


                
I signed up to IMDb just to write this brief commentary. "How to Train Your Dragon" is oozing with charm, the focus being on the protagonist, "Hiccup", who at first glance is a rather unremarkable young boy seeking a means to distinguish himself within his small village full of large Vikings. The characters are expressive and the animation conveys the subtle emotions in their interactions beautifully throughout.There is so much to appreciate as part of this viewing experience besides mere aesthetics (astounding though they are). The music is truly inspired, it making use of traditional instruments with a modern accompaniment and chosen carefully to amplify the emotions on screen.This entire film is based on the development of its characters, their common goal being the means through which they learn and draw together. The life lessons contained herein are certainly not new to an adult audience but everyone can do with a reminder, something the story does beautifully through the interactions between the veteran warriors and their new generation. Whether you're a fan of medieval fantasy or the voyage of discovery, "How to Train your Dragon" will leave you in awe.


                
Honestly I went to see this movie thinking "just another animation that I probably won't pay attention and will sleep in the movie."Since my cousin really want to go I had to go with him.In the beginning of the movie nothing happened, I was getting bored and almost sleeping.But when the little kid met his dragon it all turned to be one of the best animation I've ever seen.The skies, the humor and the friendship, the love, and everything in this movie make it worth seeing.Seeing it in 3D will make the things even better, if you are thinking if you should watch it or not, stop thinking and go.I will give it 10 of 10, specially because of the ending.The boy gives the dragon a new part of the tail, how ever in the end the dragon end up being a new part of the boy's leg.
I went to the theatre expecting good and I got awesome instead. It was incredible... it totally blew me away.Dreamworks has been improving like crazy since they made Kung Fu Panda (except for those franchises like Shrek, Madagascar, etc. Those are hopeless).The plot is nothing new, it's a formula I've seen before: awkward kid who wants to make it big and get noticed in his little town where he's rejected, falls in love with a girl, screws up, disappoints his father, makes it big by accident, girl falls in love with him, screws up again, people hate him again, saves the world, wins. Take Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs and Ratatouille for example. But even though it has a trite plot the storytelling is amazing, they pulled it off so well. This movie has one of the best acting scenes I've ever seen.I loved the art direction in general. The renders are truly beautiful. Everything looks very organic. You can actually see hair on people's skin which is really cool, I think I had never seen that before. It's the perfect balance between cartoony and realistic.The character design was very interesting, especially the dragons. They went nuts designing cartoony dragons and giving them particular qualities. The main dragon looks very Stitch-like but he's nothing like Stitch. There are a few characters whose personalities and appearances match perfectly. I loved every single character in that movie, they're all so different and charismatic, even the ones who are supposed to be annoying are very likable.The fact that the dragons can be trained is very plausible. It made me think that men learned to train and/or domesticate wild animals ages ago. We could domesticate wolves that eventually became dogs, we can train tigers, lions, whales, dolphins, bears... so why can't dragons be trained? Think about it...I'm very happy with this movie it made me be proud of being an animator. I have hope in this industry again...It's probably the best 3D animated movie by far. It LITERALLY made me cry tears of awesomeness. I highly recommend it. Watch it....watch it TWICE at least!
I just returned form viewing HTTYD on the big screen, in 3-D, and I must say that I was very impressed. Very, very impressed. Loosely based on a series of books by the same name HTTYD comes at you form the beginning and never lets up. Never a dull moment, never a wasted shot or scene the story progresses quickly but not so quick that you get lost. HTTYD harks at the magnificent novel, Eragon which was butchered into a film with the same name. Even if your not a huge dragon/fantasy fan you will be drawn into a story of a boy who fails at everything that is expected of him and knows it, a dragon who acts more like a giant cat, an over ambitious girl, and village full of steel-wielding vikings. The film is also hilarious and filled with one liners that have me laughing even now. The story is simple: a village of stubborn vikings battle dragons to survive until a misfit boy learns secret that could change everything. There are also heart felt moments, hilarious moments and the classic "OH NO!" and "OH YEA!" moments that are the back bone of any classic movie. This movie is, in some ways like the Incredibles but also in a class of its own. There are some moments that might scare younger viewers, a far amount of violence and some sexual references. I saw it with my family all seven of us, an age range form 45 to 6 and every one loved the movie. So, go see it on the big screen! Don't wait for DVD and BR release GO NOW you won't regret it! If you can, pay the extra cash and see it in 3-D it worth it! This is the best movie of 2010 so far. GO NOW!


                
When the poster was out for this movie I didn't expect much from it; I thought it would be a typical boring animation. By the time the movie was released I was hearing a lot about it, from friends and critics and shows on TV, so I decided to watch it, not in 3D to my dismay. At the beginning my expectations were high, seeing as there was quite a lot of hype about this movie, however I didn't expect it would be this good. It DEFINITELY exceeded my expectations. I loved it. There was something about it that made it different, and better, than any other animation movie I have watched. It had something for all watchers.Hiccup was innocent and yet had the "hero" characteristics in him just like any other movie would have (seeing as he is the main character). The dragons were bold, feared yet I wanted to reach out and pet them and possibly squeeze them with love - especially toothless.When the movie ended all I could say was "I WANT A DRAGON".


                
