Before I start, let me first say that I walked into the cinema to watch How To Train Your Dragon with no expectations at all. Dreamworks have been going downhill since Shrek 2 and the title of this film, coupled with a huge 3D printed next to it, failed to get my hopes up too much either. I was pleasantly surprised to find out that this is Dreamworks best film since Shrek 2, but then I realised that Dreamworks haven't made a good animation since Shrek 2. Oh dear.After a fairly dull opening, we eventually get to the main story of the film which is about a young boy befriending a dragon which is meant to be the enemy of his people. In fact, it's a lot like Avatar in this regard. The boy in question is Hiccup (Jay Baruchel), son of the chieftain Stoick (Gerard Butler) of the island village Berk. Dragons attack said village and Hiccup manages to take down one known as Night-Fury. Rather than finish the job though, the boy befriends the dragon and is able to get to the top of his dragon training class ahead of his classmate Astrid (America Ferrera). Other classmates include Christopher Mintz-Plasse and Jonah Hill.Already you can tell that the story is rather contrived and predictable with the only moment of true originality and laugh out loud hilarity coming in the opening scene in which dragons are burning down a village whilst Baruchel, Mintz-Plasse and Hill narrate over the top of it as if it's a perfectly normal thing to happen and they complain about their boring lives. Trust me, it will make all but the dullest of people laugh.It's not just the script that feels a bit contrived though. The directors Chris Sandler and Dean Deblois previously worked on Lilo and Stitch and it clearly shows because the dragon may as well be Stitch. The Scottish accents throughout the film all sound like Mike Myers from Shrek except a million times worse. Just get some real Scotsman for God's sake, why is Jay Baruchel playing a Scottish kid!? Just so Dreamworks can have a big name on the poster, JUST GET A REAL BLOODY SCOTSMAN! Actually, give them some credit they did get Gerard Butler and David Tennant but I still don't get the obsession with big A-listers in animated films.The moral message is also annoyingly unoriginal and so blatantly forced down the throat of the audience that I choked on my popcorn. How many times to kids need to learn the values of accepting outsiders and being nice to your father? The big surprise to me though was that the 3D was actually pretty damn good. The action sequences were also surprisingly well done for an animated film and these were (along with the funny opening I previously mentioned) easily the stand out moments from the film. It's definitely the best looking and most vibrant animation I've seen from Dreamworks.How To Train Your Dragon is not a terrible film. It's funny in parts and looks great in 3D with some really excellent action sequences. However, it's so contrived and forgettable that I really don't think Pixar need to worry. They've still got the animation crown and Dreamworks are showing no signs of grabbing it away from them.2/5


                
If you were a Native American, wouldn't you get annoyed by a movie, in which the supposed "Indians" looked like Maori and spoke with a German accent? The "vikings" in this film are a disaster. Vikings DID NOT have horned helmets. If they spoke with an accent, it was NOT Scottish. The vikings in the film wear clothes and armor that is completely unlike anything a real viking would wear. I know this is a child movie-- but why not put at least a fragment of effort into making the "vikings" appear at least a little viking-y? This all becomes extra irritating when the supposed vikings make references to actual Norse gods like Odin and use the ancient Norse alphabet. (Ancient rune-stones with such writing can be found not far from where I live.) As the "vikings" in the film look and act like... well, nothing at all (except they have Scot accents), to be frank, why put these references to actual Norse culture in at all? This just makes it even more irritating. The people who made this film could have checked out "Hrafninn flýgur" for instance to get a little bit into the viking feel... But apparently even checking vikings out on Wikipedia is too much of an effort... I wouldn't let my kids watch this movie, because I wouldn't want them to get the impression that our forebears looked and acted like dwarfs from World of Warcraft. Yeah, its a fantasy movie. But vikings actually existed... Another detail that annoyed me was the fact that the adults spoke with a Scot accent, and the kids spoke like Americans. The story is also stereotyped, a predictable "from zero to hero" story that even a young child could predict with unerring accuracy. The makers of this film have seriously underestimated children, I think. This movie is not a complete disaster-- it has its moments. But awesome animation and a charming character (yes, the black dragon) doesn't make for a movie anymore.
I am not a DreamWorks fan. At all. I get irritated when people compare them to Pixar, because when's the last time DreamWorks did anything memorable?! I've never even liked Shrek much! Most would answer my question with this: The most overrated animated movie of all time. It's about a Viking civilisation who have a on-going battle with dragons. A hapless son of the Viking chief begins an unlikely friendship with a dragon and realizes there's more to them. How To Train Your Dragon proves Pixar aren't the only ones who do great visuals, as it looks absolutely great. The story is deeper than one might expect and some of the flying sequences make you feel like you're flying with the dragons. It's a good visual experience and has a couple of good bits, but that's pretty much all I enjoyed. The main problem is that this doesn't tell me anything I haven't been told before. I've seen all these characters before. This story and moral has been done to death. When's the last time I saw animated humans and animals becoming friends? Or flying sequences? Or underdog stories? Maybe last week.The 90 minute run time is too short for an epic storyline. Too much of the film is rushed into montages and a lot of scenes feel rushed as a result. The film's emotional impact is minimal as the dialogue lacks flair and it moves along too quickly. The characters are some of the most clichéd I've seen in an animated movie, with the love interest having zero chemistry with the rather formulaic hero, although he's coolly named Hiccup. The script is so flat it might as well have been sat on by a dragon. It's not funny or particularly exciting and it feels like the same family feel good fare DW spit out at us year after year, their films like products on a conveyor belt leading out from a factory. This is not some great ground-breaking movie, rather a relatively ordinary and to be truly honest pretty darn boring affair. It looks great, but the story is irritating (Hiccup only gets accepted when he does something heroic) and everything about feels uninspired. It is another trip into cliché town from DreamWorks. The only difference is that this time we're riding a dragon. What a waste of time! 4/10


                
Yes. Because this was, indeed, a "kiddies" picture, I honestly did try to cut it some slack.... But, with that said - I ask you - Isn't it just like Dreamworks Studios (as is so with Disney Studios) to take a fantastic, ferociously destructive, mythical beast (such as a dragon) and (get this!) reduce it to being just a passive, toothless plaything? Yep. And, so now that the Vikings (thanks to the misfit named Hiccup) no longer have any fear of dragons (who are now as gentle as baby lambs), then, I guess, they can all return to slaughtering each other with full gusto.And, speaking about the Vikings - This animated, CGI spectacle made it very clear that if one was such a person (as a Viking) that automatically excused all stupid behaviour - 'Cause, believe me, these people of Nordic ancestry (in this story) certainly strove to embrace stupidity in everything they did.Anyway - At a running time of 1 hour and 40 minutes, this film (from an adult's perspective) literally screamed out at the top of its lungs for some serious editing. It really did.
I was appalled by the unspoken message of this movie: If we just show kindness and understanding for our enemies, they will stop attacking us and become our friends. In fairy tales that kind of namby-pamby wishful thinking works, but in real life it's likely to get you killed. Unfortunately, impressionable children will be viewing this movie and internalizing this dangerously naive message. Some would say that the world would be a better place if we would all just stop fighting and show understanding for one another. Yes, it would. However, I'm pretty sure that terrorists and tyrants aren't going to be as cooperative as the fictional characters in this movie. My grandchildren enjoyed the movie, but I'm very sorry I took them to see it.


                
'How To Train Your Dragon' is an average fare. Though most of the people loved it and made a super-hit , I personally believe, this animation flick lacks a solid script.'How To Train Your Dragon' is set in a mythical Viking world where a young Viking teenager aspires to follow his tribe's tradition of becoming a dragon slayer. After finally capturing his first dragon, and with his chance at finally gaining the tribe's acceptance, he finds that he no longer has the desire to kill it.The idea is interesting, and the animation is heavenly. Where this flick falters, is it's writing, which is too predictable after a point. The final 40-minutes are been-there-seen-that, done-with-it stuff. It had the potential of becoming a terrific film, but for me, it came out as an average watch.The characters are wonderfully voiced. Jay Baruchel in the lead role, brings in various emotions to his character, while Gerard Butler, voices wonderfully as the lead Viking.On the whole, I have grown up watching Masterstorkes like 'The Lion King' and 'Beauty And The Beast' , I carry loads of expectations from Cartoon-Animated Cinema, and so why, I was disappointed by this one, thanks to the predictable script. Watch it if you must!


                
