I am not at all interested in dragons and all such fantasy creatures. I don't like children movies with all their stupid messages. I saw this movie rather just to pass the time than to watch it for its sake. And Whoa! I was drawn in this river in first 5 minutes. And what a experience it has been! Right from the start as the narrator describes his world, you are immediately there. You feel yourself in the characters place. The movie does that for you. This is very uncommon movie and it has set a milestone for 3D, not because of its technical aspects, but because of the Depth this movie has. This movie is as much for a 7 year old as it is for an old man who has seen a lot of life. This movie will entertain each viewer in his own way. This is a masterpiece! This movie isn't what it sounds on the surface. It has layers of meanings attached to it. Look at just the title: How to train your Dragon!. If you see it carefully you will notice that there is more to it than meets the eye. Watch the movie and you will know what i mean. This movie cleverly comments on Human Fear, War, Friendship, prejudices, courage, Love. ........................... Don't miss this movie or you will miss one of the few periods when you really LIVE. Note: Just remember to carry your heart with you when you see this movie. It will fill your heart with nothing but what should truly belong there. 10/10.


                
Here's an animated movie that has everything it should have, an inspired, but simple story without jokes intended for the adult parents who have to sit with their kids in the theater. In "How to train a dragon", it is the majestic artwork that keeps the viewer engaged, with a mix of funny, colored characters and a less heavy handed screenplay than those of pixar. In some ways that should detract from the movie, but somehow it all works into great fun that takes a grown man back to the fun of childhood.Simple, beautiful and a lot of fun.8/10


                
An animated feast for the eyes is a brilliant description for this film. From the jaw-dropping visuals beautifully rendered in 3D, to the flawless animation of the characters and dragons, this was one film that didn't disappoint.Our protagonist is Hiccup, a boy viking who doesn't possess much in common with his dragon slaying dad. However, when he finds a new friend in Toothless, the most feared dragon of its species, he learns that dragons are not the fearful creatures he was brought up to believe.What I enjoyed the most was the relationship between Hiccup and Toothless the dragon. This was dealt with wonderfully and we see their relationship develop over a series of scenes which were done with great humour and action.The 3D holds its own in every sense, and I would go as far as saying that some scenes rival the groundbreaking Avatar. The scenes that especially stood out were the flying segments where the dragon soars over crystal clear sea's and jaw-dropping backdrops.Whilst this is a film that may seem as if it's solely directed at the younger generation, its stunning visuals and well-told story means that it will keep any adult satisfied.


                
What I find so impressive with How to train your dragon is what I also stated in the title of this review, it has something for people of most ages. Also the stuff that will be enjoyed by the younger and the more grown up are not necessarily always the same things. I shall explain further what I mean by that. The story works great in that it is perfectly considered for the younger group. But I think the older part of the viewers will feel that the story just works well, not that it's bad or to thin in any way but just nothing special for them. What the more grown ups will find so brilliant is the humor. The humor is brilliant, specially the dialogue. The dialogue is so fun to listen to. But the reason is not really the jokes which I don't think have such a big part. The voices are brilliant and the dialogue is spoken in slack tone that make me laugh out loud just hearing it no matter what exactly is being said. The film also contains so parts of slapstick humor which all will find funny and it doesn't take a to big role either. Personally I found the humorous parts of much more entertainment than the story which filled it's part enough but not anything more. One other pleasure with this film is the animation, both technically and aesthetically. The humans look funny which is great but this is more a film about dragons and those also are the biggest viewing pleasure. Not only are they superbly designed but the way they move and specially the faces is massively impressive. The dragons behavior makes me think of cats and they definitively studied real animals for the animation. The dragons are both cute and fun to watch. There are some sentimental scenes in it to. What is impressive is that the emotional stuff more come from the visual rather than like more often story depth. The flying scenes are very impressive in the design and actually makes me think of Avatar, yes I think it's done on that level and I haven't seen dragon in 3D. Does the movie contain some moral message. Others have commented that it has, often I don't like when movies try to hide some message under a great production like some kind of propaganda. However even if someone maybe thinks this has some point to make it's nothing that I took any really note of so one can enjoy the film just as a piece of entertainment and that all which I am thankful for. How to train your dragon is a brilliantly entertaining piece. Perfect humor and effects, the part I enjoyed the most. Also it has a great story for the younger and works enough for the older to. When the film is over I feel like I could soon see it again and enjoy it just as much. I give How to train your dragon a 8/10. Great!


                
How to Train Your Dragon may not have a complex plot but its plot with the help of its 3D is engaging enough to keep my eyes glued to the screen. It is also a fun light movie that kids can enjoy. Alice in Wonderland may be a little dark for them. This has some scary/intense scenes with the dragons but it should be fine for the kids as most of the dragons appeal to them. DreamWork movies now are usually 3D and Pixar is following after it. I think DreamWork movies keep improving. I actually find this better than its last movie, Monsters Vs Aliens.The story: Hiccup dreams to kill dragons like Vikings do. He is often ignored by his father when he says he wants to help kill dragons because of his "weak" size. When he finally caught a dragon, he gets closer to it and soon, he understands everything he wants to. The plot is straight forward, there is no twist to twist and turn the story. One thing that caught me while watching is the striking John Powell's score. He did an epic score for this which is another factor which contributes to the greatness of this movie. You got cool 3D effects, an enjoyable plot with humour and striking John Powell's score.Overall: It amazes me how much I enjoyed this movie. I never expected much from a DreamWork movie but instead this proves me wrong. I am surprised that this takes little time to dwell on the emotions of the characters and use the remaining time to make a funny action-packed movie. It is a good 3D movie for the kids if you think Tim's Alice In Wonderland is a little too dark.


                
Dreamworks Animation films doesn't have the consistency of Pixar. Whereas Pixar's worst films are still "Very Good", when Dreamworks films are bad, they are often atrocious. But now and again, they churn out a movie of utter brilliance, that I end up being floored with shock and elation. Films such as Antz (which in fact was better than Pixar's A Bugs Life IMHO), Monster House and Kung Fu Panda spring to mind.So which category does How to Train Your dragon fit in? Well, since my review is very late on this board, amongst unanimously positive reviews, there will be no surprise in guessing that I put this in the utter brilliance category.From start to finish, this movie strikes a great balance of wit, action, drama, and character. This is high calibre entertainment with breathtaking visuals.The protagonist is your usual, unlikely hero, voiced with almost Woody Allenish wit. Though sometimes the voice sounds a little too old for the young animated counterpart but thats a small niggle.This is just quite simply tremendous animated entertainment, fast moving, thrilling and fun. The comedy is sophisticated, devoid of toilet humour, crass jokes. And absolutely no modern popcorn references which I generally hate, which even Pixar is sometimes guilty of.Both kids and adults will love this. Out of Dreamworks output, I rate this above Shrek, on par with Kung Fu Panda and just behind Monster House and Antz.


                
This is a DreamWorks film? Wow, impressive. "How to Train Your Dragon" is a real shocker, it's a film that was made by DreamWorks Animation but it didn't really feel like a DreamWorks animated film. It felt like it was more in line with a good Disney film or any of Pixar's films. I've always had my doubts about DreamWorks after "Shrek 2", as they began sinking into a formula that is now annoying and irritating. "How to Train Your Dragon" is a refreshing effort that tries its hardest to break free from the formula.Based on Cressida Cowell's children's book of the same name, "How to Train Your Dragon" is a satisfying action-adventure that mostly fires on all cylinders. The characters are likable, and you can root for them, unlike most DreamWorks films where the characters are obnoxious or annoying. The dragon, Toothless, is easily the best character despite being a non-speaking character. Like the most appealing animated characters, he's instantly likable. Hiccup and Toothless' friendship is believable and not contrived. It's a winning effort.Aside from the storytelling, the animation was really good. The art direction and character animation were fabulous, more in line with Pixar's visuals than anything else DreamWorks has done. Prior to "Dragon", DreamWorks' films were questionable in terms of character animation. "Dragon"'s art direction is great, from high seas to detailed forests to the elusive dragons' nest. The crew working on this film knocked themselves out, and it puts everything else from DreamWorks (with the slight exceptions of "Shrek" and some of their traditional hand-drawn efforts) to shame.The screenplay wasn't great, but it was certainly much better than the obnoxious DreamWorks films before it. It's not constant pop culture jokes and toilet humor being shot at you. However, the writing was still a little weak because of the modern-slang slant to it. Otherwise, it was not cringe-worthy or anything. I also thought that some of the dramatic moments were a little downplayed, but it was nice to see moments like that in a DW film. The film was also devoid of using some pop song in the middle of the film.So DreamWorks scored a near-home run. It feels more sincere than the other films, it isn't the usual sitcom-dialogue, pop culture joke-laden romp from DreamWorks. It was a fine adventure story with some knock-out moments and easily DreamWorks' most appealing creation, Toothless. Maybe it was great because Chris Sanders and Dean DeBlois directed it, being the two behind Disney's "Lilo & Stitch", and of course Toothless somewhat resembles Stitch and Sanders' drawing style.A real winner. Highly recommended. 8.5 out of 10.
When i first saw this film at the cinema i thought it had no heart and was quite shallow. The thing that annoyed me was that this son of the chief spoke in an American accent when everyone else (apart from some teens) spoke in a Scottish accent, they all should have had one type of accent. But after watching it a second time i saw the heart of the story and the emotion between Toothless and Hiccup. It is very uplifting and so enjoyable to watch. I live Toothless, he's just plain cool and cute, i want a dragon like that one!!! But i think the journey Hiccup takes is extraordinary and its great to see how he grows in confidence but still remains the down to earth kid that we see at the beginning and he doesn't loose that quality through the film. It had humorous moments in with some of the characters which kept the spirit up in this film. The ending is very uplifting and i wonder how they are going to follow on with a sequel which is planned to be released in 2013. The CGI is amazing, it's so polished and modern and it feels fresh. I do think that if you don't like this film at first, at least watch it again and you'll love it soon enough, i'm sure of it. DreamWorks have hit a goldmine with this one.


                
I did not have much expectation when i went for this movie. Once it started, i knew i am gonna like it. The story is kinda different and i loved the animation, texturing and cinematography. Though the movie was just 1hr 30mins, felt long enough and story was complete and nothing untold. Set in the mythical world of Vikings and Dragons, tell the story of Hiccup who actually does n fit much with his tribe who are dragon slayers. His world changes wen he meets a dragon which ends up his tribe people to see everything in a different point of view. Dream-works did n disappoint us !! And how can i forget about the Stereoscopic Dreamworks Logo !!! awesome So .. Don miss it !!!!!!


                
With the whole 3D movie craze finally becoming a normal thing, movies need to push themselves in order to "stand out" more than the others. How to Train Your Dragon is the latest entry into the new dimension of films.I'm starting to get annoyed by the whole 3D cash-in scheme, but this film was worth my time and money. This film boasted terrific animation, some great voice work, but the story of the town outcast appears in every kids movie, so the plot suffered a bit.There is enough humour in this film to entertain both kids and adults, thanks to some entertaining characters (some of the dragon designs are fantastic, their emotions are believable!). How to Train Your Dragon is well recommended.


                
How To Train Your Dragon (Imax, 3-D, 1:38, PG) — Other: Adventure, 2nd string, originalIt's taken a quarter of a year for 2010 to produce an SF&F movie that I can honestly recommend, but it is my pleasure to be able to do so for How To Train Your Dragon, an Imax 3-D offering from DreamWorks Animation. It's by the same creative team that did Lilo & Stitch, and the 1st sight of the eponymous dragon should give you a frisson of déjà vu if you saw that little delight back in 2002.The story opens with a voice-over narration from a character we will soon meet, Hiccup (Jay Baruchel), son of Stoick the Vast (Gerard Butler, and that's pronounced "stoic", not "stoyk"), leader of a viking village that's beset with what Hiccup understatedly calls a pest problem. As he mentions this, 1 of the 2 sheep contentedly grazing before us suddenly gets snatched away by a barely seen dark shape from above. Yes, it turns out that the "pests" are dragons. The village has been there for 7 generations, but Hiccup notes that all the houses are brand new, and we shortly see why, as flaming dragon breath takes out several of them. Still, the tribe soldiers on. "We're vikings", Hiccup tells us. "We have stubbornness issues."We finally see Hiccup himself, a toothpick of a lad, being chivvied by his hugely burly elders into the cover of the town smithy, where he's apprenticed to Gobber (Craig Ferguson). Hiccup is in his early teens and wants to prove himself a fighter, but it's quickly apparent that he's more adept at draftsmanship, creative thinking, and gadgetry. (I also note, with some pride, that he's a fellow left-hander.) He's rigged up a net-casting trebuchet, and he thinks he's winged one of the overflying dragons, but it didn't fall anywhere near the village, and without the corpus delicti everyone razzes him about his claim to have bagged a rare Night Fury breed — the kind that's never seen ... and never misses.The foregoing is about the 1st 7 minutes of the movie, and the rest is equally densely packed. I'm not going to go into any more detail, because there are several twists and turns that you really need to see to appreciate. However, given the film's title, it's hardly giving anything away to mention that Hiccup sets out the following day to look for his downed dragon and discovers him very much alive but hobbled, trapped in a rock-walled glen, and desperate for succor. He's been told "A dragon will always, always go for the kill!" "So why didn't you?" he muses, as he hauls a load of fish to his new-found friend.We discover that there are many different kinds of dragons, from the bloated, buffoonish Grundle that serves as the Read Me file for the dragon-fighting trainees up to the Monstrous Nightmare, only a notch below the Night Fury in awesomeness. They are all wonderfully rendered in their splendid variety, just a visual treat. Nor does the eyefeast end there. This is a gorgeous movie, resplendent with color and natural beauty. Billowing cloudscapes and scenes of flight into the aurora borealis are glorious.The hero is plucky, resourceful, and resilient, and so is Astrid (America Ferrera), the blond viking lass who's the tuffest kid in town but also the most empathetic. The old man is gruff, inarticulate, and set in his ways (that would be the old ways), but he dearly loves his misfit son and wishes only the best for him; he's also one hell of a warrior.For some odd reason, all the kids speak colloquial English, but all the adults have a thick Scottish brogue — no hint of Scandinavia in any of it. Perhaps that's yet another wrinkle in the movie's offbeat sense of humor, which is never thigh-slappingly hilarious but produces plenty of smiles and grins.This is anything but a "message" movie, but there are lessons to be learned from it. They're like the medicine hidden in the spoonful of sugar. You get better while feeling good about it. Yum!
"How to Train your Dragon" is the latest digital animation movie from DreamWorks Animation studios (the same studio that produced the Shrek movies, "Kung Fu Panda," and "Bee Movie"). The movie starts off with the narration of the main character, Hiccup (his name is explained in the movie), voiced by Jay Baruchel, describing his Viking hometown and the problems they have with dragons. The audience is thrust into an elaborate action sequence of dragons attacking Hiccup's village. This opening scene does justice to the advancements in digital animation and explores some inventive camera shots of the action and its characters.Young Hiccup wants to be a dragon fighter and have the chance to kill his first dragon. Why does he want to kill a dragon? It means he will be respected among his fellow Vikings. He has one big size issue though, considering the average Viking is four times his size, no one takes him seriously. Villagers ridicule his size often. He resorts to using his intelligence to solve his problems (it seems that for such a young mind he knows quite a bit about aerodynamic engineering). One of his inventions takes down a dreaded night fury dragon. Yet no one believes Hiccup is worthy of being a dragon slayer.The movie moves along smoothly with more being revealed about Hiccup and his situation. Turns out the head of village is also his dad, Stoick, voiced by Gerard Butler. Here is the setup of the traditional kids' movie story line where the child tries to prove himself to his father and/or mother. And yes, we have seen it before and the story is pretty formulaic, but this story does have emotion and well-written dialogue to keep the audience's interest.Hiccup ventures into the woods to find and slay the dragon he had taken down earlier only to find that he cannot kill the dragon. He eventually befriends the beast and learns the traits of the dragon species. There is a humorous and touching development between the boy and the dragon. Toothless (that's Hiccup's name for the new friend) has mood swings from a Clint Eastwood toughness to a Bambie-like curiosity and friendliness. The directors, Dean DeBlois and Chris Sanders (both of "Mulan" and "Lilo and Stitch" fame), put it together to make this friendship work so it doesn't come off too cheesy.Stoick eventually enrolls Hiccup into a dragon slaying class in the village. In the class, fellow village adolescents learn the proper Viking way to kill different varieties of dragons. What develops is the conflict within Hiccup – should he kill the dragons or should he befriend them? The imagery of the movie is outstanding. The art directors took their time and added the details in the background shots. The water and the fire caught my attention because those elements looked real. I also noticed the hair of the characters (I know I am nitpicking, but in a good way). Considering the era and primitive ways of the Vikings, I could see that their hair was chopped off with a knife. The villagers obviously didn't have a village barber shop. They simply cut their hair with what was available to them. It's a small detail I know, but little things like that made the movie feel realistic.Should you see this movie? Yes, it's a good kid's movie with only a few hidden adult jokes. The action will keep it together and hold your interest until the end. The kids will like the different varieties of dragons and most likely relate to one of the adolescent characters. To paraphrase my 10-year-old daughter — it is a good family story that is funny and yet scary at times (she was referring to the action sequences, but in a good way). One more thing, I saw the movie in 2D and I still feel it was great. Try seeing it in its 3D format; it almost has to be better.


                
Have you ever felt like a disappointment to everyone you know? Someone your parents and peers think of as an anchor dragging the rest of them down or as a mere inconvenience? How do you get past that?Berk is a small, Viking village located near the Arctic Circle. At least, that's an assumption I made based on the main character's statement that "it snows nine months of the year and hails the other three". That main character, Hiccup (voiced by Jay Baruchel) is the only son of the village chief, Stoick the Vast (voiced by Gerard Butler). The village is under near-constant siege by outside forces. Those outside forces being dragons. Hiccup (Baruchel) is short, slim, and in no way strong. The one trade all villagers learn in their lifetime is the art of hunting and killing dragons. Gobber (Hiccup's employer and the proprietor of the village armory, voiced by Craig Ferguson) suggests that Hiccup stop all of "this" while gesturing to all of him. Gobber (Ferguson) is a man who has lost several limbs over the years, all during encounters with dragons. Hiccup, being seriously lacking in physical strength, designs and constructs a machine to propel the weapons that the other villagers simply throw by hand. Of course, during a trial run in front of Gobber, the machine strikes a villager. Hiccup takes that same apparatus to a mountaintop, fires on one of the few species of dragon that's never been captured or seen and, miraculously, causes that dragon to fall to earth. Overjoyed by this victory, Hiccup shouts in triumph but is soon set upon by a species of dragon that can breathe fire and produce fire throughout its entire body. He's rescued by his father who expresses disappointment in his son and disbelief in Hiccup's claim to have landed a blow against a Night Fury. He treks through the woods the next day, determined to find proof of his accomplishment, but finds something far more significant.Now, unlike a lot of "adults" I maintain my affection for "children's" movies. This is not to say that I like all, or even most, children's movies. For example, Despicable Me, Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs, and Eight Crazy Nights disappointed me to a degree that I cannot express in words. But, in spite of its flaws or maybe because of them, I loved How to Train Your Dragon. Casting Baruchel as Hiccup was genius. Hiccup's peers, voiced by Kristen Wiig, Jonah Hill, America Ferrara and others, fit the roles they're given perfectly. If you have children who haven't seen this movie, you should take steps to remedy that. If you don't have children but can enjoy movies that are produced for them, like I do, check it out.


                
How To Train Your DragonEvery manager knows the proper way to train a new employee is to have him or her interact with co-workers whilst wearing a nametag that reads: "My name is Trainee".Unfortunately, the nametag belonging to the trainee in this animated adventure has melted.Raised by an autocratic Viking father (Gerard Butler), who doesn't think he can become a proper dragon slayer, Hiccup (Jay Baruchel) tries desperately to impress him by bringing down an elusive dragon.Unable to slay the injured beast, Hiccup instead nurses it back to health.Now, it's up to the unlikely pair to quell the fire-breathing feud between dragons and Vikings before both species are eradicated.A rip-roaring ride through the skies, How To Train Your Dragon strikes a nice balance between action and humour.Furthermore, it offers hope to those less successful dragon trainers out there whose healthcare providers refuse to cover any more skin grafts. (Green Light)


                
The right combination of an appropriately awkward protagonist, a clever script with not a single pop culture reference, and truly remarkable animation (including 3-d flying scenes that trump anything in Avatar), made this flick a blast from start to finish. A group of Scottish(??) Vikings live on a small island, stubbornly rebuilding their wooden homes after they are burned to the ground by the islands other inhabitants: dragons of myriad shapes and sizes that steal their sheep and raze their village. Over and over again. Beefcake adults with proved mettle act as dragon slayers, fighting off the scourge. The young, gangly Hiccup (voiced by Jay Baruchel) aspires, in his way, to join their ranks and prove himself to his father and Chief, Stoick the Vast (Gerard Butler). Short of brawn but heavy on brains, Hiccup invents a catapult type device, which he uses to bring down the legendary Night Fury, a dragon so notoriously fast and deadly that they've never even been seen with the naked eye. When he finds the fallen dragon, injured and helpless in the tangles of his trap, Hiccup cannot bring himself to slay it and instead sets it free, thus starting one of the most endearing "boy and his pet" relationships in movie history. That night, two hearts change - Hiccup decides he doesn't want to become a slayer, while Stoick decides Hiccup deserves a chance. His father's will too strong, Hiccup reluctantly begins slayer training, where he will learn to bring down - and kill - the beasts. The story is simple and straightforward; a zero-to-hero tale with few surprises (think Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs, Disney's Hercules, or the on-the-nose straight to video sequel Hercules: Zero to Hero). But the strength of the characters, humour of the script, and more importantly the remarkable execution of flying and dragon vs. dragon fight scenes make the film enjoyable throughout. Hiccup is an endearing protagonist, appealing to teen awkwardness and a desire for acceptance from both peers and family. The supporting cast is a good mix of headstrong and suitably jerky-come-friendly teenagers, while Stoick, as his name might suggest, is a strong but distant patriarch, making for one of the funniest "good talk" scenes between father and son. The dragons are by far the best part of the film, which offers up a half-dozen or so of uniquely characterized beasts, including a two headed menace with one head that spews gas and another that acts as pilot light, and a giant spindly red dragon that tends to set itself on fire. Hiccup's pet dragon, dubbed Toothless (for his retractable razor sharp teeth), is clearly modeled after your dog (and everyone else's) and his puppy-like naiveté trapped in a sleek, pebbled, 30 foot frame will strike a chord with all pet owners. Oh, and he's also a major bad-ass black dragon that you can ride and he has laser-precise blue fireball action and is capable of speeds likely measured in "Mach"s and you want one. The flying scenes in this film are captivating and fun and represent some of the most engaging use of 3D technology I've seen. How to Train Your Dragon is pure vicarious wish fulfillment, watering a seed planted in older viewers by The Never Ending Story, and likely planting one in younger viewers too young to remember Atreyu and Falkor. Endearing, enchanting, and engaging, a fun movie for anyone who ever wanted to ride a dragon. 8/10


                
"How to train your dragon" is based on a humorous fantasy novel of the same name. I cannot compare the stories of the two but where the book has rather ugly pictures, the movie dazzles with amazing visuals. I think they would be great looking even if you didn't see the movie in 3d. It's not only the quality of the renders, it's the quality of the animation. I think it works best when the young viking Hiccup starts to interact with the fallen dragon. They are very lifelike and expressive even though the dragon does not talk. Later on, the flying sequences are not only spectacular but exhilarating. I had my doubts about the look of the main dragon (the one on the posters) but it managed to win my approval in both looks (a bit small though) but mostly personality wise. There's lots of very dynamic exciting action in this movie and it's mostly done with a cheerful fun tone most of the time even though there's still danger. As I recall, there's no visible gore, dismemberments or even blood, making it very family friendly. However, despite that lack of "realism", I do think that adults will enjoy it a lot too. The story is not the most original (except for the original premise) but it's very well told, with good character development and has a fairly good morale for those into that. I think Gerard Butler voicing the viking chief is a natural for that kind of stoic warrior role. However, I would have preferred another voice for the teen hero as I found it sounding too old (the actor is in his late twenties). The rest of the voice cast is fine. My only other criticism is that there's a part of the ending that we've seen a hundred times before especially in kids movies and I would have preferred a little more originality there or at least see it better done because I didn't really buy into it. So, all in all, provided you still have a little bit of a kid's heart in you and are not allergic to dragons, it's likely you will have a great time watching this very entertaining movie.Rating : 8 out of 10


                
Ah, good ol' Dreamworks. As their most successful-albeit overused-cash cow is the Shrek series; it's pretty hard to distinguish any other of their movies as gems. However, while a humorous approach has been taken to their movies, many of them have had different results. For example, the 2004 movie 'Shark Tale' was an utter disaster, while 2008's 'Kung Fu Panda' was funny as well as plenty entertaining. Their latest romp, 'How to Train your Dragon,' definitely falls into the same category as the latter, but also succeeds in distinguishing itself as a completely different movie.Based on the book series by British author Cressida Cowell and directed by Disney alum Chris Sanders (Lilo and Stitch), the story centers around a young Viking lad named Hiccup (Jay Baruchel, whose nasal tone compliments him both physically and mentally) whose absent- minded ideas and wry sense of humor make him outcasted by other Viking teens, as well as shunned by his father, the mighty Stoick (Gerard Butler, also perfect). But, when one of his inventions actually manages to capture the mysterious Night Fury, he finds himself befriending it in secret, as well as learning from it to become the first 'dragon trainer.' But when he finds himself at odds with not only the town, but with the dragons themselves, he also finds himself with the key to making peace betwixt the dragons and Vikings.The plot itself-even in a nutshell-is pretty enticing, but the trailer proved otherwise. It looked formulaic and joke-ridden from the first trailer, which made my skeptical side say, 'no way, Jose!' However, during the second trailer, I was reeled in. It was more dramatic, more depth defying, and definitely more plausible. From there, I was eager to see it<U+0085>and, let me say, its money well spent.At first, it seems that the plot is going to be a little formulaic. You know the story: The underdog, who everyone hates and can't seem to do anything right, proves the town wrong with his groundbreaking, but effective methods. That has indeed been done before, but, surprisingly, this plot enhances the story instead of slowing it down. Anything that seems to be a cliché only gives the story the wings to fly...excuse the pun.The other big issue I had was with the side characters. No, I don't mean the brash, but helpful Gobber (played by a highly entertaining Craig Ferguson) or the beautiful, fiercely driven Astrid (America Fererra). I mean some of the other teens who are thrown into the dragon training ring with Hiccup, who is inept at first, but his friendship with Toothless helps him make his way up. Anyway, I thought that these four teens: The pigheaded jock, Snotlout (Jonah Hill, another cash cow), the adorable, girth-wide nerd Fishlegs (Christopher Mintz- Plasse, aka Superbad's McLovin), and, my personal favorites, the jugheaded, head-butting twins Ruffnut (a gravelly-voiced Kristen Wigg) and Tuffnut (A snarky TJ Miller). The latter have become a cult following that is huge in the online and fandom communities, much to the moviegoer's surprise. However, in the movie, these teens are only here to serve as the play- it-by-numbers obstacles that our main hero has to overcome on his own, though there are definitely more pressing issues. I would have liked to see more of them in the film, despite the fact that they might take away from the story. It just would have been nice to see someone sympathize with Hiccup.Oh, and one more thing-the dragons, man! All of them also have different types and personalities, which I think is kind of awesome. The flying scenes are pretty cool too, described by many to make 'Avatar' jealous. There's a lot to look at, so why not? Overall, this movie has more heart than most of their works (Save 'Kung Fu Panda'), as well as unbelievably creative settings and creatures. It's definitely worth the time to be swept off your feet by this instant classic.


                
28 March 2010. Take DANCES WITH WOLVES (1990) and make it into an captivating 3-D fantasy and retain the haunting but melodic sound track and you have HOW TO TRAIN YOUR DRAGON. The special effects are sharp and vivid without overuse and do not get in the way of the visceral storyline, but make for a great backdrop. The story, itself is handled with care with a nice set-up and a more careful cultivation of boy and dragon and the fascinating learning curve obtained by this experience and how it is demonstrated in real practice is smartly addressed by the middle of the movie. Even the ending has a slightly educational and emotive element not usually scene in most action adventure movies. There is humanity and there are the requisite JURASSIC PARK (1993, 1997) moments with man confronting/anthropomorphic animal in the wild experience. In same ways, this movie resembles the basic human, emotional, you versus them conflict premise from THE INCREDIBLES (2004) that made that movie so powerful and compelling.


                
Awesome . Worth a watch !!! The characters were well placed.


                
What a beautiful story about bravery and the courage to be different. Leaves you feeling empowered. The most impressive part about this film, to me, was the Music.. It takes you to another place, transports you. The effects are detailed and well-edited. Definitely worth the watch.


                
How to Train Your Dragon has the same basic story that a lot of animated/kid movies have. Our main character is part of a group of people (tribe in this movie) but he/she just cannot fit in because they are too smart, or special, or hiding some secret talent that eventually makes everyone love them and whatnot.Hiccup lives on Berk, an island full of hulk-like vikings who live their lives to fight dragons. Hiccup, like you could guess, is not violent. He is scrawny and too smart for his own good. He is essentially an outcast. The one thing I noticed is how many people do not actually like him. Even his dad is embarrassed by him. He does not have a single friend until he rescues the dragon he initially caught in his trap. They soon become friends and discover that (you gotta love the tried and true formula) the two worlds could actually live in peaceful harmony.Jay Baruchel, who does the voice of Hiccup is funny and witty. He endows the character with enough pity that we still root for him without us completely giving up on him. He is supported by a fun cast with the likes of Gerard Butler, Jonah Hill, America Ferrara Craig Ferguson, and many others.The movie carries along at a decent pace. It plays like more of an origin story, with establishing the characters and area, as well as introducing us to the history of the dragons. The moments when Hiccup and Toothless (his dragon) are together are the best in the movie; flying high into the clouds while also adding a touch of humor here and there makes it a wholly entertaining movie that makes you really want a pet dragon for yourself. The animation is pretty low key for the most part until the climactic battle sequence where it really gets kicked into high gear, delivering a spectacle that is a feast for the eyes.In the end, How to Train Your Dragon is an exciting animated adventure into a world full of dragons and vikings. Though it has a pretty formulaic story, it makes up for it in its animation and fun voice-cast. So, if you're anxious to see the new sequel, (re)check this one out before you head to the theaters this weekend.for more reviews, check out ragingfilm.com
"How to Train Your Dragon" may be Dreamworks' best computer animated film I've ever seen. Because of the great success of the movie, a sequel should be coming in the year 2014. "How to Train Your Dragon" is a suspenseful attention gripping film that invokes emotion and witty humor. This movie knows how to attract the viewer to make him/her feel like they are in the movie, rather than just simply watching it.On the island of Berk, everyone is a Viking. The goal, kill dragons. One's superiority is based upon the type and number of dragons killed. The island is full of rock statues that are lit up with fire during the nighttime. At first glance, the island appears spooky but it is quite peaceful when there are no dragon attacks. Obviously, fighting and killing dragons is no easy game. Led by Stoick the Vast (voice actor Gerard Butler), the island of Berk continues to prosper.Hiccup (voice actor Jay Baruchel), Stoick's son, is continuously laughed at by all the local people because of his inability to kill a dragon. One night during a heated battle between the Vikings and the dragons, Hiccup shoots and traps a dragon. Because of Hiccup's weak body and personality, no Viking believes him, not even his own father. Hiccup just wants to fit in with the others and be called a Viking. He is only trying to make his father proud.Hiccup develops a relationship with the dragon he caught just as a person would with a dog. The dragon becomes Hiccup's first friend and he names the dragon Toothless. Toothless is unable to fly without help because Hiccup had shot off part of his tail during the battle. After some time, Hiccup becomes brave enough to fly on top of Toothless and control his flight pattern with the use of a mechanical wing for a tail. The movie does a splendid job at showing the bond between Hiccup and the dragon. Because neither the dragon nor Hiccup trusts each other at the first encounter, the relationship slowly grows stronger and stronger with time. Hiccup continues to keep his pet dragon as a secret knowing that his village would kill it if they saw it.The most remarkable thing about "How to Train Your Dragon" is the director's ability to attract a wide audience. This movie was originally made for children; rated PG, but anyone can watch the movie and find enjoyment from it. Directors Dean DeBlois and Chris Sanders planned to make this movie suitable for all ages by creating enough action for children and a strong plot for young and old adults. The script contains a decent balance between action and humor in order to keep the viewer entertained. If a viewer is expecting a gruesome, bloody, action-packed animated film, that viewer will not be satisfied with this movie.Should this movie be seen? Absolutely! There is no doubt that this movie was well done. This movie allows a viewer to reminisce on their childhood and ponder about the ability to do the impossible. Overall, I would give this movie an eight out of ten. Once again, this movie really shines through with its ability to display the unbreakable bond between a pet and a human. A total of 98 minutes of film, and a couple bucks to watch it; this movie is worth every penny.


                
A fun, entertaining and actually moving story about a nerdy young Viking who isn't full of macho like the other Vikings, and who befriends a wounded young dragon. Both go through episodes where they learn simple but valuable lessons.Animated movies face tougher tasks at grabbing one's heart, because they do not have the advantage of live actors emoting (god emoting), so when an animated feature does work, and so wonderfully as does How To Train Your Dragon, it is a tribute to those that made this happen. The creative team including all of the CGI people, animators, etc.Direction is given to two directors, Dean DeBlois, Chris Sanders. So kudos to both of them along with the writers William Davies, Dean DeBlois and Chris Sanders. And of course to Cressida Cowell for writing the book.


                
I remember reading, with growing anger, about some dissenting voices during the last Oscar ceremony who were whinging about Pixar claiming the Best Animated Feature yet again with "Toy Story 3". They reckoned that this should have got it instead but having seen it, I can't really see what the fuss is about. Don't get me wrong - it does give Woody and co a good run for their money and this is probably the best Dreamworks animation produced so far. But by sticking too closely to the usual story lines these films adhere to, it just falls short of greatness.Young Viking Hiccup (Jay Baruchel) has a problem - actually, he has a few. He is a constant disappointment to his father Stoick (Gerard Butler) who is an enormous Viking warrior. He finds the love of his life Astrid (America Ferrera) is way out of his league. But worst of all, his village is plagued by dragons in all shapes and sizes. But after an encounter with a deadly Night Fury dragon, Hiccup quickly finds himself becoming friends with the beast. As time goes on, Hiccup discovers that everything he thought he knew about dragons is wrong but can they work together to combat the village's prejudices and an evil far greater than anyone imagined? Dreamworks do things a little differently to Pixar - for example, they get a stellar cast to do the voices whereas Pixar get the best voices to fit the part. Thankfully, "How To Train Your Dragon" has a fairly small cast and they all do justice to the film. With the small cast, they probably had a few more pennies to spend on the animation which is truly beautiful. This is possibly where Dreamworks have the edge over their bitter rivals and honestly, this looks better than some non-animated movies. Water and fire look much wetter and hotter than they did in "The Last Airbender" (which damning this film with faint praise) and I understand that the 3D is also much better. For my money, this is the best looking animation I've seen since "WALL·E".My gripes, in truth, are fairly trivial but they still distracted me somewhat. As my Scottish wife eloquently pointed out, the Scottish accents shouldn't have anything to do with Vikings from Norway and while I'm on the subject, the fact that adult Vikings spoke with a Scottish accent instead of a Californian accent like the children gave the impression of half-heartedness. The other let-down is the story which is yet another tale about a unlikely hero trying to be something they're not but after being true to himself, finds that he's more powerful than anyone supposed. In short, this is "Kung Fu Panda" in a Nordic setting and if that's what you're looking for then great. This is a really good family film, full of all the fun and excitement you could wish for and comes highly recommended. However, I just wanted it to move me like Pixar can and it didn't. But like I said, this is still a very good movie and one which you'll enjoy if you catch it.


                
I saw it a few days ago in the morning, minutes after I got out of bed. I was having breakfast and a little unwillingly I started watching it. After 10 min of the movie I knew it was going to be great. One can easily become fond of the characters and dragons. But that is where we come to the first problem: the dragons do not speak! Even though that gave a more realistic note to the movie, it would have been a little better (at some parts even hilariously funny) if they would have been able to talk. The dragons vary from extremely funny to gruesomely scary. The final battle was extremely well thought of, but the main antagonist did not have a lot of screen time and I thought that he was a little to big and dangerous for the way he was defeated. That battle should have been a little longer and with more effects. The relationship between the black, extremely cute dragon and Hiccup (the main character) was indeed beautiful and it shows (both young and old) that the things we do not understand, or that differ from us do not necessarily need to be hurt or killed. The message is clearly shown. The music has fitted wonderfully and it had a great viking-like theme. Voice acting was wonderful and the casting crew did a great job (especially with Gerard Butler). This movie is made primarily for kids, but even the older population will enjoy it. A great way to start your day.
