Although we have only just nudged our way into February I nominate this as a contender for Worst Film of 2017. It might even win.This is a film of two halves. In fact the transition between one and the other is so abrupt that you could be forgiven for thinking you are watching two different films. The first half is comprised of two acts.Act 1 sees us in Disneyland with a saccharine sweet love story told as only the Americans can do with a plethora of sickly smiles, gleaming perfect white teeth, pretty pastel colours and every damn country boy and country girl cliché in the teenage book of dreamy heart fluttering romance.Act 2 Army training camp. New wet behind the ears recruits and a sergeant major set on making men of them. Familiar territory. You know the score: the recruits will be wheeled out fully formed and ready labelled from the casting department.. The tough one. The farmer boy one. The handsome one. The oddly short one. The goofy one. And the evil one who from the off sets out to make our hero's life a misery. And the signpost also tells you that an hour down the line in this film they will be best buddies. The sergeant major now does what all sergeant majors do in every boot camp film you have ever seen he yells and screams bawls and bellows just half an inch from the face of every recruit. Of course he saves the best of his decibels for our hapless hero.Turns out our hero doesn't want to carry a rifle he just wants to be a medic. So instead of congratulating him on this noble and potentially useful choice of army career he gets bawled out and they treat him like something the sergeant major scraped of the bottom of his size twelve boots.But with the help of his demented dad and his pretty and expertly permed smiling gal our hero escapes a court martial. The gal gives her guy a bible. We saw that coming. Part Two: Our hero and his buddies are gathered at the foot of a cliff. The only way up to Hacksaw Ridge is via a single wide rope ladder. Atop the ridge are approximately a quarter of a million Japanese soldiers. All is quiet. And you can't help wondering why those evil Nips (their term, not mine) haven't simply chopped down the rope ladder or why they are not massed along the top lobbing mortars and grenades down on the troops below.But we have been assured at the start of this epic masterpiece that we are watching a true story so we have to accept that this is how it happened. But that rope ladder still bothers me.However...the troops clamber up the ladder and they are on top of the cliff – and all hell breaks loose after a bombardment from some offshore guns.Now let me state here that I have read about the battles against the Japanese for control of the Pacific islands and am fully aware of the terrible fighting that ensued. The Japanese fought with suicidal recklessness not seen since Medieval times. But in this film that fighting is presented in such an orgiastic way with almost pornographic detail of spilled entrails, pools of glistening blood, severed limbs, decapitated heads, mangled half torsos and spaghetti shredded legs that the suspicion is that the director and writers have intentionally set out to out-gore every war film that has gone before. Every time a soldier looks up a bullet neatly penetrates his helmet and skull. Every time there is an explosion three men are catapulted into the air by some clever hidden device. And then there is more blood and guts and half- men screaming for their moms. The tidal wave of Japs overwhelms the US soldiers and miraculously they all escape down the one rope ladder. It's not shown how they get their wounded down there but hey ho... What of our hero...? Well he is still up top – now alone with the dead and wounded that have been left behind. A few Japs take some pot shots at him but then they all disappear back to their tunnels for some chow.Leaving our hero free to drag the wounded to the cliff edge. This is an heroic task in itself but now he has to get them to safety. He proceeds to lower them down the two hundred feet sheer cliff face. Actually there are only two blokes down there, smoking and chewing the fat. But they do a sterling job sending the wounded back to camp. Oddly no-one thinks to send a soldier or two – or twenty – up the trusty rope ladder to help our hero. They just hang around below waiting for the next dangling hospital candidate.And so it goes on. When our exhausted hero does eventually fling himself down with a rope there just happens to be scores of his buddies waiting for him. Shame they didn't have the balls to go up and help him. But they all line up cinematically so that our hero can be led away.At the risk of upsetting the 'Special Relationship' we have with our pilgrim brothers and sisters on the other side of the pond – and I know my fellow countrymen will understand this – Hacksaw Ridge is just too American. A much better script and a British director would have delivered a subtle, more sympathetic film with less of your usual jingoism and more of the real drama and nuances of war.This is a true story. A story of towering heroism. Real men fighting real battles. But in this mess of a film that story has been reduced to nothing more than a comic book reality. And all concerned deserved better than that.
I saw the movie with a number of friends this evening. Of the 10, 3 of us are combat veterans, with a total of 5 wars between us. (2 Vietnam, 2 Desert Storm and a current war in the Middle East veteran.) All the non-combat veterans thought the battle scenes were "so horribly, so frighteningly realistic." Those who have been to war thought they were incredibly cartoon-ish.The tactical mistakes such as bunching up, not seeking cover, bodies flying through the air, artillery explosions obviously gasoline, all the ridiculous yelling, were all so blatantly wrong. It was the worst depiction of battle we ever saw.If the Japanese occupied the top of the "ridge" why didn't they simply cut down the cargo netting the troops climbed? Why didn't they throw grenades down on the assembled Americans below? How did the cargo netting ever get there is US troops didn't already occupy the top of the mountain? Vince Vaughn was the Basic Training sergeant, again, best described as cartoon-ish. Peter Sellers as Inspector Cleuseau would have been more realistic.Quite frankly, there is nowhere enough space here to tell you how bad this movie really is.In reality, battle is hell, in some ways worse than what was shown on the screen, but in terms of realism, this movie is atrocious.


                
After reading many positive reviews here and elsewhere, I was eager to see this. But to my surprise this turned out to be one of the most overrated movies I've ever seen. The first half is the cheesiest piece of Hollywood cinema in recent years and the second half contains the stupidest war action ever aside from comedy; it seemed like slapstick to me! I really have no clue how people can rate this highly. A total disaster of a movie!


                
This is a sweet movie. It's very very sweet. In fact, it's so sweet that you can almost see the syrup dripping from the screen. And don't get fooled by the colors. This movie has a more black/white feel to it, heaven or hell, good or bad, etc etc.And I'm confused. Is this a political movie? I don't know anything about Mr Gibson's political views, but if this is it - I'm not buying.Is it a religious movie? If so, what is the message? That it's OK to go to war in the name of God?.I'm confused. So...what am I missing. Well, some nuances for starters! We have this clean-cut handsome James-Dean guy and his gorgeous sweetheart girlfriend (this is where the movie is sooo white and happy), and then we have this gruesome war where everything is very very black. And the Japs are evil. End of story. Is it that simple? Hmm...don't think so.This is a hard movie to rate. I give it 1/10 colorful nuances but a whooping 10/10 syrup bottles! And watch out - you might slip on the syrup floor on your way out from the theatre.


                
I wonder what veterans of the battle had to say after watching this movie. There are many moments in this movie that make it look like Marvel's story. Unbelievable. Was there really only ONE rope ladder to climb for ALL American troops? Was there some kind of treaty with Japanese not to touch the ladder and let Americans climb till they reach the top and prepare for an attack? Everyone was just waiting for our hero to finish, ALONE,saving his wounded comrades? I used to respect Mel Gibson's work. Not anymore.


                
I saw Hacksaw Ridge last night here's my opinion.... I don't know if that was supposed to be a historically accurate movie, since they had the actual veterans that they interviewed at the end of the movie But it was more like a Mel Gibson snuff film glorifying the act of killing people and some weird Christian stuff too. IF it was supposed to be a historically accurate movie they probably should drop the scene of a BAR (Browning Automatic Rifle) gunner holding a limbless bloody human torso with one hand (like a shield) while running toward a Japanese position and firing the BAR with one hand. The most shocking part was that they stole the scene from Saving Private Ryan!! The Soldier's started throwing 60mm mortar rounds after bumping the bottom of the shells on their helmets. <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+0091> As if that was done on a regular basis. There were also several grenades having the pins pulled with teeth and lightly flicking them away. (FYI, if you try to do this in real life you will crack your teeth off). ....Followed by flamethrowers that were actually more like Dragon's breath, igniting dozens and dozens of Japanese soldiers. All this occurring on the screen with the audience behind me audibly saying " Wow "The actual cool part was when they showed the medic, heroically moving around the battlefield who ended up rescuing 75 men from Hacksaw Ridge. My one beef with this movie was that it is NOT A REALISTIC INTERPRETATION of what actually happened in WWII, in ANY sense This was more of a comedy/ glorifying gore... followed by actual interviews of real life veterans portrayed in the movie... WHICH, seemed to insinuate that everything you just watched was historically accurate. FAIL!!Also casting Vince Von to play a Sergeant <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+0091> with some opening scenes trying to mimic the full metal jacket humor, all of it.... epic fail and just hard to watch.On a scale of 1 to 10, the option of going to this movie or staying in my room and staring at the wall This was about a 2, and slightly better than staring at a wall...


                
It's truly maddening that IMDb's rules demand a minimum of one star to be awarded to any movie; there should be a special clause put in place, just for over-hyped monstrosities like Hacksaw Ridge. Safe to say, if I were given the chance, I wouldn't be gracing this ode to racism and gender inequality snuff movie with one iota of a merit. So many things have gone wrong here that I think there is a need for a whole new set of words invented to accurately describe it. Of course, knowing the director, this has probably been a pretty accurate depiction of his directorial vision and overall cosmotheory. No words -- but in rage, I'll still try.A droll, all-American, penis-waving, religious propaganda failing on so many levels -- and so many levels past, that you could quite realistically read any random negative review on it and you'll know exactly how I feel. That is all.As a sidenote, and with all its fundamental, genuinely offensive issues set to the margins, Garfield has the on-screen charisma of a constipated caterpillar.


                
This movie is awful. If you like believability don't watch this 120 pound guy carry guys twice his weight while being shot at. He's kicking grenades like a ninja. It is not a good movie at all and I would say Vince Vaughn was a terrible choice as his Sargent. This is a highly overrated film that isn't worth the time to watch it.


                
Let me start by saying that the true story of Desmond T Doss is nothing short of incredible! What an amazing individual he must have been!This film however, is absolutely dreadful!! I cannot comprehend how it's getting such great reviews. I can get over the fact that Spider- Man is trying to play the role of a real-life war hero. I cannot get over Vince Vaughn and his painfully bad attempt at playing the part of a drill sergeant. I love Vince Vaughn but this performance is awkward at the very best. Completely unconvincing in his portrayal of a soldier and drill sergeant.Let's move on to accuracy in film... There is none. I mean none WHATSOEVER! The uniforms and equipment look very bargain basement which is disappointing considering the films 40 million dollar budget. The way military life and combat were depicted place this film in the same realm as Starship Troopers and early John Wayne films. With movies like Braveheart and Apocalypto under his belt, I expected so much more from Gibson in the directing of this movie. In past works, he conveyed so much emotion and passion that you almost couldn't help but be swept up in the story. Hacksaw Ridge, however, pays no attention to detail. The scripting was uninspired, unconvincing and completely unrealistic. I understand that no film could ever live up to the real-life heroism of Desmond Doss. But the attempt could have, and SHOULD have been much better! It makes me cringe to think that all some people will ever know of his awe-inspiring life, is what they saw in this shameful piece of film making.


                
I'm not sure I see the difference between self-defense and relying on another for defense of self in order to complete an assigned mission. Yes, the actions of Doss were heroic, but could he have accomplished what he did without a soldier with a gun beside his side doing the killing for him? And if that's the case, what's the difference? The Japanese soldier is not any less dead no matter who pulled the trigger and Private Doss is no less involved in the death of that soldier than if he had pulled the trigger. Is the soldier who pulled the trigger on Doss' behalf more morally stained by the act of killing for another? Perhaps less so since he stepped forward to perform a necessary evil when another would not. The movie tries to make all of this a black and white morality issue and it is so far from that.Did Doss really have the luxury of not eating meat on the WWII battlefield? I found this movie frustrating for several reasons. The lengthy buildup to combat was unnecessary and seemed forced in order to add length to the movie.
When I saw the reviews of this movie I was expecting another great war movie. Most war movies are excellent, they contain great story lines and somehow they can move you in a way other movies simply can't. Except this one. I know it is based on a true story and I'm not saying it didn't happen. But come on.. Everything in this movie is extremely exaggerated. It's only written to appeal to your patriotism and make Americans look like heroes. It's directed by Mel Gibson, so that explains most of it. I seriously was considering turning the movie off, but as the reviews were so good I was hoping there would be a twist of some kind. There wasn't.. A lot of scenes are just simply annoying. I'm not saying the directing is bad. The action scenes are excellent and the actors are pretty good. But there are just too many instances that really grind your gears as a neutral movie watcher. We've all seen it before and making up your lack of dialog skills with lots of blood and violence just doesn't cut it for me. The ending is the worst of all. The Asian guys pretend to surrender, but then all of a sudden start throwing grenades. This movie hero guy smashes one grenade like a tennis ball (where the hell did it go) and kicks another grenade like a football (wow!). I bet he didn't tell Mel that. He just gets a scratch and of course the Americans win the battle. Then you see the Japanese commanders in their bunker after they have lost the battle. They decide to pick up their machetes and all of them commit suicide by stabbing themselves with their own machetes. Right.. I don't like Mel Gibson so maybe I'm a bit biased, but I didn't know he directed it until they showed it at the end. Before I knew Mel Gibson directed it I already thought it was a poor movie, after I found out Mel Gibson directed it everything fell into place. If you're looking to feel patriotic and see anther American hero in the war, this is your cup of tea. If you want to watch a great war movie, skip this one. I seriously don't understand why the rating's so high. Probably a lot of Americans rated this movie and just couldn't handle not liking it.
Probably the most comical fairy tale that some kid could comprehend on world war 2. Entire movie seems like a 5 year old comic book. There are scenarios shown in the movie which any sane mind would recognize as pure crap. My question is how is that this movie ended up with 8+ rating while many clearly better movies ended up beneath this load of crap. KEEP IN MIND THIS IS NO WAY DISREGARDING THE HEROISM OF THE WAR HERO DEPICTED IN THE MOVIE BUT CLEARLY IN THE WAY MOVIE IS CREATED.The next time you try to create a captain America sequel try not to confuse it with historical wars.


                
If you laugh at a scene of a movie when you suppose to feel dramatic those moments are the breaking points of all the movies. If you have Braveheartish expectations from this movie, beware. Mel Gibson copies and pastes one of the most cliché scenes around excellent shot war scenes. Hacksaw Ridge is All about the values America should have according to Mr.Gibson. He is selling religion and nationalism in a very direct and cheap way. Target ticket buyers are bellow ordinary or uneducated audience. During all film you can't help yourself saying "Come on!!!" this must not that much cheap. It's like an attempt to manipulating a child. Mel Gibson must be happy with Trump and his fantasies. Beware. 4/10


                
This movie was absolutely terrible. I was very excited to see it after hearing good things.The acting is terrible and corny and the action scenes were so bad I couldn't even watch the whole movie.The people who are giving this movie good reviews are the same type of morons who enjoy the Fast and Furious films.


                
I think Andrew Garfield might be the worst candidate who we could deem as an actor. I've watched every film he played as the leading character, including he masked and covered under a Spiderman suit. Yet every film I saw I just got the same feeling of wrong cast in a wrong movie. This guy as an actor to play so many different roles but no matter what, he just showed himself as a young guy who never could keep his mouth closed tightly enough but always mindlessly half opened with his lower lip further out than his upper lip, a guy with a abnormal long crane-like long and thin neck and a thick but not likable hairs on his head. He always gave off a nerdy and dumb expression no matter what he played. All of these shortcomings didn't fade or transform better when he grew older. There's no way that I could convince myself to believe any character he played but a stronger certainty of wrong casting jobs again and again.The whole screenplay just looks hollow, shallow and stereotyped. A trick that have been used thousand times to patch up a got-nothing-tell story, a popular and trendy way to advertise a sales pitch that this is a serious movie based on "True Event" or "True Character". But once these laughable words were used, only two things could immediately assured: A) There actually nothing to tell, i.e., No Beef, B) A certainty of a lousy movie.So this format we got here is like this: Two kid brothers growing up in a dirt poor family with a retired soldier father, a do-nothing drunk and a non-caring fatherhood; with an opposite loving and care mother, also a loyal church goer. The brother almost killed his kid brother during a playful fight in front of their parents when it became out-of-control. Then this brother repented himself by facing a Christian Bible picture on the wall, focusing on those hollow "Thou shalt not kill" dogma. And then that biblical crap became his one and only belief and faith that he later carried with it into Army boot camp. Then again, since the screenplay got actually nothing too much to say, a large segment of this film was forcefully to describe how this guy with such unpractical and anti-American valued Patriotism "Thou Shalt Not Kill" firm belief and principle to survive in the training camp. Again, more already used hundred times formula was borrowed again: A loud mouthed, always yelling and screaming Sergent and a bunch of tight-arsed high ranking officers, a beating, an almost being kicked out or even court-marshaled scene, a strong protest of his right as a qualified soldier who never wanted to hold a rifle to aim and kill then ultimate enemy, the Japanese soldiers. Then blah, blah and blah. Fighting scenes, his suddenly found unbelievable valor to save his brother-in-arms again and again in the battle field as a medic. And of course, casting a beautiful actress as his love, an eye-candy for the unfortunate viewers to ensure some possibility of increasing the box office....Supporting this hollow film with annoying patriotic background music...happily married and stayed together until his wife's early demise....Then of course, old faces in retrospection (a must) showed up on the screen in the final to certify that this is a true story.What we got here is just like branded powdered milk formula for your babies with an image of a not-quite-so-young-now funny face guy with thin and long neck and always mindlessly open mouth. Drink this milk, it's good for your health and your continued growth of your blind Patriotism.


                
Another "History according to Gibson" pretentious, whitewashing peace of cow dung. I saw the opening sequence, with some religious vomit inducing monologue. Then the bombardment of clichés. If Gibson was going for "The worst and most pretentious movie award", he definitely would have won it. His movies are getting worse and worse, especially as in his drug / alcohol rotten brains are viewing the reality through a psychotic, demented eyes and what is making it worse are his religious themed / message movies and rewriting of the history but those backers should go and jump off a cliff. How this movie got 8 stars I shall never know. It was one of the worst movie flicks of all times. If you want to enjoy a good war movie try any of "Cling Eastwood's" movies or "Tom Hank's" – Saving Private Ryan, even "Thin Red Line" is an amazing war flick. I would give this movie 0 stars if I could.


                
Conscientious objector is in a Courts Marshal and about to be judged guilty. His WW1 father in uniform brings a letter from the general allowing CO's but he is not allowed into the courtroom. Nonsense! A general's letter would be delivered without delay. The Japanese are located on a high cliff. There is a wide rope ladder hanging down the cliff that the G.I's climb to combat the enemy. After battle the Americans leave the area. The next day they return to climb again. Very unrealistic. The Japanese would have cut the ladder. During the battle at close range the Americans toss mortar rounds as if they were hand grenades. They explode. Nonsense! In order for mortar rounds to be armed, there are acceleration and time minimum conditions. These conditions are set to avoid killing the launch teams should they accidentally drop the mortars.I could not enjoy the movie because of the technical distractions.I would never hire the technical staff to do another war movie.
Everything bad everyone else said I guess. Just so contrived and formulaic and unrealistic. I just don't understand the positive reviews . . . Does IMDB get kick backs or something? Technically, it's flawless in it's image and sound quality but wow, couldn't they have listened to the military consultants I know they must have hired? The younger brother comes to the breakfast table and says "I'm going to enlist" or words to that effect, and he, lol, is, hilariously, already in uniform. They used every cliche from every war movie from the last twenty years - I found it cringe worthy. Not to diminish what Desmond Doss accomplished but dang, they really missed an opportunity to do it justice . . . too bad.
To ask others to kill for you as opposed to firing the weapon yourself. There were numerous instances in the movie which depicted a fellow soldier being required to kill in order to save the "hero". If anything, this decision to place the burden elsewhere seems less morally defensible. Hypocrisy at the very least.
It's a pop film. The same weak and snotty nonsense as "Saving Private Ryan" and others. Pathos, violins + pianos, pathos, pathos. Sugary faces, lyrical music ... pathos. Pompous faces and pathetic conversations of characters to the sounds of violins and puffing piano + pathos. Absolutely stupid and unnecessary running of people and explosions at the beginning of the film to show effects. But everything is not natural, but it is an ill-conceived porridge. There is no authenticity. The film consists of typical templates and weak actors. It seems that all the directors of the old guard are getting old, losing their grip, losing their senses and starting to shoot fancy films to somehow stay afloat.


                
