If you're looking for a puff piece that will reinforce your lack of knowledge about war and strengthen your already crystallized belief in the Christian faith, then this is the movie for you. Poorly scripted and filled with exaggerated stereotypical cliché lines and images, this will thrill the war-mongering, Christian right. If, however, you understand even basic military concepts and aren't interested in proselytizing as entertainment, then you may want to steer clear (or at least have something interesting to do while the movie is playing in the background).While the acting is quite mediocre, the poor scripting and absolute litany of cliché is very boring. I was finding the first 45 minutes or so okay, but once we got to basic training and action, it went down very quickly


                
Nominated for 6 Oscars. Really? I was really looking forward to seeing this movie although the story is already revealed in the trailer (and by the fact that it is a true story)I found it really cliché, mediocre and a waste of good actors that not gave a great performance at all. Garfield does an OK job, but I was definitely disappointed with Weaver and Griffiths.I watched the first half of the movie, the blooming love with the nurse, his training and shipping off to the battlefield. All so predictable and boring that I felt I could spend the last hour on more interesting things.I don't have much of an opinion on Mel Gibson. Braveheart was good, but I never saw The passion of Christ. If it is anything like this I will not bother.Don't do it. A waste of your two hours.


                
What the hell did I watch? Was it some kind of an anti-war movie or, in a so called way, a real story conventionally narrated as a sentimental war-hero movie? Someone must speak about that; it does not matter if you use a gun, or kill someone or not, if you have that kind of a mind, set to war, heroism, and nearly fascism with an unsurprisingly weird attitude towards Japanese.You know what? This movie is just a way to arouse perilous feelings which are tamed by education and reason. It is filled with Christianity, bible, common scenes, and unbelievable, unreliable screen writing intermingled with Mel Gibson's directing. By the way, it was not just a slap, he also kicked the grenade, didn't he?


                
Gibson is back. And gave the world a new violent reli-movie. If you like to see all Hollywood cliché: go see this one. More white people fighting foreign people! More suffering! This time on a cartoon battlefield with rats on every body, people flying around everywhere and more goofy horror-style gore. In the end, Christianity will win over those savages. I'm not even looking at the plot holes, the historical falsifications and the military fairy tale that's being shown here. Really, just one rope ladder for the whole invasion? And the Japs didn't cut it loose?The most scary thing is that it seems like the majority of the people take this film VERY serious. It even got nominated for six Oscars, praised here in IMDb as the best, realistic war movie ever. Let me tell you: it's not. It's a new genre movie, especially made for white males with a narrow and religious view on the real world and it's history.


                
Hacksaw Ridge was supposed to be the glorious directorial return of Mel Gibson and is a tale (based on a true story!) about a soldier that refuses to carry a gun and rescues fellow soldiers on a battlefield. Sounds like Oscar worthy idea for a movie, sadly it falls flat on its face on the most basic level - being a good movie...I was able to watch about half an hour of this movie before I just left the theater. There's so many things that I just couldn't stand. I'll give you few points:1) in your freaking face catholic propaganda - I felt like 75% of dialogues and characters actions had something to do with catholic religion. Crosses everywhere, main character working for the church, soldiers biting their rosaries in the middle of the battle (so powerful symbolism right, like 'oh god, give me power and forgive me at the same time' or whatever), etc etc 2) lame love story 3) the biggest sin of all - battle scenes. They are absolutely goofy, bonkers and loony tunes cartoonish. How about a shot of guts and corpses interweaved with soldiers walking through this mess? Guts, soldiers, guts, soldiers, corpse, soldiers. I GET IT MEL! How about the guy, who is using dismembered corpse of another soldier as a shield, shooting rambo style, killing 4 enemies in a row. How about grenades and mortars blowing up next to the soldiers who then fly in all directions like freaking rabbits? Why does it feel like all of those soldiers on fire (in the beginning of the movie) were just told to jump on trampolines in greenscreen rooms (yes, special effects are THAT noticeable), and so on and so forth dude...The last 'in your face' bad war movie (in my opinion of course) was American Sniper directed by Clint Eastwood. There was similar oversaturation of catholic themes, America, questionable motivations of characters, etc. But at least it was watchable, Hacksaw Ridge is just laughably goofy.2/10
I love a good war movie. But this isn't a good war movie. It's a hokey, overly CGI'ed injury porn wrapped around a religious tale of faith with dialogue that's right out of the 1940's. The CGI in the movie is awful and overused. You have bodies flying around like they're entering hyperspace, flames shooting out of everyplace and just a real unreality to the whole situation. To see a really great group of movies on the Pacific War, Flags of our Fathers/ Letters from Iwo Jima are wonderfully shot, realistic in their portrayal of combat, and the dialogue is far, far better. Did I mention that Vince Vaughn is a terrible actor, and should only stick to comedy?


                
A bland so-so war movie. A movie based upon true events that could have been told in 30 minutes or less, instead of over two hours. True events or stories usually do not make great movies. Too bad the actors, and actresses got stuck with this so-so movie, definitely not going to help their career. This movie is not worth the current cost of a theater ticket, spend the funds on something else.


                
I was looking forward to this feel-good American, WWII hero story directed by Mel Gibson. Spoiler: it was filmed in New South Wales, Australia which immediately dropped my potential ranking down a star from the git-go. I have as much 'Passion' as the next guy, but the first 'homie' HOUR of movie produced so many smiley faces I thought I was in a Disney Family movie.Finally we are off to 1940s WWII Army boot camp and now I'm in a Lewis & Martin WWII training film. Vince Vaughn's 'drill sergeant' act belonged in an Abbott & Costello film. IF ANY American was in charge of U.S. military authenticity for the training scenes, they were drinking too many schooners of Fosters. I wouldn't cross the street with Vaughn's character, let alone go into battle with him!Battle scenes: what can be said. The realism was 'Private Ryan' great, but how many disemboweled scenes are necessary? The dialogue, well get out the tissues again. Honest to Gosh I heard Sergeant Howell say, "..cover me.." as he was RETREATING. Battle dialogue was straight out of 1960s TV show 'COMBAT'.Military authenticity is lacking at the weirdest times in this movie as if the director was hoping no one would notice. Most people won't notice; the feel good story overrules all.Too bad for this movie. It deserves better, and in continued viewing through the years, I think it's going to be lowered in overall value: unless you have the Passion.
I've to tell you I left the movie before the end. We were forced to watch the war. The movie was very light in the inception. We expected a comedy type movie when Vincent Vaugh appeared first, conversely the movie turned out to be a complete blood bath. When war started, I worried that when it will stop.I completely could not resist the war and left it. Also one guy has automatic rifle on one hand and he is holding a dead torso of other man. You do not see this sort of action even in Bollywood movie. The very first opening was a disaster with ships bombarding the fire and bombs. You can do animation however too much animation simply kills. Instead of a full bloodbath, the movie could be made a war comedy as it was difficult to be serious and the main character still cannot lead the movie. Hope we'll not have to see this sort of movie often however this movie started to get good votes. The war scene was unnecessary. At one point it was not clear whether I was watching a X Box game or a movie. The movie timing simply dragged on without any substance.


                
The True Story of Desmond Doss is incredible. It's a story that genuinely deserves a wider audience. However what Mel Gibson does, is create a misty eyed, all American first act; and a second act that concentrates more on jump scares and gore than actual crafted, intelligent film-making. This could have been epic. But it wasn't. It was full of lazy romanticism, war clichés, absolutely awful dialogue and Vince Vaughn. It's such a shame because it truly is an incredible tale. But when you hear the likes of:"You gotta be kiddin' me"; "We gat company!"; "Let's go to work boys"And other such tired dialogue it rather ruins any tension or seriousness of the fraught situation we've just experienced. Some of the goofy lines and sequences were close to feeling that they were actually parodying other war movies. The end battle sequence is also ridiculous, and yes I know Desmond Doss really kicked a grenade out of the way in battle but this does not mean that the way Mel Gibson recreated it (which looked like a 'slo-mo' of a Soccer player scoring a goal in the world cup Final) was in any way captivating or entertaining and actually just made me laugh out loud. As did several other bits. It could have been such a delve into one of the most remarkable men to ever go to war. Instead it just resembled Captain America in a US Army uniform for an hour. Despite some nice photography it is a wasted opportunity. Lovers of Michael Bay and/or superhero flicks may like this movie. I didn't. 5/10
Awesome and enjoyable ultraviolence... However, the story is pure garbage. And the ideals of this movie is morally reprehensible in every way. The character and this movie thinks this Doss is superior to everyone because he won't kill Japanese soldiers. Those evil sadistic Japanese soldiers cut living pregnant women open and ripped out their fetuses. They butchered tens of millions of innocent people in similar fashion. Thus, its morally good under God to kill as many Japanese soldiers as possible. Instead of saving Japanese lives, he should've slashed their throats or jammed live grenades down their pants. Those savage subhuman Japanese animals all deserved to die... If Jesus Christ were a US soldier, he'd kill as many Japanese soldiers as possible in the most cruel, excruciating and humiliating ways possible.


                
This movie was a complete and utter disappointment. Most of the acting was atrocious, the "love story" was just bad and the flow of the movie was comical. This made Pearl Harbor look like Gone With the Wind. Take away the so/so special effects, and over the top gore and you've got a B-Movie at best. I like Vince Vaughn, but his attempt at channeling R. Lee Ermey's iconic Drill Sargent from Full Metal Jacket was just painful to watch. The scene with the blood in eyes was one of the worst scenes I've seen in a long time. I expected more from a Mel Gibson directed movie. He must be back on the sauce again.
Remember before Private Ryan, when war films were all gung-ho, shooting from the hip, and an inspiring speech was the answer to everything? Hacksaw Ridge is a throwback to those dark days. It's like Mel watched Private Ryan and Band Of Brothers and liked some parts, but didn't really understand the whole, so just stole the best bits without realising that things only work as a whole. It's so stupid that it feels like you're watching a load of kids playing soldiers, it doesn't feel like a glimpse of war. And all that military jargon that was well researched and difficult to understand, like when they come under fire, "Over there, those bunkers", or when the sarge gets on the radio to give the enemy position, "they're straight ahead." These gems sandwiched between about a dozen "cover my/his/their/our ass/asses", and the rather poetic, "let's go to work". Just as an example of how gung-ho silly it is, when they take the ridge, about half way through, and then the next morning the Japs counter charge, and hundreds of them pour out of their tunnel network, all the soldiers, who were all laying relatively safely in artillery their holes, and other appropriate cover where they couldn't be shot, all jumped out of them to start shooting at the attackers. Why? Because it might look good on camera. Kids playing soldiers. And yeah, the bit where he carries the upper half of that blokes body with one hand while hip shooting dozen or so Japs with his infinite ammo BAR (in fairness there wasn't a single reload throughout the entire film (no wonder the Americans won the war, they used hax)) was barmy, I just wish I could say it was the silliest thing about the film.Vince Vaughn has a good try at a Sgt Hartman impression though, but it wasn't enough to save the most disrespectful, idiotic film I've seen in a long time. This film portrays WW2 as accurately as working class school life was portrayed in Grange Hill.


                
I'll give it a 2 for the very rare but very well done sound design/cinematography/action sequence. Other than that this movie is extremely drawn out, heavy handed, and just plain bad.The script is trash. I don't say that in a joking way either. This script is easily one of the worst I've experienced. Vince Vaughn and Hugo Weaving seem out of place completely, especially when they speak. Vaughn seems out of place for his unfortunate type cast and Hugo Weaving seems like he was held back by something. If you are religious (especially Christian) you'll probably love this film.As someone who just wants a decent plot, script, and performance... No thank you, and I'd like my 2 plus hours back please.


                
I am the first person to appreciate and admire Doss's heroism and for me the best part of the movie is its very last minute, i.e. the real life footage with Doss going over some of the craziest things that happened right there. The rest is just a mix of poor dialogues, gory war scenes that fail to deliver, and idiotic CGI. I think this should have been a documentary, so that we could have really appreciate Doss's words without the poorly written stuff surrounding it. Besides, kung-fu with grenades? C'mon...
Letters from Iwo Jima / Flags of our Fathers are both much better movies


                
... to support others killing so that he doesn't have to. Like atheists who can only prosper among nations of believers, pacifists seem determined to remain uncomprehending and ungrateful to those who do the unpleasant task of fighting against others who would take their property, nation, family and and life. Somehow, this makes pacifists noble, in some people's estimation. Even those who go to war thinking it's glorious are quickly disillusioned - but that doesn't mean that they abandon violent force.The one credit I'll concede to this film-making effort is that the perfect casting was done for the lead actor. Nothing else about this film is remarkable.


                
