I was lucky enough to sneak into a cast & crew screening at the Newtown Dendy cinema. I thought 10.30AM on a Sunday was too early for a Mel Gibson movie, that I might be in for something along the lines of the heavy-handedness of THE PASSION OF THE Christ, and the adrenaline pumped brilliance of APOCALYPTO.I was proved wrong because after the first thirty minutes I wasn't sure if this was a Mel Gibson film when I was placed into a comfort zone, with its melodrama set in a small Virginia town during the Forties, a schmaltzy romance, and the cliché violent drunken father who survived a brutal war. The performances were maybe a little let down by the clumsy dialogue, but all directed safely with a natural sense of storytelling.By the 2nd act, I was put on high alert in the military training with our protagonist, Desmond Doss (Andrew Garfield who I at first felt was wrongly cast, but he really came through in the end). It was here when the true purpose of the story began to evolve, that of Doss' moral and internal conflict with using a gun! What he had to endure and stand-up for was a courage I greatly admired. It was also in this phase of the film that the dialogue and characters began to shine. Maybe it was the introduction of Vince Vaughn's character. We all know how Vaughn is notorious in ad-libbing, and it seemed to help because the other actors bounced off it well.Now the story had me in their pocket because by the 3rd act I was with our protagonist and his platoon when they got to the battlefield graveyard of Hacksaw Ridge. You thought the horrific situation in WE WERE SOLDIERS was brutal, well this was captured so vividly that you felt you were there. It was almost on par with the brilliance of GAME OF THRONES; BATTLE OF THE BASTARDS.Now I felt I was in a Mel Gibson film. As with Braveheart, the battle scenes in Hacksaw Ridge didn't hold back. Maybe a notch better because of today's CGI (and I didn't even notice the effects!). The scenes were unflinching, haunting and in your face. Possibly showing you the true horror of war. Definitely not for the squeamish.The religious aspect of the film was relevant to the story, so as a non-believer I thought it was an integral part of the protagonist and had to be told, so it didn't bother me as much.Overall the technical aspect of the film was brilliant, but then again I didn't really notice it because I was too distracted by the story and the characters, and when that occurs, I know the film has succeeded.


                
Good war-films can be very disturbing to watch. The dramatic realism of modern digital effects spares little and many audiences will find Hacksaw Ridge (2016) one of the most violent sensory assaults that can be experienced in a cinema. If it were not a true story that celebrates an unusual hero the film could have been accused of a gratuitous display of unrelenting carnage and military triumphalism.The film plays in two halves: the early life and romance of Army Medic Desmond Doss (Andrew Garfield) and the actual Battle of Hacksaw Ridge. Raised in bible best Virginia, Doss had a troubled upbringing under an abusive father. A devout Seventh-day Adventist, he swore never to commit violence or even carry a weapon but felt duty-bound to enlist in the Army. Not long after meeting the one love of his life, nurse Dorothy Schutte (Teresa Palmer), he enlisted with the belief that he could serve his God unarmed and without killing enemy soldiers.Branded a coward and bullied to leave, he was eventually granted conscientious objector status and became one of the troops sent to capture Hacksaw Ridge in the Battle of Okinawa of May 1945. While the assault was forced to retreat under overwhelming enemy fire, Doss remained behind and single-handedly evacuated 75 casualties, lowering them by rope from an escarpment over 100 metres high. The Ridge was eventually captured and Doss became one of the most decorated heroes of World War II.The heroism depicted in this story is of such an extraordinary magnitude that it can easily overwhelm any consideration of the film's merits. With an uncomplicated and factual narrative arc, the story rests on two pillars: acting and filming. On both scores, this film deserves high praise. While the early life and romance chapter drifts towards melodrama, Garfield is cast to perfection as the wide-eyed and straight talking man of unshakeable principle and Palmer convincingly plays his adorable emotional anchor. Together with a strong support cast that includes several big-name stars, this is a powerful ensemble that carries the story convincingly.The most outstanding element of this film, however, is its powerhouse hyper-realistic cinematography and spectacular set constructions that relentlessly convey the brutality of war. While it is an outstanding technical production, giving spectacle precedence over narrative is the film's Achilles Heel. One or maybe a few helmeted heads shredded or bodies bayonetted can convey much, but twenty deadens the senses. If ever there was a case where less could have been more, this is it. Otherwise this is a gripping film with forceful storytelling about a remarkable war hero.


                
A story of a man whose actions speak louder than his words. Andrew Garfield's performance is the cherry on top of the visual masterpiece Sunday. Warning. This movie isn't for the faint of heart, but worth the grueling journey.


                
Those dreaded words – "Based On A True Story" – emerge again from the blackness of the opening page. Actually, no. In a move that could be considered arrogant if it wasn't so well researched, here we even lose the first two words. When a war film is described as being "visceral" then you know you need to steel yourself mentally for what you might see. But given that this film is based around the horrendously brutal combat between the Americans and the Japanese on the Pacific island of Okinawa in 1945 this is a warning well-founded. For the battle scenes in this film are reminiscent of the opening scenes of "Saving Private Ryan" in their brutality: long gone are the war films of John Wayne where there would be a shot, a grasp of the stomach and a casual descent to earth.But before we get to the battle itself, the film has a leisurely hour of character building which is time well spent (although it could have perhaps been trimmed a tad tighter). Desmond Doss (Andrew Garfield, "The Amazing Spiderman", "Never Let Me Go") grows up a God- fearing youngster in the beautiful surroundings of the Blue Ridge Mountains of Virginia. His alcoholic father (Hugo Weaving, "The Lord of the Rings", "The Matrix") has been mentally traumatised by the First World War, further strengthening Desmond's fervent belief in following the Ten Commandments; most notably "Thou Shalt Not Kill". But his patriotic sense of duty is also strong, and Doss signs up after Pearl Harbor and is posted to a rifle brigade that – given his refusal to even touch a rifle – puts him on a collision course with the US Army. It also (obviously) disrupts his romance with nurse sweetheart Dorothy (Teresa Palmer).This is really two films in one, with the first half setting up extremely well the characters that make the second half so effective. For you care – really care – for what happens to most of the characters involved, especially the zealous and determined Doss who has nothing to face the Japanese hoards with but a medical bag. The feelings that comes to top of mind are awe that these real people actually had to go through this horror and hope that in today's increasingly unstable political world we will never need to again face such inhumanity of man against man again.Andrew Garfield really carries this film, and his Best Actor Oscar nomination is well-deserved. He is perfectly cast as the (onward) Christian soldier. Also outstanding is Hugo Weaving in an emotional and persuasive role playing opposite Rachel Griffiths ("Saving Mr Banks") his wife. But the real acting surprise here for me was Vince Vaughn ("The Wedding Crashers") who plays the no-nonsense platoon Sergeant Howell: never one of my favourite actors, here he brings in a warm and nuanced performance that ends with a memorable action scene. Also worthy of specific note is Dan Oliver ("Mad Max: Fury Road") and his team of special effects technicians, the stunt teams (led by Kyle Gardiner and Mic Rodgers), production designer Barry Robinson and the hair and makeup team, all of who collaborate to make the final half of the film so gripping. The film marks a comeback from the film society 'naughty step' of Mel Gibson after his much publicised fall from grace in the mid- noughties. A Best Director Oscar nomination would appear to cement that resurrection. For this is a phenomenal achievement in direction and one that should be applauded.The film bears closest comparison with the interesting two-film combo from Clint Eastwood – "Flags of our Fathers" (from the American viewpoint) and "Letters from Iwo Jima" (from the Japanese viewpoint). While all three films share the same blood and guts quotient, with "Hacksaw Ridge" edging this award, the Eastwood films tend to have more emotional depth and a more thought-provoking treatment of the Japanese angle. In "Hacksaw Ridge", while the war crimes of the Japanese are clear, the war crimes of the Americans are quietly cloaked behind a cryptic line ("They didn't make it"). That being said, there is no crime in a rollicking good story well told, and "Hacksaw Ridge" is certainly that. This was a film I did not have high hopes for. But I was surprised to be proved wrong. Recommended.(For the graphical version of this review, and to comment on it, please visit bob-the-movie-man.com).


                
This film surprised the hell out of me, going in I personally wasn't expecting much but this film delivers in some many aspects and then some. As mentioned in the title this film has two very different side to it, exactly like on a coin. The first half of the film is a drama/romance of the lead character, whilst the second half is full on war epic.Mel Gibson, well there is a lot to say about the man but political statements and controversy aside this man is one brilliant director. He does so well with capturing the perfect essence of both sides to this story, whether it be about Desmond's personal life or the impending war he is about to endure. This film shows the chaos of war in a way I don't think Saving Private Ryan did, the horror and true evil that it is, is on a scale that at some times hard to watch. However the more private moments between Garfield and Palmer are also so perfectly done and fit in seamless to the story and film. This film is two films in one, there is the first hour of the film a drama/romance that is this really good, interesting, funny and heart warming. Whilst the other hour of the film is full on war film with shots that will be imprinted on your mind for a very long time, truly mesmerising. Gibson 100% deserves an Oscar nomination, fantastic. The story again like mentioned is really interesting throughout its many layers and complexities, due to its characters and background. Its a true story that I personally had never heard about so was interested to learn more about the generation that gave up some much. Particularly a man who stood up for what he believed in, which I think is very relevant for what is happening around the world today and especially in America. This makes it that much more relatable to the character and the troubles he is having to deal with, even I can see why he can't pick up a gun because god told I'm too and Im an atheist haha. The performances in this film are of the chain, starting with Andrew Garfield . With whom I was a little concern about with the distinct accent that the character has, but he managed to pull it off throughout the entire film. His performances is his best and one of the best of the year and should also get an Oscar nomination and even win, he is that good. Sensational as a character that the audience can really latch onto emotionally, due to him standing up for what he believes in, you really want him to succeed. All the other performances are also really good, Teresa Palmer is really good and also has a great accent in the film. Its a simple role but a really effective one at the same time it could have been over played. Vince Vaughn is great especially in the funny moments in this film which there are surprisingly many. Really interesting role for him but he fits into it so well, his wit and charm is brilliant in the role, also a decent leader when he gets to the battlefield. This film must be good when it gets good performances out of Luke Bracey and Sam Worthington!Finally this film is a very true representation of war its horrifying, heart pounding, eye opening and at times is Saving Private Ryan on steroids. A truly great film of the year that not doubt will get Oscar buzz in the new year, 87 % out of 100 a really good film with two great sides to it. One minor problem could be that the first half does drag a little just a tiny bit, but the second half is well worth waiting for!
The pace and the action sequences at the Ridge are superb but there was one thing that we couldn't understand.
Why didn't the Japanese get out their Katanas and simply cut the rope netting; the clue's in the title? Just asking.


                
I had never heard of Desmond Doss prior to watching "Hacksaw Ridge", but his story is one that is worth telling. The movie shows how during his training, Doss got treated like crap for saying that he didn't want to carry weapon, but then he saved a large number of people on the battlefield. And believe me, there are some intense depictions of the battlefield.It IS a little weird knowing that Mel Gibson directed this, considering what he said about World War II. Gibson won't be able to live that down, so the most that he can hope to do is make good movies. He did here. It's a fine look not only at this particular battle, but at how Doss's moral dilemmas informed his actions on the battlefield. And the war scenes truly rival "Saving Private Ryan" in sheer grittiness.I recommend it.
Hacksaw ridge is by far Mel Gibson's best movie as director; it had all the criteria for it to be this year's best picture. It is a calm journey through the life of a simple yet unstable southern family; it brought us to admire the simplest joys of life, the happy and loving daily life of the American suburban families before the war. This movie showed us the true meaning of love and compassion and restored our hope in humanity. And then as expected gave us its obscure side, throwing us in the most well directed and performed war decors ever filmed, a true human carnage between the seemingly weak American army and the ruthless Japanese battalions. Hacksaw ridge is a story of pain and suffering and war, but it also represents the eternal fight between good and evil, and by that not meaning the two armies themselves but the true battle between faith and despair. Hacksaw ridge is truly a modern odyssey. One of the most crucial elements of such an amazing quest is the protagonist Desmond doss, a man of iron will and unbreakable faith who tried to save humanity in my opinion from violence and war. Portraying such a persona is undoubtedly a great challenge, and Andrew Garfield was up to it: The young actor exhibited with the help of the industry's veteran Mel Gibson one of the most sincere performances in the history of war films, his great acting skills were a key element to the success of this picture. The character of private doss was itself a fascinating trait that contributed to the critical acclamation this picture had received, he is as Andrew Garfield perfectly fits a man of a poor physique yet of great courage and altruism, his a medic that dived head first into the hordes of dead in the battlefield without hesitation, he is a loving husband, a great son and a true patriot who stood willingly in the face of the dreadful war in japan in order to save his fellow brothers in arms. In this dire times , the only one who truly stood by the side of private doss was his father Thomas , a good turned cruel man that lived to tell about the war to end all wars, he was disturbed and traumatised , something that Hugo weaving mastered on screen , he was such a great cast choice and delivered more than what was needed from a secondary character, he visualized in every move he did and every word he spoke the true horrors of war, he was all the time dark and shocked demonstrating what a war could do to a country, a family and a man. To sum it up, hacksaw ridge is definitely a must watch, it's by far one of this year's most exciting and overwhelming pictures. It is a top notch movie that depicts unprecedentedly the march of one man to end a war, it's the story of a real war hero who chose not to take the life of his brethren, and it's a movie for the director Mel Gibson to be proud of.


                
Mel Gibson returns behind the camera a full 10 years after his last directorial outing in Apocalypto (2006). Mel Gibson has proved to be a master when it comes to direction particularly when he is constructing a battle scene. However, being a full 21 years after Braveheart (1995) I myself was a little worried that Gibson had gotten a little rusty. Regardless of this, when I heard he was going to direct another war film I was very excited to see him back behind the camera. But the question remains. Has Gibson lost a step in his 10 year hiatus from directing? The answer is NO. Mel Gibson has proved that he has perfected his craft and in my opinion he is the best when it comes to crafting a battle sequence. The action is gritty, violent, realistic and most of all, it is absolutely terrifying. The battles in this film resemble a horror movie and a few times I even jumped. The intensity is constantly cranked up to 100% through out the second half of the film. Notice that I said 2nd half, that is because through out the 1st half this film is about the Character of Desmond Doss, played by Andrew Garfield (The Amazing Spiderman, 99 Homes), struggling to stay true to his beliefs and attempting to prove to his peers that he is no coward. There is also a very heartfelt love story between Doss and his girlfriend Dorothy, played by Teresa Palmer (Lights Out), their relationship in no way feels forced and feels very authentic. I was very shocked when during the first hour there was little to no violence considering this was a Mel Gibson picture, but don't make the mistake of thinking he is only skilled at directing battle scenes because the character build up portrayed by Gibson is enthralling and allows you to invest in the characters as actual people so you care about them when it all goes down. So all in all, Gibson has proved that he is without a doubt one of the top 5 directors working today and he has no doubt earned, in my opinion, an Oscar nomination for Best Director.The acting in this movie was something I worried about and again, I was proved so wrong. Everyone gives an outstanding performance most notably, Andrew Garfield, Hugo Weaving (The Matrix, V for Vendetta), Luke Bracey (Point Break, The November Man) and Vince Vaughn (Wedding Crashers, The Lost World). Andrew Garfield proves that he is more than just Spider-Man and he deserves the Oscar for Best Actor or at least a nomination. I have no doubt that he will win several awards and more importantly, his performance will go down as one of the best in recent memory and he truly blew me away. Luke Bracey gives the most surprising performance I have seen this year, maybe not an Oscar worthy performance but definitely a good, solid performance as a soldier fighting alongside Doss. Hugo Weaving gives maybe the best performance of his since The Matrix and is a possible candidate for the Best Supporting Actor Oscar as Doss' abusive, drunk father after serving in WWI.Sam Worthington, Vince Vaughn, Teresa Palmer and really all others involved give great supporting Performances.I can safely say Hacksaw Ridge is the best war film since Saving Private Ryan with brutal, terrifying battle sequences, beautiful cinematography, and incredible performances. Hacksaw Ridge deserves multiple Oscar nominations including one for Best Picture. This will go down as a classic and one of the best war films of all time and I strongly recommended you go see this in theaters ASAP. 10/10


                
This movie was very different from any other typical war movie. The bravery and stupidity shown by the main character (Andrew Garfield) was remarkably moving, with running into a war-zone with no weapon of any sort to defend himself. Instead of weapons only having a medical kit and fierce determination to save every life he could. If it wasn't for the clichè and very slow start to the movie where he found love before going to war, I would have given this movie a 9 or 10. In saying this, it was a huge step up for Andrew's acting career in comparison to mediocre movies like Amazing Spiderman 1 & 2.Overall, I would highly recommend seeing Hacksaw Ridge, it truly is another Mel Gibson masterpiece. Just try not to be deterred from the slow start as it will have you on the edge of your seat by the end and close to tears.
lets just say Mel never disappoints when he is in the directors chair. great story line and the action scene showed that there was great attention paid to detail. Reminded me of the shore scene in Saving Private Ryan. Great performance from the actors. Its not a movie you wanna watch over and over but it will surely keep you on the edge of your seat when actually do watch it for the first time. Two thumbs up.


                
We saw this at home on DVD from our public library. Sound and picture are exceptional, I have a good powered subwoofer, at key scenes the whole room was pulsating with the explosions. Mel Gibson directed, one of his sons is a key character.This is essentially the true, accurate story of Desmond Doss. As a young man in the early 1940s he felt a great obligation to join the Army and fight for his country. But he was a religious young man and had decided that he would never take up a weapon, a gun or rifle, under any circumstances. But he would instead become a medic, one who would go in battle and help the wounded survive.Much of the first half of the movie involves his early life, his meeting the pretty nurse he would eventually marry, his difficulties during basic training when they tried to break him to receive a discharge. They didn't want a coward in their unit, unaware that Doss was probably the bravest of the bunch.Most of the second half involves the battle against the Japanese on Okinawa, particularly the effort to take Hacksaw Ridge. The Americans were ambushed, there were many casualties, the healthy retreated down the rope ladder on the ridge. But Doss all night looked for wounded, dragged or carried them to the ridge, lowered them down. Through the night he saved about 75 men that way, when morning came the officers were amazed, "Where did all these come from?" British actor Andrew Garfield is really good as Desmond Doss. The movie was filmed mostly in Australia, a favorite place of Director Gibson's, and features mostly Australian actors. In fact the only American actor I am sur4e of is Vince Vaughn.All-N-all a fine movie but often difficult to watch for the realistic depiction of the savagery and gore of infantry war. Clips of the real Doss are shown at the end.
I put off watching this film for so long!I ignored friends and reviews when they were all raving about it, telling me to give it a chance but me being me, thought I knew better.I predicted another generic WWII film, with tired battle sequences and little focus on story or character development, and when I saw Mel Gibson was directing it? Well that was the icing on the cake!Guys I was so wrong, this film is completely inspiring and moved me in a way that I hadn't been moved in a long time. (Bearing in mind I saw this before I saw Logan)The film itself is based on true events involving the life of Desmond Doss – a name I was unfamiliar with before I saw this.Our hero enlists into the army during WW2, but his own religious beliefs restrict him from committing murder, which kinda sucks if you're strolling out onto the battlefield.You can imagine that this isn't the greatest news the US army want to hear, but try as they might, Doss sticks around and off he trots to fight for his country.As I always strive to steer clear of spoilers, I'm going to leave out all the juicy details, but Desmond really is an unlikely hero who proves his peers wrong throughout the film and teaches us all a thing or two about sticking to your guns (pun intended) and not turning your back on what you believe, even if 'the man' tells you to.I really loved the way the film builds a back story for our main character and makes us really understand why he feels how he feels.My only criticism is the rushed love story at the beginning of the film. It shows us how he met his future baby mama and their budding romance pre-war.Although it did pay a role in how the following events unfolded, I didn't really feeeel it – it felt a little lacklustre and a whole lotta cringe.Those few scenes aside, this is an exceptional film that depicts perfectly the fear and bravery that those army folk displayed.It also was a nice reminder that we may only be one but we have the ability to effect the lives of many – yay humans!Something else worth mentioning is this isn't for the light hearted, if you're not into blood, gore and a whole lot of limb dismemberment then beware!I am not easily squeamish but boy oh boy this had me 'eeeking' a fair few times.Moving swiftly onto the rating, it's a strong 8/10 from me, VERY nearly a 9/10.When I finished the movie I immediately went home and read up a little more about Desmond doss himself and he was a remarkable person and this film did him and his incredible story justice!


                
Andrew Garfield, Hugo Weaving, Teresa Palmer, Sam Worthington and Vince Vaughn star in Mel Gibson's 2016 war drama based on a true story. Garfield (The Amazing Spider-Man) plays young man, Desmond Doss who wants to be a medic. We learn of his rough childhood in Virginia before he enlists in the U.S. Army 15 years later during World War II. He not only becomes the first soldier refusing to bear arms, but a war hero saving 75 wounded soldiers. Weaving (The Matrix) plays his father, Tom, Palmer plays Dorothy, a nurse who becomes Desmond's wife, Worthington (Avatar) plays Capt. Gordon, Vaughn (Wedding Crashers) plays Sgt. Howell and Gibson's son, Milo also appears. This is a great film and Garfield gives a terrific performance. I recommend this, but caution of graphic violence.
"Help me get one more." Even the worst horror can't make me look at the screen with disgust. But the moment one of these American soldiers set his hand on a seemingly lifeless body, a hysterical scream sounded and all hell broke loose, it did. The image of that unfortunate soldier whose body is torn to pieces by a devastating hail of bullets, took my breath away abruptly. And that's the start of a brutal and bloody narrative. Yet another unknown story, doomed to disappear in the annals of this terrible great world war. Again the story is infused with some goody-goody events. Plus it has a high "outcast becomes ultimate hero" level. But that's the only criticism I can think of. For the rest, this is an emotionally shattering film.The film immediately begins with a slow motion footage of the battlefield. A chaotic war scene. Infantrymen are shot to pieces. Japanese soldiers are running towards a certain dead. Disemboweled bodies. A pile of mangled corpses. And when there's a sign of life, they are mercilessly burned with a flamethrower. After a while you wonder if this isn't a bit exaggerated. But then again, for those who weren't there, it's difficult to imagine the hell these soldiers were in. And even while sitting safely in your lazy chair watching this horrifying spectacle, the realistic sound effects and gruesome images will make you sh*t your pants out of sheer anguish for sure. And this, my friends, was just a foretaste."Hacksaw Ridge" jumps back in time after this introduction. Back to the rustic rural life in Virginia where Desmond Doss (Andrew Garfield) grew up. His pacifism was sparked the day he nearly killed his brother after hitting him in the head with a heavy brick. But he wants to serve his country and voluntarily signs up for the army. His family felt as though they have been hit by a bomb (no pun intended). Especially his father Tom (Hugo Weaving) , an ex-soldier who survived the 1st world war. When it turns out that Desmond stubbornly continues to refuse to touch a weapon, his training becomes a series of harassment by fellow soldiers and the military command does everything to get rid of him. But a verdict is delivered by the court-martial, after an ultimate interference by his father, stating that he may serve his country without taking up arms. So armed with nothing but a pocket-sized bible Desmonds he's off to the front. Hell on the island of Okinawa."Hacksaw Ridge" is divided into two contrasting parts. On the one hand the cozy, peaceful first part where the sprightly Desmond tries to seduce his future wife and where he enrolls after which he starts his training. And on the other the bloody battle on the island of Okinawa. Actually it's almost the same format as used in "Full metal jacket". The stereotype of the average medic serving in a war, whose job is to take care of the wounded on the battlefield, is being refined here in no time. That image of the huddled, frightened soldier with a red cross on his helmet is replaced by a heroic, self-sacrificing soldier who would walk through fire for his fallen comrades. And this image is reinforced by the figure Desmond, a conscientious objector who's running around the battlefield like a Speedy Gonzales and rescues abandoned soldiers who were doomed to die there. Unfortunately, this message was just a little bit exaggerated in my opinion.It's not only the images of this war that'll leave an impression on you, but also the rather magnificent acting. Andrew Garfield plays in a convincing way the devout and sometimes seemingly naive Desmond. By smiling constantly in a retarded way, it looks as if he isn't right in his mind (No wonder he joined the army voluntarily). In addition, we see a few brilliant supporting roles such as the one from Vince "Term Life" Vaughn (again proof he can play something different than a goofy not-so-funny part) as drill sergeant Howell and Hugo Weaving as Desmond's father. But most impressive is the fact that this is all based on true facts and that Desmond Doss was the first conscientious objector who was awarded the "Medal of Honor" for "conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity in action".In my opinion this film primarily showcases stupidity of mankind. A portrait of the madness during this World War. The senseless waste of young lives while trying to conquer an insignificant rock (A bit like "Hamburger Hill". Only in reverse). I'm convinced that many of those heroic soldiers were asking themselves what the hell they were doing there at that time. I bet they didn't see the point anymore of this whole operation. But stop the lingering. Orders are orders. Forward, straight ahead meeting your own demise. Madness! More reviews here : http://bit.ly/1KIdQMT


                
'Hacksaw Ridge' is one of the best films of 2016 and a personal favourite of mine in the war genre. Perhaps that's because, although it's advertised as a war movie, 'Hacksaw Ridge' is more like a drama set on a battlefield.The film is very well written and directed, and it was a pleasant surprise to see the emphasis placed on the story and dialogue rather than just actions scenes. Mel Gibson deserves a lot of credit, as does Andrew Garfield who delivers an outstanding performance as Desmond Doss.True stories are always the best stories, and this is one of the most uplifting and inspirational I've come across in a long time. 'Hacksaw Ridge' impressed on so many levels and is definitely one of the must- see movies of the year.


                
Beautiful and brutal....Savage and tender.....the best war scenes filmed since "Saving Private Ryan"...Mel Gibson makes an engaging character study...and a stirring anti-war movie.... Based on a true story...which was nothing short of a miracle actually...the film shows...the casualties of war quite beautifully...and reminds us to stand by our beliefs no matter what....and that's what a world at war needs, men of belief.


                
Mel can make a good flick! When he wants to, no high fives for the Road Warrior series, nope. I watched this online, so now I gotta go to Redbox and give him the $1.62 it deserves. The story was excellent, the visuals were gory but necessary for this particular tale. I found the underground network of tunnels interesting since I had read about those but never saw them. 75 guys were taken off that ridge by the one medic, that's an impressive feat and at the end, they did several short interviews of the real-life people from these events. I also notice since Mel built a church on his property, he tends to give God more of a spotlight in his films now, thus the Bible and Christian belief are featured in this film. Cheers


                
It's been a while since I've seen saving private Ryan, the movie I could not help but to compare this movie too, but the Spielberg movie is said to have some of the most realistic war scenes put on camera, and I must say Hacksaw Ridge is a huge rival to that.Some of the action in this movie is very over dramatic making it hard to believe that that happen but knowing how crazy war is I'm sure a lot of it did.Especially keeping with the story arch about a man who said I cannot kill another man or hold a gun in combat but had the courage to go to war and be a hero hands down.Andrew Garfield was good in the movie, but Vince Vaughn was a little iffy for me. Not that he was not good but he was not that convincing of a drill Sargent, but he was humorous, and it's a humor that really adds to the story. Hugo waving was just OK too.But man was this a great war epic. Top notch right there in the battle. One thing Mel Gibson knows how to do is direct a good war scene and he does that to perfection.I think this war epic can be put up there with the best.http://cinemagardens.com


                
I have never had to suffer through a drought in our modern culture of well-made, dramatic war movies. With each new year, directing a film that can hold up to Saving Private Ryan, Flags of Our Fathers or even Black Hawk Down seems to be an impossible task, and yet it is done time and time again. Hacksaw Ridge is a chilling yet honoring account of the only Congressional Medal of Honor recipient who was a conscientious objector in WWII. Based on the trials and tribulations of U.S. Army medic Desmond T. Doss, director Mel Gibson put together a film and cast to make him worthy of a spot high on the list of top movie directors, (and he wasn't even an actor in it this time!)From scene one Gibson sets the tone of the movie and sticks to his "guns". The film opens with a scene from hell, the typical horror of a combat scene sparing no eyes from shattered bones, searing flesh and the typical carnage. Then, to give some background, we are thrown years back and halfway around the world to the peaceful green hills of Virginia and Doss' childhood, years before American involvement in WWII. Due to a childhood accident, and his war veteran father's alcoholic rage, Doss becomes a pacifist, and from here vows to never kill another man. With some luck and a few cunning words, Doss manages to escape court-martial, and gain the trust of his comrades, but would be the only one to fight unarmed. What follows is Gibson's retelling of a pivotal battle in the Pacific theatre on the island of Okinawa, and the true account of this lionhearted peacemaker.Mel Gibson knows what people like in a dramatic war movie. Using this man's unique life as a timeline, the movie is a well-made, cohesive piece and is a vital objective in the mission to keep the audience on the edge of their seat. Flow from childhood to adulthood and from basic training to the Pacific front is fluidic which deepens the storyline. Massive, wide view camera shots are used in the latter half of the film, and convey a sense of awe that is required in a drama like this. Large scope views show the imposing cliff side of the island, the thunderous power of the U.S. battleships and the immense number of enemy soldiers. Numerous aerial shots are used to show the battlefield, and I can tell Gibson spares no expense to show why this place is called Hacksaw Ridge, and the reality that good men died to protect our freedom.The familiar faces I recognized from previous films were aptly used by Gibson to shape the main character into who he culminated into at the end. Hugo Weaving personates Doss' father and is the initial source of Doss' pacifism. Yet later provides a solid foundation as Doss battles with his personal beliefs. As Doss's commanders, Vince Vaughn and Sam Worthington use their unique personalities to push the main character to his physical and emotional limits, and help provide some light humor to lighten the tone.Typical of American war movies, faith, family and the U.S.A. play an integral part, and Gibson uses this without malevolently stating his personal beliefs or being preachy. I think we clearly need to be reminded of the real people like Desmond Doss, and what we need to stand for as a country and as a culture. True heroism was translated from legend to screen, and unspoiled by bad acting or directing.
Mel Gibson has managed to portray the integrity of an individual standing by his beliefs and insisting on serving his country in the best way he knows - despite that country's sometimes perverse efforts to thwart his intentions and challenge his faith - while simultaneously portraying with frightening realism the savagery of modern warfare that showed up so starkly everything the hero was against. It is nice to see true goodness - as opposed to the fake Hollywood variety - portrayed in film with all the complexity and courage that embodies.


                
It has been my belief that in war, most of the time there are no heroes, only participants. But, in Mel Gibson's Hacksaw Ridge, there is a hero. A hero in its truest sense. In this year's another sensational film, La La Land, we saw how it is important to never let go of what you want or what you dream, even if the circumstances are trying. In Hacksaw Ridge, we see even in dire situations and in face of dreadful consequences how it is important to never let go of who you are. For in Hacksaw Ridge, the protagonist Desmond Doss reminds us that it is the belief, the ideology of person and their actions that define them and not the fulfillment of norms. Based on true events, the film tells the story of an American man who becomes the first Conscientious Objector to win the Medal of Honor. To put in a simpler term, Desmond Doss' belief and conscience does not allow him to kill another human being, or even pick a gun. He still enlists to serve as a combat medic.What follows, is a struggle. Both internal and external where Doss is subjected to humiliation, violence and time in jail. There even comes a time when he had to choose between love and the belief that made him the person he is. But, his unfaltering energy and determination to stay true in its own eyes make him the hero that this film is celebrating. Mel Gibson and writers Andrew Knight and Robert Schenkkan strike the perfect balance between a biographical drama and a war film. At one side, the battle scenes are shot exquisitely. Filled with realism and horrors of war. Gibson doesn't pull his punches in showing the harrowing brutality. The film would remind people of the battles in Saving Private Ryan or in the excellent mini-series Band of Brothers. At another side, there's enough room in the film to explore the life of Doss. The relationship with his father, his love for his wife, all these beautifully depicts the tenderness, the gentle yet resolute soul of Doss. Andrew Garfield plays Desmond Doss and I cannot imagine anyone doing a better job than him in this role. Garfield's boyish charm reflects the character's innocence. Be it when he flirts or when he refuses to carry firearms, he seems sincere and determined and yet gentle and sweet. The film is buoyed by the heroism of the character of Desmond Doss, which in turn is buoyed by Garfield's acting. The chemistry between Garfield and a fine Teresa Palmer, who plays Dorothy, Desmond's wife, strikes the emotional chord enough to give a dramatic dimension in this film. Speaking of emotional bond, Hugo Weaving churns a top performance as Doss' father. You feel the desperation and the frustration his character feels when his sons enlist in the army, as he had watched most of his friends die while serving himself. The supporting cast of 77th Infantry Division, including Sam Worthington, Luke Bracey, and Vince Vaughn, does well too. Particularly Vaughn.Mel Gibson directs this film after a gap of approximately 10 years, and it would appear that the time has not put rust on his direction mettle. Hacksaw Ridge is perhaps the best War film of this decade and certainly one of the finest of this genre.
Hacksaw Ridge is a great movie with a very well developed plot and a stellar cast. It is a very interesting true story that I was never aware of. Following Desmond Doss, a man who chose to fight in the war without any ammunition, the danger and risk he put himself through is beautifully chronicled, Mel Gibson really hits it out of the park this time around. I did find that the film spent an immensely long period time on the soldiers' preparation. Understandably a grueling process that is conveyed well, but I went in knowing it was a war movie, and I found myself thriving for them to go to the battlefield. The cast is all around terrific, Sam Worthington and Vince Vaughn both shine as the army generals, not a role I would have seen either of them in, but they did an excellent job. Andrew Garfield is undoubtedly the highlight as Doss, he clearly immersed himself in to this role, bringing so much depth and honesty to the character, it is no surprise that he got as much awards praise as he did. An impressive, unique piece of film. Intense, riveting and superbly acted, I would certainly recommend Hscksaw Ridge to anyone looking for a good war film. 
Follows the true story of Desmond Doss, who chose to fight in a war as a protector of his squad, rather than a murderer of his allies. 
Best Performance: Andrew Garfield


                
The true story of Desmond Thomas Doss who won the Congressional Medal of Honour despite refusing to bear arms during WWII on religious grounds. In WWII without firing single bullet this guy got honour from the country and from rest of soldiers. The level of dedication for doing something is commendable. He went through with so many hurdle to just get into war is worth watching.
Desmond Doss is one of those people whose story seems almost too perfect to be true. It's almost unthinkable that anybody would have the nerve to march into battle not carrying a weapon, and even more unthinkable that that person would somehow manage to save dozens of lives and win the respect of his armed peers in the process. But Desmond Doss did exactly that, and if the movie about his life portrays him as a gawky, unimposing saint, maybe that's just the way he was. Andrew Garfield is very good in the lead role here, bringing to life the sort of character who very easily could have felt like a cardboard cutout. The script sometimes leans a little too hard on clichés (I thought some of the supporting characters could have been more sharply drawn), but then again, this is a movie about Desmond Doss, and he is more than compelling enough to hold our attention.This movie is unflinchingly violent. "The Passion of the Christ" was nearly pornographic in how it portrayed Christ's suffering, and this film ladles on both the dismemberment and Christlike imagery. So it's not exactly subtle. Still, it's rare to see faith explored in a way that is both explicit and not overly preachy. Desmond Doss was a pacifist and devout Seventh Day Adventist, and like most good people of faith, he clearly sees his beliefs as a private and personal thing, even as he enlists in the military and disobeys a direct order to carry a rifle."Hacksaw Ridge" is a film that asks its audience just what lengths we are going to go to stand up for what we feel is right. It devotes much screen time to a legal battle, and while I will not go into the specifics here, suffice to say that it can be sorely tempting to give one's tormentors what one thinks they want in hopes of some temporary release. But that is not, forgive me, what Christ would have done. You don't have to be a Christian (or even religious at all) to enjoy this movie. You need a high tolerance for bloodshed, but that's about it. It's time Hollywood let Mel Gibson back into the fold.


                
