We knew already that Mel Gibson is a filmmaker with a powerful vision and the craftsmanship to go with it. Extraordinary battle scenes. Violence, Gibson style, which means Peckinpah plus, because here there is such a personal intention that makes every frame, utterly compelling. The only drawback and I have to say it, Vince Vaughn. Why? In the moment he appears, this extraordinary film becomes a movie. It took me completely out of it. When you look at him you see an actor, acting. On the other hand, Andrew Garfield. Sublime. He makes totally believable a character that could be fictional. The humanity in Andrew Garfield's eyes makes everything real. It tells us, in no uncertain terms, that at the very center of it all, there is love. Love!


                
As someone from Sydney, Australia I was proud at the way this was filmed. Using the Hollywood model, there would have been lots of sets but using actual buildings allowed a lot of warmth to come through in the natural light. Gibson is a fine director, I was impressed with his framing, he shoots very closely for the acting stuff (more head and shoulder) which is quite interesting on the eye. Using more natural light it is quite beautiful. I suspect Gibson will not yet have been forgiven for his personal life to get the recognition he deserves.This movie could have been another Forest Gump, it could overly sentimental, instead, carries an appropriate amount of sincerity. The backstory is a major part of the movie. Doss is portrayed as uneasy with the girls who fell for the first pretty thing he saw. This could have been so Forest Gump-like but strikes a nice chord.The cast was excellent. Hugo Weaving was perfection. He carried the first half of the movie as the battle-fatigued (PTSD) WW1 vet father. Some may complain that the women are poorly portrayed as are the Japanese, who are largely like ants coming from their mound or canon fodder.As brutal as the second half is, I am sure it could not convey how truly gallant Doss was or brutal it was in reality.


                
Just watched this movie at the pre-screening and feel like I owe it to the creators to write a review. Having read other reviews, it is hard to stay original, so first are few thoughts that I shared with the others. Great to have Mel Gibson back in the directors seat. I will be surprised if we don't see this film in a few Oscars categories. Now, few thoughts of my own. The movie depicts brutality of war in gory details, so much so, that I had to turn my eyes away from screen couple of times. However, I do understand why this was important to the story line. It was done so that we could truly appreciate Doss's act of bravery, feel it like we were there and witnessed it firsthand - nothing was left out. The story grabs you from beginning and does not let you off until very end - after the movie I turned back and half of the girls in the theater were still wiping tears. Bottom line - instant classic that will find it's place on the shelf next to the likes of Saving Private Ryan and Band of Brothers.


                
Hacksaw Ridge is the latest film from the infamous Mel Gibson and it is as electrifying as one would come to expect. Telling the story of Desmond Doss, an Army medic that refused to carry a weapon through the hell fire of battle in Okinawa at the height of World War II. The untold story of Doss is one that is of the finer war hero stories that anyone could tell. Starring Andrew Garfield, Vince Vaughn, Sam Worthington and Teresa Palmer, Hacksaw Ridge is a beautifully acted and viciously portrayed war film that will stick with you from the minute the film starts until the second the end credits start. It will leave you clawing your seat, wiping away the sweat from your palms as we see Garfield's Doss save as many lives as he possibly can while dodging bullets and hand grenades. The film starts in the most somber of times in American history, the second world war. Desmond Doss, the son of a PTSD-riddled alcoholic Army man (Hugo Weaving) who served in World War I, is also as much as a devout Christian as he is a patriot, leading him to join the fight against the oppressive Japanese military. Doss is in love with a small town girl Dorothy Schutte (Teresa Palmer) who is scared that she'll never see Doss again, especially after the persecution he is sure to face. When in training camp, Doss refuses to touch a gun and is actually court marshaled for his refusal. This leads to a trial in which he is allowed by his superior officers to go into Okinawa with no fire arm to protect him. Much of the film is steeped in realism, something that Mel Gibson specializes in when it comes to violence. While the story and plot line may sound very traditional, the way it is portrayed is a fresh burst of life into a tired genre such as this. That, coupled with the amazing true-life story of Desmond Doss being portrayed on screen, makes Hacksaw Ridge a wild and brutal trip down the path to Christianity and the power that faith can give a man. Gibson, a devout Catholic himself, would be the director to bring this story to life. His religious views seep through his very being, especially through his films and this film is no exception. The film settles in the idea that God is literally protecting Doss, not only physically but spiritually as well. Doss is constantly tested throughout the film, almost needing to take a life (which is the ultimate sin to him) in many scenes. The fact that this man did not fire a single round and saved as many men as he did is astounding and the film really does an amazing job at showing the harsh realities of war but also showing the good that can be brought out in a man through his faith. The film itself, is one of Gibson's less preachy works which makes it more accessible. Even if faith-based films are not your thing, you can appreciate the craft that went into making this film. Hacksaw Ridge displays war as atrocious as it truly is. There is blood, there is gore and there are a couple wounds that will cut even the strongest of men down. This is an extremely violent film but it is extremely violent in the sense that there is enough going on around us to never make us truly settle in the violence which would take away a lot of the impact that Gibson is trying to portray. The film is paced very nicely and does feel more like a traditional war film without it really being the traditional World War II film. The filmmaking is traditional but the story is unique and is definitely the driving force to run out and see this film. The performance from Andrew Garfield is amazing. He sheds any sort of preconceived notion and really embodies the roll of Doss quite well. He is far from a revelation but he is on the right track in delivering a very fine performance. The screenplay is tight and taught. Like I said, there are scenes that are heart pounding in this film. Personally, I found myself holding my breath during some of the action sequences. It was THAT intense at parts. While I do have great things to say about this film, I will say, I was a bit disappointed in the performances all around. While I thought Garfield did an amazing job carrying a film that was not Spider-Man, I wish he was a little better. I felt the same way with the rest of the cast. The melodrama that is portrayed very early on in the film is something that does begin to corrode the realist efforts of everything else. However, once the action starts, so does the really great acting on everyone's parts. Gibson is an actor that revels in the moments of pure chaos and he expects the same thing from his actors. It makes for some intense scenes that are elevated by the pure realism that the actors portray. You actually feel as though you are watching these people go to war. It is a testament to Mel Gibson as a director. He really knows how to put you in the moment and Hacksaw Ridge just solidifies his talent. Overall, I felt Hacksaw Ridge was an extremely brutal and visceral war film that brings up questions of warfare, humanity and religion while displaying Gibson's excellent eye for technical accuracy and assaulting imagery. Say what you will about Gibson as a person but as a director he is sharp, gritty and a master at what he does.


                
I was fortunate enough to see an advanced screening of HACKSAW RIDGE in Hollywood and was impressed. The screenplay is authentically-driven to the last detail and portrays the horrors (and prejudices) of wartime conduct. I knew we were watching an epic film when at the conclusion, the audience was stunned so much so that the applause was delayed.If you consider yourself a true patriot of America, this movie portrays YOUR values in a blessed light. For ONE gentlemen, amidst extremely adverse treatment by his own comrades and even more deadly hated by his enemy to have save SO many men... is simply epic.I watched the advanced screening with members of the military and faith community alike. At no time did anyone retract from the horrors of war or add asinine political commentary. We all understood that soldiers fight for one another before they fight for a cause and that hatred of war is universal; even among soldiers.


                
For well over a year now I have been waiting with baited breath to see this movie. I have been a fan of Desmond Doss from a child. Having the privilege of the movie being filmed in my neck of the woods, and even getting to watch some of the scenes being filmed and meeting Mel in the process (ever so briefly), escalated my enthusiasm. When you are that pumped and euphoric, you are usually deflated when the moment finally comes<U+0085> but not this time.Although there were a few aspects of the story that were not as accurate as I would have liked, I realize poetic licence is necessary in some ways to give the real essence of the story. And truth can be so much harder to believe then fiction sometimes. Mel managed to portray the man Doss so very well. Some people are worried this is a religious propaganda/anti-gun movie and I assure you that is not the message of it at all. However there is no getting past the truth of who he was and it is the reason the story is so powerful. He was a man with an unmovable moral compass and it doesn't matter if you don't point yours in the same direction, you can't help but respect him for his courage, bravery, and unwavering faith. The movie starts laying the background of the man that will be the hero of Hacksaw Ridge. It is both witty and endearing. Andrew Garfield nails the roll as the gentle scarecrow of a man. He is a bit gawky and yet charming. His accent is true to the real Desmond, awkward though it is at times. He really draws you into the character and shows you what a fighter he was, non-violent but a fighter just the same. It is well explained what personal experiences have lead him to his discussion to not touch a gun.Hugo Weaving masterfully plays Desmond's alcoholic dad, battling with his demons from WWI, and Rachel Griffiths plays his devoted Christian mother trying to hold them all together. Teresa Palmer plays Dorothy, a nurse that captures Desmond's heart. Sometimes cheesy, but then again in reality it would have been, and it is very amusing to watch. Teresa's Dorothy is a beautiful and charming addition to the movie.Vince Vaughn plays the roll of Drill Sergeant Howell. He adds humour with his name calling, and humiliation of the soldiers, but is a very genuine - just a guy trying to win a war and keep his men alive in the process - kind of guy. Luke Bracey is a fantastic addition to the cast as private Smitty, the more traditional war story soldier.True to his reputation Mel does not hold back with the battle scenes. The devastation is already extensive and the ground strewn with bits of bodies by the time the 77th arrives. The shattering reality of war is dizzying and full of impact, moving so quickly you can barely identify the characters in a whirlwind of panic, pain and death. But amidst the chaos, Desmond Doss's character is revealed to everyone and even his harshest critics realize how wrong they were about him. Watching the story change from having the battalion hate him so much that they try to have him imprisoned, to refusing to go on the battlefield without him, is so moving and inspiring it leaves "It's A Wonderful Life" in the carnage on the hill, getting eaten by maggots along with the dead soldiers Desmond sifts through looking for "one more" soul to save.
Desmond Doss is a hero. In the middle of total carnage he is out there saving lives. This should serve as the basis for a great movie. This movie comes close to being just that, a great movie, but just misses the mark. It has lots of action and excellent acting set in a time and place that is still known and remembered with reverence today. But most of all, it is about a man who stays true to his principles, and against all odds triumphs. The battle of Okinawa is depicted in all its gory violence. Soldiers on both sides are dying by the hundreds. Through it all, Desmond Doss does his duty, which, as a medic, is to save lives. Nothing stops him, not even a grenade. And if that isn't enough, he's married to a beautiful young lady who adores him and whose photograph he carries in his Bible, which she gave him as a present and which he takes into battle. To tell this story, the director Mel Gibson, pulls out the stops. It is Hollywood through and through. From the confrontation scene in the barracks, to the presence of the overbearing sergeant, to the inclusion of the devoted girlfriend, the hero perseveres and finally proves himself on the battlefield, proving all his detractors wrong. If someone wants to become a hero, this is the movie to watch.


                
Hacksaw ridgeLooking back over Mel Gibson's career the quality of the work that he has produced is staggering. Movies such as Braveheart, Apocalypto and The passion of the Christ show what a serious film maker he is. Such a shame then that Hollywood fell out of love with him. There is no denying that Gibson has made several films with such skill that he can be regarded among directional giants such as Spielberg, Scott and Scorsese. Gibson's return to the helm is welcome with Hacksaw Ridge. A true story about war hero Desmond Doss a conscientious objector who enlisted into the army during World war 2. Played here by the Oscar worthy Andrew Garfield, Doss refused to use a gun. Branded as a coward and a loon by his fellow comrade in arms he believed he could do more good by serving as a medic. The film depicts the struggle and persecution of a man who would prove to be a hero. A hero who would stand by his beliefs no matter the cost. One of the most fascinating facts about this film is that it struggled to get made because of the lack of consent from Desmond Doss. He believed he wasn't a hero, just a man doing his duty. I can honestly say that this film does the great man justice and sir you are indeed a hero.Gibson's film is superbly realised on screen with epic performances by all cast members. Hugo Weaving is mesmerising as Desmond's broken father. A man who also served and is crushed by war. He begs for his sons not to enlist and wants to spare them of the horrors that he has witnessed. Vince Vaughn is terrific as Sgt Howell. Refreshing to see him acting in a serious role instead of the mediocre comedies we have become used to seeing him in. Sam Worthingtons faded star gets chance to shine once more as he plays a Captain who is so against Doss's beliefs. It is heartfelt when our hero proves him wrong and the Captain must humbly beg for his forgiveness.Gibson's direction is good here too. Even if the film starts down the path of a sickly sweet Hallmark movie. The film soon becomes deadly serious when the art of war is displayed in full high definition on screen. A gripe I have is that the CGI explosions and dismembered appendages look a little too polished. Maybe a stripped back approach using more practical effects would have given the film an extra layer of authenticity. This is nitpicking though as the action scenes are epically staged and immerse the audience in the moment. Sound design is ear shatteringly good as bullets whizz passed the ear. I think Hacksaw ridge compares well to other modern classic war movies such as Saving Private Ryan, although it may not be remembered with the same affection. SPR was a game changer in this particular genre and will always be regarded as so. Hacksaw ridge can be remembered for it own merits. A compelling story about a true hero. Wonderful performances by a superb cast and a return to form for one of Hollywoods finest talents. Mel Gibson I salute you.
Ten years since his last directorial effort 'Apocalypto' and many were wondering if he could match the excellence of his previous work, especially since this hiatus consisted of many controversies for the actor/director. Well, I'm pleased to say that Hacksaw Ridge is most definitely one of the best war films of this century. A bold claim such as this needs proof, and I always say "proof is in the pudding". Detailing the efforts of Desmond Doss, a conscientious objector who refused to carry a weapon, during the battle for Hacksaw Ridge against the Japanese. Illustrating the heroism, valour and bravery of one man who, through inner strength and conviction, saved the lives of many wounded soldiers. I am a sucker for good old fashioned Hollywood stories about a hero who defied all the odds. Everyone and everything was against Doss, including the rest of his unit at first, which automatically creates emotional investment towards our protagonist. You want him to succeed in his endeavours, you want him to prove all the naysayers wrong. He does...and then some. Through visceral direction from Gibson, who honestly directed the heck out of this, Doss was portrayed enigmatically by Garfield. Balancing both innocence and conviction in equal measures to produce a character that breaks your heart. Every facial expression and action Garfield makes feels natural and racks up to be one of his best performances. Supported by an excellent cast, particularly Vaughn, Weaving and Worthington, who provide backstory and development to what could've been expendable assets. The battle scenes were breathtakingly claustrophobic, the usage of blood and violence contradicts the religious subtext in the narrative which further enhances the ideologies of pacifism. Countless bodies on fire and limbs gliding through the explosions, just relentless filmmaking. The overuse of melodrama during the first half did provide an unusual tonal shift for the second half, took me a while to adjust. But, in the end, all I have to say is "Mel, welcome back!".


                
loove this movie so much!! Andrew Garfield is so amazing in this!! He really gives his all to his role. I cannot believe that this is a true story. This is such a great story about faith and hope and it deserves all the wins that it can get. It is probably one of my favorite war movies ever! I love that there's some comedy in here as well. I will never forget watching this movie in theatres.


                
Having just watched 'Hacksaw Ridge', and then immediately after the 2002 bio-doc about Desmond T. Doss's life, I can easily understand why Mel Gibson needed to give this story the Hollywood treatment. After a little research, almost unbelievably, this 'myth-making' Gibson movie turns out to be an accurate portrayal of the man, and a pretty accurate account of history. The movie isn't perfect, but it's pretty damn good. What affects the viewer more than the brutal violence of war on display, more than the performances of the cast, more than Gibson's direction, is the unflinching determination, unselfish bravery, compassion and faith the real Desmond Doss showed throughout his life. What a character.Hats off to Desmond. A fine human being and an example to us all.Everyone should know his story.11/10 for the man. 8/10 for the movie.


                
No matter what you think about Gibson, and I don't think much of him as a man. He is an elite director. There is a unique genius in how he handles this film. I hope this does not constitute spoilers, I don't think it really does, but the battlefield scenes are the most harrowing I have ever seen. There is nothing left to the imagination with shock after visceral shock coming at you for a good twenty minutes. The effect is an adrenaline surge as you feel like you are trying to survive with Doss and the rest of his troop. The payoff occurs after Doss does what he does and comes off Hacksaw Ridge. It is so emotional. The effect is amazing and it is all steered by Gibson's intense direction. You may even think, oh God, this is just too much, as you are watching the battles unfold, but it all results in a unique payoff.I like Garfield . He is a bit too goofy at the start and I feel like his hairdo makes him look more like the lead guitarist from the Spiders From Mars than a WWII hero. But once he gets in uniform his character really develops. Vince Vaughn seemed to love chewing the scenery as the Sarge, and Teresa Palmer was also solid.As an agnostic, there was one scene at the end that I felt was a little over the top, but the religious angle is handled beautifully and the power of faith is a great lesson for anyone. This is going to be a real crowd pleaser, but it is decidedly not a family film despite the theme. It is the most violent film that I have ever seen.
This is really adorable movie and you can find something beyond the war in this movie 
my father even cried for this movie
the writing of this movie is fab
Saving 75 Lives out there on the war field is nothing less than a miracle.Another brilliant biopic of 2016.Desmond Doss had a belief of non violence and he sticks to it even after getting into the US army, serving for the nation. Its no less than a heroic tale of an Army Man who refused to kill on the war field and instead chose to save. Desmond has a troubled childhood getting beaten by his father every day and his father was an ex army drunkard who used to beat his sons and wife. Desmond decides to join Army and serve his nation being a medic. He is bullied and beaten in the Army by other men but he doesn't give up...shows courage and tenaciously stays
Quite a few critics in the UK have panned this film as "schmaltzy" or a "pastiche" of warfare films. Ignore them. Bottom line is - the story is fairly slow to get going. It's too slow to get through the back-story of his early life and only gets going after Doss arrives at Fort Jackson for basic training. From that moment on, the film starts to build up to what this is really all about - how he won the Medal of Honor (which is not a spoiler). When they get to Hacksaw Ridge, there's 5-6 minutes of warfare gore that is totally full-on. Rightly so - it's disrespectful to those that served and died to depict their sacrifice and experience as anything other than unbelievably awful. Then, just sit back and watch what Doss did next. It's an inspiring story. Can't believe I've never heard of this inspirational story of courage before now. Watch it and be prepared to shed a tear.


                
In Lynchburg, Desmond Doss and his brother Hal are raised by a dysfunctional family since their father Tom Doss (Hugo Weaving) is an alcoholic veteran of World War I that beats their mother Bertha (Rachel Griffiths). One day, Desmond (Andrew Garfield) almost kills Hal and his life is affected by the Commandment "Thou shalt not kill". Years later, he meets the nurse Dorothy Schutte (Teresa Palmer) and they fall in love with each other. Desmond, who is Seventh-day Adventist Christian and conscientious objector, decides to join the army to serve his country in World War II; however he refuses to carry or use any weapon and requests to serve as combat medic to save lives. He faces several problems during the training and but he succeeds to go to the war to participate in the Battle of Okinawa. Will he be helpful in the battle field?"Hacksaw Ridge" is a magnificent war movie directed by Mel Gibson that deserves not only the nomination, but the Oscar. The screenplay is perfect showing important parts of Desmond's life since his childhood. The cast is fantastic with great actors and actresses. The battle scene are stunning and very realistic. Last but not the least, the anti-war story of a pacifist man that makes the difference in the brutal war is amazing. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil): "Até o Último Homem" ("Until the Last Man")


                
With more than 600 reviewer comments in October 2017, "Hacksaw Ridge" doesn't need any more reviews. But, I should weigh in on a couple of points – about the film and its reception. First, the film. I congratulate Mel Gibson for tackling historic subjects in his films. We have far too little of that in the 21st century, yet there is so much modern society can learn from the past. Unfortunately, Hollywood doesn't seem very interested in telling the stories of heroes and heroics of saints and sinners. In this case, a little known hero, Desmond Doss, is the first conscientious objector in U.S. history to receive the Medal of Honor. Gibson took a 2004 documentary and made an outstanding film about a true hero. My bone to pick with the film is its Computer-generated Imagery. I realize it's nearly impossible in the 21st century to make a war film set just about anywhere during World War II. The places just aren't there to shoot anymore. Nor is there sufficient remaining equipment, machines, vehicles and other materials of the time and period. So, for much of the shelling and action of this film, CGI was necessary. It wouldn't have been so noticeably CGI if Mel Gibson hadn't want to be so graphic with bullets ripping through bodies, legs being blown off, etc. There is so much of that in this film, and it appears so crisp and clear as to be unbelievable, unreal. Our human eyes don't see things most of the time nearly as sharp and clearly defined as CGI presents them. I might have given this a pass except for a few scenes that were so clearly phony. Body parts or other objects from explosions are flung into the air in all directions. Several instances are so obvious drawn or created images with flames coming off of them as they fly rather slowly through the air. It's clear to me that the technical and creative people don't have CGI down pat or perfected yet. There's just too much of this in the film that one can't help be aware of it, so that knocks the film down from 10 stars to nine. The second point related to the film is the Academy Awards and other 2017 recognition paid by the members of the film industry. Desmond Doss was an Army medic who served in the Pacific theater during World War II. The full story of his heroism is much more impressive even than this film shows. Andrew Garfield gives a tremendous performance as Doss. This is truly great acting – which the Academy Awards, Golden Globes and BAFTA awards are supposed to recognize. I haven't seen all of the movies with the nominees for best actor, but I did see most. I can't imagine what politics or other things may be at play. That Garfield didn't win the best actor is a true shame on all of the industry groups. I have nothing against Casey Affleck, but his role in "Manchester by the Sea" had the least demands for acting of any of the nominees. It can't hold a candle to Garfield's performance in "Hacksaw Ridge." Again, Hollywood and the industry seem to thrive more on personal popularity, looks or some other criteria.
Mel Gibson's Directorial Return, after a 10 Year Hiatus, is neither an Anti-War or Pro-War Film, it is both.If it wasn't a Documented True Story of Conscientious Objector Desmond Doss who Refused to Touch a Gun, although Enlisting to Serve in WWII, one might get the Impression that the Film was Allegorical about the Resurrected Jesus Christ.That Impression is Felt once the Movie's Second Half turns to the Battle of Okinawa and the "Hero" of the New Testament finds Himself in a Hell that is the Human Condition and still Maintains the "Love Thy Neighbor" and "Turn the Other Cheek" Demeanor that He, by Example, Maintains throughout the Carnage and Slaughter.The Film is Grounded with Good Performances, not only Andrew Garfield, but also with Hugo Weaving as Doss's Father Riveting and Bristling with Gravitas, and others Contributing the Fleshing Out (literally) needed to make the Movie Mesmerizing.The Battle Sequences get a lot of Ink and they are Visceral with the Violence Sharply Cutting on the Edges of the Frame as Garfield's Doss Centers the Action with a Calm that Defies Normal Human Reaction. It's as though He is Cloaked with Protection from an Unearthly Source.The Film is Rife with War Movie and World War II Era Clichés that are Presented with a Pretension of Ease and seem Ironically Necessary to tell the Story. The First Half Develops the Desmond Doss Character and the Second Half Deconstructs the Convictions of His Belief.A Fine Film that is Recommended and Deserves the Attention it has Received because in its Glorious Simplicity it is Accomplished and a Rewarding Experience.


                
By far this was the Best Picture of the year, not Moonlight.It had incredible actions, Oscar worth performance from its lead, and top notch sound effects, and flawless special effects.It also was a war movie that felt realistic without being too gory.Mel was robbed!D
Gibson hit the mark on this war movie. While it starts off a bit slow it surely picks up the pace and doesn't let go. Vince Vaughn, who I had doubts playing in this movie, was a stand out. Just superb. The war scenes were brutal but realistic. Not for the squeamish. This movie is high on action, but not over the top "expendables" type, not that I don't enjoy those movies as well, but this is realistic. It is also inspirational. I for one am not or can never be a conscientious objector but what this soldier did and how he remained true to his convictions and why is what makes it inspirational. That and how he went from outcast to hero being himself. Another movie that used the real life people and soldiers at the end credits to show you the added realism of this movie ad that the actors and director did their homework, Screenwriters, too. This is an instant war classic.


                
It is easy to misunderstand Mel Gibson's "Hacksaw Ridge" as a glorified war movie. At least that is what I used to think every time I gave this movie a pass in the past looking at the poster. I was so wrong.."Hacksaw Ridge" is a movie which takes you back in time. A time when men left their homes to attend to war duties and made great sacrifices. In that context the movie sends out a clear message for everyone who watches it - "Strong convictions precedes great action". And this message is shared by depicting the true story of a hero - Desmond T. Doss. It's an inspirational story. The story teaches you to stick by your beliefs and stand up for the good even when the world is against you. It's a great watch.


                
This movie took me by surprise. I had heard of it, but since I rarely go to the actual theater to see films these days, it wasn't really on my radar. My husband and I were looking for something to rent on a rainy night and we chose this one. I like history-based films, including war films, even though I kind of hate films with gratuitous violence. Well, this film is brutal, but there is nothing gratuitous about it. It takes a common and very effective approach by telling a true, harrowing story through the lens of one individual, what got him there, and how he lived it. I like that the movie addresses the main character's childhood and what drove him to become a faith-based conscientious objector. I also like that he is an actual person, an historic figure. "Saving Private Ryan" was probably based on someone, but we don't know exactly who....or at least that person was never interviewed or identified. It was an effective film, a great one. But I liked this one better.I would never have believed this guy was real had I not seen him interviewed. It seemed impossible to believe. But again, when you see the historic backdrop, it comes into focus. It was a different time, a different country. You come to understand how he came to believe what he did and was able to do what he did without ever losing his humanity.The battle scenes are absolutely brutal, but entirely real. My brother is a huge history buff and knows everything about WWII, and he can attest to that. The visuals take your breath away, though not in a good way. You see a lot of what are now considered "war tropes," clichés, in this film. Well, now you see their origin, and why they are for real. Anyway, this is a vague review because I don't want to spoil anything. I am not saying this is a perfect film. It has its flaws. I am no fan of Gibson as a person, and it probably helps that I didn't even know he had was the director when I watched it. But that's another matter. Garfield is excellent, but honestly I was also impressed with the supporting cast and particularly with Vince Vaughan. I have always liked him and he fits this role really well. Like his character, he never takes himself too seriously. It works for the film.If you like character-driven films, based on true stories, and can handle terrifying scenes (IMO), then watch this. It's an eye-opener.
Despite all the controversies that Mel Gibson has around him as a person few will argue about his immense talent as a filmmaker. He has proved himself to be one of the most consistent directors working today and Hacksaw Ridge is some of the best work he's done in his entire career The core story of this film is simply fascinating, a man who went into one of the worst engagements of the Second World War without any kind of weapon to defend himself with and this story is one that the viewer can easily get behind because it is so well established why Doss feels the need to do this while not shining him in a truly heroic light. Plenty of time is devoted to his opponents and it's also made clear why they oppose his views as it is understandable why they wouldn't feel they could depend on him to defend them in battle and there is room for the audience to decide where they stand in this argument. One of this films greatest strengths is the fact that it's puts all its characters, as well as the actors who play them, first. Andrew Garfield, in my opinion, gives the best performance of his entire career in this film he just perfectly played Doss' constant inner struggle while always remaining optimistic. Vince Vaughn's role in this film had made me curious in the lead up to this film but it's easy to say that he exceeded all of my expectations, not only was he hilarious as a drill instructor but he gave some very good serious moments that made me like his character all the more and makes me want to see more of this kind of role from him. Teresa Palmer was also great in this movie she had excellent chemistry with Garfield and I absolutely bought her as a love interest. Hugo Weaving blew me away in this movie, I've never seen this kind of work from him, he was so believable as this torn up man who has had some much taken away from him by war.He first half of this film mainly focuses of Doss' romance with his future wife and his motivations for his pacifism and while it's defiantly a bit slow and cheesy at times it worked very well. I loved the romance between Garfield and Palmer it was such a sweet relationship an one I could easily get behind. When we eventually got to the training portion of this film it became all the more engaging, seeing Doss face opposition at every turn was extremely engaging, you got a clear sense to both sides of the argument and perfectly set up the horrors that were to come in the next act. This film switched from an engaging drama to a terrifying experience in an instant and it worked to perfection. Everything the war was built up to be came to ahead and made it clear just how hard it was gong to be for a Doss to keep up his pact but it was no less engaging and was even more so. Mel Gibson directed this film masterfully, he directions action like no other director working today. He doesn't show the battle of Okinawa in a glamorised way but as it was, as a hellish experience with very little hope of survival for the soldiers who thought in it. Even when bullets aren't flying he kept a consistent tension throughout this entire act that never let up. My only real issue with Hacksaw Ridge was some aspects of the way it concluded, it feels as if Doss has proved something to his fellow soldiers and feels as if more could be explored now that he has but instead the film concludes in a very abrupt way that left me feeling as if they're was still more waiting to be explored and experienced. Despite some aspects of its conclusion, Hacksaw Ridge worked on every other level. It was incredibly touching, harrowing and intense. While it was easy to get behind Doss as a character there were plenty moments where it felt as if they're was room to see the perspective of others in his views. When the war sequences begin they are depicted as they should be and in no way way that is glamorous or clean. I adored Hacksaw Ridge and I can't wait to see what Mel Gibson does next as a director. 9.5/10-A (Phenomenal)


                
Once again Mel Gibson delivers a masterful film and a breath of fresh air in the war film genre.Hacksaw Ridge hits on every aspect that a war movie should, action, drama, suspense, and heartbreak. But within the insanity of war, lies a story a true hero and patriot, Pfc. Desmond T. Doss. A man who risks his life and puts himself last in order to save the lives of others.This movie is a true inspiration and juxtaposes that even within the monstrosities of war there can be true hope and beauty within the battlefield and teaches us that violence is not the only answer and that it is honorable to refuse to commit murder in the act of war.The cinematography is beautiful and captures the essence of each scenario beautifully, whether it's a dark and gloomy war ridden Okinawa, or a small town in the USA, accompanied by an amazing score and very good editing. I would say this movie is a very emotional thrill ride that will leave you inspired, heartbroken and speechless. See it.


                
In this Mel Gibson (Braveheart, Lethal Weapon) directed film, screenplay by Robert Schenkkan (All the Way, The Quiet American) and Andrew Knight (The Water Diviner, Full Frontal), Andrew Garfield (The Amazing Spiderman, Never Let Me Go) stars as Desmond Doss, the WWII American Army Medic who refuses to hold a weapon. Brought up as a Seventh Day Adventist, with a drunken wife-beating father, possibly because he is former soldier and survivor of WWI, Tom (Hugo Weaving: The Matrix, The Lord of the Rings) and God-fearing mother Bertha (Rachel Griffiths: My Best Friend's Wedding, Saving Mr Banks), Desmond vows never to raise his hand in violence. Following a serious accident where Desmond uses his belt as a tourniquet, he meets Dorothy (Teresa Palmer: I Am Number Four, Warm Bodies) a nurse, who he immediately falls in love with.With the outbreak of War, Desmond feels he must fight alongside his fellow man and joins the Army where he meets several other new recruits, such as Hollywood Zane (Luke Pegler: Fool's Gold, See No Evil) and Smitty Riker (Luke Bracey: Point Break, The November Man) and his commanding officer Sergeant Howell (Vince Vaughn: The Internship, The Wedding Crashers). All goes well until weapons training and he refuses to pick up a gun. When threats by Howell and his Captain, Jack Glover (Sam Worthington: Avatar, Terminator Salvation) and a sustained campaign to get rid of the 'coward' do not work, the Army takes him to court, but with help from his father, it is proved to be against his constitutional rights. Once the company makes it to war, the 1945 battle of Okinawa, his comrades begin to see what Desmond is really made of.This powerful film, based on a true story, is a little gem. From the very beginning we see, through the eyes of the protagonist, the joys and heartaches of life, love in it's many forms and the brutality and ultimate futility of war. Not for the squeamish, for me the war scenes evoked echoes of Saving Private Ryan for their authenticity of what man can do to his fellow man, but never in a glorified way. But it is the highs and lows that Doss experiences in this part of his life that really pulls you along on this emotional journey with him. Dealing with all the issues surrounding war, including the psychological impact and after effects, by both the father and son.With exceptional performances both from Garfield, who truly proves his acting chops in this movie, and the supporting cast, including a sublime Weaving and surprising Vaughn, where all the characters get to be more than two-dimensional, this is a courageous film that deserves to be ranked with Saving Private Ryan and Band of Brothers.
