Colbert has made the best satirical TV show in US history.This 22 minute show is three shows. So I'd say Stephen Colbert has made the best three satirical US TV shows. With Jon Stewart's Daily Show in fourth place.First this is a show that spoofs the stupid US news TV. With a segment The Word which is comedy GOLD.Second this is a talk show where Stephen walks into a set where the guest is already sitting or standing sometimes in the dark. He runs in front of them and takes all the applause. There is no time for applause for the guest. Stephen is a one of histories greatest interviewers. Third it is an investigative reporting show which is more honest and insightful than the US "media manipulated" news and makes a genuine connection with the audience.I wish I could buy stocks in Stephen. Two word review: "Thankyou Colbert!".


                
Last night's first episode of the Colbert Report was a sign of great things to come. Stephen Colbert has already made his name as a correspondent on The Daily Show (sometimes under brilliantly ridiculous monachers), and branching out onto his own show I'm looking forward to more. If there is more to be expected, with more variety, it's definitely welcome, but on sight of the first episode I'm already hyped for it. Basically, Colbert is a combination of the several 'taling-head' talk-show hosts on Cable TV news networks, with huge egos in the guise of traditional journalism. In particular, one can see the lampooning of Bill O'Reilly, which whether or not you're a fan of his you'll find some humor (I'm very much not, but it may not be too deterring for O'Reilly's main base). The set-ups like 'The Word', and a competition with another TV correspondent with strange phrasing, are hysterical, and sometimes more subtle than the Daily Show material.If you like Colbert's stuff, it's a must-see, and if you're a newcomer to the show (and might not watch the Daily Show much) it's worth a viewing. One thing's for sure, like the Daily Show, it's a breath of fresh air in the realm of the mildly outrageous.


                
Where do I begin with Stephen Colbert and the report - quite simply it has revived my spirits that the world we live in can still bring to us a show and a person who can deliver what no-one else in any media can. Incredibly funny, sharp, incisive, clever, biting the adjectives are endless. Colbert's brilliance is - as others have put it - the fake punch. Pretending to oppose his interviewees while actually pointing the sharp end at the corruption & evils of the world that we live in right now.Stephen promotes Science, Space Travel, Environmental Awareness, Equality & Racial/Religious tolerance (he is the *ONLY* pro-catholic non-Christian-bashing person in any form of mainstream media anywhere on the planet right now). And he manages all this and many more positive messages with his incredibly funny, self-absorbed on-screen persona that rightfully has the audience in stitches when they're not on their feet cheering. I proudly bought my C.O.L.B.E.R.T. patch at NASA Kennedy Space Center (so good I had to buy two!) and will wear & display them to anyone who will notice, and try to tell as many people as I can to watch this show. So Heroes - you are all officially mobilized to Code-Sierra-Alpha, and spread the WORD to everyone about the greatest satirical show in the history of television !!Long live Stephen. Stephen for President. Stephen for Pope. Stephen for King. etc...Adrian


                
Stephen Colbert can be summarized in just a few words: brilliant, satirical, and genius are a few that describe him. His views on everything, from the highest levels of government down to something as trivial as milk are things everyone can relate to at some point. With excellent recurring sketches, e.g.- "The Word", "Tip of the Hat, Wag of the Finger", and "Stephen Colbert's Sound Advice" it's no wonder this show has earned such high ratings with Comedy Central viewers and IMDb users. Comedy Central needs less shows and comedians that try to be edgy, such as Carlos Mencia (no offense to all the fans) and get more stuff like this, that IS edgy and funny. The Colbert Report is on several times a day on weekdays throughout the day and with late-night showings as well. Catch it as often as you can!


                
Now I have something to watch from 8-9 on Comedy Central. This show and it's brother show, the Daily Show, proves to be the funniest hour on television. We love Stephen Colbert as Comedy Central's answer to Bill O'Reilly. He's not to be taken seriously but he is always funny but it's not a slapstick, vulgar kind of funny. He takes potshots at us liberals and I love it. He's the kind of guy that you wouldn't mind listening to or giving a high-five. I am so glad that the Emmys have recognized this show's humor and entertainment much like his lead-in show, The Daily Show. There are definite differences between the two shows. Stephen Colbert is the American loving conservative right handed guy that provides a voice for those people who are. Remember when we watched All In the Family and it was about politics too, there were a discourse in the voices on the show which made it interesting to watch. Colbert has a way with guests and he interviews congressmen and congresswomen who represent districts across the country. He makes them look silly and yet human too. You can't take this show too seriously. Maybe that's the point, yes we are at war and New Jersey is in a budget crisis but we can turn to the Colbert Report and get a laugh about it or two. I love the skit where he pretends to be the Chief Press Secretary and Helen Thomas is chasing him down at every turn. You can't stop laughing at that.


                
This show started out as a joke on "The Daily Show" as a 30 second promo and ran for a few years and got picked up and I am glad it was. Of all the political/talk shows to appear on cable, the "Colbert Report" is the best. It shows that all the other pundit shows are ridiculous and unnecessary. From the first episode when he uttered the word "truthiness", the first shot rang out to all other full-of-themselves pundits. Plus he exposes the absurdity of their so-called grudges with his war with bears. He tears apart the myth of the "liberal media" by showing that the right wing are more outlandish than any one else. Also, how many talk show hosts have a baby eagle named after them?


                
The Colbert Report is the most entertaining, smart and sophisticated show ever. Stephen's BKAD or Better Know A District segments are the best. He's determined to interview every US Representative. He's political as hell but claims to be just a comedian. Everything he has ever done has been poking fun at the fake "moral" majority. He's a good man. Even through his irreverent and naughty acts and language the real, true, goodness shines through and is always making a point. His appearance on the White House Press Correspondent's dinner is one of the most watched clips of all time on the internet. I would love it if he ever did run for President but I know he won't. The only thing that I could wish for is that he and Jon do more things together. Lately, there's been no "toss" between the shows. I miss it. I miss it a lot.


                
I have to say that I like "The Colbert Report" better than "The Daily Show", as Stephen Colbert does everything possible to parody right-wing firebrands like Bill O'Reilly and Sean Hannity. Which brings us to...The Word: Hilarious. Stephen Colbert is. (that doesn't depend on the definition of "is"). We could get all our news from this show. (Bush doesn't get his news from any media outlet). This just might bring respectability back to TV. (some people thought that "Friends" did). And that's the word. Thanks for listening.Anyway, this is something that you just gotta see. As for Better Know a District, I'm sure that he'll eventually look at Oregon's 1st District. A great show.


                
I had absolutely no clue what to expect from this show. Comedy central has a way of releasing show's that look just splendid & then disappointing me.But the Colbert Report is a cracking good laugh, just absurd & definitely worth my motherfucking time.It's a parody of show's like the O'Reilly Factor. It has a host (Daily Show veteran Stephen Colbert) whose persona is very self important & self centered. His name is on everything, all over the set and the desk is shaped like a giant C (stand's for C.unt Colbert, he remind's us!)The show primarily consist of Stephen (The C.unt) Colbert, in his daily show persona, sitting at a desk and giving his opinions on thing's. It's all done in the spirit of satire, parodying popular journalism and the tendency of people who despite having no expertise at all; never the less get a lot of camera time (not unlike Stephen C.unt Colbert), despite the fact that their opinion's are basically worthless (not unlike C.unt Colbert).All in all the show is very schitt and very gay. I think Stephen Colbert is an incredible investment for Comedy Central.
Stewart is great, but Stephen Colbert is remarkable, all the time. Comedy Central is where I get all my news from the US these days. Stewart is great, but Stephen Colbert is remarkable, all the time. Comedy Central is where I get all my news from the US these days. Stewart is great, but Stephen Colbert is remarkable, all the time. Comedy Central is where I get all my news from the US these days. Stewart is great, but Stephen Colbert is remarkable, all the time. Comedy Central is where I get all my news from the US these days. Stewart is great, but Stephen Colbert is remarkable, all the time. Comedy Central is where I get all my news from the US these days. The needs of an adult ironic generation have finally been met.


                
Stephen Colbert was a correspondent/commentator in The Daily Show with Jon Stewart. In 2005, he started his own half hour show as his alter ego Stephen Colbert, the conservative pundit. It ends after 9 years as Colbert is set to take over from David Letterman in his late night talk show slot. This may be sacrilegious but I like The Colbert Report more than The Daily Show. Don't get wrong. Jon Stewart is great but he's not doing something original. He's not even the original host of The Daily Show and The Daily Show isn't even the first fake news show. Colbert is doing a different personality to do serious news. It's like some of the SNL Weekend Update except Colbert is dead-on. He nails the conservative pundit down to the T. He's so good that some people don't even understand that it's an act. It's also a product of its times. This show is something special.


                
Finally someone has the gravitas to show the world how down the gutter our journalism in America is going.The Colbert Report and the original Daily Show both take you on a fun half hour ride through the mad minds of American politics and Journalism.Along the way leaving clever and funny remarks.I've always liked The Colbert Report more than The Daily Show.Reason well I think that is an easy one.Colbert is a lot more controversial sure Stewart has his moments,but Colbert pulls off that he is a Bush loving Republican while at the same time making fun of Bush and Republicans.Now Republicans aren't the only ones who get nailed.Truthiness is dished out to the Democrats as well.Pretty much anyone who makes Fox News or Stephen's favorite to make fun of Fox and Friends than it is likely you will see it comedically on this show.I suggest you give it a watch the next time its on Comedy Central.You wont be disappointed!


                
News-comedy at its finest.Host Stephen Colbert presents and comments on the latest news, all while having a right-wing slant. Thing is...he's a comedian, not a news anchor, and he's actually left-wing...Brilliant send up of the news, and of right-wing news channels in particular (yes Faux News, we're talking about you). Complete with skits, dream sequences and all manner of comedic devices. Very intelligently written, with a tongue-in-cheek commentary on world events.Best thing about Colbert: he doesn't take himself too seriously. Everything is about the comedy and there's not too many attempts to editorialise. This was Jon Stewart's one failing in The Daily Show: many of his rants were more editorials than comedy routines, and often inaccurate and/or misdirected editorials at that. Then, when an inaccuracy is pointed out, he fell back on "Hey, we're a comedy show, what did you expect!?" Fine, but then don't behave like you're an authority on the matter... Just a pity Colbert gave it all away to host The Late Show. The Late Show is meant for a more mainstream, less intelligent, less political (at least, less left-wing) audience. This means much of his comedy is now dumbed-down and he's forced to suck up to movie stars etc and do clickbait scenes, i.e. the sort of crap you would expect on Jimmy Fallon's show.


                
If you don't know The Colbert Report, it's fair to say: you know nothing. I can forgive ignorance, but obliviousness to the greatest comedy show ever to be seen, I simply won't forgive. Don't even start with any show, comedian or host you think is good or cool or funny. If you have missed out on the brilliance, that is The Colbert Report, you don't even possess the scale to measure what is good or bad. All this late-shows and hosts out there pale in comparison to the borderline insane genius, who made his alter ego a piece of art.The show is an almost perfect mixture of entertainment and education. Stephen Colbert will sensitize you like no one else, for the role of the media and emotion-driven, fear-generating pundits in special, in Americas shift to the right in the last four decades, when democracy was replaced by money, sanity by greed and doing the right thing by doing the thing that gets you rich, because he is a crazy rich, right-wing-crazy TV-pundit. While his ironic portrait of that self-righteous, Bill o'Reillyesk quasi-fascist Stephen Colbert (with a silent t), provides you with lots of arguments to uncover and understand right-wing propaganda, he surprisingly manages at the same moment to give his market-totalitarian character a likable core, a soul if you want. Partly this gives us an idea of the motivations and feelings of the rich and powerful, partly it shows, that every monster is essentially an emotionally crippled human being.What else is there to say? Stephen Colbert sings like no other late-night host, and he is by far, and I really mean that, the best interviewer I have ever seen. A legend. For me, he represents America. His persona stands for the U.S. that is, his person for the country it could be.The show will end November 2014, a few weeks from now. If you have missed it, you have missed the most significant TV-event of the first one and a half decades of this millennium.I will miss you a lot, Stephen!


                
In 2005 Comedy Central had raked in some Emmys through their popular satirical news program: The Daily Show. Comedy Central began looking to expand the franchise, and they decided to give Stephen Colbert (a senior correspondent on the Daily Show) his own late night news program titled "The Colbert Report", and the result is a Knock-Out.I first tuned into the report in late 2008 when a friend of mine was watching it on TV, and I have to say the show really packed a punch.From its charming writers to the sketchy comedic Colbert himself, the show will keep you glued to the TV. The writers creativity mix with Stephens charm and magnetic personality so well I felt as if I was trying a martini for the first time. Whether Colbert is repelling down from a rope onto the set, or filling his seats with Iraq war vets and giving them free beer while Joe Biden is handing out hot dogs, the Colbert Report is definitely one show that will put a smile on your face as you lay down to sleep.One thing I do like about the Colbert Report (as well as the Daily Show) is that it is available online for free at their website. Even current episodes are posted as soon as they air on TV, so you don't even need comedy central to watch it. It is also available on XboX Live as well as iTunes.So whether your looking for a laugh, some serious politics, or just a sexy hot dog man dancing in front of Joe Biden, this show is definitely for you!


                
