It is a great pity that so many people do not get beyond ep. 1 and 2 in this, frankly, superb series. There again asking anyone to sit through a couple of hours of subtitled drama with the promise that it will be really good is a hard ask.But it is really good. In actual fact I enjoyed even the opening hour or so - Saga, the aspergic Swedish detective, is just fascinating and her relationship with Martin (the Danish "traditional" detective) is something that grows between them (and on the viewer) - and is all the better for the time it has. The result is some laugh out loud moments in every episode, if you get the joke - but also a relationship that is very unusual and works on many levels.In fact this feature of the series is so enjoyable that the fiendishly complex plot - which leaves an impressive body count across the two countries - becomes almost a background. It does grip, though, right to the very end. Some silly bits, some bits that do not quite stand up to too close an examination, but that is the nature of this sort of thing.
A grisly murder on the bridge spanning Sweden and Denmark brings together two odd couple detectives. The Swedish policewoman is brilliant and driven but blind to social niceties whilst the Danish cop is gruffly likable and old school in his policing methods. The murderer employs improbably convoluted means to apparently bring attention to social inequity.This is underscored by locations where the privileged are seen in their smart architect designed homes and the homeless surviving in plastic shelters on bleak waste grounds. The downbeat mood is appropriately filmed in a monotone low key palette and pauses between the action are filled with poetic long shots of the cities of Malmo and Copenhagen beneath lowering skies.After viewing episode three there is an unavoidable feeling that this series is set in the tradition of Scandinavian crime pioneered by the writing team of Maj Sjowall and Per Wahloo and furthered in more recent times by the Wallander and Unit one television series. A more understated approach would have been preferable to the drama that at times suffers from hyperbole but I am looking forward to the coming episodes nonetheless.


                
Danish drama 'The Killing' was a massive international hit, with its mixture of naturalistic acting, complex storyline, dark Scanadanvian winters and bright Scandinavian kitchens, political sub-plots and a socially limited female lead. Many of these elements seems rather obviously recycled in 'The Bridge', a joint Danish-Swedish production set (in part) on the bridge between the two countries; and in terms of atmosphere, it is duly similar (and in a good way). But it can't ultimately match up to its predecessor: Sara Norgen grew on me over time, but she's no Sara Lund, less believable and certainly harder to care about. The political dimension goes nowhere, disappointingly wasting some potential in the programme's trans-national conceit but above all else, the problem is in the plotting, requiring that old trope, the impossibly brilliant serial killer whose main ambition is to play games with the police. 'The Killing' had a complicated story of its own and the sum total of what happened was a bit much if you think about it, yet the individual events in the story made sense; but the events of 'The Bridge' have no parallel in real life. There were things I liked, though, particularly the slow reveal of Martin's faults and the way they gradually shifted him towards the centre of the plot. And I don't think it's a spoiler to say that it's no surprise (given the lyrics of the haunting theme song) when at the end of the story, the focus of the action shifts (appropriately) back to the beginning.


                
I fell in love with Saga Norén, a Swedish female police inspector with Asperger. All of the main actors of this series do a great job. However, the story line is always the same: one or more bodies are discovered and every episode is a side story in the investigation that leads to nothing except of course the last episode.


                
