I guess reviewer Smockan didn't notice that Sofia Helins odd character had Aspergers Disorder which results in a very asocial behaviour. She don't know how to socialize or communicate in a normal fashion. She knows nothing about being diplomatic or "holding back". She's just barging in like a bulldozer. I've seen the first 9 episodes and was amazed by the exciting storyline, the twists and Kim Bodnias acting. Sofia Helins performance isn't top notch but the character is so amusing and hilarious so you cant do nothing but love her. as long as you don't have to meet her in real life. =)Those of you out there who just watched one episode and thought "this is crap. Cant stand watching this piece of *beeep*. Let's watch Wrestling instead" just don't know what you missed. This is a great crime series and it shows that Sweden and Denmark should co op more often when it comes to made for TV-drama.


                
It was a great pleasure to watch this series. I actually missed the first episode unfortunately, but watched from episode 2 to the last one. One of the reasons i enjoyed it was that the story actually at several points resembled one of my favourite campy b-horror movies from 1971, the British "The abominable Dr Phibes" starring Vincent Price. There were a lot of similarities so i could eventually guess what would happen in episode 9 and 10, but it didn't ruin the experience at all.Acting was great, i loved the characters that Sara Helin and Kim Bodnia are playing, and the complicated story of finding out who the serial killer is and what the motivation is really plays out well. Hope this gets distributed outside scandinavia.


                
The unusual character of Saga absolutely makes what would otherwise be a superior crime drama all that much more special. Even through the veil of English subtitling that frequently left us bemused or scratching our heads, and very solid work by all of the cast and writers, it was Saga that often left us howling with laughter even in the midst of the most gruesome circumstances, and left us eager for the next episode. I was surprised to see that some other reviewers either didn't 'get' that Saga has Aspergers, or thought that Sofia Helin's performance was poor. Perhaps we had an advantage in having seen just enough of Sofia's other work to know right away that her portrayal of Saga was very deliberate. If you're looking for a taut, intriguing and often very amusing murder mystery, this is well worth your time. Superb.


                
First of all, everybody should no that am usually very critic of Swedish movie and series production (I generally thought like danish more) so it's absolutely not because of that, that i like this series. Specially I've been critical about the acting. And this is absolutely the opposite in this case. At first I didn't really understand Sofia Helins act, but as soon as I realized she is acting an person living with the diagnosis of "asperger, autism spectrum" it all changed for me. Her acting is actually genius, and if someone don't understand that, u should find out more about that condition because her acting is the opposite of what some other reviewers her call bad. I also liked the acting and the dept of the Kim Bodnia character which was combined of a good cop, trying to be a nice guy privately, which could work out a bit better. The story took a few nice turns, but sometimes it felt like to many.


                
For me, after 4 episodes, the interaction between the Swedish detective and the Danish detective is the most interesting facet of the show. True, in these first few episodes there is reliance on the national stereotypes (Danes are easy going, sloppy, but eventually get there, while Swedes are ultra efficient, always on top of it, etc.). There is usually a grain of truth in stereotypes, mostly its a question of style. These two really do compliment each other, and do get there (eventually) never mind style. Some very funny moments in the midst of body parts, social commentary and casual sex (she has an itch, goes to a pick-up bar to get it scratched) all good. The plot seems contrived (4 episodes...?) but I expect it to knit together later. Personally, I'd like more of the subtle humor. Watch " Good cop, Bad cop" (2006), to see just how zany the basic plot elements can be presented in 2hrs. I really enjoy this series and will probably give it another star after I see all season 1. So far, so great. MTF
My wife and I just watched Seasons 1 and 2. They were great. Excellent acting and both plots made sense. There is a lot of material on Danish inspector Martin Rohde's family and history, but it all fits nicely into both plots. Not a soap opera. Season 2 introduces more characters than Season 1, but almost everything is resolved in the end. We've watched scores of detective series and this is one of the best. We hope Season 3 is just as good.


                
This is a good offering made in the Scandi-Noir genre. The lead character is well played by the actress. She is socially awkward, and probably somewhere on the Autism spectrum. At times the scenes drag, there are too many subplots that serve only to distract from the main story, and there is the usual (and too much)moralizing about global issues that is so much a part of Danish and Norwegian TV series. There are aspects of the story line that does stretch the imagination, and borders on the unbelievable. One can only hope that Season 2 will not be formula driven but that it will look to correct the deficiencies that are in Season 1. For fans of this movie genre, it is worth the effort but be prepared to sit through the boring bits!


                
This is one long bridge, in more ways than one. Ten hour-long episodes with a Danish male and Swedish female cop trying to track down a mysterious serial-killer with an apparent societal conscience, who manages to keep himself out of sight and at the same time one step ahead of them. Welcome to the latest Nordic noir, another high quality mystery thriller which will keep you intrigued pretty much all the way through.Atmospheric theme music plays over the trademark unusually-lit city night-scapes set the tone for what's to follow. The opening scene grabs you straight away, a corpse carefully placed on the borderline of Sweden and Norway, actually the centre point of the connecting bridge of the title. Better yet, the body itself comprises two halves of different people, meaning two murders and questions over jurisdiction from the competing police forces. Thus we are introduced to the two very different detectives who will be our guides through the labyrinthine plot, from Norway, older family man Martin, who's just had a vasectomy and from Sweden, Saga, the younger eccentric female loner, into casual sex.Over ten hours, we not unnaturally get to know a lot about these two and the programme cleverly makes us change our perceptions of them as the story progresses. Decent, humane Martin promptly beds an rich elderly widow in an echo of a similar episode of philandering from years ago which may be the root cause of the apparent killing spree while Saga's tactless remarks and complete lack of emotion betrays a total lack of social skills which cast her as an outsider. Their detective skills are different too, Martin is methodical while Saga is mercurial, but there's no question it's her brilliance at sleuthing which is more important to solving the case.Over ten episodes, it did falter a bit in the middle with too much focus on Martin's problems at home with his wife and son, while at times Saga's insensitivity borders on the deliberate and the characterisation takes some strange routes never more than when Saga takes in Martin's heroine-worshipping son in a reversal of the almost identical scenes earlier when the young teenage girl ends up staying with the weird hippy guy who's later brainwashed into killing a doctor. By the end a sort of bond has brought them together,althougits it's worth repeating that there's not much evidence of what Martin brought to the table other than helping Saga integrate with her colleagues.For me then the strength of the sectors was in the plotting and not the characterisation. The acting by all was excellent and the gripping climax lived up to expectations and rightly took us back full circle.Overlong and overdone it may have been at times, but I'm still sorry it's over at all.
The only thing I can say about the musical intro is that it's pretentious and unintelligible. I probably heard it three or four times before I realized it was sung in English. Though, truth be told, i won't be surprised when someone corrects and me says it was actually Danish. Why would someone sing a song that is unintelligible other than for the obvious reason that the songwriter had absolutely nothing to say?


                
I'm into the third season of this riveting series. The plot is very complex with more characters than necessary but it draws the viewer into their various background stories, which are woven into each series. Suspenseful it is, and each season brings a new adventure against the dark side of human society; however, we see what is going on with the personal stories that hold our interest. In the first two seasons, we find the Swedish detective Saga working alongside Martin, her Danish counterpart, whose past catches up with him. Saga is challenged by autism, which strains her personal relationships, but Martin tries to help her with tips that she tries awkwardly to follow. Another Danish police detective, Henrik becomes her partner in season three. As with Martin, he too has a lot of personal baggage but he becomes fascinated with Saga. At first, the outlines of their personal histories are alluded to but in time, these become key to the plot. The main plots involve timely stories about refugees, eco-terrorists, and underworld characters who are pursued by Saga, Martin and Henrik along with their Danish and Swedish colleagues. Action swings back and forth over the bridge connecting the two countries. In fact, crimes happen close to the bridge thereby requiring both sides to work together. The setting is dark, grim and joyless but there are genuine human touches from time to time. This series is harsh but we enjoy the twists and turns in the stories and the personal lives of the characters.


                
but I know many adults, children and teens with Aspergers and none act like Saga. Her character is a shallow version of the personality. She's written like the writer is taking every trope about an autistic six year old and applying it to a grown woman. By Saga's age she would have learned to emulate those around her. Is Martin the only person in her life who has ever told her she acts odd? I highly doubt it. I've read they didn't intend an Aspergers character, just one with bad social skills but it has now become their explanation for her behaviour. I'm sure many people know others on the spectrum and actually don't act as clueless as Saga. Emotions aren't unknown to people with Aspergers often they are just not as obvious. That said, I do like the show. There are plot holes and ridiculous plot lines like most cop shows but it's dark, strange, well paced and acted with interwoven story lines.
