It's a gangster film, in a time when gangster films have been done to death. In order to create one that is truly good and stands out from the rest, you must start off with a good initial idea. This film lacks that idea, and creates an extremely generic, clichéd crime film that more than certainly over stays it's welcome. This movie took me two days to watch, and throughout I was wondering if it was possible to get any more boring. 320 minutes of hacking off limbs, weird music scores in the middle of a scene and nonintellectual dialogue just ruin what could have been an epic if they could have pulled off such a runtime.Ultimately Gangs Of Wasseypur fails on a grand scale. Nothing in this film is remotely interesting, the film takes too long to end (hence it takes too long for anything meaningful to happen) and the direction, acting and script almost make it the worst I've seen. I would give it an 'F', but I don't think it is deserving of that.


                
The splitting headache I got after watching this excruciatingly long movie was nothing compared to the one I'm currently having on seeing this feature film make IMDb's top 250. This movie relies on a few basic rules that make the majority of Indians go crazy but sadly, I don't see it. Reasons why my friends liked it: 1. Yaar it's cult. 2. That dialog about asking for hand-holding permission was killer. 3. That dialog about his wife asking him to eat well was so funny. 4. That song is epic! 5. Blah blah blah. The story is overly exaggerated (as claimed by some Wasseypur citizens themselves recently) so whoever says it's a REAL movie is welcome to take it up with them or me. It's painfully lengthy and slow. The last scene is too far from reality and only reminds me of Hrithik Roshan in Agneepath. The protagonist hates monogamy and loves sex, which makes Indian men whistle of course. Every second word in the movie is an abuse (again I hear whistles and even louder when the women are abusive). If this is all it takes to make a great movie, look out for my blockbuster tomorrow in a cinema-hall near you. Too many generations, too much of Godfather, excessive confusion, nymphomania, cheapness, vulgarity, abusiveness and gore. This movie was terrible. But please, see for yourself and I hope that some of you will agree with me after experiencing the above yourself. The rest of the GoW lovers, no offence, but your taste is pretty bad in my opinion.


                
if i knew before that this is what i am gonna get in the next two and a half hour i would have never wasted my time watching this film!seriously besides some nice acting by Manoj Bajpai, there is nothing left to see in this film. they just pulled the film without any reason. lots of characters. always got confused between who's who? there's no specific target in this film. in most cases they just jumped from one scene to another. ending is a total crap. i had a huge expectation from this film but got total disappointment. i also do regret a lot to suggest this film to my friends even before i watched this film.so please guys save your time to see some other staff, but don't see this one.


                
One of the worst films I've ever nearly sat through. Can't believe it's Anurag Kashyap's film!I am seriously wondering how is this averaging 8.6 out of 10 on IMDb? Seriously? I feel sorry for people who can't see through the filth...When the movie started it looked like it's going to be a neat documentary-like film about that region of India, but within few minutes it started getting little strange as the plot and storyline kept getting more and more inconsistent and boring. I should mention that I generally like Anurag Kashyap's films. Until now I used to look forward to his films. After seeing this move I would be careful.I don't want to put any spoiler in this review, you should watch it and decide for yourself.


                
This movie was pathetic. If IMDb allows me, i would rate it 0/10. So many vulgar dialogs which makes no sense at all which includes the movie soundtrack as well and it was totally unnecessary. I guess that is the attraction for many viewers. Manoj Bajpai acted well and the direction was good but the way the story was presented was disgusting. The movie has been added with too much Mirch Masala and the worst part about it was the crowd in the theaters. Due to some sensitive issues, people were fighting in the cinema halls itself. The movie can't be seen as an entertainment flick. Really disappointed with the overall hype about it.
Avoid this utter rubbish if you can unless you want to torture yourself.This movie is nothing but filth from the beginning to the end.The story line is absolutely scattered and wandering from one plot to another looks like someone was scribbling the screenplay while the shooting was ongoing,The audience in the hall was as confused they didn't know if this was a comedy or a gangland movie,IMO and the way they were laughing at every filthy word the audience rated this as a comedy. Songs were pathetic too so you can now imagine what utter nonsense this apology for a movie is.


                
