Just saw the screening at the Sydney film festival. Its definitely one of the best Hindi movies ever made. Direction, screenplay, narration, acting, music, cinematography, everything about this movie is top notch. Anurag Kashyap is truly the best at whatever he does. You wont even feel the length of 5 hours and 20 minutes. Manoj Bajpai's has proved once again that he is the powerhouse of acting. Not one scene is out of order and everything is properly explained with no questions unanswered. Dialogues are very sharp and as close to reality as it can get. The opening sequence in itself is a masterpiece. The way its scripted and executed is just mind blowing. All the bloodshed keeps getting more and more innovative. Its one of those movies that will always be mentioned everywhere whenever someone talks about the Indian cinema.


                
I have just returned from the first day late night show of this movie (the first part) and it has totally blown me away. The movie starts with a bang and carries the charm throughout. The way each character is introduced is terrific. It is story telling at its best. From Shahid Khan to Sardar Khan to Sultan, you actually end up fearing them all - the characters are so beautifully portrayed. Manoj Bajpai is amazing as Sardar (he really got into the character) and the narration (by one of the gang members) adds a lot of flavor to the entire flow of the movie.Siddiqui's role is brief in the first part and I have a feeling he will play a major role in the remaining part of this epic. He is already looking good. Tigmanshu as Ramadheer Singh is terrific, his expressions too good.Apart from this, the movie is informative - it very subtly tells the audience all about the way Indian coal mafia has progressed over the years, the gang wars, the politics. Obviously there is a lot of slang. I have not seen a Hindi movie with so crude a language ever, absolutely not recommended for family viewing and children/teenagers.The camera angles, especially the final sequence is superb. Anurag Kashyap is India's answer to Quentin Terentino. Gangs of Waseypur is already a Cult.


                
Just watched this movie today on the day of release.Excellent background music throughout the movie. Excellent acting by Manoj Bajpayee & Richa Chaddha. Superb comedy and action. A movie you need to watch in theaters to enjoy it fully.Dabangg is nothing in front of this movie.This movie is just Entertainment,Entertainment and Entertainment.Had to choose between Teri Meri Kahani & Gangs of Wasseypur today. I am glad that we chose to go for Gangs of Wasseypur.It takes a lot of skill to make a movie like this. I hope it sweeps all the awards this year. Manoj Bajpayee's role as Bhikoo Mhatre was memorable and in this movie his role as Sardar Khan will be more memorable than any of his past performances.


                
Gangs of Wasseypur stands firmly on the grounds of direction, acting, screenplay, story-line, cinematography & music. Manoj Pandey has delivered an outstanding performance. The movie has to be rated "A" because of a lot of abuses (which implies, its not a family flick). But the essence of it is demanding and commendable. Everyone has done a splendid job. This one is not loose even for a minute. The most important aspect of its appreciation is its star-cast. A lot of new faces and still it doesn't disappoint. You can just imagine the crew on board when actors like Piyush Mishra & Yashpal Sharma are totally wasted. An entertaining cinema worth watching. There is no doubt that Anurag Kashyap is Bollywood's Quentin Tarantino. A must watch.


                
Bollywood movies are generally based on fantasy and imagination. Where the audience is made familiar with the characters which he 'wishes' to be.Gangs Of Wasseypur Adopts a different Approach.It makes the Audience identify with reality and makes familiar with the characters that 'are' around him.Being from wasseypur in dhanbad i was super excited to watch the movie based on my locality. i had presumed the movie might be 'inspired' by the gang wars, but no movie is 90% the actual story of the town.The movie has penetrating dialogues, harsh naked truth characters and language. Manoj Bajpayee's acting was breath taking. the scenes are still vivid even after 2 days of watching the movie. His Chemistry with the character 'Durga' was awesome. 'sardar khan's interaction with ramadhir singh in the movie is very interesting. The movie was brilliant in first half. The only place where the movie could improve is that there are so many characters that a normal audience will be confused and may just lose the plot. One needs to watch the movie carefully.9/10 to the movie made about my locality. Wasseypur Zindabad!


                
Very few movies are so good in all departments.Script - Engaging, real, entertaining Direction - Flawless Dialogues - Cream of the movie (Go just for the dialogs alone if not anything else) Performance - Outstanding from all actors. It never looks like acting. So real Music - Heart of the storytelling. Compliments way too well. Love you Sneha Cinematography - Best visuals possible for the terrain of wasseypur. It transports you to that place


                
Co-written and directed by Anurag Kashyap, this film will probably propel the filmmaker into the ranks occupied by the likes of Coppola and Scorsese in crafting Mafia styled epics, filled with the themes of brotherhood, revenge, betrayal, sex and violence. Showcased at this year's Cannes Directors' Fortnight with its sequel screened back to back, Kashyap has brought forth a sprawling, three generation span long tale of the titular Gangs of the coal mining town, where three crime families engage one another for infamy, riches and power supremacy.And what he had done to provide some gravitas to this tale, was a semi-documentary look at its background against the town of Wasseypur, where we witness how the wheelings and dealings between shady businessmen and their workers, and how some become politicians through bullying, gangster tactics, the laundering of money, and eventually buying support to ascend the political ladder. It's an intriguing commentary about, by extension, the country's state of affairs, and how some can grow influence through the use of hired muscles out to do their dirty work, for the duration of their useful lifespan, before being discarded.Beginning in explosive fashion with a full assault on a property, key figures get introduced, but only to keep things under wraps until the companion film in Part 2. We then get brought back to the 40s Wasseypur and Dhanbad land, where the British found themselves up against the formidable forces of the Qureshis , only for Shahid Khan (Jaideep Ahlawat) to impersonate their mysterious leader, pre-empt their attacks and undercut the Qureshis in their own game. Soon the Khans got exiled, only for Shahid to be brought back to Wasseypur when Ramadhir Singh (Tigmanshu Dhulia), a rich, corrupt industrialist, needed a muscle man to help in his exploitation of workers. But jealously meant Ramandhir's orders to get rid of Shahid, and thus opening up the feud to the second generation, led by Sardar Khan (Manoj Bajpai) who is hell bent on revenge.But in a tragi-comedy sort of way, the character of Sardar is somewhat tough on the outside with his ruthlessness, but all soft and fuzzy inside with his libido being lacking in control, with first wife Nagma (Richa Chadda) being relatively tolerant of his gallivanting ways only because she gets pregnant too easily, and the introduction of a Bengali girl Durga (Reema Sen) whom he met while on the run. This sets up the third generation of cast with Sardar's sons Danish (Vineet Singh) and Faizal (Nawazuddin Siddiqui), with a hint on what's to come disrupt his family dynamics with illegitimate son Definite, entering the picture, whom we'll see more of in the next film whose trailer gets airtime right after the end credits. On the other corner are the heir of the Qureshis in Ehsaan (Vipin Sharma) and Sultan (Pankaj Tripathy), who are caught in the middle with their alliance with Ramandhir, and the marriage of Sultan's sister Sharma (Amirota Jha). And what makes it interesting in the entire male dominated world, is the story of the women behind the men, as seen from the major character arcs on Sardar's family involved in romance of some sort, playing critical roles in defining the male characters and contrasting them in both their private and public lives, and instrumental especially in the final scene, and going into the next film.It might be overwhelming at first with a myriad of characters being introduced, but Kashyap got his presentation all under control like an old hand, bringing on new characters with proper title flashes, and providing adequate screen time for each to establish his or her backstory. This wonderfully crafts out motivations and characteristics of each family member, especially between the sons of Sardar, who will all play pivotal roles in the sequel, since the very first scene here would have shown each of them under different camps, and teasing us with just how allegiances would play out with family members now standing under different banners. Part of the engagement now would be to develop the narrative to reach the inevitable, and with the ensemble set up, the possibilities are endless.And as such, Gangs of Wasseypur has its fair share of surprises thrown about, where those slighted will almost always come back with a vengeance. Revenge may be high on Sardar's agenda, but there's a permeating poetic justice that provides a cruel twist of irony, with the narrative rich enough to allow various subplots to populate the story and to add a vivid texture to the characters instead of letting them become one dimensional characters. It's a sprawling epic that called upon the best of Bollywood sans the usual Masala formula, to showcase the skills, craftsmanship and talent in the industry that are capable of making a serious, critically acclaimed film with commercial appeal. Definitely highly recommended, although I'm reserving judgement until Part 2 when the film is complete. If you haven't watched an Indian film for some time already, if at all, then make Gangs of Wasseypur your launch point now.


                
Gangs of Wasseypur is a 2012 Hindi crime movie directed and co-written by Indian movie-maker Anurag Kashyap starring veteran Indian actor Manoj Bajpai in the lead role. The five hour long movie premiered at the Directors' Fortnight section—an independent section held in parallel to the Cannes Film Festival—at the 65th Cannes Film Festival. However, as far as the commercial release of Gangs of Wasseypur is concerned, the makers have decided to screen it in two parts of roughly 150 minutes each. Set in Wasseypur—the Muslim-majority district surrounding Jharkhand's (earlier a part of Bihar) coal capital, Dhanbad—Anurag Kashyap's Gangs of Wasseypur is a crime saga that revolves around the three-generation long sanguinary rivalry between two disputing Muslim clans: the 'Khans' and the 'Qureshis'. However, this bloody battle is not religious but strictly territorial in nature as the two clans indulge in incessant fights seeking carte blanche to run their respective crime syndicates in Wasseypur. It's worth mentioning that the events and circumstances depicted in Gangs of Wasseypur are fictionalized accounts of the real life events that occurred in the district of Wasseypur during the pre and post-independence India.Anurag Kashyap's crime saga, irrespective of its entertainment quotient, marks a new beginning in Indian Cinema. It is for this very reason that Gangs of Wasseypur serves to be an essential viewing for anyone whose purpose for indulging in Cinema is not limited to seeking entertainment. Amongst the new crop of Indian movie makers, Anurag Kashyap seems to have a definite edge to be the obvious choice to lead the Indian juggernaut in the global arena. Now, whether Kashyap lives up to the expectations is for the time to decide, but what can be safely said at this stage is that with Gangs of Wasseypur Kashyap has significantly bolstered his prospects as a moviemaker. Gangs of Wasseypur, Kashyap strives to strike the right balance between various cinematic elements that helps the movie touch the lows and highs of cinema, thereby helping it break the stereotype associated with quintessential Bollywood Cinema. Gangs of Wasseypur serves to be a highlight-reel of some of the most disturbing sequences ever filmed in Indian Cinema depicting shootouts, prison-breaks, brawls, bomb blasts, rallies, kidnappings, rapes, train-robberies, forced marriages, women in labor, lovemaking, killings, and butchery. One interesting facet that makes these scenes really effective is the level of realism and conviction with which they are carried forward in the movie. In Gangs of Wasseypur, Anurag Kashyap presents a grim picture of human decadence: Amongst the hundreds of masculine characters depicted in the movie, one doesn't get to witness a single likable character, for most of them come across as bestial beings desperate to serve their basic instincts of survival, physical love, wealth and power. On the other hand, the women are portrayed as secondary beings who are looked upon by men as materialistic pleasures rather than meaningful pursuits. Manoj Bajpai delivers a tour de force in Gangs of Wasseypur. His portrayal of Sardar Khan ranks right up there with the very best performances in the history of Indian Cinema. Sardar is ferocious killer as well as a voracious lover whose feral instincts to kill (his adversaries) are remarkably matched by his play boyish passion to for physical love. The rest of the cast gives memorable performances that help bring characters to life with a special mention of Nawazuddin Siddiqui whose underplayed cameo as Sardar Khan's younger son offered a great contrast to Manoj Bajpai's over the top portrayal. Siddiqui is expected have a major role in the second part of Gangs of Wasseypur considering the similarities of his part to Al Pacino's Michael Corleone. Whether Siddiqui will succeed in carving a niche for himself as Pacino had managed with his portrayal in The Godfather I & II is for the time to decide. The Cinematography of Gangs of Wasseypur is at par with the best in the world. Kashyap's sense of timing with the use of music is also exemplary. Kashyap expertly introduces occasional bursts of music and comedy to punctuate the slowly augmenting tension tension at different junctures in the movie. Kashyap's use of dark humor to judiciously propagate violence has an uncanny similarity to Quentin Tarantino's style of filmmaking. His choice of music in the movie's final sequence that depicts the brutal killing of one of movie's major characters à la 'Sonny Corleone' assassination in The Godfather is bizarre yet remarkably effective.Overall, Gangs of Wasseypur serves to be a unique cinematic experience that's not free of its flaws. However, despite its apparent flaws, Gangs of Wasseypur has enough to offer to a keen movie-viewer who would not allow him/her to be overwhelmed by movie's abundance of everything. Gangs of Wasseypur serves be a sanguinary carnival of epic proportions that's surely not meant for the faint-hearted. The movie is an essential viewing for the lovers of Indian cinema, for they will get to see something really refreshing in Gangs of Wasseypur, and also for those who want to get acquainted with it.
Kashyap Brothers are the new Dabangg of Bollywood. This movie will win the Oscar in best foreign language film. This movie will be in the nominations this year. This is bigger and a lot better than Sholay. You can just play the dialogues and enjoy the movie. I have seen this 3 times and want to see it several times by now. As many times I see it I just feel Real and nothing Reel. Its so interesting. As many times I see it I feel that I have seen this character somewhere, I have met these people somewhere. The characters are just > Naam ke Musalman aur Fitrat se Insaan. None of the characters are good at all, they are all bad. But they are giving some core and basic truth about humans and their strength from wherever they do belong (U.P., Bihar, etc.) they are not less than anyone, and they are too connected to the soil.A lot better than Kahani, Ishqiya, Satya, Peepli Live, or any other this genre of movie. If you can portray so much reality in a movie, then the movie maker is really outstanding. Reality in looks, in language, in expressions, in problems and their solutions. Reality can be more felt when someone is really from these regions of the world. The kind of tension and awkwardness that is shown can be generally felt in these regions."Chaabi Kahan Hai ? Gaand Mein Dali Hai Kya Chaabi, Sala Sab." Khee Khee-Khee .. Hee-HeeMost importantly I liked the posters of the film. They are like I am seeing the covers of 80s and 90s Comics, Manoj Comics, Tulsi Comics etc.I am waiting for the sequel. "Jia ho Bihar Ke Lala, Jiya Tu Hazar Sala. Tani Naachi Ke, ..."


                
In India the film will be released in two parts.Here I am reviewing the first part of the epic.With Smriti Irani gleefully welcoming the whole nation to Tulsi's family of "Kyun ki saans bhi kabhi bahu thi"(famous Indian soap opera),the family setting is disrupted by a series of bang-bang thus setting the mood for a raw violent epic tale of deceit and revenge.Welcome to Anurag Kashyap's take on the violent gang-war of coal mafia in Bihar,the movie is one of rare docu-fiction made in India that has the signature mark of Kashyap–arguably the best Indian film maker of current generation.The movie runs for a span of six decades telling us the evolution of coal mafia to its pinnacle of violence. With Sahid Khan impersonating the legendary Sultana Daku starts looting the trains just prior to the Indian independence. With Shahid Khan being thrown away from the village in Dhanbad he started working in a coal mine from where the game of rivalry took its first step as Shahid Khan was betrayed and killed by Ramadhir Singh's henchmen and later on Shahid's son Sardar vowed to take revenge. The basic premise is simple about the age-old tale of son avenging the death of his father and how it all gets engulfed into a family rivalry with lies, treacheries and betrayals. The executions seem to be homage to Tarantino as the tale moves forward with its blood soaked screenplay.There is intelligent use of wit and one-liners which helps in building the proceedings. Rarely have we seen humor revolving around slaughtered bodies and body parts in desi films. As the movie spans over decades there is key eye for detailing which are reflected in every sequences. The usage of black and white footages increases the credibility of the docu-drama. Like Kashyap's previous films this also deals with the dark psychology of human. This time he chooses to unmask the violent reality ruling in the heart land of our country and ropes in enough humor to unleash the stark reality. For people of Wasseypur killing is like having lunch and that disturbing essence has been beautifully captured. The violent existence had injected hatred in the nerves of each individual. Syed Qadri should be applauded for having the courage to write the story. Being hailed from Wasseypur he even got life threatening calls for the story. Technically GOW is one of the best films of recent times and indeed shows reflection for the praises that are shown in various film festivals. Direction from Kashyap is unquestionably top-notch. Rajeev Ravi's camera makes the proceeding more real. Shot in real locations the camera and colors hops between reality and fiction playing with various colors. Sneha Khanwalkar's music is one of the real heroes of the film. Whenever the scenes were tending to get a little repetitive the music saves the scene. Sneha's music reflected the particular era. While "Ik Bagal" hits the right notes for 40s, "Hunter" is a effective modern day rendition of imagination of a person who is at "high".Without giving any spoilers I would say the sequence of "Jiya ho Bihar ke lala" and the way it has been shot in itself becomes a learning lesson for many budding film makers. Also without glorifying violence Kashyap seamlessly merges blood into the narrative and not for a single moment it looked gory.There is no space for melodrama or pseudo-morality. In fact he can give a lesson to mainstream film makers of effective use of action in a realistic yet entertaining fashion. I couldn't think of anyone except Manoj Bajpayee as Sardar Khan who has revenge in his mind but his weakness for female body costs him dearly. Richa Chadda as Nagma Khatoon excels in every scene.The rebellious wife of Sardar is probably the best written character in this film. Nagma is sensitive yet ferocious who has a clear thought process and her character symbolizes freedom otherwise absent in wives of male-dominated India.Tigmanshu Dhulia as Ramadheer Singh patronizes evil and he is a treat to watch.A superb director himself he showed that he is equally brilliant in front of the camera as well. After being part of several films Pankaj Tripathy really gets his due in a meaty role and he proved himself as Sultan Qureshi. The anger oozes out from his personality thus shaping the character.Piyush Mishra is as always effective and dependable.He speaks with his eyes and their lies the talent of the veteran.His lyrics here are as strong as the ones in Gulaal. . Reema Sen effective as Durga. Nawazuddin Siddiqui excels as Faizal Khan the younger and the rebellious son of Sardar Khan.He is there only in the last hour of the first part but one could gauge that he will dominate the second installment.His fiancé' débutant Huma Qureshi is gorgeous and spontaneous. Jaideep Ahlawat as Shahid Khan is superlative. He simply had the necessary energy to spark the proceedings in the initial hours.He steals the scene where his wife is about to deliver her child and yet he is caged in a coal mine following which he fights back with his master.It symbolizes the life we are leading at present when we are buried under burden of material existence and can't stand behind our beloved even in harsh times.There are many such sequences which work as metaphors to the degradation of the standard of life.Overall GOW-I is a epic masterpiece. Kashyap dares to go beyond the conventional means while telling an off-repeated story of revenge.In fact this film is a case study for film makers who can learn the art and use it to make something unconventional yet entertaining.As a film lover I am eagerly waiting for GOWII.P.S:The trailer of GOWII sets the mood with characters like Perpendicular,Definite,Tangent.The film looks to be more quirky than the first installment.One of the characters,a lean structure shown chewing a blade with an assassin look seem straight out of Tarantino films and my expectation increases manifold.


                
After a series of duds movie is bollywood, this movie had regain the faith in bollywood industry & trust me it came from a hardcore hater of bollywood cinema. I think after Rang de basanti, this is the only movie which is at par with Hollywood.Each & every character in the movie seems to be destined to play their respective roles, be it Sardar Khan or Shahid Khan or Danish Khan or my personal favorite (actually quite a discovery) Ramadhir Singh. The beauty of this magnum opus lies in its sheer brilliance in acting deptt & the mammoth courage of Mr. Kashyap to envisage & put it in screen for us. Actually this movie had given me quite a hangoverThanks Mr. Kashyap for reinforcing the faith. I will await for your next!!!


                
one word for people who wonder why it rates above 8 on IMDb is - if you make films which are real they will hit the target. This movie is about real people REAL LANGUAGE real stupidity and at time real humor. It provides insight for everyone into rural lower and middle class who travel in local train and still go to Melas ! wear floral print shirts and have attitude to die for.watch it once and i can bet you want to travel in the cheapest class in Indian railways. To see how real it really is. meet the other 70 percent of India !!! Songs are straight from heart of rural India. Action will blow you away. comedy will keep you cracking every 10 minutes well orchestrated movie look forward to more of these. A real cult movie in Indian cinematic history.


                
I was first alerted of this movie by the sheer waves it was making in the Cannes Film Festival, and for the very obvious reason that it featured the hugely talented maverick director, Anurag Kashyap who had already carved a niche for himself by virtue of his brilliant direction in many unconventional, "art" films. The other reason was that one of my favourite actors, Manoj Bajpayee(one of those rare Indian actors who actually understand the meaning of acting), the genius who lived through his characters in films like Satya, Raajneeti, and 1971. Apart from these factors, what attracted me to the film was its gigantic ensemble cast(Piyush Mishra, Pankaj Tripathi, Tigmanshu Dhulia).I went to the theatre to catch part 1 without knowing what to expect, given Kashyap's penchant to making excellent films whose heady content are marked by ambiguous overtones; you never can really interpret any of Kashyap's films in one way!Ditto for Gangs of Wasseypur as well. I will not dwell on the plot, you will have to see the movie yourselves. What I will dwell on is the cinema itself. Firstly, to say that it is a violent movie is an understatement: there isn't just violence, you have men being butchered, gore splattered mercilessly. Hell, you even see a 10-second footage of blood on a floor(with a newspaper crumpled next to it, soaked in blood, just like how the policemen clean all the gore in crime scenes). Gunfire splits your eardrums, and believe me, it's a true-to-life sight.The movie begins with a rival gang blowing up a man's house with machine guns and makeshift bombs. The way Kashyap positions his camera and randomly puts in close-up shots of the machine guns followed by an overhead shot of the men firing at the doors of the house reminded me of those stalwarts of slickly violent films, Sergio Leone, Martin Scorsese, and Quentin Tarantino. Kashyap's direction is not fast-paced by any means, it is indulgent, it is leisurely-paced and that gives enough room for character development, which is where Kashyap scores, big time. The citizens of Wasseypur are all fleshed out realistically, and the protagonist, a lecher who dreams of revenge and power is too true.Next up is the performances of the case which is nothing short of phenomenal. Manoj Bajpayee...well, well, not for once did I think that his Bhiku Mhatre would be overshadowed by any other character, but as Sardar Khan, the sadistic, scary and scheming Mafia lord and a lecher to boot, Bajpayee delivers a performance that is worthy of a National Award. Riccha Chaddha as Nagma Khatoon, Sardar's poor wife who has to put up with his frequent extra-marital affairs, is a veritable brimstone who spews abuses and threatens policemen with a sickle> She is arguably the find amongst new actresses in the Hindi film industry. However, the biggest surprise is the performance of Tigmanshu Dhulia as Ramadhir Singh. With restrained emotions and an intense body-language, Dhulia delivers a tour-de-force.What separates this film from the rest of the bullsh*t that the so-called "Bollywood" industry spews out, is its subtlety, a device that Kashyap uses to great effect. The scene where Sardar's uncle realizes Ramadhir Singh's plot of killing Shahid Khan(Sardar's father) by recognizing Singh's umbrella, is very effective, because it doesn't shove over-emphasis up your nose. Apart from that, the performances of the case, are not over-the-top, nor are they too wooden. They portray their characters realistically, and underplay them brilliantly, unlike some Srk's some Sallu's and some "Big B's" who don't even understand the meaning of the word subtlety. Bajpayee controls his problem of occasional hamming by restraining his emotions perfectly. Kashyap helps, too, with some tight screenplay, not allowing any character to wallow in their grief and breaking out into songs. Overall, 'Gangs...'is one of those movies that you have to watch, simply because it can easily lay claim with being one of the best movie in gangster genre along with City of God, Godfather trilogy, and Nayagan.PS: Watch the last scene of the movie, you will be astonished with Kashyap's black comedy.


                
Every Human being on the earth has different shades/dimensions within themselves. Good, bad, sensitive, insensitive, fear, bravery, jealousy, courtesy, and the list is endless. Unfortunately, majority of the movies we see portray the characters as having only one dimension. And typically Indian Cinema is narrower in this aspect. From Indian cinema perspective there are only "good" and "bad" characters. Anurag Kashyap, is one of the handful directors, who stick to the fact that, there is nothing like good and bad. It is all about CHARACTERS!!!and each character WILL have multiple dimensions within himself/herself.KUDOS to the amazingly talented path-breaking director of Indian Cinema, Mr. Anurag Kashyap for giving such an epic movie called "Gangs of Wasseypur". Watching this movie is a bliss for a cinema lover. No wonder, it was hugely appreciated at the Cannes Film Festival.GOW is an end-product of a the most impressive story-telling, dialogs, characterizations, background music,casting and all other crafts in film-making!! Every character and the scene is written so wonderfully that, you are glued to the seat throughout the 160 minutes, forget the whole world, and feel as if you are there in the movie and seeing the characters live in front of you.Of course, it is not for the weak-hearted, as it has brutal violence, which is essential to get the right impact of the severity of the events. There are umpteen number of characters in the movie, and each of them have performed first-rate. They are not glamorous, they appear real. Not just that, the emotions the characters portray, are real, including the abusive language. (yes, indeed they are used in real life). Though the movie, has a native backdrop(Bihar), the theme is universal- REVENGE.What I liked: (I liked every part of the movie, but would like to mention some extra-extra-ordinary things)Manoj Bajpayee's screen presence, is FABULOUS!!Straight-forward, Bihar-accent-ed powerful dialogs (I felt that aha, I wish I was a Bihari for these 3 hours, to enjoy the dialogs more heart-fully)Timing of the songs and background music and the variation of these music pieces, elevate the movie to the next level.What I did not like: Nothing!!Summary: DO NOT MISS!!!Note: The movie ends at a critical point, and also lays the foundation for the sequel- "Gangs of Wasseypur-2", which will hit the screens soon, and I just cant wait to watch that. As per my assumption, Nawazuddin Siddiqui, will be having a major role in the sequence. Nawazuddin, is one of the finest actors, we have. (Recently, you watched him in New York,Kahaani and Paan Singh Tomar. FYI, he will also be playing a major role in Aaamir Khan's Talaash.)


                
It should be borne in mind that this movie is not like any other B-flick, the movie seems to be revolving around the tussle between the gangs of dhanbad(part of bihar), brilliant acting by all the characters,excellent dialogue deliveries... needless to say the hero of the film is ANURAG KASHYAP,reason being his marvellous direction and concept.. big fan!!!! he is turning out to be the QUENTIN Tarantino of the bollywood, the people who have appreciated his(ANURAG KASHYAP) previous work are definitely going to eulogise this movie also.. star cast has been amazing,manoj vajpayee has always been one of the most talented actor when it comes to act as a gangster and has proved the same in this movie!!! VERY UNIQUE AND FOXY MUSIC!!!! CAMERA WORK AND PRESENTATION ARE TOP NOTCH!!!


                
This blast will echo for decades & be heard by people across the globe. This is why I watch movies, every once in a while I stumble upon such a masterpiece which moves me to tears. You would feel emotionally drained as if rug had been pulled from under your feet & will take you by surprise. Had it not been a bollywood production this masterpiece would've been in IMDb top 10. Probably the best & most important film from bollywood/Hollywood put together. This film will make anyone think hard about how not to take things for granted and it is really heartwarming without being soppy. The music is worthy of praise too, the raw emotion and feeling is amply conveyed.A few simple paragraphs cannot truly describe the significant achievement of this film & I felt compelled to write a review soon after watching it. After some persuasion from friends I finally got to see it & have been recommending to others ever since. When it comes to movies I'am quite picky & very hard to please guy. There have been occasions where I have literally walked out of the theatre & times where I felt like I have wasted my time. I often watch movies on solid recommendations & tend to follow certain directors & cast. I am quite amazed at how well done this film is. It is a moving film which will shake you from inside. A real must-see. Amazing story brilliant performances.Very rarely it happens that movies are made that are very simple in expression but possess monumental appeal this fact is truthfully exemplified in this movie. Enough good things can't be said about this movie. It is undoubtedly one of the best and most moving films ever made. One of the most memorable and wonderful movies of the century. I can't say enough good things about this film I really can't - I mean it. Its one of my personal top ten films of all time. There is not another film more deserving of solid 10/10 in the list than Gangs of Wasseypur. Thank you so so much Mr Anurag Kashyap for having wonderfully put together this incredible masterpiece.


                
this movie became my favorite before i watched it.........not only because of anurag sir......or its success at cannes film festival or manoj bajpayee but because of its promos.......i went to theater and came out with same happiness as i expected from anurag kashyap's movie......in India majority says that the movie is boring and not good but i don't agree with them because those are the people who liked worst movies like housefull 1/2,bodyguard,dabangg,wanted etc.. and ignored movies like shanghai,black Friday,gulaal, etc.. I am warning people out there that if You like non sense action like bodyguard or some baseless movie sorry sir/ma'am this movie isn't made for you....according to me this movie is 1 of the best movie of bollywood till date....anurag gave so much attention to the detailing that you can't just ignore it and every character has given life it's own time to breath.......performance of all actors are awesome and manoj bajpayee is at all time best.....the plot,the story is larger than life and as you all know that this story is based on true story....some people will get shocked after watching this movie that this is the same country that they belong to.....this movie is not made for people who thinks that real India is shown just in 'yash raj films'..............for me its the best film ever made


                
ALL 10 STARS!!!! This movie does not shy away from anything. It is bold and full of rage (as the title says it) with hint of subtle laughter after every 5mins. The music will take you to another level in every situation. Based on true incidents in the coal belt of India, this movie will show you the truth behind news and claims of our political leaders. It will show you the horror in which people lived during past 60 years in Dhanbad area. Go for awesome acting, music and thrill. Overall, a different and unexpected experience.PS: For the people in India who feel that taking kids to a R-rated movie is OK for their 'early education', this movie will show you why you should never do that. Grow up and let the kids grow up properly too.


                
Gangs of Wasseypur is a story of three generations seeking revenge, each putting it: "Hamari zindgi ka ek ea maksad hai-- Badla". The first is a laborer who is fighting to establish his empire; his son was born to avenge his father's murder, and the third generation child who accidentally discovers sexual relationship of his mother and his grandfather (father's brother). The movie starts with the political rape of a city map and ends at rape of human trust for egoistic satisfactions. The songs like "Ik bagel Mei Chaand hoga" and "Keh K loonga" are the soul of the movie. For this I should write a special note on Sneha Khanwalker and her team. But I avoid writing on her as I fear falling in Love with her. I don't know what for you is the importance of "Gangs of Wasseypur" but for me it is the story of that small kid whose honest father is brutally killed in the garden when he was teaching his son that flowers should not be killed. It is also about that child who is continuously crying when just outside his father is celebrating after killing someone. A bit about that butcher's child on whom camera stops for a second when Sardar khan is burning and bombing his home.For me the film has stuck in that Coal mine where your skin will be ripped off if you work a minute less than 12 hours, where there is no light or oxygen and there is a face of a man who wants to turn cruel forever, beat his own people, burn their houses and gain power. And on death he wants to leave his son in that fire where he will grow his hairs only after taking the revenge of his father's death. Oops!! He will not take the revenge, He will rip him dry (Keh K lega uski).How many films are there which show the history, geography and present of Coal Maafia. Which show children bringing stolen iron from the same streets where an Icecream cart is going along? How many films will point out that Tata, Birla and Thapar got everything for Peanuts. And that Britishers used to provide salary and shelter whereas the Indian Govt provides only salaries that too after breaking the shelter. How many films will stop at the face of the person burning houses and show his dilemma and guilt. That is why, "Gangs of Wasseypur" might have a lot of abuses and gunshots, a lot of people and buffaloes getting butchered off, but it is the Real story of our internal layers. A pinch of Wasseypur is within all of us. Those are our own homes where a wife in a hushed voice asks her husband, who is planning a murder, whether to serve food in Bone China dishes because the guest is a Muslim. They are our own fathers who might be killing the whole world outside but they get panic attacks when their sons get a little wound. This is our life and its multiple characters, violence of our own world and Slaughter-Houses where an Eye for an Eye is making the whole world blind. This movie is not important for its story but for its characters and their reactions to various circumstances. It is so natural that people stop back to collect their slippers which are left back while running after committing a murder and loot. The movie stops again and again on kids watching all this and warns us that they will turn up doing the same when they grow up. The movie rises above the bar to establish the reality of its characters, their lives, their streets and city. Somewhere with the posters of "Kasam paida Karney wale Ki" "Coolie" "Guide" and sometimes with the charismatic happiness of first time seeing a revolver, someone with a dream of Automatic Guns and somewhere with the luxury of a new Fridge in the home, the movie walks you through the real evolution of India. You might confuse it with a normal story of vengeance, but this movie is different because it gets cooked in the kitchens of gangsters, walks in their terrace, eats Chaat with them, drink Lassie, and the movie sits with the gangster when they are watching their girlfriend washing clothes at a hand pump. The movie is shy when they touch the hand of a girl for the first time, sings in their marriages and it laughs when their hands receive shocks while firing from a country made revolver. Ranging from theft of Icecream to Coal, Fish, Ponds, Petrol and money, this movie shows you all the loot happening in our country.In train, railway lines, lodges, hotels, on road, in the mourning of Moharram and on Ghats of Banaras, Anurag Kashyap takes the movie with so ease that you feel that Manoj Vajpayee is taking a revenge for you. The movie takes you back to the homeland of India. An even when Sardar Khan falls after getting shot, he doesn't gets an Ambulance, Car or bike but a Rickshaw whose owner name is written as Jaiswal Building Material. He has to fall on it, rickshaw has to move on and vanish. The same rickshaw which is been driven by many Sardar Khan's everywhere in India. But these Sardar Khan's don't have own a piece of land anywhere in this country.It is a movie where every character or object has to take a stand, and prove the reason of its being. It is neither about Revenge nor about Wasseypur. It is about that Violence in which many of our generations and races have got wasted. It is about the Faizals who are forced to leave school, clean the toilets of Trains and then resort to drugs and looting. The movie laughs at that violence, it laughs on everyone, on us.
It's been a long time since a movie has come in bollywood which would make you say, once more. In the recent times bollywood has tried a lot with super heroes coming and flying, love stories with a western touch, awful sequels and horrifying remakes, but this gem from Anurag Kashyap truly deserves a 25 topo ki salami. The movie is set out in a never heard location where the coal mafia and our sweet politics have tied hands. It starts of in the past when the Britishers ruled the nation, and how when they left the whole game of mining changed. The characters of Sultana Daku have been highlighted with strong history and then remade into the world by Shahid Khan(Jaideep Ahlawat). He was killed by his own recruiter Ramadhari Singh who owned the mines after independence, and then set the whole story for the minutes to come ahead. Sardar Khan(Manoj Bajpayee) the protagonist, the son of Shahid Khan and the to be mafia of Wasseypur is all burning with the fire of revenge as he comes to know about his father's death on to the hands of Ramadhari singh. He cleverly enters the campaign of former and slowly gathers power, money and prestige to play against him. But he was not his only enemy, the movie brings out another revenge seeker group of Qureshi's. Revenge, humor, strong performances and situation-ally accurate music hold the key for you to bear the 165 min long drama of Anurag Kashyap. Backed by the stupendous story of revenge, the director has been more than successful in delivering an experience not to be forgotten for a long time. The direction and screenplay are the highlights of the film which have bring out the true essence of the melodrama. All the characters have not just performed but have lived them. Not even a single moment comes when you will feel, oh i have seen this or what the hell is this. All in all it's a movie whose all characters have a strong impact to the way it progresses much like the greatest epic of Sholay, not that I in any way want to compare it with the latter but this movie would make you feel that the bollywood is reviving and the Hollywood will get tough competition in future.


                
Entertainment, Entertainment & Entertainment. What a movie! Excellent acting by Manoj Vajpayee. People who loved gangajal must watch this. Funny dialogues, a local touch of Bihari Hindi tone. People from southern India may struggle to grasp the dailogues but when they'll get it they will keep ROFLing. The story basically talks about the gang war in Wasseypur & Dhanband (Jharkhand) starting from 1950s till present. It presents the glimpses of coal mafia raaj and war for contracts among bahubalis. The movie flow is such that you'll never get bored. The movie'll have part two also. But this movie being part one also is a complete package of entertainment. I am not telling the complete story as I don't wanna spoil the real fun waiting for you. SO rush to your theatres asap. Again I would say a masterpiece by Anurag Kashyap.


                
A movie gets its due when it takes the audience along with it.Gangs of Wasseypur manages to go one step further,it grips you right from beginning till the end.A gripping narrative and a language so authentic and so raw,that you feel the lanes of Bihar right next to you.Populated with well etched out characters, clearly defined plot,wacky humor,Gangs of wasseypur keeps you on the edge of your sit.While some brazen soundtracks keeps you grooved.The acting department was flawless,including Manoj Bajpai giving the performance of his life.You get the feeling that the film's narrative structure was inspired by Martin Scorsese. Anurag Kashyab manage to strike chords with the wacky Humor and glamorization of crime in Tarantino style.This film is a path-breaker,a film Bollywood grew up with. You walk out with memorable scenes,waiting eagerly for the second part to play next.If you haven't watched it yet,go now and watch it!!


                
Once in a lifetime Hindi movie bringing the amazing quality of 'The Godfather' to Indian cinema in an entirely rural sense. We are not talking about the Italians here, it is the Pathans. The only movie I have ever bought movie tickets for twice in the same week. The direction, storytelling, acting, soundtracks, casting, all fit fantastically well...You are left with an amazing feeling at the end of the movie wanting more. A much much awaited sequel... and for the ones who are not sure of what I am talking about, wait till the credits stop rolling.


                
OK, Gangs of Wasseypur. Let me indulge in a few truisms. Yes, this is the greatest Hindi film of our generation. 'Godfather meets Park Chan Wook' will be an unfair tag, and so will be to draw parallels with Tarantino or any other global contemporaries. This magnum opus is SO Indian, and only the genius of Anurag Kashyap could deliver an uninhibited, arrogant, dark, brutal, savage, larger-than-life revenge drama, taken to dizzying heights of cinematic brilliance that induces extreme emotional orgasm. No conscience-talks, no unnecessary moralizing. The screenplay by Zeishan Queresi is a knockout as it successfully merges history with fiction, beautifully captures the socio-political fabric of rustic India with a historical commentary which provides more authenticity. The humour is out-of-this-world loud and bloody brilliant, expletives galore - unabashed, unapologetic. Rajiv Ravi's camera work is the best I've seen in Indian Cinema in a long, long time and sets a benchmark difficult to emulate. Sneha Khanwalkar's background score is a killer and the songs often add to the narrative. Now, coming to the actors - all of them are outstanding, I'm at a loss for words! The subtlety of Jaideep Ahlawat and Piyush Misra, the feisty and sensuous female characters amidst the male brigade sparkle, Tigmanshu Dhulia's spectacular debut....However, everyone is overshadowed by the pothead-turned-Michael Corleone Nawazuddin Siddiqui. Manoj Bajpai is reborn. As Rajeev Masand says - "It's difficult to separate the actor from the character." With a single-minded unmitigated and unflinching determination for vengeance, his quirky humour, lecherous glances, penchant for the theatrical grandiose - he's the driving force of this film.


                
GOW (part 1 n 2) is total entertainer. Even after the days of watching the movie, u cant forget the dialogues, characters, etc. The best part is that the dialogues of the movie was not written. It was like an extempore for the actors. For me Definite(Zeishan Quadri) was amazing. Superb story and acting by him. The makers of this film paid attention to every small things which happens in Bihar. All the dialogues, behavior, characterization was properly etched. None of the performance of any actors looked like they are over acting. The film received an Adults Only certification from the Indian Censor Board but is still unusually explicit for Indian standards as it contained authentic lingo and violence generally suppressed by Mainstream Indian movies.The films soundtrack is heavily influenced by traditional Indian folk songs. So if you want to experience an all new wave of cinema in Bollywood, GOW is your movie. It's has some real quirky moments which I'll leave for you to explore in the film. Watch it for its sheer cinematic pleasure! Always an Anurag Kashyap fan. Aapne "Keh k le li"


                
