Watched "GANGS OF WASSEYPUR". Movie is good. One time watchable. Starting is slow but after some time it catches the pace. Audiences were hard-core serious film lovers but they were enjoying the love scenes most. Yeah, love scenes are literally very entertaining and innovative. There were only eleven females among 160 audiences. Dialogues are THETH Bihari but enjoyable. Music score is also good especially the Womania...Music has the sweet taste of local folk. Manoj Bajpaye is awesome. One actress as Nagma Khatoon impresses. Rest actors are also good. Actually, casting is perfect. The ambiance, music, casting create the feel that it is real Wassyepur. At the climax the behavior of Durga is not justified. The exaggerated shooting scene at the very beginning of film seems imposed, it was not real, just an attempt to surprise the audience. Overall, movie will not disappoint the audience. It is a complete PAISA VASOOL.


                
The movie takes place in Dhanabad, a district of Jharkand in India, and is a fictionalized account of real events. Spanning generations as it does, it perhaps carries greater resonance for Hindi film goers than a Western audience. I found it difficult to relate to the characters and situations, and didn't get a sense of epic adventure that other reviewers on this board seem to express. Certainly not as it relates to the nearly five and a half hours required to tell it's story. One notable difference I noticed from other Indian movies was the unnecessary reliance on musical sequences of any kind, which for a film like this would probably have been inappropriate anyway. Be that as it may, I would have appreciated a shorter film, and since it relies on characteristics of The Godfather Saga, might have better served as a movie with a sequel or two.
Keeping its streamlined editorial of 320 minutes going with fluent camera movements in on-location environments, steady story advancements, character developments and uncompromising matured action scenes makes "Gangs of Wasseypur" first presented at Director's fortnight at Cannes Film Festival in 2012 an enjoyable Thriller by India's film industry.Director, producers and cast have been committed to realize the best picture possible without getting astray from the story told of killing or get killed in an the coal-mining area inside the city of Dhanbad. Technically flawlessly executed, "Gangs of Wasseypur" is filled with characters, which exist, scheme and survive. Conflicts between clans within the city limits get inherited from father to son.A gentle love story gets build into at times ultra-violent action shots. The picture has some Bollywood-obligatory musical ingredients, but fortunately stays away from dancing sessions in this one. Overall speaking is not much unsatisfactory to report about "Gangs of Wasseypur". The film is knowledgeable in its character scenes, daring in its action scenes and further working as an International representative for the Indian Film Industry to make out of borrowed ideas from cinematic history a watchable contemporary action drama.© 2017 Felix Alexander Dausend (Cinemajesty Entertainments LLC)
"Gangs of Wasseypur," Anurag Kashyap's five-hour epic, is one of those films that has the potential to be in the league of Sergio Leone's "Once Upon a Time in America" but falls just short of true greatness. A film reminiscent of Leone's 1984 masterpiece, it spins a fictitious tale of revenge that spans through five decades of the mafia in the town of Wasseypur.The film opens in the 1940s, where Shahid Khan (Jaideep Ahlawat), a worker in the coal mines of Ramadhir Singh (Timangshu Dhulia), is shot to death by his boss when Singh overhears him telling his son of his ambition to take over the coal mines. His son, Sardar Khan (Manoj Bajpai), grows up harboring a deep sense of hatred to Singh and decides to avenge the death of his father. Along with his protégés Nasir (Piyush Mishra) and Asghar (Jameel Khan), he slowly begins to take over Wasseypur by first taking over the petrol pumps and selling petrol and then moving on to the coal mines of Singh. Singh, who by now is well aware who Sardar Khan is and what his intentions are, employs Sultan (Pankaj Tripathi) to eliminate Sardar Khan and slow him down. Danish (Vineet Singh), Sardar's first son, gets injured in the first attempt to eliminate Sardar. This compels Sardar to publicly insult and shame Singh. On the second attempt though, Sardar Khan gets gravely injured and eventually dies, thus making way for a blood-letting spree to grip Wasseypur. The second part focuses on the rise of Faisal Khan and his eventual redemption after the death of his elder brother.The first part of this crime saga is funny and frustrating at the same time. The second part is a lot better than the first one although it shares a common theme of vengeance and bloodshed. Kashyap's portrayal of Wasseypur is that of a town where blood spills at every corner and bullets are fired at the slightest provocation. The opening sequence, masterfully directed, is a miniature of the whole movie. Most of the first half is an introduction to the town of Wasseypur and what started the greed and ambitions of its wily local gangsters. Most of the setting, including the clothing and the lingo, remains faithful to the rural areas of the state. The screenplay is imaginative and the dialog is colorful, superbly capturing the small-town lingo with the easy humor and the heavy dose of expletives during conversations. Rajeev Ravi's loyal camera snags the breathless action at just the right time and the film is a visual treat with the exquisitely shot lanes and landscapes of the town, thereby creating a world within a world with apparent ease. Kashyap directs superbly, with a continuously moving camera, he laces the film's most violent sequences with unexpected humor, which greatly helps in building the required amount of suspense. Of the performances, Bajpai, who gave us one of the great elemental performances in the history of Indian cinema in Ram Gopal Varma's 1998 gem "Satya," is sensational in the role of Sardar Khan. He portrays Sardar as an overgrown child with a cool swagger who fears his wife although he's the most powerful chap in Wasseypur. He may have already snagged a few nominations for his performance. Siddiqui, who is nothing short of terrific, plays his youngest son in perhaps the best performance of the year. The character of Faisal is immensely complex but Siddiqui plays it easily, nailing the rapid, witty conversations with his love interest Mohsina, played by Huma Qureshi, and the calm and arrogant conversations with his detractors. He's a live-wire."Gangs of Wasseypur," though terrific, is a deeply flawed film. The runtime, which exceeds 320 minutes, could've been cut short drastically, which would've eventually resulted into the film being some kind of a masterpiece. Kashyap tackles each sub-plot with the dedication a filmmaker usually gives to the main plot, which makes the film look like a number of short films strung together using a common theme of vengeance. A considerable amount of screen time is given to the romantic sub-plots which temporarily leaves the main plot cowering for screen space. Also, the film later splits at the seam because the number of characters it employs is too many. I lost track of how some of the characters is related either to the protagonist or the antagonist. The web of guesswork is a tad easier in the second part because the film examines the relations between the main characters unlike the first part in which most of the characters and situations were introduced."Gangs of Wasseypur" works mostly, partly because it employs a stellar cast and partly because the makers are well aware of their ambitions though they let the plot take shape at its own pace. I'll go out on a limb and say that the first half of the second part is one of the best 90 minutes I've seen in recent gangster flicks. The biggest issue I have with this film is that it contains too many stories which it tries to tell all at once and though some clobber you with their ingenuity, the others fall flat. The film does tend to get a bit exhausting when it reaches its climax, but overall, it's one effort that has caught our attention completely. And for that one reason, I would recommend this film to anyone who relishes the new phase of the old-fashioned Indian gangster films.
Anurag Kashyap stands for the rebel in Indian cinema. He knows it too. Black Friday, Dev.D, Gulaal give him every reason in the world to be proud of his tag. This feeling is clearly reflected in Gangs of Wasseypur, which turns out to be his most ambitious & financed project ever. He works with his long-time friends, Manoj Bajpayee, Tigmanshu Dhulia and others, deciding to make a film which does not fall into the cliché of other commercial films. An epic film that tells the story of violence originating through monopoly of coal mines in North India but later feeds itself off the ego of proud descendants of their brave forefathers.It is as difficult to loathe this film as it is to hate history lessons taught through audio-visuals. The story takes us in, helping us to absorb the details. It starts in one era, moves to another, shows familiar black & white clips, returns to some other era before finally falling on a linear time-line. Characters, places, eras are introduced either by text or the voice-over by Piyush Mishra who plays the uncle to a revenge-vowing bald Sardar Khan (Bajpayee, excelling himself like never before) who's father Shahid Khan (Jaideep Ahlawat, strong screen presence) was killed off by his employer Ramadhir Singh (Dhulia, another remarkable work). Yes, it is difficult to follow the names but fairly easier to remember the faces. The characters develop beautifully through the plot. I wasn't bored at any point, maybe could have watched the second part too.Kashyap's screenplay stresses more on the plot than the characters. He makes lovable characters throughout the film but has no mercy on them. For instance, the revenge-vowing lead is unashamed of his libido and sleeps around which his wife (Richa Chadda) eventually comes to terms with, which one would would not usually expect (there are numerous other examples with almost every character which would kill the suspense, if mentioned). But these are heartless gangsters which you would feel no sympathy for if you heard about them on the news. This Godfather-esque play of values which have been used time and again in movies makes you expect more from the film as it moves on. Sadly, it doesn't deliver the expected punch as the characterizations lead to digressions in the plot rather than help it move forward.Then again, how do we fall in love with a movie knowing that whole genealogical parts can be comfortably replaced by sporadic lines of reminiscence? And what exactly goes wrong in this movie that boasts of a strong ensemble of actors, a terrific earthy music score (Sneha Khanwalkar) and spot-on cinematography (his regular, Rajeev Ravi)? It is not hard to see the bits & pieces of frustration (that oozed in No Smoking (2007)) in the ambitions and grandeur of Gangs... Kashyap was in the past forced to tone down Black Friday (2004) by Censors and has not yet been allowed to release his first film Paanch. Maybe, this time around, he decided that not cutting down at all on the partly mundane details would enhance the epic-quotient of the film. It does not. However, the trailer and characters for GoW-Part 2 are 'definite'ly more interesting.PS: I'm a die-hard Kashyap fan and it pains me to not be able to fall in love with his movie. But this is certainly, not his best.7/10


                
The movie has a huge quota of blood shed and stomach wrenching scenes. There were scenes where i felt that i would throw up.but still the movie is slick, fast and entertaining.Movie spans from British India to modern day and surprisingly you don't realise who is the protagonist with whom you need to sympathise and who is the antagonist.all the characters are well defined. Hats off to ANurag for superb cinematography ! at the end of the movie, i could have sat and watched the 2nd half as well. I didn't wanna go home thinking what is gonna happen next.what i didn't understand is why Manoj bajpayee and Richa chadha's children didn't resemble either of them :-)


                
It is story of A Daku(manoj bajpai) , who seeks revenge from those peoples who constrain him to leave village and make any other way to Earn. But death of his wife again evoke him to take revenge. this story do not end on that daku. the fire of revenge transfers to his children's. in that bad business his two sons were also killed and also he himself killed by others. But his Unique son ( nawaz ud din siddique) succeeded to take revenge. The scene of taking revenge is quite remarkable and admirable. He has been firing again and again knowing that he is already dead. this shows that how much hard he was seeking revenge and happy he was while taking the revenge.
In 1941 British colonial India, Shahid Khan is robbing trains under the guise of legendary bandit Sultana Daku. He is discovered and banished. After independence, Ramadhir Singh takes over some of lucrative coal mines but they struggle without British managers and money. He hires Shahid Khan as muscle to keep the workers in line. He overhears Shahid's plan to murder him for the mines. He kills Shahid and tries to kill his family. The son Sardar Khan is rescued and raised alongside his cousin Asghar. Decades later, Sardar is told of the murder and vows revenge. Sardar uses daring, intimidation and his criminal ways to take on the powerful magnate Singh as one of the most feared crime lord.I can definitely see the comparison to the Godfather movies. I really love some parts of this movie. Shahid Khan could be a movie all by himself. In fact, I would preferred his story to be expanded into either part I or a prequel of sorts like in Godfather II. Sardar is a very compelling character. I'm a little confused with some of the family melodrama. The story feels a little rushed covering a long timeline. The whole movie feels like a vast long story being crammed into a space that is too small. If this was Godfather, this would be twice as long in length. This is great brutal violent overwrought material. This is good but it's not quite Godfather epic great.


                
Anurag Kashyap has essayed a very realistic portrayal of small town gangs in the badlands of Bihar. Excellent cast. Very subtle yet deep performance by all. Morals of the society under focus is handled very well without succumbing to stereo-types. The cost - except for Huma Qureshi - lacks typical Bollywood star looks which adds to the sense of reality of the movie. One area where he could have done better is visuals. It was hardly pleasing to the eyes! Lighting was not handled better and seems to have been left natural. Photography bereft of clever lighting results in less than pleasing visuals.


                
Anurag Kashyap's 'Gangs of Wasseypur' is An Interesting Film with Terrific Performances! Kashyap, known for off-beat films, this time attempts to deliver a story that can be termed as his most "commercial" flick to date. And even though this 1st installment isn't flawless, its absorbing & supremely acted nevertheless.'Gangs of Wasseypur' Synopsis: A son seeks vengeance when his father is killed by a coal mine owner.'Gangs of Wasseypur' is violent, abusive & fearless. Kashyap delivers a revenge story, that literally has shock value. 'Gangs of Wasseypur' runs for a long 160-minutes, but manages to arrest its viewer attention on several occasions.Kashyap's Screenplay begins tepidly, but picks up rapidly. The Second-Hour, in particular, is absorbing & memorable. Kashyap's Direction is Masterclass. Cinematography is rustic. Editing is sharp. Music by Sneha Khanwalkar is excellent.Performance-Wise: The Ever-Terrific Manoj Bajpai is marvelous yet again. As Sardar Khan, The National-Award-Winning Actor pitches in an unforgettable turn, that's sure to be remembered for a long time. Director-Turned-Actor Tigmanshu Dhulia is fantastic. He's menacing to the core! Piyush Mishra is natural, while Richa Chadda & Reemma Sen are very good. Jaideep Ahlawat is terrific in a brief role. Pankaj Tripathi is simply outstanding. Nawazuddin Siddiqui is perfect, yet again. Vipin Sharma is efficient. Huma Qureshi is first-rate. Others lend support.On the whole, 'Gangs of Wasseypur' is worth a watch.


                
"Gangs of Wasseypur" reflects the tumultuous era of the 1970s in the coal mining district of Dhanbad and its surrounding region. The movie portrays the dark days of the gang war era of the region. Anurag Kashyap successfully brings out the temperament of those gory days through skillful direction supported by a gritty storyline. Though primarily a revenge story, the offbeat feel of the movie makes it a gripping experience altogether.The story goes like this. Sardar Khan, played by Manoj Vajpayee, is the lead character in the movie. His only aim is to seek revenge for his father's death from Ramadheer Singh, a businessman-turned-politician, played by Timangshu Dhulia. The film revolves around the life of Sardar Khan, his marriage and re-marriage, the butcher gang and introducing his son to the world of gang war.The movie starts with introducing us to Wasseypur and then the plots shifts to the main story by introducing the main characters. The background is always the coal-mafia and helps the film with its original and mystical setting. The movie begins from the British Raj and then moves on to the post independence present era. This reflects the vengeance which has been passed from one generation to another. Here, one negative point about the movie is that you feel you have missed something even if you miss one scene. The storytelling might be a bit on the faster side as there is so much to show.Syed Zeishan Quadri, Akhilesh Jaiswal, Sachin Ladia and Anurag Kashyap have written an excellent script which is very innovative in its own way. It reflects the various shades in the character of Sardar Khan, from being a womanizer to a caring father and a ruthless gang leader. Interestingly, the film also shares its unique brand of humor. The direction of Anurag Kashyap is worth applauding. The scenes are very crisp and short; no fancy entries, nothing extravagant about the look of any character. There is lots of blood but none to make the matters sensational. The music score by Sneha Khanwalkar is a treat in itself. The music merges beautifully with the story and the background and gives the audience a unique experience of being one with the characters. The entire crew is exceptional and brings the characters alive. Over all, Gangs of Wasseypur is a movie worth watching.
Well i watched this movie with half heart as my friends want to see it.Though i like the movies of Anurag kashyap.I am not impressed by its trailers.But when i watched this movie in theatre first thing which was shocking was the theatre was houseful.I thought only me n my friends will be there in theatre but it made me wrong. Second thing was the acting of not only the main lead Manoj bajpai but all other actors acted superbly.Even the smallest characters did justice to their characters. The story was awesome it contains action,humour and sex.Slangs made the movie more humorous to watch.If you liked Ishqiya I think you will like this more than the previous song.OOoo womaniya what a lyrics.


                
Anurag is truly the face of modern Indian cinema. And he has proved it yet again. The characters are lively and gullible. The other day I was watching a promo session of this movie where the director has narrated exactly what should be expected from it and he is right. A simple regular story with lots of color in it. One can laugh his/her colon out if watching this post full meal. Then again a serious touch remains throughout. All the actors have done a brilliant job. Out and out full entertainment. P.S. - Wish Anurag considers releasing his movies through secure paid online viewing.


                
Gangs OF Wasseypur is a typical Hindi movie of Eastern Indian slang and Bihari mannerisms.The movie resembles a bit in plot to RGV's 'Raktha Charithra',but that was based on a political vengeance of AP origin and this had its Bihari features like Village love, Enjoyable vulgarity and the vengeance part was violent and realistic.It mainly revolves around Muslim families whose culture was depicted very lucratively and background of the movie was new.Castwise, Manoj Bajpayee was at his best retrieving his capability as a lead role player and the other actors were decent as they weren't the crowd-pulling actors but sure they were crowd-moving actors.Actresses were pretty and played their part well.Cinematography was innovative and interesting too.The only problem with the movie being the Hindi accent which is difficult for novice Hindi learners like Hyderabadis ( Maddus).The climax was a bit prolonged though as it ended abruptly giving pavement to 'GOW 2'. But,surely this movie is a must-watch for all kinds of youth who believe that director( Anurag Kashyap ) makes a movie good or bad and the cast make only extra collections.Surely waiting for GOW 2 Rate it : 3.5/5 My rating: 3/5(as I faced problem with Hindi accent)
