1959 saw one of cinema's greatest achievements, 'Plan 9 from Outer Space'. Widely regarded as the worst film of all time, it featured a plot unrivalled in absurdity.Then came 'The Matrix'. Apparently robots (or space zombies, or some variety of scary CGI monsters) have enslaved humanity, and are harvesting them for energy. To keep their living batteries entertained the robo-zombies (or space alligators, it doesn't really matter) have created a giant computer game called 'the Matrix'. With a devil-may-care disregard for the first law of thermodynamics, this game runs on the energy of the people it simulates.But some of these people break out of the computer game and live in a rusty metal bucket and eat gruel. Being heroes, they plan to overthrow their demon-squid robot overlords and free humanity, so they can all live in rusty metal buckets and eat gruel. There are some philosophical pretensions and religious references in there, but these are too simplistic and crass to be worth going any deeper into.Keanu Reeves gives a very believable performance of bad acting, while the rest of the cast mince around in sunglasses and trench-coats, delivering dialogue which serves no other purpose than carrying the plot.The first fifteen minutes of this film are quite watchable, which is why I am giving it a generous two out of ten.
I really can't understand all of the accolades that this film continues to receive.  Has the entire world gone insane and forgotten that what makes a good movie is its script.  Has everything become about special effects, special effects and more special effects?   Sure, if you want special effects, this is definitely the movie for you.  If I was writing this entry for the Special Effects Message Board, I would have given it a 10/10 rating. But frankly, I need more than great visuals to have a movie work for me and as this film has nothing else, it gets a 1 rating.I know my rating won't dissuade the masses from singing the praises of this movie.  I know that my rating won't stop the inevitable outcome of Matrix II becoming the highest grossing film of all time during its opening weekend. Perhaps the only thing this review will do is lead like minded people in the direction of other movies that deal with similar themes yet actually have characters that you will care about.Let me make clear, that the core concept of Matrix is a great one.  The whole idea of our world being part of someone else's imagination is something that has fascinated me for as long as I can remember.  When Matrix originally debuted, you couldn't have paid me to stay away from the theater. Someone had finally put one of the great philosophic debates into movie form and I knew that it had to be incredible.   Instead, the only thing incredible about the film (beside the special effects) was how wrong I had been.There on the screen was a movie without any real screenplay.  No matter how much I tried, I couldn't bring myself to care about these characters because they just weren't real.   You would think that in a film dealing with reality-as-you-know-it crumbling around the main characters, that there would be some exploration into how the newly revealed reality affected their psyches.   But that doesn't happen here.  Instead, we are given a movie where the emphasis is placed upon stocking up on as many guns and other weapons as possible so that the bad guys can be shot and killed.   Give me a break!!!I think what has happened in these type of movies is that the producers are handed a great idea and then spend their entire budget on the actors and special effects.  They don't bother to spend anything on the screenplay because they have realized that good ones aren't necessary anymore.  Just give the public some nice CGI and they'll flock to the theatre. Unfortunately, they seem to be right.   Movies like Matrix and and the Jurassic Park series continue to sell out even though the stories are horrible.  Give us a cool CGI Dinosaur running around a city or make the lead characters do CGI kung-fu moves and we'll go home happy.   Never mind that we have absolutely no insight into who the main characters are.  We don't need to care about them as long as they are involved in computerized situations!   (Did anyone actually give a damn whether Jeff Goldblum's character lived or died in Lost World?)Anyway - my point is that you can certainly make a film exploring ideas and concepts similar to those in these mega movies and still have the audience care about the characters.In the case of Matrix, for those interested in a good "reality-as-you-know-it" type of movie, I would suggest Josef Rusnak's 'Thirteenth Floor' or even better yet, if you can handle sub-titles, Alejandro Amenabar's "Open Your Eyes".   Both of these movies manage to give you an incredible story, with characters you will remember long after the credits have rolled.  Believe it or not, you'll actually find yourself wondering about the characters' futures rather than simply commenting on how cool that CGI generated flip-in-the-air was.Good movies are supposed to leave you with questions. They are supposed to make you think.  You didn't really have to do that with Matrix, and its a shame because the movie could and should have been so much more than it ended up being.In my opinion, Matrix was a waste of both time and money.  I will just keep praying that one day the movie going public will give up on these special effects monsters and turn back to the days of enjoying movies with plots. On that day, films like "Open Your Eyes" will finally get their due and Hollywood will stop giving us mere eye candy like Matrix and similar ilk.


                
I saw this movie in the theater back in 1999. It had its moments, but not many. To start, the acting is terrible. Keanu Reeves has the emotive ability of a toaster, and Carrie Ann Moss is about as sympathetic as that sexy sidekick babe in a video game. Lawrence Fishburne comes off a bit better, but his dialogue is the most pretentious, ridiculous garbage I've ever heard. I imagine the characters in this film spend about six hours out of every day designing the leather bondage costumes they'll wear next time they're in the Matrix.For the first half of the movie, it seems to be interested in questioning reality, which, as the title to my review suggests, was already done more topically in previous films. "The Matrix" is astounded by what it perceives as its own brilliance, but for those of us who have thought of its ideas before, there are few surprises. Some people I know were blown away when Neo discovers the truth behind his reality, but I was waiting for something interesting to happen."The Matrix" has been praised for its originality, but it suffers from two traditional and clichéd movie formulas. First, Neo is the Chosen One (notice that "neo" is an anagram of "one." Was this supposed to be suspenseful?) who is destined to save the human race, bring balance to the Force, etc. He dies and comes back to life, like Jesus. Of course, to begin with he was just a pasty hacker in a crummy apartment and an anonymous office job, giving hope to all the spotty teenage geeks in the audience that they too might become the Messiah one day.The second fault is the movie's reliance on action. Instead of coming up with interesting and exciting ways for two people to fight each other in virtual reality, Neo and Co. whip out their guns and start shooting. The techno music begins, and the audience is treated to several slow-motion kicks and scenes of people dodging bullets. I'm not sure how they manage all this, because nobody ever takes off their sunglasses to see properly. If the villains of the movie really were programs in the Matrix, shouldn't they be able to manipulate it without having to resort to kung fu? Anyway, I didn't like this movie. "Dark City" is a better, more original version of the same premise, without the Chosen One nonsense or the martial arts.


                
People had told me two things about this movie. First, that it was difficult to understand. It isn't. The plot is very simple and understandable. Second, that this was a great movie. It isn't. The plot is so understandable that it's boring. Almost everything in this movie is a rehash of science fiction themes that have come up over and over again. It's somewhere around the year 2199. We know that because Morpheus (played - well played I concede - by Lawrence Fishburne) tells us. Machines have conquered humanity and taken over. OK. I can think of at least one original Star Trek episode and the entire series Battlestar Galactica that revolved around that. The whole thing takes place inside a series of computer programs. OK. The holodeck on the Starship Enterprise, or any number of movies about Virtual Reality spring to mind. One person (Neo, played by Keanu Reeves) will save the world. Hmmm. Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home: "Captain Kirk, you and your crew have saved this planet." In short, there just isn't anything original in this story. How it makes it to #31 on the all time list (at the time of writing) is beyond me.There are some good things in this movie. There must have been a massive special effects budget, because the special effects are superb. No argument there. But great special effects - and even some good performances by Fishburne and Reeves (and a drily humorous performance by Hugo Weaving as Agent Smith) don't make up for the basic weakness of this entirely unoriginal story.2/10 - solely for the special effects.


                
With its trite Kafka-wannabe subtext and pretensions to profundity, this badly acted (Reeves is like a lump of wood, with a permanently perplexed look on his dumb face), poorly scripted, mess of a movie had me yawning and, at times, bristling with irritation. The stupid, faux philosophy about different realities was clearly ripped from a film called Dark City, which was far more chilling and unhinged, and managed to steer clear of the juvenile philosophical clap-trap that infected The Matrix (even the title is lame).Its only saving grace was some innovatory and influential action sequences and a good Don Davis score.But the action eventually seemed to contrive to divert the viewer from the paucity of original ideas exhibited, and culminated in a ridiculous, Dodge City-style shoot 'em up that had me laughing out loud. Then Neo turns into Superman: yep,s-o-o-o original. Then there's the bit where Neo is resurrected by the kiss by Trinity. It's ET and Snow White and every other now-predictable cliché in the cannon of story telling. To top that Fishburne's character whispers in hushed awe: "He's The One". I would have laughed if it wasn't so pathetic.In another comment someone described this and the sci-fi benchmark for all others to follow. Excuse me?! Show some me actual science in this muddled subterranean labyrinth, then I might reconsider. I won't even comment on the ensuing two movies,with the preposterous Christ fixation that dominated the third. Horrible, style-over-content rubbish.


                
There are many fans of the Matrix movies out there. Die-hard, weirdo, and theological. Agents, all of them.I must say that this movie did not impress. The main theory, the central story plot of the computer simulation being the real world, was the only thing that kept this movie from being discarded into the rubbish bin. The effects, hailed as amazing, did not fully impress. There was too much foul mouth, immorality, and otherwise HUMANITY'S WASTE PITS on screen. Violence was extreme--and unnecessary. The entire story could have been turned into a magnificent three-hour movie with excellent dialogue, scenery, depth, and other aspects that make a good movie. Instead, it was all mashed into a sludge of action and destruction and basic hatred of other people. It was disgusting. Furthermore, the acting was abominable. Look at it closely, with the hatred given to Star Wars by so many envious people, and you will see that Keanu Reeves makes Hayden Christenson look like an Oscar winner.My opinion. And I hope that you agree. The movie could have been much better, much more interesting. Not to mention, the final shot kind of destroyed the end...I cracked up there, laughing hysterically. Was that supposed to IMPRESS? Sorry, takes more than that to impress me.Twenty percent."Wars not make one great." --Yoda
This is a very good movie. Visually, The Matrix is pretty much at the top of the Sci-Fi genre. The plot is solid, Keanu Reeves doesn't suck, and it's a unique film.But, why is it overrated? Just because I said the acting doesn't suck does not mean that it's particularly good. This movie is good, but it's certainly not in the top 100 films of all time. There are much better movies out there that rely on clever story telling, have better actors, and there are some with equally as cool visuals. If you know what to look for, the plot is pretty predictable. All of the foreshadowing in this movie insults your intelligence rather than adding to the tension. Also, the slow motion sequences become stupid after watching the movie a couple of times, and they are in an abundance.I used to be a fan of this movie, but once I saw Dark City I realized how much room for improvement there truly was.


                
Keanu Reeves.  What the hell are you doing, continuing to act.  GO AWAY, YOU HAVE NO TALENT.  The Matrix has got to be one of the worst film of today. Why do we need all these special effects, it's just not needed.  If somebody gets shot at, you don't need to see anything in slow motion.  Or if they are about to jump across a large gap, do i need the action to stop just so i can study their long jump technique, i don't think so.  Answering the phone to transport themselves to another place.  OH PLEASE.  I know i am in the minority but one day this film WILL be forgoten about because basically it's toss.  Keanu - retire now and go and haunt someone else for a change.


                
`I hate those movies based on special effects with a poor plot,' I told my friend when he suggested me to go see `The Matrix' on its opening night. But when I kept hearing excellent reviews of the movie, my curiosity increased, and I decided to give it a try. Well, I was right: not only I did not enjoy the movie, but I also could not wait to rush out of the movie theater.
First of all: the PLOT was truly poor, and it is clear that most of the scenes were designed merely to show special effects, rather than to transmit a precise message (and at least twenty minutes of the movie could have been cut because of this). The first rule of screenwriting is to satisfy the audience's need for orientation, clarifying since the very beginning who are the characters of the movie, and what is their function. I had to wait an hour to understand that. This method (increasing the suspense of this audience by postponing a real explanation of the characters' roles) could have been effective, only if they were introduced in a more clear way. I often felt lost, as many key aspects of the movie were clarified too late (i.e. the phone transportation).
The DIALOGUES were truly lame and unoriginal (except for some funny references to the Wizard of OZ).The CHARACTERS were not developed at all. Still now, thinking about the movie, I cannot really say what was a peculiar trait of each character: their personalities did not stand out at all. They were rather divided into the stereotypical `good' and `bad' categories.
Still mentioning STEREOTYPES, I think the whole movie was a TT (Temple of Testosterone): the ideal place for the satisfaction of a male audience. Why? Because of great fight scenes, vigorous men with a perpetual grimace who want to either save or `own' the world, women with big breasts who don't talk (the woman in red), and strong but yet submissive women driven by sentimentality (Trinity).
What I SUGGEST is to go see it if you like video games and want some entertainment. But if you are one of those persons who want to step out of a movie theater with a new awareness or <U+0096> even better <U+0096> a call to action, I suggest you'd save the 8 bucks for a better cause.


                
A few weeks ago I took my Matrix DVD out of my collection and, because I was bored, decided to ring up my mate and tell him that either he takes it off me or I burn it. I had the matches ready and everything, and would have conducted a fascinating experiment into the effect of touching a DVD with a naked flame had he not agreed to let me give it to him. I kid you not.
This film is the worst waste of twenty quid I have ever bought. The psuedo-intelectual claptrap ("Hey, what if the world isn't real after all"???? Yawn, like I didn't already think of that when I was about five years old) is used to cover the fact that the main characters and large chunks of the plot were obviously, ahem, "influenced by" William Gibson's classic pulp-sci-fi tale 'Neuromancer', ie. they are largely identical (including the role of each character within the narrative) but have had their names or skin colour changed. The visuals are quite pretty but again are totally lacking in innovation except for the 'Bullet Time' gimmick, which is fun to watch but not as impressive as had been made out. At least it wasn't over-used. Then we move onto the acting: Fishburne is fine, as is Moss, but Keanu drags the film into new depths of rubbishness with his trademark lack of emotion or even the slightest indication of sentience, ruining some lines that should sound great. Finally, the action sequences are well-choreographed but somehow seem flat, as if the pacing is a little off.I won't be going to see the sequels.


                
You sit and wonder... when is something going to happen? You wait and wait... So the story starts in de first part by giving you a different view on the world we live in (which we are not aware of...interesting). After you realise this the movie just crashes. The screenwriter obviously had no idea where to go from this point on and slows the story down. There is some action which leads to nowhere. The story doesn't progress and you're just waiting for the story to start and progress. The main reason you would want to see this movie is because of the special effects and at some points a lot of action is going on but... the story isn't going anywhere which makes you feel like the movie just goes on and on and on... In the end I felt that its a shame, because a good idea got slaughtered by a bad screenwriter. I gave 2 point just for the idea.


                
Take a bit from "Men in Black" (leave the humor out) something from "Last Man Standing" (leave good acting out) from "Twelve Monkeys" (leave real suffering and compassion out) and take half a dozen other ones (like some "Martial Arts") mix it and get a block buster. Hey, add a deep philosophical idea like that maybe everything is unreal!It sounds like a joke but it is not. They actually got away with it with "The Matrix". I mean probably every bright 15 year old comes up with the idea one day that everything is fake that somehow only he (or she?) can see through it. And I do not say you cannot make a film out of it but has the result to be like this? The Matrix is by far the most stupid film I ever saw. I want to believe in bizarre concepts but this is so mind-boggingly stupid that it would mean too much honor to even start talking about it. I have seen a lot of senseless violence but this must get a price for the best pretext: They can "beam" into a particular "space-time" point of the program but not quite so our heroes have to literally shoot their way through. Amazing! The sad thing about it is that people actually enjoy the crap which makes me think that the Matrix probably is true after all. Since it seems unlikely that real people with a mind of their own can take the film seriously or enjoy it there must be some brain-washing or programming going on. My girl friend nearly left me once because I liked a "horrid" movie like "Twelve Monkeys" and even she liked The Matrix. She probably hopes that Jesus will look and act like Keanu Reeves at his next coming. What a depressing thought. If the only good thing to say about a film is that visual effects were up to standard one should leave it. The sun glasses were pretty cool though.


                
Childish fantasy unrelieved by decent acting or directing, with a script which could not have passed muster in a first-year writing class, marred by special effects which range from silly and overblown to silly, overblown, and pointless.This one is not for adults, or for anyone with more than three working brain cells.


                
Calling "The Matrix" a science fiction movie is a massive abuse of the English language. Science fiction presumes a basis in an existing or projected law of science. At least this is the principle which gives substance to the wildest speculations of masters such as Arthur C Clarke (who has a first class physics degree). This film is better categorized as a science fantasy, i.e. one where  the authors use the pretence of science as a fig leaf to disguise the total inanity and incoherence of their project. Even fairy tales work within their own framework of law which gives tension and excitement to the surreal adventures. In "The Matrix" laws are not even made up as they go along, as that would impede the next stream-of-consciousness stunt. It makes a great special effect if a character leaps tall buildings at  a single bound or recoils from a road surface after falling from a 500 foot building. Unfortunately it also removes any possibility of the audience taking him to be even a far-fetched human character, and hence destroys any possibility of genuine thrills. These creatures can survive being run over by a subway train and even death itself. Hence the most risible Lazarus scene since "ET" -Keanu is revived from the tomb by the love of a good woman.You can make tennis easier to play by removing the net and rubbing out the lines; unfortunately you thereby destroy the game.  Similarly The Matrix fails to exist as any sort of half-coherent movie if you want a movie to consist of more than a string of sensational images.Unlike AC Clarke's work, this screenplay fails to betray even a high school awareness of science in "explaining" its universe, the war between machines and humans, or the rationale for the machines sucking the life force of humans - not to mention the hokey insertion of an old style soothsayer into this "scientific" farago.I give it 2 out 10 - one for sheer chutzpah in raising $60 million on the basis of such a ludicrous script and 1 for set design and special effects combined.


                
The Matrix is terrible. A complete abomination. And the sequels are even worse. The only worse movie series is The Planet of the Apes. Your money would be much better spent buying a homeless person lunch.Granted it seems mildly clever at first, but it is actually an underdeveloped story with a completely unsatisfactory resolution. Any comparison to Star Wars or the Lord of the Rings trilogy would an insult the clear superiority of Lucas or Jackson as both film makers and story tellers. I hope the people that profited so greatly from this film can find a way to do something with that money that is socially responsible. Having said all of that, acting was actually OK, though. And the only part of the story that makes the least bit of sense is that technology and artificial "intelligence" can be dangerous instead of helpful if abused.


                
I tried to like "The Matrix", I really did. The commercials looked really cool with all the action shots and slow motion effects and I knew that I just had to see it. When did I give up on it? About halfway through the movie, (after the other 4 people I went to the theatre with had long since began laughing out loud at this silly, absurd, and massively boring film), Keanu goes to the apartment where the great oracle (or whatever) was baking cookies and retarded kids were bending spoons with their minds. That's when I stared laughing too. I'm sorry but my friends were right. This film sucked. Sure there were a couple of sorta cool action scenes but you had to sit through the insanely dull hour and a half of Lawrence Fishburn explaining EVERYTHING that happens in the film before these scenes even appeared. And the movie "Blade" had come out around the same time and was a MUCH better surreal action film. As for the silly karate scenes (or kung fu or Judo or whatever), they were no big deal. I mean, did you really think that Keanu was gonna be the next Bruce Lee? Do yourself a favor and rent (or better yet, Buy) the Jet Li "Fong Sai Yuk" movies. As for all the psychological babble about what world is real and what world isn't, it only added to the chaotic mess that was called a script for this waste of celluloid. Some say "Battlefield Earth" was a horrendous goofy mess. Well, it was, but no where near as bad as this. :)


                
I honestly don't know why this movie is touted so much as being the ultimate scifi flick or whatever other tags it's gotten over the past 3 years.  The story was hard to wrap my mind around, but that's perhaps because the explanation for The Matrix itself was done in the middle of the film in the cheesiest manner possible: sitting the hero down and explaining it to him. My mind just blanked it out.  Not only is this device as old as time, but it doesn't involve the audience at all.  It's like we're just listening in.  It would have been better for Neo to actually experience it firsthand and find out exactly what the reality is around him and how it came to be.  I found the FX to be pretty cheesy as well.  I felt like I was watching someone play a video game rather than watching a movie.  The whole concept of the story may be "deep" for the latest generation (I'm one step ahead of you folks), but it sounded like contrived dreck to me. 2/10 cuz Keanu's pretty cute, but cuteness does not a good movie make.


                
I would be inclined to agree with the people that claim that The Matrix is unique, but probably not for the same reasons. In the beginning of the movie, I was on the edge of my seat, even Keanu Reeves' terrible acting couldn't upset me. I thought that the emerging storyline was one of the best I had seen. That feeling lasted untill the now legendary fight scene in the imaginary dojo. After this point the movie takes a huge step away from the style and course they laid out in the beginning. It got worse and worse as the movie wore on, and I seriously considered stopping the movie. I hadn't been as disappointed since Jurassic Park. If the moviemakers had just remembered to keep up the the innovative and awesome plotline, and not let it degenerate into one special effect after another, it could have been one of the greatest movies of our time. If you like to see a movie with excellent special effects, camera and lighting and action, this is clearly the movie for you. If you on the other hand demand that a movie has a complete and thorough plotline and story, just see the first half hour (or 45 minutes, I can't remember). My personal evaluation: 2/10


                
I cannot believe such an abysmal film has already reached #39 in the IMDB poll of the 100 Greatest Movies of all time. It beat the likes of Taxi Driver and Star Wars VI- Return of the Jedi. However, this is one of those films that leave you with a longing feeling in waiting for the sequel, however bad (or quite possibly good) it may be. I wouldn't suggest this film if you are into sci-fi and you haven't yet seen it. It is the type of film adolescent teenagers adore yet they haven't yet grasped the full meaning of it. Personally, and overall, I believe this film (the same way Blade Runner was back in the 80s) is extremely overrated.


                
"Ignorance is bliss" as they say in the film. You go in without any knowledge of the Science-Fiction literature and you enjoy the film, you go in the theatre with some SF knowledge, the amount of rip-off and open plagiarism annoys you like hell. The Matrix is as if the screenwriter decided to use parts of his fave SF stories and made up a story to bind them all: The Second Foundation Trilogy,  all that's written by William Gibson, Ender's Game by O.S. Card, Star Trek's holodeck concept, references to Terminator films, and to Cliff Simak's short stories, and more and more show up in the film. And with awe and horror I saw Obi-Wan and young Luke in the Morpheus - Neo dialogue somewhere in the first 30 minutes of the film; even the music was a la Star Wars at that moment. I guess they thought "most people stop reading SF after they are 20 years old, so they either won't bother or won't remember" which is a crying shame. However, giving the devil its due, the special effects are interesting, the pace is high and the music/sound effects are deafening, therefore The Matrix becomes an interesting spectacle, but it's still hollow, borrowed, and plundered from others' decent works. Pity. I wish it were "the" SF film people were talking about. Did you notice, I didn't write even a single word about Keanu Reeves' expressionless, lifeless, face.


                
I actually enjoyed this film the first time I saw it, but then I saw it a second time after listening to all the comments about how brilliant this film must be and how we must all worship it. I've never walked out on a film before, and that even includes Battlefield Earth and Wing Commander, but I walked out in the middle of trying to watch this one again. I've never seen a film that people try so hard to make out to be so much more than it really is. The worst part is the obssessive cult that has formed up around the film, telling us how great and visionary the directors are and how we should all worship them and blah blah blah...Well gang, like the Region Coding Enhancement scheme, time and people's patience is going to catch up with this dreary film, and the results are going to leave the makers very red-faced. Just about every concept in this film is stolen, poorly executed, or both. I still laugh my guts out when Morpheus tries to tell us how human bodies produce so much energy when they consume at least that much in a day. Any nutritionist worth their salt could tell you that. The division of a digital future between evil robots and kind-hearted human beings was also done far better in Tron. And the sloppy use of the Christ Theme as a plot device doesn't even bear thinking about. When I first saw the film, I had never laughed so hard in my life. When I saw it on DVD, I'd never felt so insulted. Never have I seen a production crew with such over-inflated ideas about their achievements.The characters are just plain boring, too. Keanu Reeves has all the acting ability of a stuffed toy, and yet he is the most interesting thing in the film. That's a worrying sign. Morpheus was all poses and zero credibility, Agent Smith was just an insult, and Trinity had to be one of the least watchable romantic interests since Teri Hatcher's awful performance in Tomorrow Never Dies. And was this film trying hard for some kind of record in speaking ****? Well, guess what? Their efforts succeeded big-time. Every man and his dog seems to be going on about how much better this film was than the last episode of Star Wars, but it is really more on a level with Star Trek.Frankly, if this is the future of science fiction films, then I will happily stick with my copy of Plan 9 From Outer Space. At least Ed Wood had sincere intentions of a variety other than ripping off an army of suckers when he made that piece of ****! Zero stars. And don't blame anyone other than yourselves, Matrix fans, because this film is now the celluoid answer to MTV through your efforts.


                
Some action scenes are entertaining. Otherwise, this movie is a waste of time. Wooden acting. Fighting scenes are too long and martial arts look tedious and unnatural. Bog standard conspiracy theory story. Old idea. The "matrix philosophy" has been treated in superior ways in dozens of earlier films and books. But I would forgive all of that if it weren't for one of the most pathetic explanations I've come across in science fiction: That humans were kept in those cubicles for generating electric power (If the machines were so clever, why didn't they just build power plants? ... and it would have blended nicely with the story if the explanation had been that the brain's computing power is utilised). Call me petty, but that ruined it for me. There is nothing worse when going to the cinema than being taken for a fool by the directors.
I'm afraid I fell for the hype on this one.  Proof yet again that a film cannot survive on special effects and flashy direction alone The Matrix died within an hour.  The scenes that relied on neither of these (ie the scenes where the characters had to TALK to each other) were very boring and exposed the film's complete lack of emotional core.  The characters are shallow and artificial and you don't care what happens to any of them.  Reeves' acting is as bad as ever.  It clearly has pretensions to being an 'intelligent' movie - lots of scientific and philosophical references in the script but it's just name dropping (or idea dropping). A miserable experience.


                
It's hard to believe that people say they like this better than Star Wars. The chic, flip cyberpunk postmodernism will wear thin in a year, mark my words. This is not a timeless movie.


                
Went to see this with my girlfriend and we both spent the last hour just waiting for it to be over.  If I wanted to see pretty effects, I'd watch a PC, I go the cinema to see films.  Some half-a**ed ideas but thats all they were, half-a**ed.  Dialogue was sometimes funnily bad but mostly just excruciating.  I do not understand why this film has the status it does - it says very little for our culture that something so shallow and stupid can be held up as being somehow sublime.


                
