The Matrix is the first installment of a "trilogy" of sci-fi movies. In fact, it's not really a trilogy, in an organic sense, it's just a movie and its sequels.Anyway, "The Matrix" is a film with good premises, but bad developments. Although most of the ideas of the film were taken from sci-fi writers of the 60's and philosophers of the past (the idea that we exist as a thought, or a dream, goes back to Plato at least), the script did a good job in putting these ideas together in a modern plot (at least as for year 2000). The oniric influence of recent sci-fi comic books on the film is visible throughout and is what makes the visual appeal of the film.Unfortunately, what could have been a really good movie has been turned by the W. brothers into an average action flick targetted at 15 year-old boys, among which must belong the guys who wrote this flick is the "best movie" they've seen. There is almost no acting, and the heros wearing sunglasses all the time is a good way to avoid any sort of emotion to show on their faces. This total absence of emotion is one of the reasons why nobody gives a f..k whether or not everyone dies in the sequels.The W. brothers have a strong tendency to show off : heroes wearing sunglasses and Armani black leather coats designed for yuppies, trendy night-club population, "bullet time" special FX, (ugly) kung fu video game action, heavy metal and techno music during the whole film, etc. All this is supposed to make the film look "kewwwwl". In opposition to the heros, the agent Smith wears a dark working suit : he is not cool (although he also wears sunglasses, but that's because he is a spy agent).But what really turns me off is the pretense of the religioso-philosophico-technobabble which hardly hides the vacuity of the characters and the serious weaknesses of the script. There are so many other films which say much more with less, that this film looks highly overblown in comparison.I'm not even trying to elaborate on the sequels, which, instead of correcting these problems, show them in their full splendor.In a word, this flick is highly overrated. But hey, who cares ? The "trilogy" has ripped off enough spectators to make the Warner happy.


                
The Matrix is just another sci-fi film that offers nothing special to the genre. The only reason everybody dropped their jaws and praised this film was because of the great special effects and fight scenes. Believe me there is a lot more to a film than just it's special effects.The script was mind numbing at times, especially with the whole "We're not in Kansas anymore" bull crap line, and the acting was just a notch above awful. The only person that even resembled an actor was Laurence Fishburne. Keanu Reeves is his usual self.All in all a pretty terrible movie and everyone's love for it made it even worse.If you are looking for a good sci-fi flick go out and get "Planet of the Apes", "A Clockwork Orange", or any one of the Star Wars films. If you are looking for a good 90's sci-fi flick go get 12 Monkeys cause that has a lot more than this, like a script and a plot that is more than paper thin.


                
A lot of people like The Matrix because they think it's deep. In fact its apparent deepness is its primary selling point, and is what has turned it into a blockbuster and trendsetter. Just ponder over this, because there's a contradiction here. Whenever has Hollywood hit the jackpot by being profound, either in a philosophical or religious way? Something strange is going on here. A lot of the mystery disappears after we identify exactly what belief the Wachowski brothers are purveying here. It's Scientology. They are telling us that the power of the mind is able to free us from the matrix of the senses. The scientologists are anxious to free themselves and become thetans – omnipresent and omni-powerful minds.Now, the success of The Matrix tells me just one thing, that people have become closet scientologists. They don't grapple with the issue of "appearance and reality" in the way scientologists do, but the core belief is there. They might call themselves an atheist, or an evolutionist ("We only accept what science tells us"), but that's only an excuse for not really sorting out what they really believe in. So, along comes a film called The Matrix and it hits a chord. They can identify with Neo because they are aware of a thing called corporate media manipulating reality for them. They are also brought up on computer games, and so it's not too big a leap to imagine a virtual world completely replacing the real one. I can see how closet scientologists can completely immerse themselves in the plight of Neo and his Christ-like struggle to free humanity from the clutches on the senses and become omni-powerful minds (in the parlance of the film, taking them to promised city of Zion).In that sense, the film is profound, in that it resonates with popular belief so accurately. There is just enough spattering of science and philosophy to take them in. People want to believe in science, but they don't want to be troubled like Einstein was ("Does God play dice?"). The most convincing part of the film is where Morpheus demonstrates to Neo how virtual reality is created. This, and the recurring motif of "freeing the mind" are the only authentic components of the film. The rest is a conventional Hollywood action flick, and one that is totally at odds with the underlining philosophy. Considering the struggle with agent Smith, and the frequent popping in and out of virtual reality, nothing makes sense. This is where real confusion starts to parade as profundity.I always thought that it was only intellectuals who mistook confusion for profundity, but apparently normal cinema-goers do too. Maybe intellectuals and Hollywood action flick fans have something in common after all. They both worship the rational mind. And when rationality delivers a mess, the mess itself is seen as something profoundly rational. Maybe that's the crowing achievement of the Wachowski brothers. They have composed the "Being and Time" for the masses. But Heidegger's philosophical book was mostly pretentious garbage, and so is the Matrix.


                
This has to be the most overrated movie in sci-fi history.  It is way too long and the acting is stiff, especially Keanu "get me a new facial expression" Reeves.  Who cares about the special effects when the story is incoherent and uninteresting?  I certanly don't.  It disturbs me that many people consider this not only a great movie, but a classic!!!!  Did these people see the same movie I did.  I saw a dumb action movie with delusions of grandeur.  I say watch Star Wars again and see what real storytelling is all about.


                
Why does everyone love these movies?  They are junk.  The story is none existent and full of rhetorical nonsense that's randomly placed and stolen from philosophers, the acting is pathetic, and I still believe the only reason people like this movie is because they are hypnotized by its "dazzling" special effects.  People consider these ground-breaking special effects...no.  Star Wars was ground-breaking, The Matrix is just people fighting for no reason other than to show off their "great" CGI.  I sure hope they don't decide to make a 4th. 3/10 stars.


                
This is one of those movies who relies on two-thirds special F/X, mixed with one-third references to classical literature and Judeo-Christian mythology, with near zero coherence.  Unfortunately, this is almost always nearly enough to dupe the public, which is by and large amazingly stupid and take any sprinkling of metaphysical rumination as the work of a genius, as long as it has enough explosions and ickiness mixed in.  The Matrix stars Keanu Reeves as a Block of Wood, or the other way around, being equally valid. Keanu Reeves, as Neo, or Jesus Christ, Techno-Savior, with Trinity, Mary aka "the Virgin"/Mary Magdalene aka "the whore."  (Maybe someone had a bit of Freud going on, mother is the saint, but also the whore?  Same first name, you notice.)  Also, the Holy Black Man, Morpheus, who may or may not represent God or the Holy Ghost, and a generic Judas, who seeks wealth/power through the destruction of Keanu/Christ.  So basically, all that has been done is take the amendment to the Bible (the New and Improved Testament), slap on a lacquer of nihilism, technology, and explosions, no acting ability from the majority of the cast, a handful of plot holes, a reference to "Alice in Wonderland," and you have "The Matrix," the movie that succeeded mainly because it's on the same level as the general public, which is pretty sad.  However, there is a positive side to this entire SFX debacle.  Hugu Weaving, who just somehow manages to be so sexy and cool, especially in his outfit.


                
I simply did not enjoy this film. The plot was so ridiculous that I left the theater with a bad taste. The action sequences well done but this movie was too long and unbelievable and I just got tired. The acting is horrible. I can't believe this thing is on top 250.


                
The directors of "The Matrix" mistake style for dark, depressing sets and gloomy-looking people uttering mumbo-jumbo about "The One". The film has an imaginative and wonderfully paranoid premise: What if the world we live in is not what we think it is, but an illusion created by malevolent beings. Unfortunately, we are subjected to stupid training segments for Reeves by the resistance (an ill-concieved concept all in its own), complete with an inane kickboxing sequence, in which the combatants fly through the air, impressing the half-wits in the audience, while we with IQ's over 50 just sit and yawn. The special  effects are more laughable than spectacular. Seeing a bullet fly by some guy in slow motion is certainly not amazing. The movie could have been so much better if it had had a better script, and omitted every scene "outside reality" I guess. All in all, this is science fiction for cavemen.


                
Lawrence Fishburne mouths unintelligible, cryptic proverbs ... Keanu Reeves gapes back blankly, slackjawed.  Bang, zoom ... the morphing computers, sensing a total absence of continuity, kick in.  Stuff gets blowed up REAL good.  Then it's back to the, uh, story.  More tightlipped pronunciations through clenched teeth, and HOO! HAH! Martial arts! Pow! Thud! Who won? Who knows? There's nary a mark, or even a hair out of place.
Whoops, listen: somebody's got more deep thoughts. "There is no spoon." Ah, the audience is awaiting The Truth behind that one. Can you handle The Truth? Well, accepting the award for The Truth, here she comes: The Oracle! A chain-smoking, cookie-baking Sassy Mama! "Have ... a COOKIE, Nio!"I mean, how can it miss?  This is High Concept, this is Today, this is Now, short-attention-span Y2K box office boffo!  We're talking Sequel City here! 
I rooted for Agent Smith (Hugo Weaving, the one actor who acted in this flash-trash celluloid sinkhole) and his Brown Suits. Especially after he compared the principal characters to a virus which consumes and then moves on.  The Robo-Man makes a point.Hey! Wait a minute ... maybe there really IS no spoon!  Maybe that's the POINT!  There isn't one of those, either!  A point, I mean.


                
"Boring" and "who cares" about sums up my feelings of this movie. Boring-I slept through some of it and I was awakened by the buzz of audience chatter through out the movie.  Everyone talks about it being derivative-Really- let me count the ways- Terminator II which I liked a lot- These guys must have seen Disney movies a hundred times each i.e. Alice, Cinderella, sleeping beauty, plus a lot of Roadrunner cartoons- and a lot of people are mentioning a Gap commercial! give me a break-please- Bombarding the senses does not make a great movie.Who cares-There was no characters I cared about or even knew anything about- no plot-no story-no nothing- an extremely clever cartoon-only- that's all folks.


                
The Matrix isn't the mind trip that everyone says it is. The story is pretty standard, even a tad cliché. It pretty much takes Alice In Wonderland and makes it slightly more mature, and that is really it. Our world isn't real, but the matrix is real. Okay, so how is that original? The idea has been toyed around with in every single fantasy story since about the time The Chronicles of Narnia was written. I simply do not understand why so many people think that is so original<U+0097>it's not even close. In essence, it was pretty predictable to me.But my major problem was it was dull. Most of the movie was nothing but your standard fantasy lingo that I've heard so many times I was about to fast forward through it all. "Our world is real, not yours." Then, "But, wait, how can that be?" And so on. I can tell you exactly what was going on in this movie from the first trailer, much less halfway through.Action is minimal. Violence is non-existent. I don't understand why this was rated R, at all, unless the produces paid the MPAA to give it an R-rating so it looked more "hardcore" than it really is. The few action scenes that did take place were okay, but nothing to phone home about, even when the movie was released.Acting is cheesy. Enough said. A lot of this movie I couldn't even take seriously because the acting was so cheesy. Whoever was in charge of casting for this film really had no idea how to pick solid actors to fill the roles.Overall, I guess it was okay. Pretty average and predictable, just like all the Wachowski brother's movies. It was fun, and better than sitting at home with nothing to do, but I can't say much more than that.3/10
Only in Hollywood could a stiff like Keanu Reeves get top billing over a fine, classically trained actor like Laurence Fishburne.  And only in Hollywood could a typical, derivative, way-too-long shoot-em-up action movie get such good reviews.Ladies and gentlemen, I hate to burst your bubble, but there were maybe ten minutes worth of eye-popping special effects.  The rest?  Ponderous clap-trap about "The Martix" and "The One."  Most of the "action?"  Typical gun fights where for some reason twenty "bad guys" with automatic weapons (on their home turf) cannot shoot two intruders.  It was boring and unbelievable the last 2,500 times it was done, and it is boring and unbelievable now.I gag on my mouse.One thumb down.


                
I hated this movie.  Half the story line was stolen from a Star Trek episode called "The Thaw" and the other half was taken from the movie "Dark City." The only orignal touch was the Kung-Fu fighting, which isn't original at all.  I gave this movie a 3, don't see it, instead watch Star Trek, Dark City and the Terminator and give credit to the people who came up with these ideas in the first place.


                
Hackneyed, muddy plot. Fishburne is reduced to spouting Zen platitudes and comments about the Net as poorly-reasoned as Al Gore's recent gaffes. The film is basically an excuse for the special effects, and the best that can be said for Keanu Reeves is that he wasn't any worse than the character he played in "Johnny Mnemonic" (or is that "Moronic"?)


                
You cannot help but be impressed with the tremendous amount of work that went into the making of this movie, but the result is much flash and dazzle with very little content.  I would have hoped for more.The plot is so confused and confusing that I gave up trying to make any sense out of it after about 20 minutes.  The plot line ultimately reverts to a classic good-guys vs. bad-guys shoot-em-up.  The movie is kind of a "Karate Kid" on steroids, except that the characters in "The Karate Kid" are much more involving.The subtheme concerning the nature of reality adds no new insight in trying to answer this eternal question.  Any child who stops to think about the artificial reality created strictly by the mind in the dream state has gotten as far as this movie makes you go.  "The Forbidden Planet" examines this question in a much more interesting and thoughtful way.The subtheme concerning finding "The Chosen One" seemed to be thrown in as an attempt at trying to give the hopelessly misguided script some heft.  Some "meaning."  If you want to see a beautiful and sensitive treatment of this, see Scorsesse's "Kundun."Except for Fishburn, the acting was uniformly wooden. Keanu Reeves seems to have the emotional range of a potato.  I wound up not caring for any of the people in this movie - whether they lived or died made no difference to me. I found the love interest unbelievable.The intro to the DVD made me think that I was going to like the music at least.  But I cannot even remember this movie as having a soundtrack, it was so unmemorable.The agents for the Matrix were stereotypical, in a movie that seemed to want to break stereotypical images - like the supreme Mother being an aging and unattractive lower middle class woman.  If you are really thinking about how to be innovative in portraying evil, think of the devil in "The Last Temptation of Christ."I think about this movie in comparison to "2001" in trying to figure why I liked "2001," but disliked this movie so much. Both movies have memorable images, but "2001" creates a sense of beauty and mystery, whereas "The Matrix" creates a sense of anxiety and dread.Ultimately I found "The Matrix" to be drab, depressing and cold. I found its glorification of violence repellent.
I may spend more time writing this comment than any of the 26 others I have completed for IMDb. For one thing, I really need to examine why I have such a totally negative view of this movie, which many others adore so. I do think they must either be 12-year-olds, or older folk with their mental development permanently stunted, stuck forever at the 12-year-old level. Sorry, but that's really the way I feel about anyone who raves about "The Matrix". It is sad that I'll spend (waste) my time in this way.Certainly, there are worse movies in the same genre. One example is "Equilibrium," which has achieved the dubious distinction being one of only two films, the other being "Bloody Sunday," with my "2 out of 10" rating. Only "Narc" got a lower rating (obviously, a "1") in my list of IMDb voted-on films. I think that pegs The Matrix at a "3", although that may indeed be too generous.I think Keanu Reeves is, generally, a good actor, although many, if not most, of the films in which he has appeared do scant justice to what acting ability he possesses. "Speed" comes to mind; a very bad movie. And Reeves definitely comes off as badly in The Matrix as he did in Speed. On the other hand, the relatively unknown film "Johnny Mnemonic," although it obviously falls far short of fulfilling the wild vision of William Gibson's fine short story, gets at least my mild applause; Reeves was as good as he gets in that film, I think. And, guess what? For his Johnny Mnemonic effort, Reeves was nominated for the Razzie Award, as worst actor of the year!I don't know what you call the genre, if only one exists, for The Matrix and Equilibrium. Science Fiction? Cyber-Noir? Impossible Future-Fantasy Kung-Fu? "Dark City," I think, also belongs to this indeterminate genre, but Dark City resides at the best end of its spectrum, as opposed to the other two, which are so abysmally bad they inspire nausea in me. The stunningly beautiful images of Dark City stand in huge contrast to the formulaic shallowness of The Matrix. Well, there can be no comparison, really. Dark City is a great film; The Matrix just isn't. I will try to explain why I have these starkly-opposed opinions...I believe there ought to be at least three criteria for rating any film: Screenplay, Acting, and Production. Of the three, Acting must be at least a bit more important than the other two. Good acting can go far towards rescuing marginal writing or poor production. And bad acting can absolutely ruin an otherwise excellent story and image.The Matrix: The acting is unconvincing. Screenplay: Shallow, displaying no redeeming or memorable story. Production: Dominated by gratuitous special effects, which have little relation to furthering what story there is.I just decided to drop this project. The Matrix deserves no more of my time. 3 out of 10. Finis.


                
The Matrix started with a good idea for a subject about reality. Then added a babe, a shoot-em up, and some Kung Fu and called it a movie. If you can dodge a bullet, why do you need Kung Fu. His mission is to save the world? Most the planet is burned beyond recognition, if he brings people back to reality, where are they going to live. Not a tight story! This is an easy one to miss!


                
Ok, so it's the number one movie right now, but WHY?????? Why did I think this movie was cheap and worthless, and deserving of my mediocre vote? (a 3, btw)1. The acting was atrocious!  Keanu, YOU'RE NOT IN BILL AND TED'S EXCELLENT ADVENTURE ANYMORE!  SNAP OUT OF IT!  Fishburne was a robot, and carrie-anne moss was terrible! 2. The storyline was not very impressive...it was just a little from Invasion of the Body Snatchers, a little from Planet of the Apes, and a little from every cheap B sci-fi flick ever made! 3. Where were the impressive special effects the trailers were promising? What, the slo-mo bullets?  Nothing that hasn't been done a million times by John Woo! 4. That karate sequence between Reeves and Fishburne - how cheesy was that?My advice is, stop being a bunch of sheep, and don't go watch this movie! It really does stink!  You're better off going out to rent a few Brat Pack movies instead!


                
This movie would be good if the director kept the special effects and then fired all the actors and rewrote the script.  The idea of The Matrix is amazing.  When I realized what the Matrix was, I was interested. Unfortunately, the script didn't allow me to care enough about the rest of the narrative.  If the characters were less cartoon-like and I was made to feel any sympathy towards them, maybe the film would work.  Go see The Matrix for the special effects but don't pay attention to the narrative, or you will be disappointed. (3 out of 10)


                
Once in a while a film comes along that everyone has to like, whether its any good or not doesn't matter. The hype and the fact that it has `cool' elements in it,  like killing at the drop of a hat, dark glasses and long leather coats and of course special effects, make up for that. Examples include Blade Runner, which was truly awful, Heat (zzzzzzzzzzzz),  Pulp Fiction, which was good, but not unbelievably wonderful as everyone rants on about and Men in Black which was utter c**p of the highest order (see my review). The Matrix disappointed me unbelievably. I love the Wachowski's previous film `BOUND' and looked forward to this film on the strength of that, NOT the hype.  I watched it in the summer of its release,  on the same day as `Ten Things I hate about you' and `Cruel Intentions' and I must say that I enjoyed those films far more. I had heard `THE MATRIX' was the best film ever made, a cinematic masterpiece, a wonderful story etc although, I always go into every film with an open mind and make my own mind up (even Burn Hollywood Burn <U+0096> which yes, was awful anyway!!). The Matrix bored me silly for the first hour or so, it didn't make the slightest bit of sense and reminded me of the pain of sitting through `Bladerunner' years before. What I will say is that it picked up in the second half, mainly due special effects <U+0096> which I always say, should be only an element of a film, NOT the be all and end all. I do honestly believe that many (not all) people only like this film because its fashionable to do so, although will never admit it. If you want good sci fi action thriller, that was made at a shaving of the cost, watch the superior `PITCH BLACK'. Please be individual and make up your own mind and not follow the crowd.


                
Even as far as Hollywood films go, this plot is for the birds. Yeah yeah, I know.. it's Sci-Fi, but it still amazes me the way some people drool and applaud rancid pablum like this. All they need is some over-rated FX, one over-rated actor, and the dumbest storyline of all time, and you have people lining up at the door, barking for more. There is good Sci-Fi, and there is bad Sci-Fi. This film definitely falls into the latter. For all of you yahoo's eagerly awaiting the sequel, try something new, read a book. (If you can read)


                
Well, this is the lowest rating I've ever given a film (3). Boring beyond belief. It's not like the idea is new; in fact, I would think the producer of this film would have to pay royalties to the guy who wrote "The Thirteenth Floor", I think it was, with Craig Bierko. That movie was entertaining and suspenseful. This is just the worst. You like science fiction? see "Last Night." You want another film about a manufactured universe? How about "The Truman Show?" This was a total waste of time, and I'm afraid its rating as #31 on the all-time honors list, at this writing, is just a testament to the fact that too few people my age can really use the internet. Keanau Reeves better stop doing this stuff, 'cause, like McCauley Culkin, he's gonna outgrow them.


                
An interesting premise which fails to live up to its promise. The apparent super-human abilities of the film's protagonists are a result of human will-power overcoming the machine.Unfortunately, the script is predictable, the design not as stylish as the ads would have us believe, and the visual effects inappropriate. It relies too much on special effects. The film gives the impression that it is simply a vehicle for someone to show off a new technique. The resulting scenes are pretty, but fail to maintain the suspension of disbelief so essential to the successful use of visual effects.It tries, but fails miserably, to be thought provoking. Instead, it is merely irritating. A disappointing film which would have been better aimed at an older audience.


                
A terrible film.  Completely unoriginal.  And what's this fascination with just one special effect which isn't much more exciting than slow motion.  I like action, and I like fancy effects, such movies don't require plot, dialogue, nor acting.  Unfortunately lacks in every single area.  Although I know that hype carries through lots of films, I can't believe the hype blinded so many people into regarding this film as anything but a cheap and nasty B-rated imitation of so many great, visually stimulating, and thought provoking films.  As with previous comments, I recommend Dark City for the original movie plot.  And just about any Bruce Lee film for the Kung Fu. In hindsight though, the popularity of this movie is making me think that the theme in the Matrix could indeed be the truth, except that in reality the "Matrix" is the Hollywood Movie Producers...


                
After almost two years of feeling almost guilty for not having seen this movie, and under the advice of many friends of mine, I finally took a look on The Matrix. What a waste of time! How deceiving! It seems it is enough with having a noisy soundtrack, a bit of misled oriental philosophy and some weird looking guys acting (?) to have people mouthwatering. Oh, yes, the visuals are great. Maybe the only contribution of this movie is the release of more or less new FX that could be used in further, more intelligent movies. It is incredible how so many inconsistencies can be found in the plot without making this movie lose a bit of its undeserved legend. Here are a few of the details that made this film unbearable to me:Machines are obtaining energy from biological sources. And from all the living creatures populating this world, it is the human race that is being used, when hundreds of species would have been much more efficient "batteries", without having to create a Matrix to have them comfortable in their sleep - The Matrix is a virtual world designed to keep battery-people happy in their dreams. However, the battle happens precisely in this imaginary world, which has no sense. You can even diein this electronic world and your real body dies, too!!! - After being flushed away when he wakes up, Neo is rescued with an enormous device that was ready to act under the very nose of the machinesBeyond FX, the movie is absolutely boring. You could always disconnect your brain and simply watch at the action, and rate this movie more or less high as an inoffensive entertainment. But then you must face all that incredible mythology built up around this movie, as if it showed a new philosophy or some scientific value! The worst thing of it, is that it is seen by many people as a sci-fi movie. Well, Star Wars deserve being called "sci-fi" a thousand times more. Call this a fantasy movie, an action tale... whatever. But please not a sci-fi picture


                
