What made The Matrix special was the ground breaking visual effects such as 'Bullet Time' that have been often imitated in other films and video games. The Wachowski's simply knocked it out of the park.Keanu Reeves is Mr Anderson an ordinary computer programmer by day and secret hacker called Neo at night who is suddenly pursued by government agents led by a sinister Agent Smith (Hugo Weaving) after he is contacted by computer hacker Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne.) Morpheus believes Neo is the 'One.' Humans lives in a false reality that controls humans and Neo will lead the harvested humans to rebel against the machines creating the false reality.The film mixes cyberpunk science fiction with Hong Kong style martial arts and elements of Japanese manga type animation as inspiration.Keanu Reeves is in his element is a world where he does not understand the world around him. He looks cool and does well in the martial arts sequences. I guess revisiting this genre made up for the failure of Johnny Mnemonic.Laurence Fishburne is even more cooler as Morpheus guiding Neo in this hostile new reality and how to take down the system. Carrie-Ann Moss is kick ass sexy in black leather as Trinity who displays superhuman powers.The film has philosophical underpinnings as the Wachowski's ask us to thing about the world around us and our existence within it.The film is cool, it is hip but I felt slightly too long and little bit to po faced. However the Wachowski's did manage to catch lightning in a bottle which they did not manage to do with the sequels.


                
This movie is one giant plothole based take on some philosophical issues, that has proved to be hugely influential. Quite original for a Hollywood flick, it is often given more credit than it deserves. The giant plot hole is that using people as batteries makes absolutely no sense. Contrived in its core, it however delivers many themes and is a decent movie, and the influence it has ups its rating a bit. But lets not get over ourselves, this is not Terminator or other such gem, not by any stretch. Still, worth a watch.


                
Good but not great. There were plot holes and inconsistencies that other reviewers have mentioned but to the untrained eye this is still an amazing watch


                
Even though this movie is 2 years old it still seems fresh and inventive. A good display all round


                
Ok, I'm getting sick of comments saying stuff like "The Matrix is the greatest film EVER MADE!"That's complete and utter bullturd. Yes, it had great cinematography and effects, yes it had a great soundtrack but NO WAY was the acting superb and NO WAY was the storyline great.Take that storyline and stick it in any other action movie and you would leave feeling disappointed at the end. It's major selling point was "What is the Matrix? You have to see it for yourself." Come on, the only plot twist was that thing to do with Cypher, and that wasn't greatly unforeseeable, there's things like that in every frigging action movie.The thing that set it apart was the ground-breaking camera effects, gnarly special effects and a funky soundtrack, as well as the costume design bit, with all that leather and expensive sunglasses. Without this stuff, all you would be left with is your average action movie.I'm not saying it was a bad film at all, just not one of the greatest. Highly entertaining, great to watch with your mates, definitely one of the most interesting films in recent years. But give me The Third Man, Memento or the Usual Suspects any day.7/10


                
When I first saw the Matrix a few years ago, I thought it was a pretty good flick, but as I watched it more and more, I began to realize that the film ripped off from a variety of films such as the computer-animated masterpiece Tron and the intelligent action film Face/Off to name a few. Now, most people think this film is intelligent, but I thought that is was incredibly long and was almost entirely plotless. It's a shame at how the characters act so serious that you don't know what they are talking about. Another problem I have with the Matrix were the incredibly overrated effects. First of all, I can't understand why the Matrix won the Visual Effects Oscar over the Phantom Menace, which took much more effort and used much more technology. I see so many unoriginalities with the Matrix's effects. People who think that the Bullet Time effects were original and told the story, you obviously haven't seen the slow-motion bullets in Face/Off, which I personally found more eye-catching. And for people who think that the story about a computer programmer entering a virtual reality world, you obviously haven't seen the Walt Disney masterpiece Tron, which, by the way, had far more groundbreaking technology for its day than the Matrix's effects had when it was first made. Overall, the Matrix is one of the most overrated films I've ever seen and had more attention than it actually deserved. Grade: D


                
I really cannot understand the hype & gushing praise for this sfx/cgi gloated film.The story is routine - a contemporary mix of Men In Black, Tron and a shedload of other "10 seconds to go before the world is destroyed" movies.The principle idea of a make-believe world called The Matrix, a world where we all live totally oblivious to the fact that this world is totally artificial and controlled by machines, could have been immensely interesting in the hands of a better set of scriptwriters & directors. In any case this kind of story isn't a million miles away from Douglas Adams' Hitchhiker's Guide To the Galaxy, a book far more interesting than this rubbish.For the sake of a good story the Wachoowski Brothers (writers & directors) went all gooey for lots of cgi to distract the viewer with the many plotholes and poor character development. The story simply gets in the way of a good sfx. And on and on it goes, each cgi trying to out "wow" the previous effect to the point where you wonder whether this is nothing more than an expensive computer game.People went wild when we saw our heroes climb up walls, jump huge rooftops & dodge speeding bullets in slowmo. But so what? I feel we have become so blaise about cgi that only our imagination limits us to what we think is possible. And the cgi in this film no longer had the same kind of "jaw dropping" effect as one witnessed in Star Wars, Terminator 2 or even 2001:Space Odyssey.Our superheroes, Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishbourne & Carrie Annie Moss, looked like bit players compared to the computer bits making up the over indulgent CGIs. Fishbourne tries to come over all cool & hip, but looks fairly average when asked to do anything remotely interesting; Reeves acts just like...well...Reeves, with that usual "no one's home" expression & designer jackets. While Moss hops in & out of the movie when it looks as if the going's getting a bit tough for Reeves, resulting in an ending ripped straight from Luc Besson's 5th Element!This film lives off its own hype & marketing, and already looks dated. Once you've viewed the film more than a couple of times and got used to the sfx you then want to look for more depth only to find that its only the sfx that holds the film together.BAD!**/*****


                
There are currently almost 2800 reviews on IMDB for this film....and so what I have to say about the movie really isn't all that important. It also is one of the highest rated films ever on IMDB. And, so much has been said about the film, I think I'll be rather brief.The plot involves a guy who learns that nothing be sees or does is real...and that the world is nothing like anyone thinks. This is because in the dystopian future, machines keep folks in pods and they live out their lives in a phony existence.The film's story is interesting...and very existential. I like that aspect of it very much. But the film has a weakness for me and I am sure some other folks might feel the same way...there is just too much action. The film is one scene after another after another--with lots of action, violence and CGI...so much that it boggles the mind. For me, that left me rather tired when the film was over. I liked it...but I also didn't want any more and can't see me watching any of the sequels.


                
Action set pieces in this movie have already become iconic: brilliantly choreographed, inventive and gloriously over the top, they represent a fine mix of science fiction and martial arts. The "bullet-time" effect, in particular, has been ripped off dozens of times since.Unfortunately, that's the only real achievement of the Matrix series; everything else reeks of Philip K. Dick for dummies. Not only the stuff about alternative realities and cyberspace, but also pretty much every other idea seems to have been discreetly borrowed from other sources (aside from Dick, major inspirations are Alex Proyas' Dark City and William Gibson's Count Zero). Even the famous set piece where Neo (Reeves) infiltrates an enemy base to rescue his mentor/guru Morpheus (Fishburne) has its precedent in Dick, bullet-time included (read Counter-clockwise if you don't believe me). The result is an admittedly pretty collage.Human element is weak, which makes emotional involvement faint; characters are bland, showing little personality. Reeves' Neo is just a blank. Fishburne and Moss fare a little better, but the stand-outs are Pantoliano as traitorous Cypher and an icy, smug Hugo Weaving as Agent Smith: every time he is on screen the movie shift gears. It's one of the Matrix' ironies that its cybernetic villain is a lot more lively than the human hero. Kubrick did the same in 2001, but that was a deliberate choice.While Dick's works are rich with irony and melancholy, the Wachowskis go for kung fu and head shots. Still, better an overdose of action than the portentous posturing which they tried to pass off as philosophy in the two sequels.7/10
If you are some small programmer working for some big company, doing all day the same stupid work you might fall for the idea that your life is not as boring and senseless as it seems (and maybe actually is), but that you are in fact the god and creator of this world. The normal reaction should be: Turn that computer off, take a vacation, maybe seek professional help. You can also make a movie...Matrix is not boring, it`s tense and it has stunning visuals. But like a good video clip does not make the music worth listening to, a whole bunch of special effects do not make a great movie.After watching the Matrix I recognized that:1. I don't get why super-robots, who overwhelmed the whole human kind, are not able to build some nuclear power plants, despite the fact that they really needn't care about radioactive pollution. Instead they get their energy from humans, and if you take a look at their body "farms"  you must agree that it looks like they are putting a lot more energy into it than they get out of it... A good movie (even if it's science fiction) should provide some ground level logic in its story.2. I did not care about the characters. They die? Hmmm, okay. Trinity loves Neo? Uh, why is that? Did I miss something? A good movie makes me feel for the characters and understand their reactions. In this point Matrix is a total failure. Ever watched Brazil? You maybe should if you'd like to see a good "big brother" picture.3. This pseudo religious bla bla. Realize that there is no spoon? I realized that there is something else missing somewhere in the story writers head. Well, wouldn't be so bad, if there weren't point 1 and 2.4. This background theme of being something better than the others. Uh, am I really just some role playing games liking informatics student? Or am I the master of the universe? Look in the mirror, decide for yourself...does not look like Keanu Reeves? What a surprise.Watch this movie, it won't bore you. But if you think your going to see a REALLY good movie, or even a masterpiece, keep away from it. You will be quite disappointed afterwards.Ah, and if you like MTV...this is the best movie ever made. ;)
5/10


                
Why this is so popular absolutely baffles me. It only beat The Phantom Menace for best special effects because of politics, to show that George Lucas "supposedly" doesn't have so much clout. How anybody can get off on a bunch of skinny dorks in S+M outfits beating each other up with trick photography while techno music constantly plays in the background is beyond me. This is the MTV generations' wet dream, that much is obvious. Comparing it to Blade Runner is trying way too hard. And those of you trying to make something religious out of it, this is all I have to say: get a life and get educated. You just want to draw attention to yourselves. Here's hoping a piano falls on the Wachowski Bros. before the next two films are made.1/10. You got a problem with it, too damn bad.


                
The Matrix brought in a mixed bag of both good and bad. On one side, its original story and setup for the next film is great, while on the other side, its mediocre acting, and aging visuals keep me from truly loving this film. So with that, I decided to give The Matrix a "Good" on theVade Review Bar or a 7 out of 10. An above average score for an above average film.Read more at theVade.


                
Lots of well choreographed fight scenes but they do sometimes look a bit jerky (almost like they are robots). Could of done with more explanation on why the machine puts all the humans in the matrix, it was a bit like the creators said 'why should we have them in the matrix?' 'I dunno, let's just make it so they don't know the whole truth so we don't have to come up with why'. It could of done with more explanation on why the things were happening. It also depended a bit too much on unexplainable stuff like why two of them came alive. Some of the cgi isn't that great but it's not too bad. Very original ideas though, lots of cool moments and cool monsters. The ending was a bit rushed though and didn't make much sense.
The story of a reluctant Christ-like protagonist set against a baroque, MTV backdrop, The Matrix is the definitive hybrid of technical wizardry and contextual excellence that should be the benchmark for all sci-fi films to come.Hollywood has had some problems combining form and matter in the sci-fi genre. There have been a lot of visually stunning works but nobody cared about the hero. (Or nobody simply cared about anything.) There a few, though, which aroused interest and intellect but nobody 'ooh'-ed or 'aah'-ed at the special effects. With The Matrix, both elements are perfectly en sync. Not only did we want to cheer on the heroes to victory, we wanted them to bludgeon the opposition. Not only did we sit in awe as Neo evaded those bullets in limbo-rock fashion, we salivated.But what makes The Matrix several cuts above the rest of the films in its genre is that there are simply no loopholes. The script, written by the Wachowski brothers is intelligent but carefully not geeky. The King-fun sequences were deftly shot -- something even Bruce Lee would've been proud of. The photography was breathtaking. (I bet if you had to cut every frame on the reel and had it developed and printed, every single frame would stand on its own.) And the acting? Maybe not the best Keanu Reeves but name me an actor who has box-office appeal but could portray the uneasy and vulnerable protagonist, Neo, to a T the way Reeves did. But, come to think of it, if you pit any actor beside Laurence Fishburne, you're bound to confuse that actor for bad acting. As Morpheus, Mr. Fishburne is simply wicked! Shades of his mentor-role in Higher Learning, nobody exudes that aura of quiet intensity than Mr. Fishburne. His character, battle-scarred but always composed Morpheus, is given an extra dose of mortality (He loves Neo to a fault.) only Mr. Fishburne can flesh out.People will say what they want to say about how good The Matrix is but the boatmen is this: finally there's a philosophical film that has cut through this generation. My generation. The Wachowski brothers probably scribbled a little P.S. note when they finished the script saying: THINK FOR A MOMENT ABOUT YOUR EXISTENCE. What is the Matrix, you ask? Something that's closer to reality than you think.Either that or it's my personal choice for best film of all-time.
It might seem – but it isn't – condescending to find it ill-considered for any one of us, in unqualified fashion, to declare one particular motion picture the "very best" unless and until thoroughly familiar with the whole spectrum of all genres and disciplines from the last century. An absolute favorite, certainly, as in music, literature and the arts; but there is the work of Mizoguchi; Godard; Buñuel; Riefenstahl; Fellini; Ozu; Fritz Lang; Satyajit Ray; Renoir; Dreyer; Truffaut; Bresson; Murnau; Welles; Kurosawa; Kazan; Ophuls; Eisenstein; Keaton; Bergman; Kubrick; Minelli; Kieslowski; Yimou; Hitchcock; Rohmer; etc. "B-e-s-t" might reasonably include at least a handful of other movies in world culture.


                
Introduces an interesting idea and gives the viewer the ability to follow it fairly easily. The action is one of a kind and well choreographed. A cult classic.


                
I watched this movie a week ago. Given how much the world is terrified of AI and how high this movie is rated, I though it will be more thought provoking. The first half of the movie did that pretty well and i was really interested to reach the end. Later on, the movie had the best action scenes i saw a long time ago but I assume it lost its original goal (atleast it is the goal i assumed from the beginning) and i was left there wanting to know more about agent smith ( who was one of the most interesting characters i saw since a long time) but he wasn't given enough screen time and was only portrayed as pure evil. I may be on the minority here but hugo weaving did not do a good job in this movie but i think it is mostly the director's fault. 
Also, casting keenu for such a role which deserves a lot of acting capabilities gave the director little to no options but to have a lot of action scenes and diverge away from what is expected.
Still this movie had a lot of good action scenes and effects. it is regarded as a classic but i just can't see why.


                
I must admit that Matrix is very amazing as a show of pure images. A lot of fx make this movie really impressive. But the basic idea (what you see is not true) is not so new. Even the idea of a bunch of freedom-seeking hackers has been often used in cyberpunk literature. The biggest limit of Matrix is the lack of courage: whenever the directors are about to cross the line of a scifi movie to enter the world of big cinema, they choose the easier way (gunfights, a bit of Bruce Lee 20 years after). And one last thing, the guy resurrected by the princess' kiss: so miserable... They tried to turn an average story into a new Blade Runner, but I'm afraid it turned out as a Luxury edition of Johnny Mnemonic. Rated 7 (to me) but Matrix does not go beyond the limit of a genre movie.


                
The heroes are much like the protagonists of STAR WARS. The villains are much like STAR TREK's borg. The wardrobe is a rip-off of T2 and BLADE, for the heroes, and MIB for the bad guys. The gunfights are Hong-Kong inspired. So are the fight scenes. Those are only a few of the influences I've spotted. This movie did not reinvent the wheel, but it's still gives the movie goer quite an eyeful and does what it's supposed to, which is to entertain. All the stories have been told, it's all in the "how" you tell the story. This one had a cool style and some innovative special effects. I won't say this is my favorite movie ever, but it was worth watching.


                
THE MATRIX is a good film , without doubt the greatest film featuring the sub genre of cyberpunk , but it`s film whose reputation is mainly built upon having a very clever premise more than anything else . I remember being absolutely stunned at the revelation of the plot , but  when I saw it for a second time at the weekend on channel 5 ( First time I saw it was about three years ago ) I was slightly bored by the film . It`s by no means a boring film , it`s just that once you know how the plot twists , turns and sometimes boggles the mind the revelations don`t have the same effect second time around . THE MATRIX hasn`t been helped either by the amount of spoofs/rip offs featuring the scenes where the action stops , the frame freezes , the camera turns 360 degrees and then the action starts again . These scenes were jaw dropping at the time but have now been done by countless ads , pop videos and other movies it`s become impossible now to remember the impact this cinematography technique had at the time . I also think the producers of THE MATRIX haven`t done themselves any favours by turning THE MATRIX into a franchise To sum up this is a good film . Like me you`ll certainly enjoy it first time you watch it but unlike say MEMENTO ( Note the cast connections between the two movies ? ) THE MATRIX doesn`t reward the audience with repeat viewings and at the end of the day the not too dissimilar TOTAL RECALL is probably a more enjoyable film


                
One minute I was sitting in front of my PC flying a dragon across a mist strewn landscape, the next minute I found myself sitting in the UCI Cinema. Whoa! (I thought). What's happening dude? It seems I was watching a film called "The Matrix" starring Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne and the very toothsome Carrie-Anne Moss. Apparently human experience is just a Virtual Reality created by weird AI beings to lull us into compliance and enable them to harvest us for our bio-energetic essence. I thought everyone knew that by now? Well, apparently not according to this film.In fact there are many, many things that this film believes the audience does not know. For a start it believes we do not know that AI machines will take over the world because we are so stupid. It believes that we know nothing about the history of Western philosophy and even less about Eastern philosophy. It is not aware of the fact that most of us have spent hundreds, perhaps thousands, of hours in our lives discussing the nature of reality both sober and (more frequently) drunk and that we are intimately familiar with all the arguments involved. The film does not know that we can recognise a cliché-ridden script when we hear one. (Sample: "My way or the highway." Someone is pulling our virtual legs here surely?)This film does not know how restless a modern audience can get waiting for the action to start nor has it ever heard of the Lizard's First Law of the Cinema i.e. First make your film then cut at least thirty minutes out of it because it is just annoying dreck that has been put in to pad out the film because all film directors are too chicken to make films that run 90 minutes these days, pal! Suddenly I hear Keanu's voice in my mind – "I know Kung Fu!" I find myself in a sparse Japanese Hall. Keanu makes several hypnotic gestures culminating in a flick of the wrist beckoning me to fight him if I dare. I realise that he is imitating Bruce Lee's postures and damn me he nearly succeeds. I step swiftly aside and Laurence Fishburne steps in to take my place. Even though my Real Life mind knows Keanu and Larry don't know anything about Kung Fu, my VR mind believes they are old hands at it. As a long time fan of HK Action films I find this sequence absolutely exhilarating. What Keanu and Larry lack in terms of authenticity is easily hidden by the choreography, editing and special effects.Then, in the blink of an eye, I'm cowering behind a pillar as a dozen men and one woman with an armoury of guns blast hell out of the marble-clad walls, floors and ceilings of a huge office lobby. Remarkably a thousand wall tiles die for every person killed but in due course and in suitable John Woo style, the good guys win only to go on to the next action-packed scene.Taking the action scenes and the effects alone this is one of the best films I have seen for some time. When they really let rip with the guns, bullets, machines, kung-fu and upside-down, sideways and backwards balletics I felt a real adrenaline rush of joy of the kind denied to all those po-faced critics in the broadsheets who have to seek meaning and purpose and socially responsible messages in modern films.But then suddenly I was back in plotland with all the lack of logicality you'd expect from one of the worse technobabble episodes of the least good Star Trek franchise show scrapped from the bottom of the barrel when they are running out of money and ideas at the end of a long run. Bought back down to reality with a bang.Forget the plot. Go for the action and the effects. And one more thing – Existenz has this film beat hands down. The two films have very similar questions to ask about the nature of reality. Existenz treats you as though you are an intelligent human being and never ever lets you guess which reality is real. The Matrix assumes you are just a dumb puppy that only wants to be amused for the moment.
Sometimes when a movie makes you  think, I miss the factor and send a negative review across.Does the movie make you think? Absolutely. It is a vary challenging feature. As a matter of fact, this is a good test for your movie understanding ability. It is not quite as confusing and plotless as "Dark City," but a lot more high tech then "Johnny Mnemonic." It is about the same as in the sense of lots happening on scene at one time as "Blade", but does not make you dizzy.I Hesitate to recommend the film, however, and in reality, the day I screened the film my star rating was lower than it is today. In other words, my thumb would be jolted down on Friday, April 2, 1999, but today, it is pointed up, with a crutch helping it from plummeting down again.Why did I change my mind to disliking "The Matrix" to liking it? Well, I thought about it, and BINGO, I thought about it. This movie is very tricky. Hard to follow? Certainly, if you get up to go to the bathroom for five minutes, you'll be lost for all the rest. Movies that threaten for you to pay attention are something to see. Making a thought-provoking film isn't easy, you know.Irrelevant "The Matrix" is. I won't even get into explaining the film's plot, for it would be a mix-up, only to turn you off. There isn't  a real story here, but there is a base to the movie. See the movie and you'll understand.I liked the dazzling visual effects, which were about as good as "Dark City." The filmmakers do suffer from showing the audience a little too much on screen instead of letting us imagine things a bit, but they also make up for that by putting in sub-plots and bizarre camera effects.Also to my liking is the performance by Fishburne and Pantoliano, hard to explain why, however. Laurence Fishburne acts that he is once again on a horror ride in the "Event Horizon," Joe Pantoliano provides some comic relief when the film gets too deep. Keanu Reeves is a bit too lost in his dialog and trying to understand what's going on to do much damage on screen."The Matrix" is not for anyone other than hard core science fiction movie fans. It is simply another addition to the mind numbing array of special effects movies that don't carry along a story with themselves. This is not a great movie, and when I think about it, I have a hard time calling it "good." But for an addition to this failing genre, it's a turning point.


                
Now that we have had the pioneering-stages of film-making, and passed through the first stages of computer-animation and graphics creating the illusion of another world within the one we live in, life and movies could have become exciting. But in fact the results are pretty disappointing. Hollywood bores us almost to death with re-makes and re-makes of re-makes and the results are almost consistently worse than the originals which at least, but certainly not only, had the profits of being original. This case isn't much different. The producers should be given credit in creating a fantasy and doing it convincingly, as well as doing a good job on dealing with some of the special effects and stunts. Fighting scenes are not too bad either, but lack involvement, and could very rarely be called exciting. This makes the Matrix certainly not a thriller or good action movie. In this way the Matrix is disappointing due to a weak plot, a badly told story that suffers from a lack of story-telling abilities, involvement, surprise and continuity. This movie could make a nice prequel to a series, but a lot needs to be done to really make this a success: better and deeper characters, a good story-line, a more realistic view of mankind, better directing and more involvement with characters and less attention drawn on special effects could make the sequels a good start for a new kind of sci-fi movies. The cast seems good enough, and should not be blamed for the way the story evolves in this movie; one only gets the idea, certainly after having seen the extras on the dvd and 'the making of'-documentary the attention of the directors and producers was drawn almost totally towards the 'Kung-fu' and special effects this way creating a life-like comic-book sci-fi movie. Some involvement of George Lucas could do a lot of good to this movie, even if only consulting him on creating and telling stories. But he certainly would not have been proud of this movie if the result would be this disappointing on so many points. Referring to the beginning of this comment, the Matrix is hugely overrated, but over-looking the releases of the last few years this should not be a surprise... people are not exactly spoiled with good movies, and if trying to be original could be rewarded, this movie should earn an award for maybe a not fully successful, but at least one of the most successful attempts to be original of the last few years. Maybe only exceeded by the largely underrated 'Dark City'.


                
This movie i watch in one sitting best movie see this time
I wasn't sure about this movie when it first came out, but I gave it a go and enjoyed it. The sequels came and went, but they didn't compare to the first. And this was one of the few Keanu Reeves movies I liked, along with Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure. But this was even better. We also get Laurence Fishburne and Carrie-Ann Moss along with Hugo Weaving as the villain (whom I first knew from Babe where he voiced Rex the dog). The special effects really blew me away and the cyberpunk themes really resonated. While The Matrix is not my absolute-favorite cyberpunk film (the original Tron is), it did well for what it set out to become. Do yourself a favor and watch this. Avoid the sequels. This was the crown jewel of the Wachowskis. Let's hope that Keanu Reeves returns for an even better Matrix film soon. I heard he said he'd like to come back on the condition that the Wachowskis will make them. Anyone for seconds?


                
