You walk into this film not knowing what the Matrix is. You take your seat and watch the trailers. The green Warner Brothers (green? you ask) trademark comes up, and without warning you are thrust into the Wachowski brothers grand vision. 2 hours of excitement later, you stumble out of the cinema, knowing what the Matrix is.This is one great movie. Keanu Reeves is cooler than cool as Neo. The Wachowski brothers skilful direction is brilliant. The special effects sequences will blow you away, did I mention the government lobby scene?The film starts off with a 'what is real?' first half, and then the first kung-fu sequence makes way for an action- packed, John Woo-esque second half with slomo and style cranked up all the way to the top. Did I mention the government lobby scene?Keanu becomes Cool Keanu, Carrie-Anne Moss is a real find and Hugo Weaving is perfect in his against typecasting role as the evil Agent Smith.You may notice in this review that I have not revealed what the Matrix is. Like the trailer says, 'You have to see it for yourself.'Excellent. Best film of '99. 9/10.


                
An excellent movie with tons of special effects, fight scenes. A really good film with an interesting story.


                
Special-effects were the drawing card when this came out at the end of the 20th century, and those effects were spectacular. They lived up to their billing. Unfortunately, the story was a bit confusing for much of the two hours, a bit too secular-minded for me, although others have viewed this with Biblical analogies. I do think the script could have used some humor here and there. It took itself a little too seriously. That was especially true for the four main characters.Nonetheless, because of the stylish visuals and effects, it entertained. I liked the monotone-speaking Hugo Weaver the best, or at least found him the most interesting. Lawrence Fishburne's character came in a close second in that regard. Once again here's a movie that made you glad VHS tapes were being phased out in favor of sharper, widescreen transfers.


                
This is so hard for me to review this movie ,because i watch it after other great works with this theme (and this is my first review) . however i review 3 movies of matrix here :The Matrix 1999 has shocking idea , brings you to real world , make you think about your life , what's happening , where you're going and what is the purpose of the living . this movie attract you to end .
next movies: good action, but both movies has no new idea and were some how boring to me .the real world was more artificial than matrix , maybe it was better that they wake up in other world and release this world was another virtual world like a game .this short review is my opinion at this time (today i watched this movie for first time ), but there is no doubt that this movie is one of the most influential movies of all time.
After seeing this movie it changed the way i will look at sci-fi movies for the rest of my life. This film was taken straight from the imagination of the Wachowski. The amazing special effects drove this film along with great sound editing and dialog. Just in case you don't know i will tell you the main plot of the movie. Neo is just an average guy who ends up being hunted by Agent Smith. HE ends up being one of the crew members with Morpheus and Trinity. Morpheus thinks that Neo is "The One" which means that this person would be very strong and can dodge bullets and do wild stuff like that.The reason so many people loved this movie was because it was so out of this world and no one else not even Mr.Spielberg could have done this movie because only two brothers could have brought this to life and made one of the best sci-fi sagas ever made(tied with the "Alien" saga) and make remembered through generations, so i hope when i get old this movie will still be remembered because it is simply amazing.


                
The Matrix is one of the most overrated films that I can think of. The film does have good action and some of the most amazing special effects ever put on a film. But the film is also drawn out and confusing. Keanu Reeves is the only one who could play a chacrter as flat as Neo and the rest of the cast expect for Laurence Fishburne and Joe Panotilano all give paper thin performances. I give the action and effects a 10 the plot a 3 which equals about 6.4.


                
... I don't know how long.  Probably that's why it didn't do as well as big, dumb, lumbering things like "Independence Day" and "The Phantom Menace", and a dozen or so films I didn't bother to watch.Much of what you will have heard about this film is false.  You will have heard that the premise is that we're all prisoners in a virtual reality world; but the premise is not that WE are prisoners in a virtual reality world - it's a good deal more interesting than that.  You will have heard that it's hip and cynical; but thankfully, it's neither.  You will have heard the word "cyberpunk" being used, with the odd allusion to films like "The Ghost in the Shell" and "Blade Runner"; but it's NOT pretentious, deep-breathing, tawdry angst of that kind at all.  It's really quite charming once you get to know it.  Beneath all the up-to-the-minute computer gimcracks lies a gentle and trusting heart.The central character is played by Keanu Reeves, and I retract my claim that there's no use for the man.  Indeed he acts rather well.  Admittedly he plays a character who spends most of the film, and indeed most of his life, with the air of someone who (in the words of another character) isn't worried because he expects to wake up soon; but being able to do this well is being able to do something well.  Besides, we spend the opening half being at least half as bewildered as he is - even if we've read the plot synopsis.  When the set-up is revealed in all its glory I admit that one or two details are a bit far fetched.  But I never felt that my intelligence was insulted in the way things had been revealed to me.Special effects are marvellous.  I don't think I've ever seen computer-generated images look this convincing - usually they disfigure a movie - and there are several reasons why they work so well.  A dark (but attractively dark) style of lighting shows them at their best. Psychological tricks - well-chosen camera angles, misdirection - are used to make us believe in what we see: no-one makes the assumption that George Lucas made in "The Phantom Menace", that software alone will do the trick. And more to the point, a story has been chosen where the kind of technology favoured by Hollywood these days is not out of place.  The air of vague phoniness that computer effects impart, the sense that something is deeply wrong, is exactly what we want in a story where something really IS deeply wrong.Only two things let the film down: the last couple of minutes (and after two fantastic hours I can forgive a little fumble at the end), and a HORRIBLY synthetic musical score, which seems to be there only to make us glad when it stops.  Luckily it stops often enough and it only succeeds in ruining one or two scenes.  I don't know - maybe this kind of musical pollution has been around for a while, and I only noticed it now because "The Matrix", unlike the brainless action movies surrounding us on all sides, deserves better.


                
There is a reason why The Matrix is a classic. The (then) ground breaking visual effects coupled together with on point acting and a classic story revised for a new generation. If you plan on working in the film industry and you have not seen this movie, than you need to make time to see it. It's essentially a play by play on how to be creative with equipment, and how to make a story appealing to modern audience's while giving it a lasting impression that can be enjoyed for generations. Regardless of what anyone thinks of the sequels or what they may say about the story, should not turn you away from this great movie.


                
I remember, back in 1999 (or it could have been the start of 2000), when I first saw The Matrix. It was big, bold, loud, exciting...it had guns, bullet time, Rage Against the Machine, plenty of action, a hot woman in a lead role....I remember thinking "I should like this". But I didn't. Like Kill Bill, it's hard to believe that a fan of extreme blood and gore like myself could possibly dislike a film that sees one lady pluck out another lady's eye, drop it on the floor and stand on it, but it's true. OK, it's a little easier to believe when you consider that every scene in Kill Bill, apart from that one and the Lucy Lui fight was rubbish, but I'm sure you can see what I'm getting at. Fast forward 4 or 5 years to today, and the rewatch. I have a theory that states that any film that I enjoy cannot possibly be bad, because I watch movies for enjoyment (nobody watches movies to be bored) and if a movie fulfils that need for enjoyment, then it has done it's job and therefore it can't be bad. And I enjoyed The Matrix. However, I maintain that it's not a great film. Now, if Pulp fiction has taught us anything; it's that it isn't what you take, it's what you do with it....but by god, the Wachowski Brothers should definitely consider changing their name to the Wachowski BanditsFor a start; the film is Star Wars reincarnated. Keanu Reeves is the one that brings balance to the force, and he even has everyone doubting him for a while(!), Princess Morpheus gets kidnapped and tortured and our hero's must go and save her...him, the bad guys have taken over the galaxy...I mean the world, and there's only a bunch of rebels to save it, they go and see Yoda...I mean the Oracle, who predicts the future and stuff, there's training sequences a la The Empire Strikes Back, Neo must become one with the force, whoops, i mean 'believe', Agent Smith is Neo's father...oh, OK I made that last one up, but you see what I'm getting at.And it's not only Star Wars that the Wachowski Bandits have ripped off, The Terminator and it's sequel aren't safe either. Of course, they couldn't have made Agent Smith actually be liquid metal, as they'd have a lawsuit on their hands, but he is just another version of liquid metal really...isn't he? Shown by the way he can transform from anyone. And what about the whole 'computers take over the world' thing, you didn't think I wouldn't spot that did you? And The Wachowski Bandits obviously aren't fascists, because even shitty movies aren't safe. What about the whole SN thing? The way that the hackers are made to look cool....Hackers anyone? But like I said, it isn't what you take; it's what you do with it. Just like Tarantino did, Bonnie and Clyde...I mean Andy and Larry have stolen all these elements, and mixed them up into one coherent, and trend setting piece of cinema. Also like Tarantino, The Doberman Gang haven't just stolen, they've made some stuff themselves as well. Bullet time, for a start. Of course, it's not much of an expansion on the slow motion in films like The Killer; but still. Also, the idea of the 'matrix' itself is an original one. (unless it's been ripped off a film I haven't seen/heard of)The soundtrack fits too, which is rare when it's mostly rave/heavy rock music. I think there's only Natural Born Killers and Lost Highway that I can think of when it has worked. Anyway, when Rage's "Wake Up" came on before the credit sequence, it fit very well. Also, the scene during the training with the woman in red and the agent worked well with it's music. In fact, that might even be my favourite scene in the movie. It's cool and it works. In fact, the film does ooze a sense of cool throughout, mostly because of the leather jackets. It's not a complete piece of cinema, however. I don't know if it's built upon in the sequels, but there isn't a lot of emotion in the movie. Sometimes, it doesn't matter, some of the best films of all time are very cold on that front; my top 2, The Good, The Bad and The Ugly and The Evil Dead both are; but then again, they didn't try and be soul searching or have a great depth like The Matrix does. For an example of what I'm talking about; the love between Trinity and Neo. I noticed her saying she is watching him at the start, but other than, the love seemed to be based on the fact that the Oracle said it would happen....so I'm supposed to care? In fact, none of the characters seemed to have any depth, or anything about them at all. What drives them? Why does Morpheus blindly believe that Neo is 'The One'? Why did Neo take the red pill? Is it his character? I don't know.Also of note is the way that people seem to refer to The Matrix as a confusing film. It uses a non-linear style of storytelling (it runs straight, but you don't find everything out all at once), and that's the only confusing thing about it. When you think about it, it's very simple.There isn't a great deal of depth, and the film doesn't pose any real thought-provoking questions either. Of course, there's the central theme; "it's all an illusion", but what does that mean? Of course, it's not all an illusion really...so what's the message? Don't build too many machines? There is a central question, though, which is "would you take the blue or the red pill"...and that's not a bad question; but the film, through it's non-linear storytelling and imaginative premise, isn't as deep as it appears to be. Bit like Fight Club really. Of course, the premise in The Matrix does get you thinking in a "what if..." frame of mind, but so do lots of things, like on British TV show, Kenyan Confronts; when he exposes credit card scams etc..."what if mine was stolen", so does that make Kenyan Confronts a deep and complex masterpiece? (By the way, did anyone think that Lawrence Fishbourne looked stupid during his 'believe' type moments?) Still, like I said; the film is entertaining. The action sequences are stunning and the film looks lovely throughout, so it gets itself high marks for that. It's well paced as well, and unlike a lot of action films; the non-action scenes in The Matrix aren't boring. But that's all; it's like Song 2 ("wuhoo!") or the "Belly's gonna get you" advert; fun, but not overly brilliant. However, I'm 'down' with fun films, so I'm down with this.


                
I dont even know
i lasted about 45 minutes before giving up
it really is more enjoying not knowing whats going on


                
The Matrix (1999) is basically the idea of The Matrix, an ultra- computerized sci-fi film by Andy and Larry Wachowski that has an excellent concept but squanders it by falling back on the same old tired action movie conventions. The Wachowski siblings have given us an hour's worth of excellent cinema, filled with fascinating ideas. The film begins where We start with a woman named Trinity (Carrie- Anne Moss), who seems to be on the run from a gang of Men In Black- types led by Agent Smith (Hugo Weaving). Luckily, she can leap tall buildings in a single bound, run around on the walls, and so on. So she gets away, but not before contacting a computer hacker named Neo (Reeves) by sending him a cryptic message on his monitor. Following her directions, Neo meets up with Morpheus (Fishburne), who is in charge of a ragtag team of humans from the late 22nd century. And why did Morpheus seek out Neo and bring him up to speed? Because Neo is The One; he's the messiah. He's going to save us all.
The film's story follows Thomas Anderson (Neo), a computer programmer by day and a hacker by night. When another hacker named Trinity contacts him she tells him a number of unbelievable, and seemingly impossible things. When his questions just lead to more questions he agrees to meet a man named Morpheus. Neo is given a choice, learn the truth about what he calls reality or stay blissfully ignorant to the truth. After choosing "truth" he finds the real world as he knows it isn't real at all. It seems that in the early 21st century, there was an all-out war between human beings and advanced machines, resulting in the triumph of artificial intelligence. Freed from the false world "The Matrix", Neo is ready to do battle with the forces that made the world what it has become.
Action, special effects, Keanu Reeves! What else could one want?!


                
Guess could be considerd a "cult classic"...bullet time anyone??


                
6 September 2010. There are few movies that establish a new set of boundaries or geometrical growth spurts in the development of movies and as such The Matrix is one of them. This otherwise standard, predictable sci fi movie, however, incorporates an out of the box premise along with a dazzling array of special effects, especially dealing with martial arts, along with a twist or double-cross that is layered within this compact, consistently, inconsistent sci fi action thriller that makes its mark in sci fi history and movies in general. The Matrix establishes itself among a list of movie standards such as: Jaws (1975), popular mainstream horror movie and was preceded by Psycho (1960) and The Birds (1963), and more recently 1408 (2007).Ghost Busters (1984), a mainstream fantasy, comedy, horror movie.Speed (1994), mainstream action thriller, comedy drama.Wait Until Dark (1967), mainstream psychologal thriller.Dances with Wolves (1990), historical docu-drama.Spirited Away (2001), fantasy.Moulin Rouge (2001), musical.


                
I'm surprised by many of the extremely negative reviews of The Matrix. Rating this movie a 1, really? Almost seems like there's a cabal. I rate an 8, and minimum a very strong 7. I viewed it 20 years later with my 10-year-old son and his friend, and the FX certainly stands the test of time, since they were both impressed. Even with everything that's out there today.Obviously, if you hate sci-fi or tech, stay away from this movie. Unless you're a tween, you're not going find much philosophical enlightenment either. Having said that, at the time, it did create a standard for the genre and remains a entertaining movie.As for the story line, in 1999, we hadn't reached the ten-year mark of the popularization of the internet, so the themes certainly struck a chord. Still does today.Relax and enjoy.


                
Released in a time of ground-breaking CGI advancements, the Matrix notched itself above the rest of the competition in terms of film- making. Visually stunning, thought-provoking, and fun, The Matrix is a near-perfect film for any sci-fi fan or any movie fan. Let's start with the plot and writing. The plot revolves around a hacker named Thomas Anderson who acts as a somewhat ill- explained hacker named Neo by night. One night, he gets contacted by a mysterious internet group led by the omniscient Morpheus. One step leads to another, and Neo, "much like Alice" goes tumbling down the rabbit- hole, leading to a world-changing (quite literally in this sense) discovery that will cause him to question his very own existence. Right from the start, the plot hooks you, making the viewers themselves feel like Neo, questioning their own existence. Interwoven with the thought of questioning one's own existence, is a religion intertextuality with Neo and Christianity, making the depth of the film felt even more. The writing is fantastic and philosophical, particularly with the dialogue between Neo and Morpheus. It eclipses in the scene with the Oracle and the famous line "There is no spoon", which is where the movie takes a sharp turn. For about ¾ of the movie, I was locked into the originality of the plot and storytelling. However, in the film's final act, specifically around (spoilers) an incredulous scene involving a lobby, the movie collapses onto itself with the most unrealistic and bombastic endings that one could describe as Michael Bay-esque. The final half hour of the movie, while entertaining with fight sequences and explosions, seems pulled out of a video game. You don't feel that the characters are in any real danger at this point, and it all leads to the ending, which is satisfying, but left a sour taste in my mouth because of how unoriginal and cliché it is compared to the rest of the movie. Despite the problems I had with some of the plot, the film- making is amazing. Never before has a film influenced future movies as the Matrix did. With its famous bullet-time sequence, and choreographed fight scenes, the Matrix set an industry standard that few films have accomplished or eclipsed since then. Finally, let's talk about the acting. The performances are mostly perfect for their characters. Fishburne's enigmatic performance as the audience's guide into the world and Weaving's subdued acting as the monotone and (spoiler) robotic antagonist. However, the one that confuses me is Reeve's performance as Neo. One could argue that due to Neo's character of being Zen-like and unknowing, Reeves is the perfect actor for this role. However, I think any actor of the same age as Reeves could play Neo and the character would have been realized the same.Overall, The Matrix is groundbreaking in both film-making, world-building, and storytelling, a must-watch for any movie-goer. However, the ending, while satisfying to most audiences, will disappoint those who would expect something different and bold from a truly original movie.
How would you learn what is true and fake? In the Matrix world, you take the red pill, you choose a truth; you take the blue pill, you choose a lie. Then, how would you learn whether the truth is the real truth or just an illusion of truth? The first film of The Matrix Trilogy tells you the truth is humans are fighting machine for their existence. But its sequels, The Matrix Reloaded and The Matrix Revolution tells you the real truth is this whole thing is just a tremendous trick of machine while humans are merely unwitting pawns. And you know, sometime such illusions happen in your real world.


                
The Matrix is an action packed, special effects driven master piece that is sure to catch the attention of any futuristic film critic. Several chase scenes utilize cross-cutting techniques to establish action occurring in two different locations. As I watch this film, I am reminded of two films from memory -Enter the Dragon (1973) and Stand by Me (1986). Both films reiterate the theme from Matrix, struggle with choice and the consequences of those actions. Spoiler Alert: Neo, played by Keanu Reeves, is a software writer who struggles to find his place in the world and as a result turns to computer hacking to escape his mundane life. At the party Neo is approached by Trinity, played by Carrie-Anne Moss. Trinity is driven by her love for Neo and her unwavering loyalty to Morpheus (Lawrence Fishburn). Imaginative Mise-en-scene is created during the first scene between Neo and Morpheus. Morpheus can be considered a profit; he predicts the coming of "the one who will save Zion." Morpheus offers Neo a life altering proposition-a choice between taking a red pill (which reveals the truth of the Matrix) or the blue pill (which will doom him to the old life which Neo struggles to escape from). Neo's adversaries are a group of three steely faced agents simply known as "The Smiths." The Smiths are agent programs who keep order within the Matrix by dispatching their own form of law and order. Throughout the film as Neo, Morpheus, and Trinity battle the Smiths, Neo subconsciously begins to believe in himself and the power he holds inside. By the final show-down, Neo has miraculously developed a skill to stop bullets. In each situation he discovers that the path he wants has been laid in front of his feet like a red carpet. The only thing stopping him from taking advantage of the gifts bestowed upon him, is his own reluctance to "go for it."
The Wachowski Brothers enjoy action movies, but like the rest of us, realized that most of those made by Hollywood in the last dozen years or so have been basically mindless, however entertaining they are in other ways.So they wrote THE MATRIX -- actually, before they wrote BOUND -- and had a hard time selling it.  No wonder.  It's furiously intelligent, very serious but with an undertone of dark comedy that makes it different from all other action movies.  While clearly influenced by movies like BLADE RUNNER and ALIEN/ALIENS, they've also clearly been jazzed by comic books, cyber-science fiction of the William Gibson school, Hong Kong action movies and Japanese anime, as well as classic Hollywood films noir.But while they're clearly influenced by this heady stew, they've stirred into something fresh and original, and provided a back story so rich that dozens of other stories could be set in this same universe without ever getting around to actually doing a sequel to THIS story.  Keanu-bashers will be deeply disappointed, because Reeves is terrific here, as is the rest of the cast, including the ultra-cool Laurence Fishburne.  But the standout performance comes from Hugo Weaving as the head bad guy; it's hard to believe he played the leading role in THE ADVENTURES OF PRISCILLA, QUEEN OF THE DESERT.


                
I watched "The matrix (1999)" last night on my phone and it was a good movie with amazing concept and good visual effects I liked keanu Reeves (the main hero of this film) after his "John Wick (2014)" film and thats why I downloaded this movie because of him.And I must say I was not disappointed by this one too. It was also good but with a bit confusing concept like it is showed as a computer programming film and then they shows up a prophet who made a prediction about "the one" and all what is this a computer program or a magic movie???They must have shown the movie as a technology and program as it is mainly based on it what is the need of entering this prediction and all....But despite of this I liked this movie.


                
This is one of the few films that I have enjoyed more on the second viewing.The film is so stylish, from the costumes to the music to the action. The sci-fi is great; very clever. This film is universally considered to be one of the best action films ever made. While the action in the film is awesome (masterfully choreographed fight scenes and frantic shootouts), I really don't like the fact that the action sequences aren't consistent and equally frequent throughout the whole film. I remember the first time I watched this, I found myself thinking 'Where is the action? The shootouts? The bullet-time?' As I said, awesome action quality, but I really wish that the action was more consistent throughout the whole film.In conclusion, a stylish and visually impressive sci-fi action film that still remains impressive and awesome to this day!


                
This is an iconic sci-fi movie starring Keanu Reeves as computer hacker Thomas Anderson/Neo, who is on a mission with the mysterious Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss) and Morpheus (Lawrence Fishbourne) to confront an artificial cyber-world on Earth called the Matrix, whose malevolent cyber creators want to conquer the human race and take over the real world.The movie starts off a little slow, but steadily gains momentum as Keanu Reeves' character goes on his mission to confront the cyber-machines, show off his martial arts moves, elude the pursuing evil agents and take down the Matrix. There are plenty of sophisticated visual and special effects that really enhance the sci-fi elements of the film, and some plot twists that made the film more intriguing. In addition to the sci-fi action, there are also a lot of philosophical elements and themes in the story, particularly the "free your mind" and "realize the truth" statements.The artistry of the action, especially the slow-motion scenes showing Carrie-Anne Moss jumping up in the air and Keanu Reeves dodging bullets became some of the most iconic cinema moments in history and have been spoofed or referenced in other films.Some downsides to the movie, though, was that I thought all the action was a little on the short side (a lot of all-talk) and some of the acting, particularly that for Reeves, was too wooden and emotionless. I also thought the incognito-like and stoic performance of Hugo Weaving's Agent Smith character was overacted.Overall, though, this is a pretty good sci-fi movie and is worth a watch.Grade B


                
the matrix stars Keen Reeves in a huge action film that has a lot of cool special effects the story in this movie might seem complicated first but it still pushes the plot forward within the first act of the plot. the story has a lot of interesting and entertaining plot points and sequences that we will never forget. the characters are somewhat interesting mostly this movie is sort of like a build up to the next 2 movies. i thought they had a nice screenplay has a nice of use of action. what makes this movie good is that the special effects has gone into a lot of detail to match up the thrill that it gives. the slow motion set pieces were done well and were done at the right time and rate for each frame of shot. i would recommend this movie into people that are action fans or thrill seekers.


                
This is a cult movie. It includes many interesting techniques, spectacular effects, a good story that is built up with perfect pacing. The sense of mystery and suspense pervades the first half movie and is what is gives it its unique character. The chase and action scenes are spectacular and interesting. The characters give just enough details with their dialogue in order for the viewer to get a glimpse of what is going on, while maintaining a sense of intrigue. The dialogue and acting leaves something to be desired, however.If you like good, dark sci-fi action films, then this is for you. The pseudophilosophical exchanges might put you off.


                
