I remember taking a class in social psychology many years ago. The Joy Luck Club figured prominently in the course. I like the idea of combining movies and theory.I am now studying metaphysics, and any study of reality begins with René Descartes, the father of modern philosophy. Descartes began his intellectual odyssey with this question: How do we know that there is a reality outside our own minds? We each know that we have experiences, and we can be sure of these experiences; therefore, each of us can be sure that we exist. But how do we know that the internal experiences we have corresponds to objects outside our minds?This is the whole theme of The Matrix. Watching this film is like studying metaphysics.


                
At first, I wasn't interested in seeing the Matrix. But after hardly hearing any bad reviews for it (and believe me, I hear bad reviews for every movie I enjoy) I decided to give it a try. At first, although I really loved the fights, graphics and characters, the plot confused me. (Anyone confused by the plot at all should go to www.knowthematrix.com and you'll find out everything you could want to know) By the second time I watched it, I really understood it, which made the movie even more enjoyable.I really loved this movie. Just about every character, good or bad, is very interesting and cool. The acting was excellent. Even though I think this was Keanu Reeves at his best, the best acting jobs were done by Laurence Fishburne (Morpheus) and Carrie-Anne Moss (Trinity). Hugo Weaving did an excellent job as Agent Smith and Joe Pantoliano was great as Cypher as well.The plot is one of the best movie plots I've seen in a movie. An accountant by day, computer hacker by night guy suddenly finds out that reality as we know it is fake and that we are actually in a giant computer program run by robots (that we created, of course) in order for them to get power. Not only that, but he finds out that he is one who is, according to prophecy, going to put an end to it. The greatest thing is that you learn things just as Neo does, so you can really relate to his character.My favorite thing about this movie is that no matter how many times you watch it, you will learn more about it. I guarantee this. Some may not like this movie because the plot is too complicated, but I recommend that anyone who enjoys movies should go buy this one right away.


                
Matrix till this day is one of my most watched movies of all time.


                
Right there with Seven and Silence of the Lambs for me.  I love this film, and rate it a notch above some of the other great action films of our time (i.e., Terminator, Predator) because it has a really well thought out (although moderately unbelievable) story line.  A lot of thought provoking material, and some interesting subtleties. I've seen it 10 times (I don't usually watch a movie more than once), and I'll watch it a few more. Enjoy!


                
A large part of the appeal of 'The Matrix' for me was the special effects and action-packed scenes. But, on reflection, part of the appeal is also its philosophical and religious underpinnings...When asked whether Buddhist ideas influenced them, the Wachowski brothers offered an unqualified "Yes!" and at a very basic level, the movie portrays two levels of reality: our everyday existence and a deeper, more significant, underlying reality (the matrix). This is very much like the Two Truths in Buddhism: relative truth, in which everything is perception, and ultimate truth which is the way things really are (objective reality). Because of our ignorance, we mistake the everyday world for something real and objective, and this is the cause of our suffering. As in 'The Matrix', breaking through relative truth to direct contact with ultimate truth represents a high spiritual attainment, some would say enlightenment, an awakening. (Remember the message on Neo's computer screen: "Wake up, Neo!")Mahayana Buddhism suggests that there are great spiritual warriors (like Neo?) who are walking the path from ignorance to enlightenment, and who can in turn guide us on the path.


                
One of the icons at this era, it changes the way I saw life and movies.


                
It was a very good film and I very much enjoyed watching it.


                
This movie raises one of my favorite questions. What is reality? The biggest strength of The Matrix is the story. The special effects hold up because they did not try to go beyond their technological limits. The Matrix is the best sci-fi/action flick ever made.


                
Overwhelming and spectacular first part from a trilogy with some of the best action scenes ever made . This excitingly original film is full of thrills , cutting-edge visuals, stylist innovations , fights , tension , suspense and groundbreaking races , but also several commercial elements , including computer-simulated violence . This is a dynamic, fast-paced and amusing movie , though overlong . It's an enjoyable , if somewhat light-headed piece of escapism with state-of-art special effects and straightforward screenplay . Big-budgeted film by the great producer Joel Silver led to break into the booming Sci-Fi/adventure/fantasy market plenty of inventiveness and imagination . Full of action, it's complemented by rousing scenes , breathtaking fights and struggles are spotlights . It deals with Neo (Keanu Reeves) ¨who is thought to be the chosen one¨ a computer hacker learns from mysterious rebels about the true nature of his reality and his role in the war against its controllers . One night, a mysterious woman named Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss)seeks him out and introduces him to that faceless character he has been waiting for : Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne) who carries him to Oracle (Gloria Foster) . Then Neo is advised by the Oracle about his future . As Neo learns about Matrix , he aware all life on Earth may be nothing more than an elaborate masquerade created by a malevolent cyber-intelligence and he results to be the chosen one . The rebel leaders led by Morpheus estimate that they have little time until 250,000 probes discover Zion and destroy it and its inhabitants. During this, Neo has to decide how he can save Trinity , Morpheus and partners from a dark fate and taking on Agent Smith (Hugo Weaving) and his hoodlums . Meanwhile , a traitor betrays the group and the events get worse . It is a dark time for the world in this first adventure as the epic war between man and machine reaches a thundering crescendo : The group desperately battle to hold back the marauding Sentinel invasion from overtaking them . Neo, Morpheus and Trinity race against time to get their purports . While the human city of Zion is preparing for the oncoming war with the machines with very little chances of survival.This is an action-packed , booming following with some of the best action scenes ever filmed , plenty of bounds and leaps over buildings , including awesome visual effects by John Gaeta . This thrilling movie contains impressive fights , chills , breathtaking designs , dense philosophy and many other things . From the beginning to the end the comic-book action-packed and extreme violence is continued and it's fast movement ; for that reason the picture is pretty amusing ; furthermore contains lots of spectacular combats in mart arts style staged by Yue Woo Ping who also made ¨Kill Bill¨ and ¨Crouching tiger, hidden dragon¨ . Contrived beyond belief with spectacular struggles that play like video games , but slickly calculated to please 2000s audiences . Moving and pulsing musical score by Don Davis . Magnificent , glamorous production design by Owen Paterson . Colorful and imaginative cinematography by Bill Pope . The motion picture is stunningly written , produced and directed by Larry and Andy Wachowski-The Wachowski Brothers . It' s followed by ¨Matrix Reload¨ and ¨Matrix revolutions¨ with similar artistic team and cast adding Anthony Zerbe , Harry Lennix, Gina Torres , Harold Perrineau, Jada Pinkett Smith, Nora Gaye , among others in which the the city of Zion , the last outpost of humanity , is defended by valiant warriors against the massive invasion of the machines to save the humanity as Neo , Morpheus and Trinity fight to end the war at another front while also opposing the invasion on the hidden underground refuge .


                
When it first premiered in the spring of 1999, I believe few individuals could predict the impact that The Matrix would have, not just on cinema, but on pop culture in general. What began as a modestly budgeted action-science fiction film starring an actor with little thespian acclaim quickly became a touchstone for the popular zeitgeist, and arguably cut into the popularity and impact of the soon to be released Star Wars Episode I. Time has not been kind to the franchise that was The Matrix: the two back to back produced sequels, The Matrix Reloaded and The Matrix Revolutions, were met with critical derision and public indifference, especially Revolutions, which did not live up to the box-office success of Reloaded. However, looking back at the original film, it's easy to be reminded of why The Matrix was such a hit in the first place.For those unaware of the basics, The Matrix focuses on Thomas Anderson, aka Neo (Keanu Reeves), a computer hacker who is searching out a fellow hacker, Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne), whom Neo believes will give him answers to several questions he is holding, most specifically the question "What is The Matrix?" Neo eventually meets Morpheus through an associate of his, Trinity (Carrie-Ann Moss), and Neo is finally told what he may not have truly been ready to hear: The Matrix is an interactive software program that the entire human population is connected to and through which they appear to live out normal lives. In reality, humans are connected to a giant power plant and are held here by a race of sentient machines that have conquered the world and use humans as a power source. To keep them under control, they are attached to The Matrix, but some humans have managed to break free from the machine's control and are now building a resistance, with the eventual intention of destroying the machines and the Matrix and freeing all humans from bondage. Morpheus believes that one of the keys to accomplishing this goal is Neo, whom he believes is "The One", an individual with the power to control and reshape the Matrix at will, and who will lead the humans to victory.To be completely honest, much of the Matrix is not tremendously new. Many elements are lifted from countless science-fiction novels and stories, and the film's writers-directors, The Wachowski Brothers, Larry and Andy, were unabashed in their love of particular types of cinema that they liberally ape here: martial arts and action movies, as well as a hint of Japanese Anime. However, as a package deal, The Matrix works stunningly well. While those who have read science fiction, or are fans of the genres of film that the Wachowski Brothers used as their inspiration for The Matrix, may be able to recognize some aspects of the film, most viewers of mainstream cinema would not have seen most of the components in The Matrix, therefore making it a unique experience. Even for those that can pick out the source elements, The Matrix is an entertaining blend of much of the familiar in fresh packaging. It's difficult to remember now, with all the knockoffs and "homages" in the years since, what a new look and feel The Matrix had at the time. The fetishistic use of black leather costumes, the impressive martial-arts sequences, the elaborate visual effects, most specifically the "bullet-time" super-slow-motion shots and the film's rather understated religious undertones were not worn out and overused by countless other films picking at The Matrix's bones. Everything here was new to the mass audience, and that alone could account for a large chunk of the film's success.Now, with the hindsight of seeing the two sequels, it's easy to see what a pared-down film The Matrix truly was. While it is obvious that the film has to take time to set up it's characters and situations, it is a very fast paced film, with very little fat on it. The Matrix glides along, never overstaying it's welcome in a particular scene and sequence. Many accused Reloaded of being a overstuffed film, but none of that is in The Matrix.One of the film's greatest strengths is it's character development. Neo, Morpheus and Trinity are not the most fleshed out characters in film history, but at the same time, they are not shallow. Each is developed enough to give us some insight into them, becoming individuals that we come to be invested in. Neo especially, being the focus of the film, is given the most screen time, and he acts as a surrogate for the audience, taking us slowly into the world of the film, allowing the new environs and situations to unfold in a natural, unforced way.Visually, The Matrix is stunning. It's production design and visual effects are both noteworthy (the film won the Academy Award for best visual effects for that year), with the ever popular "bullet-time" sequences, as mentioned previously, being the standout. The Matrix also benefits from the decision made by the filmmakers to have the main actors train to perform most of the fighting sequences themselves, giving them all the more verisimilitude, as opposed to stunt doubles.Despite the bad taste left in many viewers and fans mouths by the two sequels, The Matrix is still a powerful and memorable piece of film that is as influential and pivotal as the Star Wars franchise, and deserves it's place in history.
I couldn't believe the people who voted poorly for this legendary, top creative movie. I'm dead sure they didn't understand the story behind the world & the principles of the Matrix. Go see this movie 5 times more, then watch the Animatrix & read the books, maybe you need a manual to make it to your minds who knows....I agree that a quite similar idea was used in Alex Proyas' Dark City. But what if I tell you both Dark City, & this so called Star Trek Episode is a complete copy of another concept?Go see for yourself. Google these keywords down :"ALLEGORY OF THE CAVE by Plato""Thinking so ruthless for the ones who create or derive ideas & improve them to a point where they can shape it into a movie, & not showing any respect for creative minds".... it's a very easy thing to do. If I start to think so blame oriented, then I come to a conclusion which is "from this time ,no one should make a movie. No horror movies! No vampires, no werewolves, no creatures. No thrillers with killers. Why? because these were all used 200 centuries ago in books & literature. Oh all movies are copycats right!?!? Then I think we should kill ourselves, drink cyanide or something. there is nothing else to do in this world.


                
Maybe it's not that bad, but what makes it all the worse is how highly acclaimed it is. I had to keep slapping myself to stat awake during this movie. The storyline for this movie is sooooo modern and overplayed. This is in a way just a hyped up and sci-fi version of the truman show. I will never understand how this movie got to be soooo well liked. This is one of the only movies that everybody seems to disagree with me on. So if you're wondering why i'm writing this it's just to prove anybody wrong who thinks that there is nobody who hates this movie because i do. Also if you're a fellow matrix hater then i feel you're pain especially this year now that 2 of them are coming out at the same time practically. I'm just glad the second one failed moneywise so that hopefully the third one will get hardly any money and all this talk about the future Star Wars trilogy will be thrown out the window.


                
The Matrix not only supplies the world with a whole new level of special effects mixed with style and substance, it also brings a whole new meaning to the word 'paranoria'. This is one of those great epics that becomes a milestone in our present day world, a mark for which just about everybody can appreciate. Not since the original Starwars trilogy has a science fiction film reached across almost the entire population and gripped it with awesome special effects, great sound, and a overall feel of ground breaking movie making magic. It also serves up a good dose of paranoid delusions we all need in our lives every now and then.
Over 20 years old, The Matrix was such a significant moment in cinema in a year that Star Wars was supposed to reign supreme with the release of the first prequel. Watching it now, it still stands as a hugely entertaining blend of martial arts action, science-fiction dystopia and philosophical musings on dreams vs reality and fate vs free-will. Its influences are far reaching that even at the time it lacked originality to audiences familiar with them. Yet it is the blend of all these ideas coupled with a script that draws the audience into the world gradually before letting loose with superbly choreographed action sequences that make this stand the test of time.


                
'The Matrix' may not be one of the very greatest examples of its genre (like '2001', 'Metropolis', 'Blade Runner', 'Back to the Future', 'Star Wars Original Trilogy', 'Alien' and 'Aliens'), but that it is revolutionary in how its visuals and use of sound broke boundaries like had never been done before cannot be denied.It is not a film to be seen if people want character depth or relationship depth, with the forced and underdeveloped love subplot between Neo and Trinity being 'The Matrix's' sole weak spot. This ended up not being that huge a problem for me because everything else is so well executed.Particularly striking about 'The Matrix' is its production values. Simply put, the film looks amazing in its audacious production design, dazzling special effects that are some of the most ultra-cool and imaginative to exist, super slick editing and often jaw dropping cinematography. So much more than a film with ground-breaking special effects and use of camera work that broke boundaries.Use of sound was also striking, and how the pulsating and hypnotic music score was used. Andy and Larry Wachowski direct adeptly, while the script is an intelligent mix of complex and well-explored themes, mysticism, philosophy and even Lewis Carroll and the story is often invigorating and intensely taut with a smart concept brilliantly done.Action is superbly shot and edited, and the way it is choreographed is relentlessly intense and breathless in its energy, Kung Fu has rarely been more vertigo-inducing (despite how this sounds, this is not a bad thing as it added hugely to the intensity and paranoia of the story's atmosphere) on film.Keanu Reeves is in one of his best and most iconic roles and has never looked cooler, certainly has not looked this comfortable for a while before then. Carrie Anne Moss is strong. Even better are an imposingly charismatic Laurence Fishburne (also in one of his best roles), an amusing Joe Pantoliano and a deliciously wicked Hugo Weaving.Summing up, not one of the best of the genre but a mile-stone nonetheless and a great one. Followed by two sequels, both nowhere near in the same ball-park. 9/10 Bethany Cox


                
Superb science fiction i enjoyed a lot. and even now I'm really inspired with the technology used and really awesome movie. This film is heavy on special effects and brooding paranoia, light on plot, dialogue, character, and even coherence. THE MATRIX challenges what's real and what's part of an elaborate, fake cyber-reality, so it can be confusing for both the audience and the characters in the movie. But it's certainly an ideal pick for the kind of teen who wishes that video games could come to life. Though it's rated R for violence (some pretty gross, including an icky bug that enters the hero's body through his belly button) and language, most teens 14 and up who are begging to see it should be able to handle it without a problem. Thanks


                
This movie is the arguably the most iconic computer sci-fi movies in history, absolute classic the plot which evolves around NEO(Keanu Reeves) who tries to escape from the artificial reality called the Matrix ,absolute masterpiece


                
I saw this movie for the first time about a week ago, and I liked it. It gave me the same feeling I felt when watching Star Wars. The visual effects are pretty good, but still as good as you can get from the late 90s


                
While the plot wasn't as compelling, the fight sequences in this film have never since been beat


                
This film has the most memorable action sequences of all time. Between the cool special effects and the music, this is an often forgotten classic


                
The Matrix is one of the best science fiction action film directed by The Wachowski Brothers. The film has influenced both the cinema industry and the computer entertainment industry. When you watch The Matrix for the first time, it looks like perfect action movie with high-class special effects and good actors.Time passed and we remember only a black cloak, two hands shooting, kung-fu and running on the walls.Recently I watched it again and I was amazed that there was so much hidden behind the spectacular scenes that I needed to watch this film several times, and I would probably find something that I had missed earlier. Reality is the only what we see and feel.We can understand the movie in different ways. You will see what you emphasize. Slavery, the fight against the system, the role of man in this system and the system in life, fanaticism and faith, chosenness and resurrection.I suggest watching The Matrix even if you've already watched it.


                
One of my favourite movies of all time! It have a great story that will keep you on the edge of your seat. It is fast moving full of action. It has won a lot of awards, including the oscars! Need I say more?


                
The perfect blend of philosophy and story , so damn interesting figth sence cgi .you should watch this movie , and I would love of someone made a story book out of this and let children read is as literature , so many lessons not only for adults but also children , teaching all the audience that ypu should rethink what you think real to be


                
Simply one of the most creative, mind bending films ever in terms of concept, story and asthetic. I don't know of too many works of fiction that can make you question or at consider the nature of your reality. On that mark The Matrix succeeds. Both in style and theme I think there is a fair bit of eastern influence. I can't cite exact examples but some of it's obvious. Namely the marital arts centric style of violence. The Matrix is a unique film that was of course influential but also it wasn't, in that it's digital brand of mysteries that shift the paradigm of reality has never been totally topped. Some that have come close are Vanilla Sky, Inception and even the two Matrix sequels fall short.


                
Very good movie. it was epic at that time. enjoyed it very much.


                
