"Sherlock Jr." is Buster Keaton's film about a movie theater employee who aspires to be a detective. Keaton handles his role well and the supporting cast is solid as well. The film has impressive cinematography, but a generic score.The film has amusing moments: the very close shadowing of the villain by Keaton as a detective, Keaton walking through the safe door and Keaton taking cues from a film to guide his romantic actions. Some of the stunts were entertaining, particularly Keaton's escapes through a window and a stomach. The famous scene where Keaton enters a movie scene was cleverly made, but I found it only moderately entertaining.However, I found most of the film's jokes basic and not very amusing. A lot of the stunt sequences, while well-shot, were overlong. While "Sherlock Jr." had some funny moments and is a meticulously constructed film, I was disappointed by how few times I was amused by it.


                
This 93 year old movie tells the story of Sherlock Holmes's son. That sounds awesome, but I could really say otherwise. I found the nearly the whole thing to be dull. 
 There are simply better mystery movies I have seen:
The Great Mouse Detective.(Disney Movie.)
Sheerluck Holmes and the Golden Ruler(VeggieTales show.)
Monk(TV show about a detective with OCD.) 
Nancy Drew(assuming it's still good, it's been like a decade since I last saw it.)
 There are better mystery movies than this. See my bulleted titles instead of this.


                
To get myself prepared on watching this movie, I read up on Buster Keaton so I had an idea of what I was getting myself into. I read great things about his acting skills and how well he has done. Once I actually watched the movie I was not as impressed. He acting skills were mediocre compared to watching other actors of his time. When it came down to a joke or a punch line I was not impressed. The story also went too quickly and I felt it was hard to keep up with the story line. I would have to go back to catch what was happening and ask myself what was happening. The story line was not my favorite either. It doesn't seem like they brought the story to life. Even though I was not impressed by busters acting skills I was impressed with the scenery they used. The background was pretty impressive and where they chose to shoot really helped with the story line.


                
