First off I'd like to say that the cinematography in Sherlock Jr is amazing for its time. There are hardly any jumps and the camera is relatively steady. The editing and effects are amazing for the time, and I found myself amazed by the little stunts that Buster Keaton did throughout the film. In terms of the story itself, Sherlock Jr has many interesting concepts. It seemed to me that Keaton's character's life was intentionally made somewhat dull and boring so that the action sequences when he slipped into a dream/the movie he was screening (Another brilliant scene, perfectly set to the sound track of the film) would seem even more thrilling. The 'love story' seemed to be more of an overarching plot that sandwiched the real story and provided an interesting beginning and a happy ending. In the scene where Keaton's character entered the movie, the music controlled the scene rather than the other way around. Sherlock Jr. Just puts forth amazingly innovative ideas for the time and is really a joy to watch.
It's a strange choice to have most of the story be housed within a wish-fulfilling dream-sequence but, thankfully, Keaton pulls it off with style. See, while the most entertaining aspects of 'Sherlock Jr. (1927)' are, indeed, found within this, frankly, loosely-connected segment, it's the book-ending 'real-world' sections that hold all the real narrative weight, as limited as it may be. Without these parts, the picture probably wouldn't be as good because it wouldn't get you connected to its almost instantly likeable protagonist and you wouldn't really have a nicely set-up - though, admittedly, poorly paid-off - conflict to be concerned with. Of course, there is an argument to be made that the affair could have been set entirely within the dream, thereby being a more wholistic film with the conceit that Keaton really is the world's greatest detective. Nevertheless, what we have is a fantastically fun, effortlessly endearing silent action-comedy that moves at a break-neck pace (literally) and is stuffed with more blink-and-you'll-miss-them stunts and special (practical) effects than you can shake a stick at. Seriously, some of the stuff here is almost certifiably insane and Keaton shows it all off so casually, to the point where it just seems... well, easy, I guess. It most certainly isn't. The amount of practice, acrobatic skill, technical knowledge, teamwork, ingenuity and just sheer daring needed to pull even the simplest of this stuff off is nothing short of staggering. You're often on the edge of your seat just watching the shot, hoping Keaton will be okay. In this way, the excitement isn't overly 'manufactured' - though, it obviously is to a degree. The gags aren't just impressive and nerve-racking, though, they're also often funny - whether it's because of their joke-like structure or just because of their straight-up originality. You'll often laugh at the simplest of things, which is a testament to the brilliant physical acting on display. The flick, which plays out like one of Keaton's more traditional shorts (for the better), also moves quickly enough that its story doesn't wear thin, even if it threatens to, and you'll never be even close to bored. It's just a joy, really. 7/10


                
Sherlock Jr. is brilliant. It's very easy to watch seeing as how it's just under an hour. Its about an aspiring detective who believes he is solving a case, but in reality, it's just a dream. The shots in this movie are very unique, especially for 1924. My favorite scene is when Buster Keaton is "shadowing" the man in which he's trying to be like. Buster Keatons acting is genius. I believe it takes a specific skill to act in the silent film ear because you can't express your role through sound, so you must do it through physical acting. Overall, I don't enjoy silent movies often but this one was short and sweet and had me laughing more times than I could count.


                
This movie took awhile to pick up, but once Sherlock's dream sequence began I was invested. The story of the world's greatest detective was comedic gold and very creative. However, I think the dream being more interesting took away from what was happening in reality. That being I thought the ending was still funny and I was happy for the protagonist. It was overall good film, but it took a quick minute to invest me.
At only 45min., this silent comedy isn't that much longer than some 3 reel comedy shorts, yet, it apparently qualifies as a feature-length film. I don't see this film as being greatly superior to the many Keaton comedy shorts I've seen. .......It starts out very slow, with Keaton and his girl sitting together for an eternity, not knowing what to say to the other. Finally, Keaton gives her a cheap engagement ring. Keaton is a mere movie projectionist, who dreams of becoming a detective in the class of Sherlock Holmes........I thought the $1.00 bill caper was cute, if unrealistic. Keaton wants to buy a $3. box of candy for his girl, but he only has $2. Luckily, he finds a $1 bill in his sweepings, also being the theater janitor. Unluckily, a women comes, complaining she lost a $1 bill in the theater, and he gives it to her. Then, another woman shows up claiming she also lost a $1 bill in the theater. Keston gives her his $1 bill. Then a mean-looking man shows up wanting to look through his sweepings. Keaton hands him his last $1. bill, but he refuses. Looking through the trash, he spies a wallet with some greenbacks in it, and goes off with it. Keaton then spreads the trash out, looking for another wallet. But, of course, he doesn't find such. Thus, he goes to the store, and buys the $1. box of candy. However, he converts the $1. price tag into a $4, to impress his girl. But, this deception will return to haunt him........While Keaton is talking to his girl, his competitor(villain) , in the form of Ward Crane, arrives, in a splendid outfit, and bringing a bigger box of candy, as well as a more impressive engagement ring. Keaton is relegated to the hall. Soon, the girl's father reports that his gold watch is missing. The Villain slips the receipt for the watch he hocked at the pawn shop into Keaton's jacket pocket. Then, Keaton says he will act as a detective, and search every one. The Villain requests him to also search himself, and he finds the pawn receipt, which says $4 for the watch., which matches the $4 price tag on the candy box. Keaton is requested by the girl's father to leave and never return. ........Still imagining himself to be a detective, Keaton shadows The Villain, as the most likely suspect, in his mind. Eventually, he winds up in a boxcar, locked in by The Villain. Luckily, there is a hatch in thr roof. Just then, the train pulls out of the station. Keaton runs along the top of the cars to keep him near the water tower. When he runs out of cars, he jumps onto the tower dispenser, which lowers and begins to release water, which practically drowns Keaton(Keaton suffered a serious neck injury in this event.) . He then runs back to his projectionist job, where he soon dozes off.......Meanwhile, his girl goes to the pawn shop with the receipt and asks the pawnbroker what the man who traded the watch looked like. He was tall and had a black moustache, which fit the description of The Villain, but not Keaton. She was satisfied that Keaton was telling the truth that he knew nothing about the watch pawning........Some reviewers say they are confused which events take place in his upcoming dream, and which really happened. According to my notes, the dream begins about the 20min. mark and lasts until the 41min. mark, just a few minutes before the ending. Among other things, Keaton dreams he walks into the movie sceen and interacts a bit with the actors. Then, he is thrust into various odd or dangerous situations, in which his pose at the end of one situation carries over to the beginning of the next situation. ......He dreams that the Villain steals a pearl necklace from his girl's mother. He takes this to a shack where his confederate thieves hideout. Keaton shows up at the hideout. Initially, captured, he breaks loose, and grabs the pearls The Villain is dangling before him, and runs.........The next gag has Keaton cornered in an alley by several of the gang. He jumps into the belly of a tie salesman, standing behind him and disappears. The gang finally find him hiding behind a rotating section of the wood fence behind. He runs, and the gang chases him. A cop on a motorcycle appears and invites him to ride on his handlebars. Soon, the cop is bumped off, without Keaton knowing it, and the cycle negotiates around various obstacles without Keaton's help, until it comes to the shack where Keaton's girl is being held, where it rockets him into the shack, he hitting the guard. Soon, the gang arrives in a car. They trick the gang, and take their car, which ends up in a lake: just the top part, which sails a ways before sinking. Keaton wakes up, and his girl arrives to tell him she believes him innocent of stealing the watch.. The movie on the screen is about to end, with the man hugging and kissing the woman. Keaton imitates what they do on the screen , with his girl. The end.
Buster Keaton delivers a stellar and humorous performance in Sherlock Jr. (1924). You really have to appreciate and respect these early silent comedies for their timeless performance humor. It's fantastic how the performance of the actors can entertain and how physical timing is used in the absence of audio and dialogue. The cinematography is also commendable for the time of production. I feel that any Keaton or Chaplin silent comedy hold up extremely well to this day and should be enjoyed by anyone with a mild curiosity for early silent comedy


                
What worked in Sherlock Jr was the comedy, it utilized mostly physical comedy that had Buster Keaton doing dangerous stunts and gags all over the place. The plot was fast paced and clear, but I thought it lacked depth. The story seemed like a boiled-down version of every love story. The advancements in editing techniques made it interesting, like when his dream self moved into the "fake" movie. I also believe that the acting was great, especially from Buster Keaton. It is difficult to communicate a story to the audience without dialogue, that's why silent films come off as silly or simple sometimes. I think Keaton struck a good balance between slapstick style comedy and substantive body language that kept the story moving forward.
This film by Buster Keaton does a very great job of communicating to the audience a okay-by- play of what is going on through it's use of captions. What is done, is whenever there is a line of dialogue or a course of action taken that may be a bit unclear, the screen stops the motion, cuts to a black screen, with those necessary words displayed in a white large print. This makes for an easy viewing, therefore making it much more enjoyable to viewers of today. I am sure it aided viewers back in the 1920s when it was released, but the viewers of today that are used to having both diegetic and non-diegetic sound in films can breathe a sigh of relief when attempting to appreciate this silent. It brings the best of the two worlds together. Expressive and emotive acting that is common with silent films and, the direct "here's what's happening" format that is common today by providing a pause in the film to read and comprehend the motives and expressions portrayed throughout. Very well done!


                
While Chaplin is that guy for the silent era. Buster Keaton would be that other guy. He was also a special director of the silent era. Being a star as well as being the man that runs everything is a job for few and far between. Bringing his brother into the fold was a risky move that worked as well. It is a small place for him to appear but his job was perfectly fine. Buster and Kathryn both do a near flawless job of drawing the audience in. For a silent film you have to do certain things better then if you did have sound. You must be a little more thorough with certain details. And Keaton delivered with a solid film through out.


                
Sherlock Jr. is yet another impressive silent film. The stunts and effects were remarkable and never failed to entertain. Some of the cuts seemed a bit odd to me, but they did not take away from the rest of the performance. The action is fast paced, with many comedic points. The music exemplified the mood of every scene, and really complemented what was happening on screen. Buster Keaton delivered an engaging, lighthearted performance. We are able to feel for his character in several scenes, but he also makes it easy for us to laugh. The story itself may seem simple at face value, but the technical aspects of the film were breathtaking, given the time period. Definitely a great film to refer to those new to the realm of silent films.


                
I thought this film was very well done. The effects that were used in it were really impressive, and it is interesting to see that filmmakers today are still using those same effects that first started back in the 1920's. This being a silent film, I did not expect to enjoy it, but I actually did. the music adds so much to it, especially emotion-wise. It allows the audience to feel what the characters are feeling and gives us a sense of what is going on in their head, and perhaps examples of what they might be saying. It allows for the imagination to take the reigns while watching and go along with the story in your own head. Even without their words, the actors actions, behavior, and facial expressions really enhance the film and make it enjoyable to watch.


                
Sherlock Jr is one of Buster Keaton's better known films, where he plays a projectionist who longs to become a detective. This is another great examples the silent slap stick comedy genre and rivals some of Chaplin's work such as The Circus. I enjoyed this film, and would recommend it to anyone who likes others in the genre. What stands out most is some of the camera work though. There is a dream sequence that is done very well for what the technology allowed for that specific timer period. The film is a bit short, which is not always a bad thing. Keaton wastes no time making you laugh, and its a white enjoyable film all in all.


                
I thought Busty Keaton made this film very funny, constantly there's something that'll make you laugh. Although the comedy is quite similar to Charlie Chaplin, I found it still be very funny. I really thought it was funny when he tried making the man slip over the banana but he ended slipping over it. I also thought the plot was very good also. It seemed pretty innovative for 1924. It's amazing the number of original ideas for that time, being able to come up with anything back then. Nowadays you try and make something and you'll be called out for copying someone. It's so interesting how they put together a movie inside another movie basically. Especially when Buster is on the screen and the setting of each location keeps constantly changing.
All silent films seem to bore me a bit, they definitely aren't my preference, but Sherlock Jr. exceeds Charlie Chaplin films in my amateur opinion. This film picked right up when he fell asleep in the movie theater and entered his version of the pearl steal-er movie. It's very neat when he leaves his body in a dream state and jumps into the screen. It was fun watching the two antagonists try to kill him in the house, and even better to watch him chase down the thieves. When Buster Keaton finally gets his girl (in the dream) it's really sweet to finally see him be able to express his feelings for her. When he wakes up, it's cute and funny to see him copy the movie that's playing to know how to act towards her. From sad, to funny, to happy, this film was pretty good and definitely worth watching.
Buster Keaton's Sherlock Jr. was hilarious at the least. The story was cute and humorous, and kept me watching. All the tricks with editing and cutting from scene to scene and reacting with it, especially at this time was amazing and brought a lot of character to the movie, making it different and very enjoyable to watch. With how the stories switched from dream life to the real world was melded well together and not awkward or confusing at all. the camera work in a lot of the action scenes was well done and gave interesting angles and perspective to the movies. Something else i enjoyed were the tons of stunts that Buster performed, many things that led to the movies physical comedy being so high. Overall this movie should be a classic because of its interesting and memorable techniques and story.


                
Sherlock Jr is a silent film starring Buster Keaton. Its about a guy who works in a motion picture theater and is also studying to be a detective. It's a pretty short movie, around 45 minutes long. It has some funny scenes, the funniest thing about the movie is Buster Keatons blank dead stare he has on his face throughout the movie. His character appears to be awkward and has the case of the bad luck. The movie used some special effects at one point in the movie where he was in the movie theater and he fell asleep and was dreaming and in his dream he was able to walk into the movie screen and was apart of the film. The screen also kept changing clips which is pretty cool to see in something from 1924.
The only other Buster Keaton film I have seen is The General, which I know is regarded as his best, and I really love that film. With Sherlock Jr. we get a simple tale (which is always a better way to go with silent films) that is delightful in that we root for Keaton who plays the underdog of the story. Sadly, it doesn't live up to the status of The General.As an early silent film, this movie sets a precedent for thinking about film - about half of this film is a dream sequence in which the film projectionist played by Keaton gets intertwined in a "movie" about his girlfriend and the man who framed him for stealing her father's pocket watch. Before the story of the dream begins, we have an out-of-body experience from the Keaton character who is interacting with what is presented on the movie screen. This is the greatest sequence of this shorter film in my opinion as it has the audience think about their relation to the film when they go to the movies, and it uses humor by having Keaton's character clumsily fall over various times when the setting of the film changes and he remains constantly on the screen.A shorter film is great since its focus is simple and doesn't leave the audience bored with unnecessary content, but I feel this film was actually lacking content. I know this was released in the very early days of narrative cinema, but more character development could have helped this story as well as just a little bit more complexity in the plot. This film has its moments with great humor, but it is not one of the better silent comedies.3.0/4.0
I enjoyed this movie just as much as I enjoyed the circus. Who knew silent films could be so entertaining. Sherlock Jr. started out a little slow for me but it didn't talk long for me to be interested in it again. I thought it was funny and entertaining. I liked how he was trying to save up his money to buy the girl he liked some chocolate but couldn't afford the one he wanted because he only worked at a movie theater and dreamed of becoming a detective so he changed the price on the box from one dollar to four dollars. I felt bad when he was framed by the other man who was interested in the girl he liked too. The other man stole the girl's father's watch from their house then went and pawned it and bought her a gift with the money. He makes it look like Buster Keaton's character is the one whole stole it so he is banned from the house even though he didn't actually steal the watch. When he returned to his job at the movie theater, the movie showing was one about a theft who stole a pearl necklace. He fell asleep at the theater and dreamed that he was in the movie as a detective and ended up beating the real thefts and saving the girl. When he woke up, the girl was there to apologize because her and her father found out that he wasn't the one who actually stole the watch. I liked the ending how he was doing everything to the girl that the actor was doing to the girl he liked in the movie that was playing but he was confused as to what to do when the movie flashed to the future and the two had a family of their own. I think some of the camera work in this movie was advanced for it's time. For example, when Buster Keaton falls asleep and a ghost of him comes out and walks away. I thought that part was pretty cool considering when the movie was made. I really liked this movie and thought it had an exciting and interesting plot.


                
Buster Keaton stars as a goofy movie projectionist who's biggest wish in life is to be a detective. The opening credits to the movie contain a proverb stating: Don't try to do two things at once and expect to do justice to both." Throughout the movie, Keaton further proves the proverb to be true which provides significance to the movie. While working at the movie theater, he neglects some of his responsibilities because of his obsession of wanting to be a detective which lands him in trouble. On the other side of the spectrum, when he is trying to focus on being a detective, he knows he still has responsibilities at the movie theater which tie him down. The only place where he seems to find success is in his dreams. Along with a good plot, a great deal of significance in this film occurs with the special effects while Keaton dreams. Of course in today's cinema, the effect of having two identical characters on the screen at the same time along with changing backgrounds would be quite simple to accomplish. However you must look at the time this movie was made, utilizing these effects were not often seen in silent films and makes this movie impressive and significant.


                
Sherlock Jr. is a treasure that sticks out in the historical film archive for its complex plot and dangerous stunts that were enacted by Keaton himself. However, that is all the film has to offer. The element that enhances the movie is also the element that makes it predictable. Keaton's stunts are death-defying and are truly amazing, even by standards today. The problem is that there are just too many of them, it depreciates the value of each successive stunt. The final complaint I have is that, unlike Chaplin's movies, these stunts really don't give the movie any charm. Nonetheless, the movie is a great watch and still is pretty humorous, all while staying a much appreciated step away from modern comedy.


                
A film like Sherlock Jr is one that unexpectedly baffled me. I found myself sitting closer to the television while watching in attempt to pick out the cut in film that made a special effect possible. This created an issue as I was far more interested in how the film was made than the story being told. There were its fair share of gags and shticks, but even at 45 minutes I found the plot to be disjointed and uninteresting. The film felt more like a tech demo for Keaton's directing and stunt ability than as a complete story. Overall, I was very impressed with Keaton's ability to amaze and look forward to watching more of his latter films (Ex. The General) to see how his creative ability grew with experience.Read my complete review (w/ possible spoilers) at CD1083.com


                
The amount of time this must of taken back then is astounding. When Sherlock was dreaming about being in the movie it was very clever. When it kept switching scenes within the movie I thought it was well made and I don't know how they could have done it back then. The scene where he takes the pearl necklace was also very well done. I did not expect what the drum thing was being used for but it made me laugh out loud. The music was well executed and had me enjoying a scene even more with a well timed orchestra. The only problem I had with the movie is that I was confused at some points. The house of the girl that the watch was stolen from was a confusing scene because I didn't know who anyone was on top of who's house it was. Other than that it was a very good film and I recommend it anyone who likes black and whites.
Buster Keaton's Silent Film Sherlock Jr. was my second silent film and it kept my interest. The movie projectionist's desire to be a detective brings us through visual scenes with music to understand his passion. The movie kept my interest because from the scene changes you never really knew what was going to happen next. From the beginning of the film until the end, the music used throughout the film helped the audience connect with the scenes and feel what was actually going on. I didn't quite understand the image scene changing from cliff to jungle to sea etc. I thought from those that it was to portray how he felt at that moment about becoming a detective. There are some funny parts of the movie that takes you away from the direction of what the main character is trying to become. There are also some parts of the film that I didn't think went with the plot, which made me lose a little interest from time to time. The parts of the film when the detective went to the house and was playing film was very interesting. I showed us that he was a good detective because he was aware of what the other men were trying to do to him. Then later in the movie, towards the end, he used the #13 cut ball to get rid of the police. The most intriguing part of the film for me is when the movie projectionist falls asleep and his dream actually puts him in the role of the film. To me the movie portrayed dreams can become reality.
Buster Keaton's 1924 silent film, Sherlock Jr, has a way of instantly drawing you into the film from the beginning! It starts off showing Junior rummaging through the garbage outside the theater looking for money. The scene keeps flashing from the local store, to the theater. Junior wants to buy his girlfriend a box of chocolate to impress her and her family. The comedic part of this scene is that when he finds a dollar bill in the trash, to his luck, this old woman comes crying back to him saying she lost her dollar bill. He asks her to describe the dollar bill (also a very humorous part). In the end of the scene since he is such a kind man, he attempts to give his own personal money away to those who claim to be missing theirs.I think to have a successful silent film, all the comedic and humorous actions have to be demonstrated through the characters facial expressions, postures, poses, and actions. I think that Keaton has beyond succeeded this. He has a way of capturing Junior's desires and dreams, who is just a young and in love local film projectionist, to become a well renown detective of his time. The end of the film shows the girlfriend going back to Junior, while he is at work, and apologizing for accusing him of stealing from her family. He is so unsure of what to do. BUT! He notices that the film that is playing has a romantic scene. The final scenes of the film show Junior copying the characters in the film on how to be romantic. For me personally, this was the perfect way to end this silent film.
While the most spectacular thing about this short film is the part where Sherlock Jr goes into the movie screen in the day dream sequence, I found this short film quite charming. The music definitely sets the tone as lighthearted and comedic and the acting is good. I find the film trope-y but given that it is from 1924 you could say it sets the stage for future short films of the same ilk. The Daydreaming hero, the sweetheart, the villain, and the protective father type. All of these come together in a wonderful conclusion, the girl saves the day. I really appreciate the history of films and where cinema is going today. Very cute film.
