Buster Keaton's most surreal movie sprang from his insistence on logic and realism. His tribute to cinema was inspired by stage magic tricks he remembered from his vaudeville career. His most dazzling and original movie is also one of his least formally perfect. All these paradoxes belong naturally to this "through the looking glass" work, which examines the dream-like nature of film<U+0097>or is it the film-like nature of dreams? As Buster told it, the origin of the film lay in his desire to use certain illusionary stunts, like the bewildering dive through a living assistant's stomach, which he had learned the secret of as a child. But he firmly believed that impossible or "cartoon" gags were not acceptable in feature films, so he could only include them by making them occur in a dream, which is also a film-within-a-film. This is odd, when you think about it, since what he seems to be saying is that impossible things can happen in a film<U+0097>but this was the very rule he himself refused to break. By creating an outer film that is "real" and an inner film that is "not real," Keaton shows that, while film enables illusions and distortions of reality, the filmmaker has a choice<U+0097>and a responsibility<U+0097>to clearly delineate fact from fantasy. In one scene, Keaton uses a camera trick (dissolving a wall) to prove that he's NOT using a camera trick when he dives through a window and comes out disguised as an old woman. Because he was analytical, mechanically-minded, and a stickler for authenticity, Keaton took pleasure in revealing the processes of magic tricks, and camera tricks, rather than using them to fool the audience.Buster plays a hapless cinema projectionist who yearns to be a detective, but is so clueless that his romantic rival manages to frame him for stealing his girlfriend's father's watch. In a dream, he enters the film he's projecting and becomes a great detective who solves a similar crime. While Buster's on-screen character is a schlemiel who can only achieve mastery in his celluloid fantasies, as a director Keaton's grasp of the mechanics of film-making enabled him to control the camera and its imagery as thoroughly and gracefully as he controlled his acrobatic body. SHERLOCK JR. is the most technically advanced film he ever made, including special effects (as when Buster steps through the screen and gets edited from park bench to street to mountain-top to lion's den) that can still leave audiences wondering, "How in hell did he do that?" It's often said that Keaton's films inspire gasps rather than laughs. Well, I just saw SHERLOCK JR. with an audience last night, and the laughter was loud and regular as fireworks on the Fourth of July. But it's a particular kind of laughter: surprised, amazed, incredulous laughter.The first half of the movie takes place in the "real" world; it begins with some nice small-scale gags involving Buster's attempts to scrounge up money to buy candy for his girl, and his adorably awkward visit to her house. After he has been thrown out due to his rival's machinations, Buster "shadows" the man (literally, copying his every motion exactly), but is tricked again and trapped in a freight train. There's a beautiful shot where he runs along the top of the train, staying in the same spot on the screen while the cars zoom by under him in the opposite direction; but I can't watch the stunt where he rides a water-spout down to the tracks without wincing, knowing he fractured his neck doing it.The beginning of the dream sequence is one of the greatest self-reflexive scenes in the history of film, as Buster's ghostly double rises from his sleeping body, picks up his ghostly hat, marches down into the theater and steps into the screen. Haven't we all wanted to do this at some time? Once over his turbulent introduction to the medium, Buster becomes the elegant Sherlock, Jr., investigating a theft of pearls from a mansion. In a marvelous game of billiards, Buster smoothly plays around an exploding 13 ball; he escapes from the thieves' den with one of the neatest tricks you'll ever see; he rides through busy streets on the handlebars of a motorcycle that no one is driving; and he goes for a romantic sail in a floating car. All this is packed into a mere 45 minutes.Significantly cut after poor previews, SHERLOCK JR. has more in common with Keaton's short films than his features. Because of the fractured story-line, it doesn't have the narrative coherence or trajectory of character development that most of Keaton's great features do. His performance is split between the shy, inept projectionist and the suave, infallible detective. He is totally convincing in both roles. When he wakes from his dream, the projectionist finds that all is well: the girl has solved the mystery and come to apologize. He is still timid as ever, so for a romantic denouement he looks to the screen: peeking out of his booth, he copies the actions of the movie hero wooing his leading lady. This is Keaton's most trenchant bit of social satire: whose ideas of kissing and love-making haven't been influenced by what they see at the movies?
This Keaton classic is both funny and extremely clever in its construction. Our hero is a cleaner but dreams of becoming a detective, always with his nose buried in a book on the subject.The first third of the film is much like any other comedy. There are lost dollar bills, things sticking to other things, something stolen, mistaken identities. Our heroine is introduced in a charming scene where they seem terrified to hold hands. Her father is played by Buster's father Joe Keaton, who would appear in many of his son's films.There's a mustachioed cad with slick hair and a sharp suit who is after the girl, a cartoon baddie who the audience instinctively knows deserves a hiss and not a cheer.It is in Junior's other job as a cinema projectionist that the film comes alive. We are watching the film he has set up and then, suddenly, he is part of the action. In a sequence of great inventiveness, we see the film within a film changing scenes and watch with delight as the character adapts to each situation and surrounding.Sherlock Jr is very funny but is also unusual and, in comparison with other comedies of the period, ahead of its time. It includes some excellent stunts that are the equal of anything done by Harold Lloyd in the same period, and, although it has a very short running time, manages to develop a good storyline throughout.Justly feted as a masterpiece of silent comedy, Sherlock Jr represented one of the peaks of Buster Keaton's cinematic career. It is a film worth watching and has stood up well today.


                
Monday September 12, 2005 7:00pm The Seattle Paramount Theater"Say Mr. Detective, before you clean up any mysteries, clean up this theater."In an age before computer generated effects Sherlock Jr's out of control ride on the handlebars of a motorcycle is astonishing. It is a sequence that could never be duplicated in the modern era. Buster plays a theater projectionist with dreams of becoming a master sleuth. When he loses his girl to "The Local Sheik" Buster retreats to a dream world where he literally steps into the movie he is screening and becomes the "world's greatest detective". As "Sherlock Jr." he dodges exploding billiards, falling blades and poisoned drinks, finally ending up on the motorcycle in what has to be Keaton's best and most unbelievable stunt. As Buster runs down a street he encounters a cop on a motorcycle. The cop threatens to write him a speeding ticket and Buster solicits his help. Jumping on the handlebars they speed along. Why is he running? It doesn't matter. The chase is central to most of Keaton's films. The bike goes over a bump and the cop is bounced, leaving Buster on his own but unaware no one is driving! Attempting to understand how Keaton filmed this sequence is confounding. There are shots in which we can assume he is in control and driving (Keaton's coattails hide his position at one point). There are other shots when the bike is obviously on a truck (a wonderful shot shows Buster racing a train to a crossing). There are still other shots that seem impossible or at least extremely dangerous (Buster speeds along a road as ditch diggers fling dirt in his face). Years later, after an accident, x-rays of his neck revealed spinal fractures that may have been caused by the spills he took shooting this picture. The brilliance and originality of visual gags throughout Sherlock Jr. make it one of Keaton's very best feature films alongside The Cameraman and Seven Chances.Buster finds himself adrift "Three-and-a-half miles higher than a kite" in The Balloonatic. While he's there he washes his socks! When the balloon crash lands in the woods Buster is menaced by bears and rescued by a stream fishing cutie in one of Keaton's simplest and most charming two-reelers


                
Buster Keaton is absolutely brilliant.  I've now seen 4 of his films/short films and am amazed by his work.  He was doing stuff that was way ahead of his time.  That plus his stunt work make the films worth seeing.For example, in this film, there is a bit where he doubles up on-screen by merging film of him sleeping with film of him standing up and moving around. It creates a ghost like image that works very well.  This effect has been seen many times since, and I imagine this is one of the first usages.For stunts the guy was just insane.  One stunt involves a bike riding over a bridge with a gap in the middle.   Two trucks converge on each other below the gap as the bike soars by and uses there roofs to cover the gap.  This happens very quickly and I can only imagine they sped up the film to make it look good, but it's still great looking.There is another scene where he is on a roof, I believe it's about 25 feet up and he needs to get down so he grabs hold of one of those things that stop traffic from crossing train tracks..yeah, you know the ones..they go up and come down in a 90 degree arc.  So it's up, he grabs it and rides it as it arcs down and he lands in a car as it drives off.Go Buster!


                
this is my fifth keaton classic and i must say that this man is addictive. if you haven't seen any keaton yet, i would implore you to fly, don't run to your nearest vid store or repertory film house. the only warning i issue here, is to watch out for musical scorings by the "clubfoot orchestra". their detached musical rendering leaves you wondering WHO, IN THEIR RIGHT MIND WOULD ATTACH THIS HIDEOUS TRACK TO SUCH AWE-INSPIRING FILM MAKING? it's exponentially better with a very simple piano accompaniment.
9/10-blame the clubfooted!


                
While this isn't even my favourite Buster Keaton film, it is still groundbreaking material. In a time period where there were endless possibilities because films were relatively new, Buster was exuding creativity, most notably from a technical standpoint. There are many stunts on this film that account for his ingeniousness and inventiveness, for example Buster leaping through the body of his assistant, Gillette in order to escape the gangsters; the 'movie within a movie' part which was absolutely brilliant; the motorcycle stunt which was
phenomenal; to name a few, I mean Buster was an incredibly talented performer, you could even say he was a magician, for the work he did on this film feels ethereal, dream-like and magical, even though it is essentially
a detective story. Or better yet, a story of an enthusiastic man who dreams of becoming a detective. He is kind of sloppy and above all things, he's been blessed by luck.A fantastic example of the magic of cinema, by one of its most underrated eminences, if that makes any sense. I suggest you watching The General, or my favourite film of his, ever, The Cameraman. Is the stuff that dreams
are made of. You can't possibly regret it.


                
This was an exceptional film taking into account the black and white aspect and it being a silent film. Buster Keaton was able to create two plots in one movie, one in reality and one in a dream, and wrap both of them up in under 45-minutes. On top of that he was able to keep the viewer intrigued due to the quickness of certain scenes and the thrown in comedy, like the banana peel which is a classic, which prevented the viewer from getting bored. This film is a classic case of mistaken identity. Someone commits a crime and then plants evidence on the protagonist. This main character was then automatically blamed, lost the girl and then told to get out. He attempted to prove his innocence but couldn't find the evidence he needed (because it was planted on him). Now the next part has a bit of a twist. Instead of him finding a way to prove his innocence he goes to work at a movie theater and falls asleep and into a dream. In this dream he's in a movie as "Sherlock Jr." (the detective he always wanted to be). This was a clever turn of events on Buster Keaton's part. He gets called in on a pearl robbery, figures out who stole it, got the pearls back, and saved the girl. When he is abruptly awoken, the girl is there because she was sent by her father with an apology of their incorrect accusation. The transitions between the dream and reality was very well written and performed. It allowed the viewers to understand what was going on without the use of dialogue cards. Factoring in the character expressions and performances, it was clear what was going on without too many intertitles. Which helped keep the film moving. Overall, I would give this film a 9/10 for the overall quality and cinematic cleverness. I personally am not a big fan of these types of movies. Therefore, if I was basing it more on an enjoyable film to my taste I would give it an 8/10 but I'll stick with the cinematic aspect of it.
In Sherlock, Jr., Buster Keaton plays a movie theater projectionist and a janitor who is also studying to be a detective at the same time. He is down on his luck and everything just doesn't seem to work out for him. He is in love with a girl (Kathryn McGuire) but he also has someone also trying to get her as well (Ward Crane). The first 15 minutes of this 45 minute film is filled with wonderful, genuine gags and pieces of comedy that just feel so right. If you aren't laughing or at least cracking a smile, something isn't right. Buster Keaton with his deadpan face carry this film from simple gags of slipping on bananas to the complexities of a billiards ball that is a bomb, that is the range of comedy in this film. After the first 15 minutes, Buster Keaton falls asleep while at his projectionist job and he begins to dream that he has become the "greatest" detective in the movie he was projecting. This leads to a fun series of bad detective work and more great physical comedy. I've seen a few of Keaton's films, The General being one of them. While I enjoy The General, I found myself laughing much more during this film and just found everything about this lighthearted film to bring a smile to my face. It's a short one but definitely worth a watch for its comedy, its genuineness, and just for being a fun film.


                
I am a die-hard Keatonian. I love Lloyd and Chaplin, don't get me wrong, but Buster Keatons films remain the most enjoyable to me. He, his movies, and his humor is more translatable for today than the other two. Will how-did-they-do-that's ever go out of style? And trust me, there are some of those moments in this movie. Keaton, conditioned by the vaudeville acts of his childhood, is actually on those handlebars alone, no film tricks, he goes through that window and appears on the other side in a dress, HE JUMPS THROUGH THE MIDDLE OF HIS ASSISTANT. What do you expect though, Harry Houdini was a family friend and a fellow act on the Keatons traveling show. You will watch, pause, rewind, and watch again a few times during this movie, trust me. An excellent start in some ways to the "Silent Slapstick" genre, but in other ways, a bad start - you may begin to make unfair comparisons to other movies of the same persuasion. Kino has released all of his work, so if you want more Buster, it's there for the taking. Also, if you can get your hands on it, a special that ran for 13 episodes called "Hollywood: A Celebration Of The American Silent Film" in 1980 on the BBC has many clips, both video and audio (gasp!) of Keaton, plus a biography. For where to go from Keaton, try Charlie Chaplin's Modern Times and Gold Rush, Harold Lloyd's Safety Last! and The Freshman, and Keaton's former partner 'Fatty' Arbuckle in any of his shorts that you can find (and while you're at it, thank him for giving Buster his shot at making movies). Also try W.C. Fields, and Max Linder's shorts, if you can ever find any (and for a tragic story, read his biography.)
After watching The General, I couldn't wait to get my hands on another Buster Keaton film. Minute for minute, Sherlock Jr. packs in just as many stunts and laughs, all while exploring the boundaries of cinematic creativity.The film follows Keaton as Sherlock Jr., a movie theater projectionist that wants to become a detective. After his girlfriend's watch is stolen, he attempts to solve the case. Unfortunately, he is set up by the thief and subsequently banished from the family. This leads him to return to the theater and dream about being a real detective.Sherlock Jr. explores the frontiers of special effects at the time. The scene where Keaton enters a movie screen and interacts with the things inside of it is simply incredible (not to mention hilarious), even by today standards. The stunt work by Keaton is also priceless.The acting is great across the board (of course, Keaton shines the most). The pacing is flawless; there are no unnecessary dialog cards. With a short running time of 44 minutes, it is perfect for casual entertainment.I would say The General is a more complete masterpiece, but Sherlock Jr. equals it in many regards. If you like movies (and don't mind a bit of the silent stuff), then you will like Sherlock Jr..


                
"Sherlock, Jr.", a 44-minute black and white silent comedy film starring the genius antics and directorial vision of Buster Keaton is a film definitely worth watching. Knowing that this film was made in 1924, well before digital manipulation, makes the physical stunts and gags very impressive to watch throughout. For all Charlie Chaplin fans out there, Keaton is just as good as him in this slapstick performance if not better.The movie opens with a theater projectionist, played by Keaton, sitting reading his book, "How to be a Detective" to the dismay of the theater manager. Later, the projectionist is wooing a girl at her house but is in competition with another suitor, the Sheik. The Sheik steals the girl's father's watch, pawns it, and buys a deluxe candy box for the girl. The father (played by Keaton's real life father) announces his stolen watch status to those in the household, which includes the father's handyman. The Sheik sets up the projectionist to take the fall for the theft thereby thwarting the projectionist's attempt to play detective. The projectionist is told never to return. Back in the theater, the depressed projectionist falls asleep while manning the projector that is running a film. A dream sequence follows where the projectionist inserts himself into the film. The combination of scene changes from actual sets to film scenes where the projectionist stays in the same position between changes is cleverly done. The sequence continues as the projectionist, his boss, the girl, the girl's father, the father's hired hand, and the Sheik replace the characters in the theater film. The Sheik, now as the villain, steals the father's pearls and the father phones Sherlock Jr. (Keaton) to solve the crime. Worth watching are the billiard ball scene where Sherlock Jr. doesn't hit the unlucky 13 ball, and the motorbike ride filled with jaw dropping stunts and Sherlock Jr. riding on the handlebars all the while thinking everything is in control.Keaton's performance as the mild mannered projectionist contrasts perfectly with his performance as the can-do-no-wrong Sherlock Jr. The projectionist is at the mercy of everyone while Sherlock Jr. defies all the odds. The only two other performances worth mentioning are the father's hired hand and the theater manager. During the dream sequence both play parts opposite their characters seen in the first segment. The trusted hired hand is the butler in on the pearl theft while the theater manager goes from being the annoyed boss to Sherlock Jr.'s quick costume changing assistant Gillette much like Artemus Gordon in the 'Wild Wild West' TV show. One can rent this movie on DVD at www.Netflix.com, buy it cheaply online at www.hotmoviesale.com, or obtain free at ones local public library (if they have it). One can also go online to www.blockbuster.com to see if ones local Blockbuster carries this DVD. The DVD is titled "Our Hospitality / Sherlock Jr." as it comes with another one of Keaton's classics "Our Hospitality." One should get this for their next Hollywood silent movie era theme party and do as Keaton - play detective and discover how delightful this comedy is.
This movie contains many many great stunts and effects beyond its day. WHile making this move, Buster Keaton, being the person he is, broke his neck! The stunts are completely terrific and so is the acting. It is hard to apreciate some silent films, but this is a step above the rest!!!


                
Its easy to forget that movies used to be made without sound! Buster has a talent for conveying meaning with non-verbal cues. This movie shall remain a timeless classic, his character is honest, noble and easy to love. This dreamy love story will keep you on your toes. However I did dislike the violence displayed towards women, but I suppose these actions were normalized in this time period (the 20's).


                
Keaton knows how to keep an audience engaged. He effectively incorporates comedy, romance and crime fighting into this film. Using a movie within a movie is an ingenious way to enhance the confidence of the character while solving the crime and winning the girl. The music worked well in maintaining the momentum of the film.
Personally I really enjoyed the movie. It was funny of course, but I was surprised by how well they created the dream effect. The sequence where he falls asleep and travels into the screen and then subsequently is transported into random environments felt very much like a dream. The music surprised me as well, although it was probably added later, it made the movie feel much more dreamy. I thought the scenes when he's hiding and running from the criminals were very clever. Overall a very enjoyable movie even thought it was a little sad at parts, the ending was good
The film albeit an early american film is one of the best pieces of cinema that i have ever seen. we get everything we like to see in the film comedy romance drama. while this film wasn't feature length which bars it from many critics best pieces of cinema this is one of the best pieces of american film in the history of the cinema . It is rare these days to find a comedy which will make you laugh each and every time you see it. Yet this one, to me, seems not only to be able to do this but also to get BETTER the more you watch it.


                
In this film, the main character works at a movie theater and enjoys reading detective books. He comes across a situation where he is framed for stealing from his girlfriends family. Because of this, he's not able to see her anymore. Not wanting to face the fact that he cant see her anymore, he starts to daydream about being a detective. The significance of this movie is about how people use escapism, in order to not face their problems. Escapism is something that can help people take their mind off things that might be stressful.
This movie is amazing! It reminded me of the physical comedy that is used in todays movies and even cartoons. I could tell that a lot of directors today are influenced by Keaton. This movie has it all, it has action, love, greed, comedy and innocence. I think this movie is way ahead of its time. I found myself saying "wow" to certain parts because I was not expecting certain things to happen. I think Buster Keaton is pure genius, the originality of this movie is amazing. Sherlock Jr. never has a dull moment.


                
This was one of the first Keaton films that I've watched, after watching some Chaplin and Lloyd films. It was incredibly fun to watch once it picks up, the Motorcycle and car chase scenes were especially funny. Buster Keaton managed to make a wildly creative and beautiful film that also didn't stray too far from the underlying love story. I would recommend this film to anyone who enjoys the silent film era.
I had to watch this for a class in college and I'm very happy that I did. What a breath of fresh air! Truly funny and no over-sexualization of any elements in the movie


                
Living in a time that is full of action packed, big budget films chock full of special effects and computer generation, I never had the want or need to watch old films. Especially silent films! While taking a class on the History of American Cinema I had the opportunity to watch a couple of silent era films, including Sherlock Jr. (1924). I will start out by saying that I was definitely NOT excited to have to "sit through these boring silent films". Well, the joke is on me, because I actually enjoyed this film. I especially enjoyed the brilliance of the effects in the film, especially when the protagonist walks right onto the movie screen. The stunts performed in this film were also outstanding, from sliding down the train crossing gate into a car to the controlling of a motorcycle while riding on the handlebars weaving in and out of traffic and many more! This movie was entertaining and surprisingly quite funny. I think I'm officially a fan of silent movies!


                
I never thought I'd like silent films, but this movie was quite good. The emotions were well portrayed and made it easy for me to follow the story. the scenery, even though it was in black and white, was beautiful. If I ever need a pick me up, I'd watch it again.


                
It's amazing to see, how many stunning technics Buster Keaton used here. This is definitely one of the most influential movies ever made, from the moving camera to the visual effects (such as the men's "soul" - or something like that - leaving his body), this movie has everything, and man, it's almost 100 years-old!Keaton's performance is really good here, in fact, I believe the whole cast is great, I'm still getting into the silent movies, but I believe they (the cast) were able to pass their emotions the way this type of movies ask for.But again, it's the many new "things" Keaton uses here that make the movie so important, and has so much value until today. He basically brought to the screen one of the first "hero adventures". The guy who wants the girl, but can't get it because of the bad guy, but in the end, he beats him, with a lot of action scenes, dream sequences, and with a little bit of lucky.I love the way the movie is shot. The chasing scenes, are incredibly well done when you look on how old the movie is. Love the way Keaton plays with the ilusionism that movies have (in the scene that he passes through his friend's "body". I was impress with when I saw (like, in 2018).Probably the only "issue" (I don't know if you can't call it issue) that I have with the movie is that I didn't find it that funny, I maybe laughed a couple of times, but that was it. Comparing with another really old film, Chaplin's Shoulder Arms was one that made me laugh a lot more. But I said that before, I really don't know exactly how I'm supposed to grade a movie that is 100 years-old. So, the "metric" I'm using is that "does the movie old up?" if yes, so is a good one, if no...In fact, I believe this is what defines a real masterpiece of regular ordinary movies, a movie is supposed to be entertaining no matter when you see it. And this is movie is definitely entertaning yet.Summing up, Sherlock Jr. is a great piece of work, and definitely continue to inspire today's filmakers. If you want to know more about Hollywood's history, this is indeed a must-see one.


                
A young man works as a projectionist at a movie theatre but dreams of becoming a famous detective. His studies toward this goal are put to the test when visiting his girlfriend. A rival steals his girlfriend's father's watch and frames him for the crime. He is forbidden from seeing her again. Now he must fight to clear his name.Buster Keaton at his finest - a classic of the Silent Era. Good plot, all of which is a central structure around which Keaton can build some incredibly clever scenes, sub-plots and sight gags. Some of these are brilliantly funny and intelligent, as Keaton toys mercilessly with the audience. The pool scene - the adventure of the exploding ball - is a great example.Some very clever cinematography and editing too - some of the visual effects and stunts were quite innovative for their time.Superb.


                
As someone who dislikes silent movies I was pleasantly surprised by how well this movie was. The gags were funny but the most iconic scene was the funniest. The scene in which Buster Keaton's character falls asleep in the movie theater only to reawaken to his love interest and rival playing the main characters of some movie is hilarious. Watching him travel from scene to scene, either falling or over reacting is very entertaining.


                
