A film fully deserving to be in IMDb's top 250, Jim Sheridan's "In The Name of the Father" is an excellent piece of work. Based on a true and very touching story, the film recounts the story of Gerry Conlon (Day-Lewis) who is wrongly accused as an IRA terrorist. Not only are the police bending the facts to prove their case, but in the process they also implicate members of his friends and family, including his father Giuseppe (Postlethwaithe) whose health condition is rather frail. Gerry is a rebellious and mildly delinquent boy who does not seem to have grown up, and his attitude toward his father is not the appropriate one; however, as they start to go through the ordeal together, Gerry gradually matures, and starts feeling a deep affection and respect for Giuseppe.The story is heart-breaking and shocking at the same time, all the more so when one realizes that these things actually DID happen. Although there have been some minor modifications for the purpose of the film, the backbone of the story is left completely intact.The two protagonists, Daniel Day-Liewis and Pete Postlethwaithe are delivering powerful performances, and they both deserved the Oscar hands-down. However, it would be unfair not to mention that virtually everyone in the film is great in his/her role.Jim Sheridan's direction is also very good, giving the plot a fair and balanced perspective; although the film might initially appear as pro-Irish / anti-English, in fact I consider it as quite objective. Granted, it vividly shows that some key figures in the London police were profoundly biased and manipulated maliciously the case against the Conlons; yet, it also shows that English public attitudes turned highly supportive for the Conlons' freedom when it started to become clear that they were not the culprits for the atrocities they had been charged with. We have always to remember that the film depicts a period of big tensions, with emotions running high to levels of hysteria, so we have to understand the events within this context.Of course, what happened to the Conlons is totally deplorable and unjustifiable; and it is real shame that the people who conspired against them have not been punished yet for their crimes. Still, one should understand the hostile attitude shown by those who were not part of this conspiracy (such as the judge, for example), who were influenced by the climate of terror and the outrage of the public. The Conlons had the terribly bad luck to be at the wrong place, in the wrong time, and with the wrong nationality; the also have the great misfortune to be captured by people who in their quest to show results were shamelessly willing to risk indicting people who could possibly be innocent."In the Name of the Father" is a fantastic film, which one should not miss. 10/10.


                
Words cannot accurately describe how affecting this movie is.   The story itself is harrowing, but the way in which Day Lewis portrays Gerry Conlon is heartbreaking at times.  Several scenes in the film may be hard to take for those with a sensitive nature.   Captures the mood and the time perfectly for someone like me, who is not Irish, lives nowhere near Guildford and wasn't even alive at the time of the pub bombings.   I really wasn't expecting anything special when I sat down to watch this. I could not have been more wrong.   The soundtrack is great without exception too!   A total and utter classic.


                
(English is my second language, so please excuse my language problems:)Yes, I cried when other prisoners threw lighted papers from the window; yes, Daniel-Day Lewis and Pete Postlethwaite were great actors; but other than that, what impressed me most was the complete change of attitudes of the public between the two trials. At first, audience in the court were yelling "hang these Irish bastards", they were throwing all their hatred to the Guildford Four, even the judge said "I wonder why you are not charged as treason". They were biased, cheated by the prosecutes who fabricated lies to cater to the public, because the loss of 5 lives needed someone to be responsible for. But after 15 years, when the truth was presented, the public went to parade, they plead the court to free the four, they wanted to right the wrong. They were becoming rational, they felt for the innocent, so they acted.But this is not what happens here in China. The government is never transparent to the public, the media is censored so that cases like the Guildford 4 (especially if it is injustice) will never be known to the general public unless you are "in the business". Because the public is banning from first-hand information, people are unaware of government's wrongdoings; even if they are aware, there is almost nothing they can do (party monopoly, corruption all lead to this). So they kept silent, pretending nothing ever happened. I once read on a book, saying "silence is the most terrifying weapon". Today I have to admit this fact; but I want to say and plea to all my fellow citizens: pretending to be deaf doesn't mean that there is no voice in the society to be heard. They are merely sunk in the indifferent public. So please pay attention to politics, to events taking place in courts. Maybe someday we also will make cardboards with slogans on then and march in streets. Efforts from individuals could gather to really make change.
Jim Sheridan's astonishingly fantastic 'In the Name of the Father' tells the brutally direct story of a wrongfully accused family who are tortured into making a false confession and imprisoned by the British justice system. Sheridan has a way of telling his stories where he gets straight to the point and does not fear to show the reality of the situation while keeping us viewers at the edge of our seats. The film is based on Gerry Conlan's autobiography where Daniel Day-Lewis plays the central character. Sheridan effectively portrays Gerry and Giuseppe's struggle and fight against injustice and his portrayal of the corrupt British justice system is frightening. Just the idea that people could get away with such things in a country like the UK is chilling and Sheridan skillfully brings that across on screen. Terry George's brilliant screenplay with rich characters and solid dialogues forms a good backbone for the film. I also liked how the humour was infused in a modest dose as not to interfere with the intensity of the story. There are some excellent performances. Daniel Day-Lewis delivers a suitably explosive performance as he breathes fire into the role while Pete Postlethwaite is sublime and equally outstanding as Gerry's father, Giuseppe. Though father and son do have issues to fight over, it is Giuseppe who is Gerry's conscience and Postlethwaite's heartbreaking act really touches the heart. Emma Thompson holds her own and she is simply excellent. The rest of the cast do a superb job (watch out for Tom Wilkinson in a bit role). The soundtrack fits the mood of the film and the cinematography is good, especially in the prison sequences, where it creates that feeling of claustrophobia which gets stronger after Gerry is alone in his cell. I have liked all of Sheridan's ' films that I have seen so far and 'In The Name Of The Father' is another remarkable film from this fine director. It is a difficult movie to watch due to some disturbing themes and scenes (though most of them are rather suggestive it is the idea behind that sends chills down the spine) but it is definitely worth watching.


                
'In the Name of the Father' is a compelling portrayal of the harrowing ordeal faced by Gerry Conlon, his family and friends, who were wrongfully imprisoned for the Guildford Pub bombing in the 1970s. The film is skilfully manipulated to show a myriad of contrasts and juxtapositions, such as when Gerry is being tortured and interrogated in his cell, the police in the hallway are unconcerned as they celebrate someone's birthday with a cake.The framing of shots and camera angles used emphasise the helplessness Gerry and the others experience. There is also a particularly moving scene in which prisoners show their respect when Gerry's father dies by dropping flaming material from their windows, like a waterfall of burning tears.The soundtrack uses music which is carefree or haunting in all the right places, perfectly mirroring the scenes and adding to the mood of the film. The themes of injustice and corruption are heightened through irony in the dialogue, and are representative of the problems faced by Irish Catholics in the 1970s and beyond.'In the Name of the Father' is a beautifully constructed film which is a credit to the actors, direction and production crew.I challenge you not to be moved by this film.
A powerful intro and a stylish ending! The story is so well told and so realistic that you're bound to get involved in the conflict and the case. The direction is superb and the acting is superior. Daniel Day- Lewis is a true chameleon, he's flawless in adopting to Irish culture & accent in the same way he's unflinching as native American in Gangs of New York. His acting earned half a star extra from me for the movie!With some heart-wrenching, tear-jerking and hatred intimidating one- liners, I just couldn't help but fall in love with the movie. I rate it higher than 'The Shawshank Redemption'. Highest recommendations!A wee list of awesome one-liners: "I'm a free man and I'm going out of the front door" "They ought to take the word 'compassion' out of the English dictionary" "You're not looking me in the eye when you're speaking to me" "I don't understand your language. 'Justice.' 'Mercy.' 'Clemency.' I literally don't understand what those words mean." "From all the places the English tried to rule, they've been beaten to be moved out." "I will fight on. In the name of the father and the truth"


                
This film is the epitome of heartbreaking drama, and that it's based on real events makes it deliver the punch even harder. Performances from everyone in this film are top notch. There isn't one moment that feels out of place or contrived.


                
An emotionally wrenching and immensely powerful true story of an innocent man who is put in prison for fifteen years, after being forced by interrogators to sign a confession out of the threat that they'd kill his father if he didn't, and this man's fight to clear his name and his father's. Due to an incident with the IRA, Gerry Conlon (Daniel Day-Lewis) moves to London and after a chance opportunity to rob a prostitute he returns to his home in Belfast, coincidentally the day after a huge bombing committed by the IRA in London. His best friend, who was with him that night, Paul Hill is arrested and after being forced to confess with a gun in his mouth he lists Conlon and two other friends as members of the IRA. Now known as the Guildford Four, these innocent people were all sentenced to very lengthy jail sentences and, after painful torture, the government plants false accusations on members of Conlons' family including his father Giuseppe (Pete Postlethwaite). Gerry has to deal with pent-up aggression that he has built up against his father for years while also trying to survive in a British prison as an accused IRA member.Even after Joe McAndrew (Don Baker) is arrested and confesses to the police that he was behind the Guildford bombing and the people they have in prison were innocent, Gerry and Giuseppe remain in prison suffering more and more by the day. Eventually Giuseppe begins working with Gareth Pierce (Emma Thompson) to investigate their case and prove the innocence of the Conlons and the other members of the Guildford Four. After Giuseppe dies of natural causes, Gerry gains a new drive to prove their innocence and takes over the task of working with Gareth. The film is a powerful character study of a man put under unimaginable circumstances and has the discipline to rise up and, along with Pierce, prove the innocence of not only himself but of his father and the other three members of the Guildford Four. It's an immensely heart-wrenching, emotional story that had me in tears several times throughout.Highlighting this sensational film is Daniel Day-Lewis who further proves that he is the greatest actor of all time and delivers what I believe is the best performance of his career. Taking on the role of Gerry Conlon requires the ability to subtly flow from a naive, immature young man to a disciplined adult working to clear the name of his father. Along that journey there are several highly emotional scenes that could have felt melodramatic or silly if another actor were portraying the man, but Day-Lewis brings a power to Conlon that no one else could. His brilliance is unparalleled. Pete Postlethwaite and Emma Thompson also deliver fantastic performances that rank among the best of the 90s. In the Name of the Father is a phenomenal film that studies the torture that one man had to go through due to the government and the journey he took to clear his name and the name of his father. It's the best film of 1993, in my eyes and Day-Lewis' portrayal is very high among the best performances of all time.
Sometimes i say to myself "this can't happen to me" for the simple reason that it sounds really unfair to be happening..But watching a movie like this changes all perception of right and wrong, fair and unfair.. Only thing that can be fair in this world is your HEART !!Though Daniel Day Lewis' character is not your typical role model from the start, you know that the Heart within isn't black (more so from a scene just before he says 'In all my godforsaken life, I've never known what it was to kill somebody until now')..The transformation of Day Lewis' character from a man who wasn't responsible enough to take care of himself to a man who vows to fight for his father's name is brilliantly heartwarming!It just pains me to see how cruel 'WE' as a species can be to not accept our mistakes, even when we know that it can make someone's life miserable than HELL!!In all the movie is good till the time you don't think of it as someone's life being played out in front of you.As soon as you realize that,it transforms into something you cant just think of as just another brilliant movie.Instead your heart goes out to the people who actually had to go through all this..Well directed, superbly acted, brilliant,heart breaking and heart warming at the same time !!Those who found it beautiful can go for 'Conviction' as their next choice of another heartwarming 'eye treat' !


                
Obra maestra de una de las historias mas injustas de Reino Unido.
Gerry Conlon (Daniel Day-Lewis) is shown in Belfast stripping lead from roofs of houses when security forces home in on the district with armoured cars, and a riot breaks out. Gerry's father, Giuseppe Conlon (Pete Postlethwaite), later saves him from IRA punishment, and he is sent off to London to stay with his aunt, for his own good. Instead, he finds a squat, to explore, as he puts it, "free love and dope." One evening by chance he gains entry to a prostitute's flat and he steals the £700 he finds there and chats briefly with a man sitting in a park; on that evening in Guildford there is an explosion at a pub that kills four off-duty soldiers and a civilian, and wounds sixty-five others.While Gerry has returned to Belfast to show off his stolen money, one of the squat residents talks to the authorities and the Conlon home is raided by the British Army and Royal Ulster Constabulary, who arrest Gerry and immediately place him on a military flight to the UK mainland. Gerry and his friend, Paul Hill (John Lynch) are interrogated by police who torture and threaten them until both finally agree to sign a confession after being held for up to seven days under the Prevention of Terrorism Act. When Gerry's father travels from Belfast to England to help his son, he is arrested at the aunt's home. In the subsequent trial, his aunt's family (known as the Maguire Seven, including Conlon's father) are convicted of supporting the bombing on the basis of nitroglycerin traces, and the four, including Gerry, are sentenced to long terms of imprisonment.
Pete Postlethwaite's and Daniel Day-Lewis' incredible reenactment of father and son wrongly convicted for the 1974 Guildford pub bombings and their different approaches on trying to get the case appealed. Their amazing on screen synergy is a big part of this films appeal which tackles a tough subject about injustice and the state of Britain at the time. Day-Lewis captures his characters' (Gerry Conlon) evolution in an Oscar worthy way and proves himself to be a very diverse actor. Supporting actor Emma Thompson delivers a touching performance as the lawyer working towards getting the case appealed.Director Jim Sheridan does a good job and uses a mix of methods to enhance a scene's importance or emotional weight. The pacing is very good and all three acts of the film are excellent. Overall it's fantastic film that seems to be very faithful to it's source material.


                
Whenever people ask me what is my favorite movie, this still pops to the top of my list. The beautifully told story and the humanity inside of living any of our worst nightmares couldn't be more poignant and touching. Jim Sheridan is a master storyteller who weaves moments of happiness while telling stories of people facing the worst adversities. He manages to have a film with an important message, but it draws you in with complex, real characters and grippingly beautiful storytelling.And of course it has a stellar cast with nothing but excellent performances from Daniel Day Lewis, Emma Thompson, Pete Postlethwaite. I highly recommend taking time to watch this film, you won't regret it.


                
I absolutely loved this movie. It was incredibly touching and sad. I almost stopped watching at the torture part. I guess I am a bit sensitive when it comes to things like this but, my god, I haven't hurt that much since the first season of Game of Thrones. Daniel Day- Lewis is a phenomenal actor and this one really made him shine. He was so convincing and played the role so well. He made me feel everything he did. It was like I was in the situation with him. When the man said he was going to kill Gerry's daughter, the face of terror and helplessness struck me so hard. The acting in this movie is what really sold me for it. The story is so sad and heart breaking as well. The fact that this actually happened to Gerry Conlon's family is so sad. They had the prime of their lives taken from them. His daughter went to jail at 17 and came out at 32!! That is so screwed up. They took everything from them, just to blame someone for this crime. Even when they caught the real criminals! This is one of the best movies I've ever watched. Yes, they left out big chunks but as a movie, Jim Sheridan did an excellent job.
In The Name Of The Father exceeds far beyond expectations. It's not just a drama about miss justice, but it also delves into a thriller about love, family and closing the case before it's too late. Whilst the IRA are a bad bunch, this film gives them reason to do what they did, and oddly enough, you feel the same way. The wrongful sentencing of the group was far more disgusting then I could have realized, making you nearly hate the entirety of the English courts.In The Name Of The Father proves to be a huge success for the viewer. A well invested two hours will give you the satisfaction that you ill be longing from the beginning. Truly a masterpiece from the 90's.


                
I never knew how good Daniel day Lewis was , perhaps never knew who he was until I actually saw this movie , I remember watching Gangs of new York but I never knew it was him who played this role. I was sailing when I got this DVD , I dint have anything else to watch so I just played it to get my free time handled,I was totally blown when I was halfway through the movie,It starts with Daniel day Lewis playing as Gerry being this carefree guy and living life to the fullest, but something happens and he gets arrested ,till here the story was just normal ,but at a critical point there comes a person in the prison unexpectedly who changes his life forever. The great thing about this movie is that although he stays inside those 4 corners behind those bars ,he attains the wisdom which we look for throughout our life traveling around the world. The movie gives you a boost if you are looking for one , and there is some magic in this movie , which keeps you just craving for more even the movie finishes, I re-watched this movie a couple of times , especially certain scenes , and trust me this helped my sail.Watch out for Danny you are definitely being his fan after watching this.


                
"In the Name of Father" is the one of the greatest movies ever to be filmed. It is based on a true story about an injustice of mammoth proportions committed against four innocent individuals. The corrupt roots of the law enforcement poison the lives and psyches of Paul Hill, Gerry Conlon, Paddy Armstrong, Carole Richardson popularly known as 'The Guildford Four'. Among others including Gerry' father , The Guildford Four are sentenced to imprisonment for a crime they didn't commit. The movie is a painful journey through the lives of these four until their kith and kin manage to garner sufficient public voice and evidence leading to their eventual release. Gerry loses his father to the cruelties of prison life which poignantly portrays the resignation of innocence. A determined lawyer , energetically played by Emma Thompsonm, finally manages to secure the release of the four after 15 years of suffering and trauma. But 15 years is a behemoth of a price for a little indiscretion on part of the judicial system.Although I will confess to being a self-absorbed individual , this movie made me wanna fight for The Guilford Four cause. Apparently, the events have been doctored only slightly to suit move making. The fact that a British Prime Minister offered an apology is but an epitome as to how entrenched the tragedy was. The bearing that the 15 years might have had on the psyche of the individuals is unfathomable. After I watched the movie , I spent hours contemplating on Gerry Conlon and the loss he suffered.Daniel Day Lewis is simply stunning . Not only does he carry the film, he makes it the masterpiece that it is. The supporting cast aren't far behind either. And Emma Thompson just bursts into the scene with great fervor. The soundtrack was pretty impressive too , particularly the score by Sinead 'O Connor. With all this behind such a stunning piece of art , the Academy' move in 1993 puzzled me. Schindler's List , however, I guess solves the puzzle.10/10 really


                
Some times you watch a movie and tell yourself "Why I haven't seen this movie before?". This is exactly that kind of a movie. The movie is said to be a bit blurred in historical accuracies. Probably, that is the reason the movie is a bit underrated. The things that make this movie a winner is its simple yet strong story and immeasurably powerful performances. The movie is about Gerry Conlon and his three friends, the team of whom was later christened as the "Guildford Four". They were falsely accused of bombing and killing. This was followed by multiple arrests, including those of Gerry's Aunt and Father, Giuseppe. Full credit to Jim Sheridan for handling the plot in an appropriate way by following a linear narrative. It is the credit of the director for showing the unique bond between Gerry and Giuseppe, which I am quite sure can be related by any father-son pair. About performances; when there is Daniel Day Lewis, as Gerry, there will be impeccable and majestic acting. I always fall short of adjectives when I talk about Day-Lewis' acting. Be that when he got the news of his father's death or in the climax or any other single scene featuring him, he excelled. Pete Poslethwaithe was also brilliant as Giuseppe and got matched Day-Lewis' acting. Emma Thompson, always a fantastic actress, didn't disappoint and was excellent especially in the last climax courtroom scene. Special mention to Don Baker as Joe McAndrew.As a final note this is a movie which, as its fantastic soundtrack 'In the Name of the Father" by U2 indicates, tells a story about love,humanity and fighting for truth and those make this movie no less great than The Shawshank Redemption.
Brilliantly written, Perfectly casted! Let's not talk about the movie and focus on the amazing acting of Daniel day Louis. I strongly believe that he is the best living actor. His Irish accent on this movie makes you swear he is an Irish man! Actually, his insane method of acting lead to the 5 Oscar nominees. loved how he amazingly play the role. I truly recommend everyone to watch this movie and all Daniel's movies, to see how the real acting should be! In my opinion, The best scene of this movie was the interrogation scene where he been under a lot of pressure. This scene reflect how emotions toward his father he hold! Finally, Daniel Day Lewis movies deserve watching!
I have read many reviews before i watched the movie. After i finished it seemed like English people don't like this movie too much. At some point i understand them, but most of them tried to bring some historical "facts" and rumours to damage this movie. There were some others who was trying to catch some mistakes in the movie. The were saying things that doesn't change anything really, for instance: It doesn't really matter where Gerry and Hill met, it doesn't matter if they were at some time in some groups or how they have become the suspects. These things doesn't change the whole idea, but when you sometimes make movies you just have to make some changes. There were some other people who was trying to state they were not innocent, they did some other things, robbery and so on. They are wrong too, it doesn't matter what else they did in any other place. This movie is focusing on Guildford Bombing, this movie is focusing on people who ere jailed that have nothing to do with that bombing. So, they were innocent in this case. The stayed in prison for 15 years. That is very unfair and the such an embarrassing story for England. I am sorry, but it is. For my point of view this movie is underrated because of people who didn't like it. They rated this movie considering many other things that have nothing to do with this movie. When i rate movie, i only consider movie. This movie is well directed with great performances! I was not bored when i was watching the movie. This is all i can ask from movie.


                
Few times have I felt such injustice portrayed in a film with such a pay off since Stanley Kubrik's Paths of Glory. This film is perfectly put together and establishes said portrayal of injustice from the get-go.The film follows Paul Micheal Hall played by Daniel Day Lewis who was wrongly sentenced for 'The Guildford Bombings' of 1974. This film shows him and his father from their time in Belfast to their prison sentence. Daniel Day Lewis gives an unsurprisingly good performance but the crown goes to Pete Postlethwaite in his role as Patrick "Giuseppe" Conlon, Paul's father. This is an easy film to compare to Shawshank Redemption which is at the top of the IMDb's top 250 and I think anybody who has loved that film should check this out.


                
As the cousin of Gerry Conlon sits here and reads the comments made, i am so glad this film touched many of your hearts. Everyone is entitled to voice an opinion , and voice them u must! I hasten to add, a persons comment reading (entertainment) this was not made for entertainment but education! This injustice is happening all over the world and until documented films such as this one is brought to light , then everyone remains none the wiser! The film cannot be as perfect as maybe mentioned, but can only be as realistic as it possibly can be! The actors portrayed the characters as fantastically as they could. I hope this film becomes more widely known, everyone needs to know the injustices taking place in the world. Thankyou for taking the time to emphasise your feelings and emotions over this . Elle


                
Totally Surprising. Not at all what I expected from the subject and previews. It could have been a clichéd exploitation of a complicated horrible situation, but rather is exceptionally subtle, nuanced and original, and therefore, very powerful. Some people comment that it plays a little loose with facts, some of which are not so minor. That the film makes no mention of Gerry Conlon's possible, if doubtful, ties to the IRA does change things a bit. Including that info would only have made the film better, more subtle. But its omission does help us to see Gerry Conlon as unjustly accused, tortured and convicted, avoiding the distraction of our suspecting him a criminal terrorist. Daniel Day Lewis and Pete Postlethwaithe are riveting as living, breathing, flesh and blood characters, almost bigger and better than the story itself. As a period piece, it recreates the turbulent '70s vividly, while it constantly fascinated me with its British take on the Generation Gap. If you need to remind yourself what great film-making is all about, this is a first choice.


                
A Masterpiece, a realistic view of the British Violence and Regime.Emma Thompson is a superb actress, the soundtrack is huge and the movie is realistic and breathtaking.I just saw "Sacco and Vanzetti" and "Born on the 4th July". I then thought the US are the worst "democracy" on Earth. After this film I can say the UK is just the same, spoiled and dirty. Who started the Iraq war? USA and UK, of course. Bliar and Bush must have a feeling...A real teaching on the, so called "British Empire" and the "Queen", such a funny joke, filling up the UK tabloids with her family affairs. And the courts... looking more like the '700 (don't they look ridiculous with their blond wig) than a modern democracy.I am not saying this, the movie says "Fucking Government" (quoted) and they are right. 15 years of Jail and not a pound back, the poor father died and never proclaimed innocent, the corrupt police, using methods, not even imagined in the worst African dictatorships, not condemned for a week of prison.The film gives you an idea of how UK was and is today... a mass of ignorant people voting for the best looking candidate.As an European, I really would be happy if the UK went out, as this country has nothing to share with the real Swedish, Finnish, French, Italian and German democracies today.Just a slave of Bush, just an exploiter of its colonies, conquered with blood, with people slowly working 7 hours a day.What a beautiful country... I will never ever visit again. A country where you can speak frankly to people only when they are really drunk.Alberto


                
