In watching this fine film, on idea kept running though my mind. That being terrorism often hurts the innocent much more than the declared enemy. In the Name of the Father is a powerful, well-acted drama about terrorism and injustice. And also the love one man feels for his father. Some of the events in this film are factual, and others are not. Despite some liberties taken with history, the film still makes a strong point, however.Daniel Day-Lewis plays Gerry Conlon, a young man falsely accused along with several other friends and family members, of bombing a London pub in 1974. The bombing, performed by the IRA, killed a few persons and wounded several others. Conlon and his friends just happen to be near by when the bombing takes place. Through police torture, Conlon and his best friend confess to the crime, thinking a trial will exonerate them. Trouble is, there had been so many recent bombings that the legal system in Britain was just crying out for a scapegoat. Conlon and four friends are given life sentences. Several members of Conlon's family are also given stiff jail sentences. Even his own father who seems to be the most righteous and kind person imaginable and who never set foot in England at all during the time of the bombing!The film starts out like a shot from a cannon, as we see just how violent and chaotic Blefast was during the early seventies. Just living a normal life looked impossible. If the British troops weren't after you, then the IRA members were. The film also scores when we see Conlon head off to London to presumably make a better life for himself. He and a friend force themselves into a commune and enjoy a brief period of free love and decadence. The film gets very heavy once Conlon is arrested and tortured. And the last hour detailing his time behind bars is just plain somber. We watch his father just sort of waste away with him behind bars while an aggressive lawyer (Emma Thompson) fights to get them out. Pete Postletwaite is exceptional as Gerry's father, and seeing him grow sicker and weak is very difficult for the viewer. The film tries to shift gears down the stretch and show how Conlon has become determined and more radicalized, but these scenes are nothing spectacular. Even the conclusion seems a little anti-climatic, but at least we see some justice finally get done. The acting is very, very good. Lewis is as good as ever, and nobody looks out of their league. There are some historical liberties taken. Gerry and his father never actually lived in the same cell, for instance. Overall, this film will stick with you, though.In watching this film, one cannot help but feel for the victims of terrorism. I have personally not much knowledge of the conflict between the IRA and Britain, except to say that I'm well aware of how long and deep the scars run between the English and Irish peoples. That said, there is simply no excuse for terrorism. Look at how many victims that pub bombing created. Not only those who perished or were injured. That act of terror sent several innocent people to jail and ruined their lives! The British legal system is certainly to blame for sending the wrong people to jail, but would this have even happened if the IRA had not bombed that pub? A similar situation can be seen in the Middle East today. Radical Muslims look to strike out at Western interests, but their actions often hurt scores more other Muslims than any actual Western interests! Will we ever all learn to get along on this planet?8 of 10 stars.The Hound.


                
Even though this movie seems a bit too black and white from time to time I must say that it still is an impressive piece of cinema. Too black and white because I sometimes had the feeling that they had left out some parts to make it all a lot easier for the viewer. I can't help believing that Conlon and Hill weren't the nicest guys either, but the movie shows them almost as saints (except for the fact that they steal some lead from the roofs, they never really do anything wrong). Does that mean that this movie isn't any good? Certainly not! It still remains very impressive and the idea that injustice in the name of protecting the country should be allowed is awful and so it is good that at least some movie makers aren't afraid to protest against it.The movie tells the story about Gerry Conlon and his old school friend Paul Hill. They both are small time criminals and because of their own safety they have to live in London for a while. Otherwise they might get shot by the IRA. In London they stay in a community of hippies, but aren't welcomed by everybody. As a bomb explodes in a pub, one of the members from the community goes to the police and accuses them of the crime. They are immediately apprehended, together with Conlon's father, his aunt and her family. What follows is a process full of corruption and false accusations, putting them in jail for many years even though they haven't done anything wrong.The film is very good. It's well acted, well paced and well directed. The story is touching and I never got bored when watching it. Therefor I give it an 8/10.


                
It's 1974. The IRA bombs a pub in Guildford, England. Gerry Conlon (Daniel Day-Lewis) is an aimless petty thief. His father Giuseppe (Pete Postlethwaite) is a straight-arrow soft-spoken man. He and his friend Paul Hill (John Lynch) are in London staying with hippies. They leave the flat when the pub bombing happens. A prostitute drops her keys and Gerry breaks in. The parliament passes the Prevention of Terrorism Act which allows for suspects to be held for 7 days. Gerry, Paul and others are arrested and coerced into false confessions. Giuseppe and other relatives are also implicated. The actual bomber Joe McAndrew (Don Baker) is arrested and tells the police. However the police refuses to admit its mistake. Gerry befriends Joe in prison while ignoring the peaceful faith of his father. Joe becomes the leader of the prison as Giuseppe declines in health. British attorney Gareth Peirce (Emma Thompson) works to free the falsely imprisoned. After Joe burns the lead guard, Gerry saves him and turns on Joe.This is a meticulous telling of a compelling life wrongly convicted. It's a bit up and down at times. The first trial is not the most compelling. The results are preordained and not that compelling. The most compelling is the father son relationship. When Joe get into the middle, it's a great turn in the story. These are two great performances from Daniel Day-Lewis and Pete Postlethwaite. The two of them in prison is a terrific movie filled with emotions and character growth. The final court case is theatrical as heck.


                
Before seeing this movie I thought it was more about the crimes committed by IRA during the "hot" period, a sort of documentary. IRA plays indeed an important rule in the events, but the main thing is that this movie is the true story of a family that has been destroyed by the madness of the time, by the need of a scapegoat to pay for all the crimes that were committed. Very well directed. A very famous prison in Dublin, that had an important rules during the independence from England, has been chosen as setting. Watch it, you will be satisfied!


                
A movie not without its flaws with a biased unidimensional perspective based on the biography by Gerry Conlon one of the accused from Guildford Four. While the overall story is commercialized and worked around for dramatic effect, Pete Postlethwaite's performance as the protagonist's father was too good in some scenes. Though it is competently performed, well written and executed, the battle is already half won with just the knowledge on the premise and the ordeal the Guildford four and Maguire seven have been through in real life. Based on real life events following Gerald Conlon ( Daniel Day-Lewis) a carefree wild youth who is accused of the Guildford bombing and imprisoned after coerced confession. This leads to arrests of his aunt's family infamously known as the Maguire Seven along with his father Guiseppe Conlon (Pete Postlethwaite), a just man trying to protect his son. After his father's death due to harsh prison environment and depression, he vows to fight back on the system with the help of a convinced lawyer Gareth Peirce (Emma Thompson).The initial riot sequence was exhilarating pepped by a solid background score and hysterical atmosphere. The arrests, torture, trial and sentences leaves an emotional impact on the unjust treatment and fate of all the accused and some performances here are to be commended. But Pete Postlethwaite's portrayal of Conlon's father breaks the shackles, elevates the emotional depth in the movies and justifies the title. The initial scene where Guiseppe pleads the IRA men to forgive his son, the expression on his face when Gerald returns from England, the conversations inside the prison cell and the scene just before he dies are a few examples of his masterful performance. I can understand at a biographical point of view for a very biased approach, but as a movie which deals with other characters as well should have shown some elements of thoughts leading up to the characters in the system do what they do. Daniel Day-Lewis is reliable as ever playing a real-life character that goes through a transformation from an energetic wild youth to an introspective determined son.Terrifying but biased premise with a superb performance by Pete Postlethwaite


                
In 1974 a London pub in the town of Guildford was hit by I.R.A. activists with a terrorists bomb, and no warning was given. Five people were killed and several others maimed and injured in a tragedy which sent shock waves through a then terrified and outraged public who demanded police bring the culprits to justice.Director and co-writer Jim Sheridan (scripting with Terry George) brings us the story of a group of young people from Ireland who were brought forward by police to face the charges of murder that related to the bombing. They were unceremoniously tried and found guilty, then sentenced to between fifteen years and life. Pleading their innocence to an unsympathetic jury and public had got them nowhere, so they were left to fight for their freedom from the inside.As father and son Giuseppe and Gerry Conlon, both Pete Postlethwaite and Daniel Day-Lewis give passionate and outstanding performances as they struggle with both their failed relationship and the battle to prove their innocence. Emma Thompson gives a strong performance too as lawyer Gareth Peirce, the woman who has taken up the appeal. All other cast members are impressive.Sheridan presents a highly charged, emotional drama which tells a horrifying tale in what is a black period in Irish and English history that continues even today. While he perhaps could have shown us more of the people's reaction and the feeling of the time, he instead concentrates on the Conlon's plight and their never ending fight for justice. Due credit must also go to Jim Sheridan for keeping what would have to be an incident and an issue that is close to his heart, very evenly balanced, as both sides are portrayed as equally guilty of terrible and unspeakable acts.Backed up by some very good cinematography, editing and set direction, "In the Name of the Father" is certainly a movie that will stir your soul and disturb you. It is truly frightening what men in power are capable of, and even more frightening are the devastating effects they can have on so many people's lives.Saturday, June 18, 1994 - Greater Union MelbourneDirector Jim Sheridan's account of one of the most ruthless bombings undertaken by the IRA is jam-packed with emotion. The tragic, moving story of how the "Guildford Four" lost their freedom, and fifteen years of their lives, for something they were never a part of makes for a most upsetting and aggravating film.The powerhouse performances from leads Day-Lewis and Postlethwaite are sensational, as is Emma Thompson's showing as compassionate lawyer Gareth Pierce.Not seeing this film would almost be as grave an injustice as was that which befell these innocent people.Monday, June 12, 1995 - Video
In the name of the father- a real life story of a man who was wrongly imprisoned for life with his father and family after the IRA Bombings in 1974. Daniel Day Lewis who plays the protagonist is excellent and gives a brilliant performance. the plot, screenplay and direction is top notch and keeps u engaged. there are some heart breaking moments. It also has some riveting court room sequences. 
This is a powerful movie...watch it!


                
In the name of the father- a real life story of a man who was wrongly imprisoned for life with his father and family after the IRA Bombings in 1974. Daniel Day Lewis who plays the protagonist is excellent and gives a brilliant performance. the plot, screenplay and direction is top notch and keeps u engaged. there are some heart breaking moments. It also has some riveting court room sequences. 
This is a powerful movie...watch it!


                
This is a dramatically moving story on film, but as is so often the case, mincemeat is made of the historical facts so if that's what you're looking for you'll be disappointed. Other reviewers have done a good job of establishing the real relationships involved between Gerry Conlon (Daniel Day-Lewis) and Paul Hill (John Lynch), so no use belaboring that point. The most disturbing aspect of this film is the idea that authorities won't admit their mistake in a high profile case, even when it means the disruption of families and it's impact on vulnerable citizens like Giuseppe Conlon (Pete Postlethwaite), who died in prison serving out a senseless term for a crime he didn't commit. Adding insult to injury, the real terrorists, some of whom admitted their part in the Guildford pub bombing, never even got charged with the crime. It's just so infuriating, especially when you know there's no recourse for the injured parties. With all that, the thing that caused my biggest sit up and take notice moment occurred during the credits following the movie, when it was noted that Paul Hill eventually wound up marrying the daughter of Robert F. Kennedy. He and Courtney Kennedy wed in 2002 and lived in Ireland for four years until they legally separated.
I honestly felt sick watching this movie, I really couldn't believe how stupid the British police were by not getting their facts right on who was responsible for the IRA pub bombing. Literally I just had to keep watching and gluing to this movie because even though it was years ago, you still want to see Gerry and co being released from jail and live their lives. Unfortunately, Gerry's father wasn't able to experience the freedom with his son and friends as he died in the jail. Very heartbreaking it must have been for the family and like, you just can imagine the effort they put in to try and get everyone out! I would be honestly fighting my way to save my brother from being in prison til his death! Kudos to Daniel Day-Lewis and all the actors involved in this brilliant documentary movie. I give this a solid 8/10 rating!
In the 70s, an IRA bombing kills five people in a pub Guildford town near London. Gerry Conlon (Daniel Day-Lewis) is a rebellious young Irishman who ends up being wrongly accused of the crime, and gets life in prison along with three other friends. Giuseppe Conlon (Pete Postlethwaite), his father tries to help him, but is condemned too. I always thought the actions of Daniel Day-Lewis better than the own film, more in this film we have a different case, the actions of Daniel Day-Lewis is good as the film in the Name of the Father is a film that portrays a great injustice, the cast is very good, Daniel Day-Lewis in my opinion is his second best performance, losing to Lincoln only Pete Postlethwaite, Emma Thompson, Beatie Edney, Corin Redgrave, Mark Sheppard, etc., the direction is the competent Jim Sheridan, the soundtrack is excellent, the costumes is very good, the pace is good, the more times the pace gets a little slow, in the Name of the Father is one of the best films of the glorious decade of 90, with a great cast and an impeccable performance of Daniel Day-Lewis. Note 8.8


                
Courtroom drama's are always prime for great cinema. In the Name of the Father is no different. It shouldn't come as any surprise with Daniel Day-Lewis as the lead, and he is incredible as Gerry Conlon, a wrongfully convicted terrorist in 1970's London. I have to admit I didn't know much about the bombings upon viewing, so this whole story came as a shock to me. But the film is a really good eye opener and reminder that no one is guilty until proved innocent, and then some.Pete Postlethwaite and Emma Thompson were both nominated for supporting roles and they really do carry this film. I would almost say more so than Day-Lewis. I knew he would give a killer performance but i didn't know the other two had this in them, especially Postlethwaite. The film also closely deals with the relationship between Gerry and his father. The many ups and downs they go through as a result of being in a jail for so many years. Gerry is a scoundrel at best towards the beginning. They show him stealing right off the bat to give us the impression that this may be a character you may not be able to trust. In fact, I wasn't even sure if I could trust him up until he was being beaten by the detectives to sign the confession.I will say I wasn't a huge fan of the direction to begin the film. Jim Sheridan had a knack for choppy directing early on that was hard to follow. But once the film settles in and gets going as a true courtroom genre, the film takes off. I also like that the film tackles the issue of non-violent vs. violent protests and tactics in a fair way. It isn't clear to me that the filmmakers believe one way or the other is the way to go. And I think that's the right way to go about it. +All the performances+Tension built in the court-Choppy directing to start8.4/10


                
A man (Daniel Day-Lewis)'s coerced confession to an IRA bombing he did not commit results in the imprisonment of his father as well. An English lawyer fights to free them.This film is a great combination of history and court drama. Sometimes both mix very nicely (as with the Nuremberg trial) and sometimes they do not. Here, we get a nice glimpse at the IRA in Ireland without dwelling on it too much and also get the true story of a family that was wronged by the state for their alleged involvement in terror.Ireland today is not the same place it was a generation ago, but it is not so far removed that this story is "distant history" and not important. Heck, Americans should probably know more about it than what they pick up from a U2 song.


                
Daniel Day Lewis is a masterful actor. So is Emma Thompson. This film is based on a true story and rarely has a dull moment. But it is marred by "melodramatic" overacting. It is overdone. The events that occurred are rammed down the viewer's throat. The film is pedantic. Yes, we are smart. We know that what happened was very unjust. The film doesn't have to keep hitting one over the head in presenting this tragedy as if we are too stupid to figure out that the arrested men are innocent. Duh!The film is much too violent. We don't have to view every violent scene that supposedly occurred in actuality in order to get the point. Tone it down, folks!Still, it is a good film overall. Police brutality has gotta go, eh Rodney King?I give it an 8.


                
I am an Irish Catholic and of course I am going to take the side of Ireland. I think that the Brits are completely gob smacked and finally have nothing to say.I mean we have gone through 800 years of slavery, torture and embarrassment.Even to this day Ireland is torn apart because of the British empire.When Gerry Conlon was forced into imprisonment it was the last draw. A petty thief sure... but a murderer? They had no hardcore evidence and judging from the film the police looked as though they were just doing a 9-5 working day shift.Day-Lewis who was just brilliant and is always brilliant in his films captured Conlon to the bone.The story is such a tale of injustice and the only reason he was put in jail is because he was Irish.I am so glad that this film was made as it finally reflects to the world what England were really like to the Irish. Instead of the whole world blaming the IRA for everything.After saying I must admit fair play to the recent government for apologizing to the Conlon Famliy and the 'Guildford Four'. Although it was 15 years later... but fair play


                
Was looking at this cover of the DVD that i was planning to rent out, I see, there is this man who looks very similar to Daniel Day Lewis staring at me with a intense looks. First reminded of the music album covers that were produced of individual artists.But then seen There will be Blood, picked up In the Name of the Father which is a serious and not to be taken lightly movie. A little background of the IRA and the Great Britain, will surely help while watching the movie.There were scenes where in i was lost in between cause of very heavy British accent. Sometimes the abusive language was so empowering that you enjoy watching the what you are watching, but you miss on the dialogues.One thing which completely hats off to the man - Daniel Day Lewis, he can actually take the whole movie all by himself. He stays in the character, he does what he needs to do to be in the character and completely shows on screen which he has a very strong presence.At the same time, not to forget Pete who plays Gerry's father and they share the same prison cell in the movie. Something that which I had seen for the first time and it was a little difficult for me to digest that father - son sharing the same prison. Pete in his own way played the role model of the good father who wants to inculcate good habits in his son, but fails. Even his death scene who intensely dramatic and clearly showed that how this would change his son. Then the movie picks up the pace.on Emma Thompson, probably i was too enamored by the Daniel Day-Lewis' performance, her role was kind of over shadowed. Not saying that she didn't have a commanding role, she was the lawyer, defending falsely accused of terrorist activity.This movie is not for the faint heartened, its not horror movie. But at the same time, it is really good movie to watch out for, when you are hoping to watch good cinema. Don't let the intense look on the cover on the DVD cover dissuade from watching a good movie.


                
I don't think there is anyone around who can dislike this movie as it's directed in such a magnificent way that there are times you wish every movie could have the same impact even if strange enough director Jim Sheridan never really would make it in the director-scene. This is the story about the Guildford Four, the story of four people who happen to be at the wrong place at the wrong time. Once again London is haunted by an IRA-bomb and as the justice don't want to be blamed another time they must find some "guilty" and so it happens that some Irish outsiders are in the area of an exploded pub. The whole family of Conlon (even his father who must be so honest it reaches the laughable) are sent to prison at where they are absolutely hated and getting the hardest regime a prisoner can get. In the meantime the real terrorists are caught but the British government is too proud to convince that they made a mistake and little by little we see people torn apart as they are condemned for something they never did... Let's thank God this was a British production as never Sheridan chooses for Oscar-sentiment, it never goes over the top and it's just given as documentaryinformation, but mind you, the truth itself is shocking enough. Once again splendid performances from Daniel Day Lewis and Pete Postlewaite who plays the role of the father. Superb movie.


                
In my opinion this is one of the greatest performances from my all-time favorite actor. It is a real treat to see it and I believe that the world of cinema is better for it. The film itself is very political, as that is the nature of the story, and for that reason I could not bring myself to give it a higher star rating. It is slow at points, having been based on a true story.But it is a fine film nonetheless, and is worth watching even if only for Day-Lewis' stellar performance. Recommend.


                
"In the Name of the Father" is a drama movie which is based on true events about a man who coerced confession about a bomb of an IRA bombing, but he did not do it. This had as a result the imprisonment of him and his father and also some other friends of him. An English lawyer fights to free them all and does whatever is possible to succeed this.I really liked this movie because it is based on true events and as a result I liked the plot of it. I also liked this movie because it shows the fight of man for the truth and what he has to do in order to be able to succeed this. What difficulties has to surpass and what emotions feel about these situations that he lives in. Daniel Day-Lewis who played as Gerry Conlon was simply outstanding in his role for one more time. In addition to this it has to being mentioned the interpretation of Pete Postlethwaite who played as the father of Gerry Conlon, Giuseppe Conlon and I believe that his interpretation gave a different view for everyone who watch this movie.Finally I have to say that "In the Name of the Father" is a must see movie and I strongly recommend it to everyone to watch. When you watch this movie I am sure that you will understand many things such the true meaning of a fight and what a person has to do not only for himself but also for his family, his friends and all the other world.


                
Led by magnificent acting performances and great direction, In the Name of the Father offers the audience a terrific reenactment of one of the most infamous miscarriages of justice in the history of Britain, as it portrays the story of Gerry Conlon and his father, and the false accusations made against them in regards to the Guildford pub bombings in 1974. By exploring a very controversial issue, this enthralling drama proves to be a very eye-opening and thought provoking viewing experience, one that is both politically and morally charged. Daniel Day-Lewis and Pete Postlethwaite give extremely passionate performances, as they serve as the centerpiece for a film that strikes a strong balance between exploring the estranged father-son relationship and the surrounding political issues. In the Name of the Father therefore proves thoroughly engaging, as it has perpetual motion, both due to its powerful story, but also due to the excellent filmmaking techniques that are one display.


                
Directed by Jim Sheridan, this biographical film based on the autobiography, 'Proved Innocent: The Story of Gerry Conlon of the Guildford Four' by Gerry Conlon. The movie focus on the Gerry Conlon's memoir of his imprisonment in England, for a crime, he didn't commit. In the film, Gerry Conlon (Daniel Day-Lewis) is a trouble young man who would rather explore free love and dope than get a real job. After Gerry Conlon get in deep trouble in Belfast for stripping lead from roofs of houses and causing a riot with British security forces. Gerry's father, Giuseppe Conlon (Pete Postlethwaite), saves him from IRA punishment, by sending off to London to stay with his aunt, for his own good. While, at London, an explosion at a pub in Guildford kills five people (four soldiers and a civilian) and wounds 74, and Gerry Conlon find himself, prime suspect in the crime. Soon the Conlon home is raided by the British Army and Royal Ulster Constabulary arrest both, Gerry and Giuseppe. After being torture and threated, both agree to sign a confession to a crime, they didn't commit. After years of being mistreat in prison, Gerry finally grew up from bitter son who rails against his father's wishes, to fight for justice for himself, his father and those, whom were wrongly convicted when he discovers who the real perpetrator of the bombing are. With help with Gareth Peirce (Emma Thompson), a campaigning lawyer, Gerry try to overturn the falsely convicted of the 1974 IRA's Guildford pub bombings. Will he triumph and gain his freedom or will he fail? Watch it, to find out. Even, so, the film is pretty predictable on the ending outcome, but that's not the main reason, not to watch this movie. You should watch it, to get a true understanding of the thought of being forced to live in a prison like that for seventeen years, accused of a crime, you had no part of. It made my stomach turn and I wept. In the climate of near-hysteria, the Prevention of Terrorism Act was passed, allowing the UK police to interrogate suspects for up to seven days without bringing charges or allowing access to an attorney. Americans like myself should watch it, because a similar Act was passed here, after Sept. 11, 2001. Both acts are not right, and need to review. If this movie doesn't raise your blood pressure over the miscarriage of justice, the arrogance of leadership and the need for each individual to judge according to their conscience and not their prejudices, nothing will. Another reason is because the film really work on being a gripping drama between the relationship of father and son. The movie took some liberties by showing the father/son relationship enhanced by sharing a cell in prison, which they never did in real life. I was immediately drawn into the story by Daniel Day-Lewis' as well, as Pete Postletwaite performances in both legal and personal perspectives. Both are great in this film giving the audience emotional depth. The language is a bit harsh in this movie, lot of cursing, but understanding heavy Irish accents as I do, watching a subtitled edition of this film might be a good idea. Some people might not like this movie due to its over impartially case that Britain misrules Northern Ireland, violates Irish civil rights and knowingly compromises its own legal system. I study a lot about the Troubles between England and Northern Ireland, but I really doubt every Englishman is a corrupt anti-Irish bigot. It might be a bit over exaggeration. Though some minor facts were changed, some the major 'facts' are just not real. Example like the crucial character of Joe McAndrew (Don Baker), an IRA man who might had something to do with the bombings is just a fictional character. Still, what remains as truth is gut wrenching when you think about it. Given the subject matter, the film was still well received in protestant areas of Ireland and in England. The film does shows that English public attitudes turned into a highly supportive for the Conlons' freedom when it started to become clear that they were not the culprits for these atrocities nor does the film make the IRA terrorists look like heroes. It is a bit frustrating that people take what the film tells them as fact, but this doesn't take away from the fact that this is a well made, engaging and quite moving film. Regardless of people's political beliefs or the idea that the film might be a bit political bias. The film is a good movie that never really tip over into slushiness or being over preaching or ranting. The music soundtrack is amazing to hear. I love Bono and Gavin Friday "In the Name of the Father". Epic and beautiful. Another great song is 'You Made Me The Thief Of Your Heart" performed by Sinead O' Connor. Quite inspiring. Overall, I thought this film was fascinating to watch. While the troubles are now over with 1998's Good Friday Agreement. I think the film is still very important to watch in a post-9/11 world because it makes us question our current government's hastiness to find answers and make executive decisions. It makes you wonder if our government is or had jail innocent people. Hands down, a politically and emotionally charged issue such as that, is needed to be question. In the Name of the Father shows a good example of that.
In the Name of the Father tells a pretty horrifying tale of several people who were wrongly accused of the Guildford bombings. It's admirably written and directed, and there's enough here to allow you to really feel for the characters involved. As it is, it strongly reminds me A Cry in the Dark, another similar biographical film about an unfortunate turn of events starring Meryl Streep. Both films work as much as they do because of their central performances, in this case Daniel Day Lewis, who is truly fantastic. Ultimately, this is an effective film that is worthy of a viewing, although I don't think it's overall as effective as A Cry in the Dark, if maybe for obvious reasons of the tragedy in the latter being worse.


                
A nice movie about legal, lazy injustice. The need to blame someone for the catastrophe and make them look guilty to avoid the embarrassment in front of the whole world. Seen from this point of view, this film is haunting, as is Daniel Day Lewis' performance yet again as Jim Sheridan's alter ego. And this could be the best collaboration between the two.The portrayal of this man is so human and realistic, his feeling of guilt mixed with a need to revolution in his immature opinion make it striking. Sheridan is good at portraying Northern Irish situations to perfection, this is probably the best and the most haunting. And the theme is justice and prejudice. He is blamed for his nationality and without evidence. It makes you think.WATCH FOR THE MOMENT - The interrogation is unbearable. Lewis doesn't know what to do to convince them he is not guilty, and even under torture doesn't give up, until...


                
I am quickly becoming aware of the power that Jim Sheridan has behind the camera as well as in crafting genuine non-Hollywood films. As I watched In the Name of the Father unfold, I continually was impressed by the passionate camera angles, the conviction of the characters, and Sheridan's ability not to sway from his own personal heritage. From the opening sequences of this film to the amazing direction to the dedicated actors, I knew that In the Name of the Father was going to be more than just your typical political "courtroom" drama. It wasn't until the film was finished that I realized Sheridan's power. I speak very highly of him in the opening of this review because I believe that if any other director would have been at the helm of this project that the final cut would not have been as immaculate. Typically with films of this nature we, as audience members, fall prey to there needing to be some sympathy for the opposing country. The British did unfairly treat the Irish in this film, but I believe any other director would have chosen a neutral ground instead of forging headfirst like Sheridan chose to do. I believe any other director would have focused more perversely on the courtroom drama aspect of this film instead of the compelling family epic that was being forged within the walls of Gerry's prison. Due to Sheridan, the masterpiece known as In the Name of the Father was crafted with genuine passion and superb direction.For a film of this high of emotion and intensity to work, there needed to be key players involved that knew how to handle the truthfulness of it all. Sheridan hit a bulls-eye with Daniel Day-Lewis in the key role of Gerry Conlon (which I think most directors do when they choose to hire one of our greatest cinematic heroes), but it was the surprise performance by the typical secondary character actor Pete Postlethwaite that shook me to the core. I have seen quite a bit of films that used the talent of Pete Postlethwaite, but I must admit, this is the first time that I have seen him take control of his character and give it his full devotion. Perhaps it was the dedication that Daniel Day-Lewis had to his character that rubbed onto the other actors, or again, maybe it was just the skillful direction of Jim Sheridan, but I will be the first to say that Postlethwaite stole this film. He didn't just capture the individual scenes in which he was present, but he embodied this entire film. Postlethwaite's father figure was there for his son, he put himself in danger for his son, and most importantly he taught his son the truth of the world. He was phenomenal in the small role that eventually captured the entire film. It is the belief of this reviewer that Pete should have been awarded for an Oscar for this role, instead of Tommy Lee Jones. I was also impressed with John Lynch whom I had only seen in some smaller roles since this. He fully embodied the frightened youth that didn't know better than to finger his friends to save his life. Then there was Emma Thompson. She was subtle in this film. Her role was short, sweet, and to the point, which I think is another prime example of why Sheridan's direction is so acute.I have not read Proved Innocent, but I do not think that Sheridan went too far off course with his adaptation. The story is what kept me glued to the screen. I knew from the awards that In the Name of the Father was honored with that it was great in the direction and acting respects, but it wasn't until I watched the entire film that I realized the power of the story. We don't watch Gerry grow up. We don't see his dysfunctional relationship with his father. We don't see the impeding chaos in Britain. We don't see a lot of back items that would have taken this film into the three-hour zone. Instead, Sheridan crops the film into three distinct moments. Those are Gerry prior to jail, Gerry and his father in jail, and finally, Gerry gaining the wisdom from his father. I enjoyed the fact that Sheridan didn't focus so intently on the trial, but instead the growth of Gerry and the developing relationship between him and father. It was like watching a child grow before our eyes. The only disappointment that I had with the overall story was the quickness of the ending. I do believe Sheridan could have traveled it out for another twenty minutes to give us the full effect of the climactic courtroom scene, or those moments when Gerry decides to learn about British law himself. I just felt that the last half-hour seemed to fly by because there were so many loose ends to tighten.Overall, I thought this film (despite the quickness of the ending) was engrossing to watch and exciting to see. It frightened me to watch it in a post-9/11 world because it makes us question our current government's hastiness to find answers and make executive decisions. It makes you wonder about the detainees of Iraq and if we, as a nation, are not discovering that our government is jailing the innocent. Sheridan successfully brings the emotions of aggravation and frustration to the peak of the screen with the events surrounding the Conlon family. He makes you feel for these innocent bystanders living in a corrupt nation. It made me happy to have the father that I currently have and appreciate the wisdom that he has handed down to me. Family is one of the most important elements in your life, and I believe that what Sheridan was trying to demonstrate with this film is that until you accept that, you will never find stability and security.Grade: **** out of *****


                
In the Name of the Father is an epic tale of hope and mistaken identity, a towering achievement of sorts focusing on everyday and very likable central characters as they are put through an awful emotional grinder based on true events from the 1970s and 80s. The film is spoilt only very slightly by a quite woeful theme song from Irish band U2 and the fact director Jim Sheridan cannot much direct action, forcing the very early few scenes to come across as awkward and misjudged. The rest, however, is a dedicated study of a dedicated man forced into becoming a hate figure; a fall guy of sorts, as the British government struggle to come up with answers regarding the ongoing struggles in the conflict with the Irish Republican Army.The film is a tale of fighting for justice, a tale of independence and the duty one must go through in order to attain that independence. The road is long and the times get desperate; the characters face long stretches of prison time for things they did not do – years were incorrectly taken off their lives and the result of it all is condensed down into a two and a bit hour film that you can most certainly go out of your way to see. What is two hours of your time compared to thirty odd years of someone else's, after all?The film is essentially told in a flashback perspective, a story that is distilled through lawyer Gareth Peirce's (Thompson) imagination as she envisages the lead character doing what he does as he narrates to her exactly what went down through a cassette recording. But we are there as well, we are back in the 1970s and 80s with the lead character as they lead a relatively upbeat and happy-go-lucky life initially before the tragedy strikes. The lead is Gerry Conlon (Day-Lewis), a young Northern Irishman from Belfast who is living a life surrounded by IRA-led activity in the 1970s without ever directly being involved, but he is the sort of guy who gets caught in the cross-fire; a sort of 'wrong place, wrong time' scenario-led life that will catch up with him in horrific ways later on. When we first see Gerry, the likable rouge attitude and relatively odd choice of song by way of Jimi Hendrix sees him get chased by British troops that mistake him for an IRA sniper – the scene has a fair amount of 'fun' to it; something that is brought back down to Earth later on.There is a sad irony and that is that it is proposed Gerry should move away from Northern Ireland following these scenes in order to get away from the troubles. Gerry agrees and takes a boat over to England with a friend named Paul Hill (Lynch), before briefly settling down in London. Initially, the film plays on Gerry being a bit of a misfit in this new setting; he mixes mostly with casual drug takers, hippies and devout, air headed female vegetarians. This unconnected and grounded realism driven segment in the film is impressive and mysterious. Having no knowledge of who these people are and what eventually happens to them will have you see the film as this wandering and series of supposedly random events in a specific time setting as Gerry wanders the streets; talks to tramps, thieves from the homes of those that accidentally drop their keys right outside the front door and looks for short stay accommodation here and there.But what follows is a change in gear and a change in study, indeed a change that encompasses desperation; mistaken identity; the hunt for redemption and the forcing of confronting issues regarding the relationship with one's father. A bomb is detonated within the vicinity of Gerry's general area one night and he is singled out by the police for his Irish roots and the fact he has only very recently arrived in England. He is jailed, with his father, as a part of the 'Maguire Seven', before desperately trying to claim justice. As a lead character, Gerry later embodies all the innocent and necessary traits for a victim just trying to survive. The film's point of attack takes special care in painting a wavy image for Gerry, one that sees him rob apartments of money, joke about with his mates and come across as quite antagonistic at times.Gerry and his father's, named Giuseppe (Postlethwaite), coming together in prison provide some of the more fascinating scenes in the film; a forced period of bonding during which they humblingly make peace and mend the past problems that they shared from years gone by. There is enough in the film to get caught up in, a sense of tragedy and mis-justice; a sense of pain and desperation. As far as prison set dramas go, this is one of the more impressive I've seen.


                
