The movie is based on a true story. Belfast guy Gerry Conlon is suspected of being one of the IRA terrorists responsible for a bomb in Guilford, London, in 1974, which killed several people. He spends 15 years in jail, fighting for his innocence and for truth.After working with Daniel Day Lewis in "My left foot", director Jim Sheridan teams again with the actor for this drama. The strong cast is completed by Emma Thomson and Pete Postlewaite. The result is a brilliant, passionate feature which tells about injustice. It's a disquieting film.This is doubtless the most achieved collaboration between the director and the main star. The other pictures as well are very good, but here we have a film of accusation -the story is more involving. Day Lewis performance in "My left foot" was awarded with an Oscar, but the actor could have been given the same prize for his play of Gerry Conlon.Strong screenplay, actors and soundtrack -with music of Gavin Friday and Maurice Seezer and songs of Irish stars Bono and Sinead O'Connor.


                
In 1974 the Irish Republican Army bombed two public houses in Guildford, England-The Horse & Groom and the Seven Stars. 5 people were killed and 65 people were seriously injured. During the wave of public hatred for all things Irish, the police round up Belfast rogue Gerry Conlon and his mate Paul Hill and interrogate for 7 days with brute force to obtain a confession... This is Gerry Conlon & the Guildford 4's story.This is real powerful stuff that thankfully is directed with careful hands. Director Jim Sheridan is equal in his demonizing of the police and the IRA here because it's crucial for us to focus on the Guildford 4. Focus on the Conlon family, for they are victims of injustice when they have no political, or nationalistic affiliations. He centres in on the relationship between Gerry & his father Guiseppe as they find themselves both wrongly imprisoned. It's that family heartbeat that drives this film on, and it's testament to the makers talents that it never comes across as maudlin, it's all very potent and is the films major axis point.Based on a true story the picture has a finale that will not surprise anyone, but come the last reel you feel emotionally drained, you have come thru the mangler, and myself personally felt both joy and anger in equal measure. Containing brilliant performances from Pete Postelthwaite & Daniel Day Lewis as father & son Conlon respectively, In The Name of The Father is a truly great film that demands not only your head, but also your heart. 9/10


                
...this film is spot on.  For the sake of this film I sit on the British side of the line, for I've seen the terror and the immediate fall out even though I had nothing to do with the history leading up to it.  Regardless, the acts of a mindless few doesn't ever justify the gross abuse of power seen and portrayed in this film.The British who view it can't help but be appalled at the behaviour of their own because we do pride ourselves on having a fair and balanced legal system.  The Irish who view it can't help but applaud the rare nature of a film making a stand from their side.But one side shouldn't attack the other over opinions on a film such as this; neither the British for the inaccuracies or the Irish for the Brits apparent refusal to accept something very wrong was done in our name. 
Instead it should just be appreciated as a film that makes a very valid point, in a very effective manner.


                
It was cool, and my dad was an extra in it as a police officer. So that's cool.


                
Impressive acting by Daniel Day-Lewis and by the rest of the cast. The film is touching and engaging without any lack in terms of accuracy. The story is strong without any useless or boring exposure and the narration is flawless. Original score is very good.The story is a tragedy of errors for a "antihero" the main character, Gerry. He is not an ideal and perfect citizen. He is into "free life style" hippie. But out of bad luck he becomes the relief valve for the British police desperate to find some one guilty for a bombing homicide. It is impressive that the film and such a sad story is based on a true story and this makes it even stronger. I believe movies like this one should be shown in schools as a major pillar for history programs as this kind of events and stories inevitably make the student connect with the theme and automatically trigger the desire to understand the historical time A true masterpiece.
The movie is a really good one. Collective behaviors, solidarity, contumacy spirit and touchy elements of the movie reminded me the classic movie One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest. Daniel Day Lewis is acting brilliantly. One of the rare movies that really affected me deeply. Moreover, the soundtracks, thanks to the Irish folk tunes, are contributing to the effect that the movie leave upon you. When you do a little research on the real story that was reflected in the movie, the effect deepens. The critical view against the judicial system of England is also appreciated. As a result, it is a must-be-watched piece; I strongly recommend.


                
An excellent drama with a very strong charismatic performance by Daniel Day Lewis who plays Gerry Conlon, an unemployed drifter. It starts in Northern Ireland and moves onto London where Gerry gets involved with another group of itinerants. He is then falsely arrested for the bombing of an English pub by the IRA, where a number of people are killed and maimed. He is sentenced to a long prison term erroneously, along with his father. It is all part of a nefarious plot by the British government to incarcerate any suspect to keep the British population content that something is being done about the bombings.Daniel Day-Lewis plays a complex character who is not entirely likable, but we do commiserate with his plight. At over 2 hours the movie never slows down. It's has tremendous conflict at all levels – in Ireland, the courtroom, the prison and the usual family father-son rivalries. It's based on a true story, but I have no idea regarding its authenticity. Highly recommended; particularly for those who love courtroom- prison dramas!
A very powerful movie. It shows what justice was really like back then. The acting is very well done and brings out the pain and suffering of the situation. Daniel Day-Lewis is really good as Gerry Conolly. I was gripped to this film all the way through, I recommend this to anyone.


                
Watching this movie, I was constantly and sadly reminded of the US' own issues re: treatment of black suspects in the past.  Echoes of other prison -survival movies appear as well.  I recommend watching this film, for the insight into the "Irish troubles" as well as the superb performances.


                
When I was a kid , I used to go to the cinemas all over the city just to read the list of films to run during all month. In the summer of 1993, a movie called "In The Name of the Father" was announced ,with Danny Day Lewis playing the main role. I waited for it to appear, then I had to leave the city, so I lost the premiere . It took another year, until the movie ran back to the cinema and I was able to see it. It was worth the wait. The movie is one of the best I've ever watched, it kept its freshness after 25 years ( I watched it again,this year). A masterpiece. Danny was fantastic,like always. I hope he will,once more, hear the voice that guides him ,for another ride in the Seven'th Art universe.


                
In the movie In the Name of the Father, we get a story involving injustice - people who are accused and found guilty of crimes they didn't commit - but why it works is centrally two things: even if you don't know a thing about the IRA (though it might help to know just a little) or the struggles in Belfast in the 1970's and how it involved the United Kingdom, people see injustice happening every day, with many races. If one were to put this on a double bill with the Burns doc The Central Park Five, the coincidences would be extraordinary: the rampant torture via police to the accused, the lack of any strong legal defense, and the tampering of evidence. There is that aspect, the US against THEM element, which is simple enough. But trickier, and what works greater, is the father son element of the story, where Daniel Day Lewis is Gerry Conlon is in prison for life along with his father (a very innocent man) Giuseppe, who is there for the simple reason of accused corroboration.In a way it's probably the most accessible film that has been made, that I can think of off the top of my head, about the controversies and "war" of the IRA over the years. I don't see Sheridan taking sides either way exactly with the IRA except for the fact of the killing innocent people, those "innocent bystanders" that die in that pub bombing, is very wrong. The context and framing of it is what counts; Conlon had no real political aspirations either way, and when we first see him, he's basically a young punk/hippie who gets chased by IRA guards as they think his stick is a sniper. He goes to London to cool off/find work/hang low, and it's actually in the scene where he first is going off - by the ship - that he and his father have the interaction that speaks to what will come: Giuseppe is a natural, loving father, maybe at worst a little awkward or 'normal', while Gerry is just a young, aimless youth, uncomfortable with any affection or care.The crime and arrest happen due to the sort of circumstances that happens with Wrong Man scenarios (not the Hitchcock sort, to be sure). The Wrong-Place-Wrong-Time thing, and it leads one of the most harrowing section of the film, where Conlon is interrogated. Day-Lewis here is explosive, charged, frightened, crying, under mental and physical abuse, but yet he keeps it all in check. Another actor might have gone over the top here, but somehow it always feels just right, calibrated even in the highly charged emotional range. Then he and the others are found guilty (oh darn that homeless alibi!) and sent off to prison.Apparently, according to Ebert's review, some facts were shuffled around to add to the drama - namely that the Conlon father/son shared a cell. Perhaps it is convenient dramatically speaking, and there's even a period in these years they're in there together, that Gerry spends less time with his dad, trying to escape through drugs and other (somehow friendly) prisoners. If there's one issue with this mid-section involving prison, it's that most everyone - with the exception perhaps until the other Irish man (no spoilers here) comes to prison - gets along and there's no real horror to go through. Maybe that's kind of refreshing in a sense, usually prison is shown in movies as a very rough place. If anything the political situation - the Conlons being innocent - makes it the most frenetic and harried for Gerry and his father.But, again, it's the tone of this personal side, just showing DDL and Postlethwaite together, that makes the film work so well. We may hope, and see it probably as conventional, that Gerry is set in these injustice-wheels and everything's spinning until he can get help (in the form here of Emma Thompson, in maybe the only one-dimensional role in the film, not that she is poor in any way acting-wise). But deep down, the bond between these two is what counts, and Gerry's own growth as a person is marked as he spends more time behind bars. So In the Name of the Father is successful on the fronts of what the story is about, but also how it's about it via its emotional stakes, especially in the third act when things become uncertain for the decent father. And if anything, as great as Lewis is (and that's a given, of course, look at his track record), Postlethwaite rises up to be his equal. In sort, an acting masters class in what is mostly a heavy film, with a lot of heart and (even once or twice, early on before the s*** goes down) a little light-heartedness.


                
"I don't understand your language. "Justice." "Mercy." "Clemency." I literally don't understand what those words mean."If I had to describe this film using only one adjective I would say it is an enraging movie. Jim Sheridan followed his successful directorial debut, My Left Foot, by teaming up once again with Daniel Day Lewis who delivers yet another superb performance. I'm ashamed to admit that I just got around to watching this film for the first time on its 20th anniversary, but it was completely worth it because I was blown away by this powerful and engaging film. I wouldn't call this a groundbreaking film because we've had plenty of movies dealing with similar themes. Films like The Hurricane or The Shawshank Redemption deal with the kind of social injustice that is presented here where an innocent man is incarcerated due to a corrupt justice system. In the Name of the Father differs a bit in that it doesn't focus so much on the hope of finding freedom, but rather on the enraging aspect of the injustice that the lead character and his family and friends go through. This is a genre that I'll always be drawn too, especially when it is based on a true story because I think these people deserve to have their voice heard after all they've gone through. I know that several artistic liberties were taken to make the film, but even so it draws attention to Gerry Conlon's autobiographical book. Sheridan's direction was solid, and I liked how he focused a lot of the attention on the father and son relationship. I don't know if this film would've worked as well as it did if it weren't for Daniel Day Lewis's brilliant performance. He is without a doubt one of the best actors of our time.Gerry Conlon (Daniel Day Lewis) grew up in Belfast in the 70's when the IRA terrorist attacks were at its peak. He was never involved with the terrorist group, but he was no saint either. As a young lad he felt forced to become a small time thief due to the lack of employment. While robbing some lead sheets from a roof of a house he accidentally leads British soldiers to a home that was hiding IRA weapons. Fortunately they never discovered anything, and the IRA members send Gerry off with a warning. His father, Giuseppe (Pete Postlethwaite), with whom he's had an estranged relationship, sends him to London hoping he can find a better future there and escape from all the political turmoil. On his way to London, Gerry runs into his school friend Paul Hill (John Lynch) and together they decide to go visit their friend Patrick Armstrong (Mark Sheppard) who has been living in London along with a group of free spirited hippies. Unfortunately for Gerry and his friends, they end up being in the wrong place at the wrong time and are accused of bombing a soldier's pub. Bullied by the police officers they are forced into signing a confession and are sentenced to prison along with some of Gerry's family members. In prison, Gerry and his father continue to fight to prove their innocence with the help of an attorney named Gareth Pierce (Emma Thompson) and the more she digs into the story the more corruption she finds in the police procedures.The film manages to draw you in and make your blood boil due to all the injustices suffered by these characters. It is one of those movies where the tension builds up with the passing of time, but at the same time you also feel a connection growing between Gerry and his father. The film becomes more than a simple social injustice tale and turns into a character driven story focusing on the relationship between father and son. It is a shame the film has kind of been forgotten because I thought it was really well made. It never won an Academy Award, but it did receive 7 nominations including Best Picture, losing out to Schindler's List that year. Daniel Day Lewis outshines everyone in this film, although the supporting cast was very strong, especially Pete Postlethwaite who shared great chemistry with Lewis. This was an intense film that had me at the edge of my seat thanks to the way in which Sheridan tells the story and slowly draws the viewer in. The final 20 minutes of this film are perfect and Daniel Day Lewis knocks his performance out of the ball park.


                
Based on the true events surrounding the IRA bombing of 1974 in England, In the Name of the Father tells the story of Gerry Conlon; a small time thief who, along with his friends, is falsely accused of committing the heinous crime & after being coerced into confessing guilty by the British police during the brutal interrogation is sentenced to prison life along with his father who is also implicated in the crime during the trial. The story covers 15 years of Conlon's wrongful imprisonment during which he tries to prove his innocence with the help of a British attorney.This is the 2nd collaboration between Jim Sheridan & Daniel Day-Lewis after My Left Foot and presents Sheridan in complete control of his craftsmanship & Day-Lewis at the top of his game. The real-life character of Gerry Conlon is magnificently brought to life by Day-Lewis & he was simply at his best during the interrogation scene, making it the film's most intense sequence. Also, the scenes between Gerry & his father, played amazingly well by Pete Postlethwaite, are its finest moments and the two shared an amazing chemistry together.On an overall scale, In the Name of the Father is one of those films that leaves little to complain about and is a brilliantly directed, deftly written, tightly edited, strongly performed & elegantly composed cinema that also features best works in the directional career of Jim Sheridan & acting career of Pete Postlethwaite. Daniel Day-Lewis' contribution here often gets overlooked but, in my opinion, it's right there amongst his finest performances. All in all, In the Name of the Father is one of the best films of its year and is a must watch for anyone who appreciates great cinema. Strongly recommended.


                
After "My Left Foot", 1989' inspirational biopic of one of the most famous Irish artists, that received universal acclaim and earned his first Oscar to Daniel Day-Lewis, Jim Sheridan relates four years later another page of Irish history through "In the Name of the Father", a powerful and solid drama comforting Day-Lewis' reputation as one of the most talented actors of his generation."In the Name of the Father", chronicles the events that lead to the arrest of the infamous 'Guildford Four': four Irish people falsely accused and convicted for the bombing of the London pub of the same name. It's a nice directorial touch that the film opens with the explosion that killed five innocent persons, the very action that would imply a vengeance- ridden reaction from the British law. Innocent people would then pay for the crime, and this is the tragedy of Gerard Patrick Conlon, a feckless Irish lead stealer, who was in London at the wrong place, at the wrong moment.Yet even as a true story, the injustice and level of sadism displayed by the British Police, with the relative complicity of the Court, seem unbelievable, flirting with the most one- dimensional kind of cinematic Manichaeism. This is where the context plays a crucial role: after a series of bombing terrorizing the British population, the Parliament voted a Terrorism Act allowing the Police to arrest suspects for seven days. Although the use of torture was prohibited, any other kind of pressure became legitimate and could be used to force the suspects to sign a confession, or their own convictions' papers. We're in a sort of post September-11 like paranoia, where the British system, lacking all the necessary perspective to properly investigate the case would spot the perfect scapegoats to compensate their own ineffectiveness. Any rational mind wouldn't believe an IRA bomber or criminal mastermind would rob a prostitute and goes back to his home like Gerry did. But those were irrational, fear-induced times. The torture scenes benefits from the spectacular performance of Daniel Day-Lewis, as the tough hoodlum reveals a vulnerable side, demonstrating innocence in every single meaning of the word. The nervous breakdown is inevitable, marking the triumph of the sadist Police officer played by Corin Redgrave, followed by a tragic domino effect.Gerry's friends and family are all arrested, including his father Giuseppe, a honest, hard- working and sensible man. It was Giuseppe who encouraged Gerry to leave Belfast for London, fearing an arrest because of his illegal activities. And Giuseppe, the character who revealed the immense actor who was the late Pete Potlewhaite, is the soul of the film. He incarnates both the educational background of Gerry: an apparent failure, and a constant guiding force meant to elevate his son, to a level of dignity despite the adversity. The titular father is Giuseppe, and the gap between him and Gerry would trace the line of Gerry's evolution and understanding process, the ultimate key of his moral triumph. The roots of Day-Lewis' torments are to have given up the conflict against the system for the more convenient one: his father, the one who holds for being responsible of all his faults. By constantly patronizing him, Giuseppe forged Gerry's rebellious instinct. Gerry lost self- respect by blaming everything on his father. He never shared room with him, but this one fictionalization is perhaps the strike of genius because the best moments of the film all focus on the father-and-son relationship. Giuseppe accepts fate as it comes while Gerry fights back without thinking. Gradually, Gerry's experience will reveal the limits of his own perceptions, even when it comes to the Irish responsibilities. The jail scenes plays a powerful counterpart to the black-and-white depiction of the British justice and are also the setting of the greatest and most emotional performances from the trio Day-Lewis, Postlewhaite and Emma Thompson as the British lawyer who'd reopen the case and allow the 'Guildford Four' to be rejudged, for an immediate release, fifteen years after the first sentence. Giuseppe would never be a free man and his death from pulmonary condition would forge the spirit of his son and give a meaning to his fight for Justice. Jim Sheridan's film is a powerful human drama featuring a magnificent and emotionally gripping metamorphosis of the central character. However, the film suffers from a few flaws on the scenes' arrangements, a criticism I also had with "My Left Foot" whose clumsy editing left a few interrogation marks, notably on the relationship between Day-Lewis and his father. "In the Name of the Father" seems so eager to be a poignant father-and-son story, a character study that the trial part was treated with more rush, only leveraged by the powerful acting of Daniel Day-Lewis. A few less scenes would have allowed to focus on Thompson's investigation, and prevent the final trial from its rather abrupt or anticlimactic feeling, maybe less the trial than the way the pivotal evidence were found. However, this is rather a regret than a criticism, the film still relies on Day-Lewis tour de force and his believable transition from a young self-centered thug to a man who'd do his best to Honor the memory of his father It's fitting that one of the scenes feature "The Godfather", especially the garden moment between Vito and Michael as the very scene represented the succession between the two persons, the transmission of heritage, between Giuseppe and his son, the transmission of common values. Conlon's personal fight would be to find out the part of him he had in common with his father, and make the most of it. In the Name of His Father.
This one is a keeper, it is indeed one of the best films I have ever seem. It is in my top 50 favorite films and I think it will always remain there. Set in the British Islands in the 1970's, this film shows clearly how complicated was the situation of the poorer folks from Ireland relative to the rest of the Islands and how they suffered extreme prejudice from their ethnic background. Which I would think is rather absurd considering that the main way of differentiating an Irishman from an Englishman is the accent.There are some minor flaws in the film, however, but it doesn't detract from the viewing experience.Overall, a very touching film and I highly recommend it.


                
The storyline in this movie, was a very human, and rare, depiction, of real-life immaturity. Which is the true cause for a lot of pride fueled hate in the world. And, Daniels character, throughout the beginning of the film, hurt himself, and his father, along with the rest of the people he knew, by simply being selfish and immature. As I said, a real character flaw in a lot of people in the world. He refused to see, that the people, he thought were "in the right", would use him too, in the struggle for power. And, while imprisoned, his maturity grew. Sadly at the cost of his father. He saw that it was only about a power struggle from the 2 sides. And, finally realized, his father and him had nothing to do with it. And his father who would fight for his son, and family. Not for the glory of power. But the love of his family. Was truly, the strongest person, around him. Daniel Day, was awesome in this movie, for portraying, a stubborn immature, character, who completely matured, albeit, very late. He discovers what really matters to him the most. But, hey, Thats the evil of pride, for you. It isn't a sin for nothing. for the record, i'm not religious at all, but, the seven deadly sins, hold a lot of truth, I found this movie on a tape. Seeing that a good actor, was in it. I decided to watch it. And it surprised me. Even when lewis character made really unthoughtful choices. It still felt real to me. I have known, and do know people who leap before they look.
It's funny how you can watch a whole bunch of movies, trying to learn more about film-making and how shots are constructed, how characters are developed, how music should be used and then all of a sudden a movie comes along and you find yourself drawn into its story and easily forgetting to pay attention to all of technical aspects. When it comes to In the Name of the Father, it was like being reminded of how powerful a performance could be and how films can truly reach into your heart and affect you.I don't know what makes Daniel Day-Lewis' performance so effective but I thought it was very much so. I think great film is often about capturing the great things that already exist in the world, not so much about creating a great work of art but recognising something that you find beautiful or simply interesting and sharing it with an audience. Perhaps the reason Day-Lewis' performance is so good is that he is so "naked" as an actor (as they say). I have a feeling this is probably some well known concept in film that critics rarely talk about because everyone understands it (except me). Oh well.I also though Pete Postlethwaite and Emma Thompson were excellent as well, one gets the impression that everyone that worked on the film truly believed in it. As for the story, I have no idea how close it is to the truth but to some degree I don't think it matters. What matters is that it manages to engage and affect you, hence inspiring you to learn more about the actual events for yourself. I don't think films should have to be about capturing or creating realism only, by exploring fantasies you can make things more personal as well as achieve greater depth (I believe) hence expressing more than you could otherwise. This probably has little to do with this film in particular but as Roger Ebert has said (roughly), movies should be about emotions and ideas not facts.So, I think what makes In the Name of the Father so effective is that its a personal film with a very talented cast, a good story and a director that knows how to let the magic happen. Or something. I think that's an extremely vague and general statement but hey, I don't want to spoil the details of the story.


                
Gerry and three of his friends and his father and aunt are wrongly imprisoned for the Guildford bombing. What follows is a deeply moving story of innocents fighting for appeal and a tender story of how time in jail forces Gerry and his Father to become closer and start to see eye to eye.I watched this for the first time the other day and was blown away by the performances from Daniel Day Lewis as Gerry, Pete Posthelwaite as his father,Emma Thompson as their lawyer who fights to prove their innocence.Featuring small but good appearances by Tom Wilkenson,Daniel Massey and Nigel Hawthorne as the appeal judge. A very good film that deserves a watch.
This is an exceptional movie, and a deeply political one. Not just for its discussion of Northern Ireland, but the very poignant statements it makes about torture, about the death penalty, and indeed about any system of justice that prioritizes attaining a confession of guilt.More than a decade since the film came out, all of these issues are highly relevant in, for example, the United States today.Guantanamo Bay, anyone? As this film makes clear, there is no justification for the torture of political prisoners (or indeed, anyone else for that matter).The Death Penalty? Had the UK permitted the death penalty for this sort of crime, the Guildford Four would almost certainly have been executed (both the film and the contemporaneous accounts of the case indicate this). There can be no justification for capital punishment, under any circumstances. Guilt is never 100% certain, even when accompanied by a confession.It's rare that a film makes compelling, timeless political statements, and rarer still to do so in the context of telling a great story. The story of Gerry Conlon, and the rest of the Guildford Four, needs to be told and retold. Especially in times when people are willing to sacrifice human freedoms and fundamental rights in the hopes of attaining a false sense of "security."


                
Tremendous film. Tremendously underrated. When I talk to my peers about "In the name of the Father" I often get, "what?" It's truly a shame. Yes, the movie is a older now, but it's a classic film about injustice and political oppression. And Dainel Day-Lewis, wow. It's my understanding that he lost out to Tom Hanks for Best Actor, which is unfortunate. Not to take away from Hanks, but because this is an absolutely amazing performance. He shines as Gerry Conlon, a man wrongfully convicted for a brutal crime. This is one of those rare films that allows you to feel the pain of injustice. I'm not Irish. I'm not English, and I wasn't even born when Gerry was convicted, yet I can feel as if I was there. I was in that prison with him with this movie. Also Emma Thompson, what an inspiration. She's the knight in shining armor in this movie, and she really makes you like defense attorneys.Watch this movie. Enjoy it. It deserves it.


                
If you avoided this film or put it on the back burner because you thought it would be standard or simply just a people-pleasing, fairly dull drama that would maybe be the kind that would be shown in school because of its cultural value, then just see it for yourself. It's incredibly well- made, it's fast-paced, brilliantly acted, and very passionate and interesting.Standing out in the stunningly engrossing cast are Daniel Day-Lewis and Emma Thompson, who are both always wonderfully appealing, and though I'm not sure I'll ever see Day-Lewis in any performance that surpasses the magnetism and captivating charm of Bill the Butcher in Gangs of New York, he wows here, conveying such a deeply felt character. Thompson, whom I just recently re-watched in Primary Colors as an entirely different character, proves herself a true chameleon, completely taking all forms of her role.It isn't approached from the angle of structuring the story the generally most appealing way, even though it seems like it, intercutting flashbacks with the present and such. It simply follows the characters through their own arcs, and the film becomes the most interesting and engaging film I've seen in weeks. The hardships they endure, the conflicts that fall into their laps, the drama that ensues, and the prospect of justice are all just so absorbing that you have to see it to believe it. This film consumes you.


                
Watching the movie again last night, I realized how significant and relevant this movie remains today. In a time when many are rightfully or wrongfully held in Guantanamo for tangential relations to terrorist groups, media riling up the mobs against people like Richard Jewell without evidence, and laws which trample of civil rights being passed in the name of terrorism, this movie's message rings true today. The acting, especially that of Day-Lewis, and direction are spot on. If you haven't seen this movie, I strongly recommend it. If you haven't seen it recently, watch it again and consider how easily the same sort of injustices portrayed in this movie can repeat over thirty years later.


                
This is an excellent reconstruction of the wrongful imprisonment of the 1974 'Guilford bombers' and the denial of Justice.The acting is 'A' grade and the cinematography is anything but average. This is surely a superb piece of Hollywood.The story starts when Gerry Conlon travels to London after the IRA causes conflict in his home town of Belfast. When the bomb goes off, his pety thievery makes him a perfect scapegoat for the British police to blame the deaths of the innocent on. After several hours of torture and torment, Gerry is forced to sign confessions and, eventually be sent to jail along with his family for the accused making of the bomb.A great father-to-son relationship is developed throughout the Conlon's time in prison. However, when Gerry's father, Guiseppe, dies in prison for something he didn't do, the audience sympathises with the emotions of Gerry and the burning pieces of paper floating down the prison walls acts as a metaphor for the loss of the innocent.One again, a marvellous film with tells the story of one family fighting for Justice
the film never overstated the reason why Conlon was imprisoned and never attempted to glorify what the IRA wanted to prove. the film concentrated on the plight of the accused accurately enough and never spiralled off on other tangents, there was obviously a lot of in depth research done for the film, one only had to look at certain parts of the film to understand how much had gone into it,i refer to the scene when Conlons solicitor visited the archives to retrieve files, if you look carefully the top file is headed Beirne one of Gabriel Byrnes relations from Elphin, Eire.Perhaps one day the whole truth will come out as to who really bombed the pub but until then we will have to wait. well done cracking film.


                
It's refreshing to view a based on factual events, without the fabricated love story used by directors to enhance the entertainment value. Instead, In The Name of the Father, the audience is exposed to a beautifully crafted film portraying the injustice of the Guildford Four trial, with the central focus regarding the emotional conflict between father and son."In the Name of the Father" remains faithful to the story of Gerry Conlon (Daniel Day-Lewis), a man wrongfully accused of the Guildford pub bombing in London, 1974. His unfortunate events affect his whole family and friends, as they are used as scapegoats by the police, blamed for a crime they didn't commit. The film continues to highlight the injustice of the Guildford case, resulting in life imprisonment. Even so, with the faith derived from his father, Conlon's spirit remains alive as he faces the hardships of prison, and the ongoing hope as they both attempt to re-open the case after 15 years with the aid of the lawyer, Gareth Pierce (Emma Thompson).It isn't surprising that the movie was nominated for 7 academy awards, especially with an exceptional cast to embody one of the most 'emotionally charged cases in British history'. And one wonders how much emotions influenced the convicted decision made by the jury, when we witness the public present in the courtroom yelling obscenities to the accused! Daniel Day Lewis(Gerry Conlon), together with Pete Postelwaithe (Giuseppe, Gerry's father) manage to capture the emotion of the case, as well as their strained relationship. When Gerry attacks Giuseppe in the prison cell, the camera remains focused on both men's faces, capturing the pain and frustrations on Lewis' face, and contrasting the look of disbelief on Giuseppe's.The music in the movie is to be commended, with a different yet accurate tune used to reflect the sequences displayed on film. From the loud, thunderous rock tune at the beginning, to the intense rhythmic beating before the anticipated walk to the courtroom, as well as the soulful, heart wrenching ballad played as the prisoner's throw out paper flames in a desperate cry for help, it is undeniable that the music is the essence of a film with such emotional depth.In "The Name of the Father", the audience become touched by the story of an uncommunicative father and son, whose relationship prospers on new found trust and respect, all the while dealing with the political issues regarding their wrongful imprisonment. If not watched for the acting or the camera's remarkable ability to captivate, even the storyline is enough to keep a person entranced!
