Shutter Island is the story of Teddy Daniels, A U.S. federal marshal sent to the island with his partner Chuck Aule to search for the disappearance of a patient. Each scene provides a turn against their leads and compels them to look for more whilst searching in places we couldn't comprehend, including their minds. Leonardo DiCaprio and Mark Ruffalo feed off each other and supply great performances for their characters as expected, but some of the other characters whose names are riveted on the posters or marquees are sensational as well. The two that stuck out to me most were Ben Kingsley (Dr. Cawley) and Michelle Williams (Dolores, Teddy's wife), each of whom brought so much dramatics and new questions to the movie, developing plot twists and controversy. I don't think this film would be the same without them.This is also a film I would recommend seeing a second time. In fact, it is even better the second time. All those pieces of that puzzle you didn't catch the first time, you will the second. You see, we as the audience are first put in the shoes of Teddy. The second? Well, without giving too much away, lets just say you are put in someones else's shoes entirely during the second viewing. Shutter Island. A film that will make you question your own sanity. A film that will leave you breathless. A film that has re-ignited the thriller genre. A film that will leave you, and the main character, searching for answers.


                
Shutter Island. A film that will divide the film community. A film that will leave many upset, and hating it. A film that has already completely split the critics. A movie that messes with you. And no one likes to be messed with. And that is exactly where it exceeds. Think I'm contradicting myself? Shutter Island is one of the most well crafted psychological thrillers to come by since Silence Of The Lambs. And it is no coincidence both were brilliantly written novels. Shutter Island is adapted by a book written by Dennis Lehane (wrote gone baby, gone and mystic river). It is a book filled with twists and turns, that will leave the reader dizzy. And, that is what it's film counterpart does to the fullest. Martin Scorsese helms the director chair, in a movie where he is more free than any before. This is Scorsese at his most unrestrained. Marty takes what he has learned from the great films of the past and puts it into his. The master of suspense Alfred Hitchcock's influence is everywhere you look in this film. And it is no wonder, considering Scorsese even showed one of his greatest works to the crew: Vertigo. And many of those ideas are present in Shutter Island; the cliff scenes scream Hitchcock. This is a film that creeps and crawls, and is filled with dark corners. And it is all heightened by the coming storm that looms over the island. This is classic film noir. The story follows Teddy, a federal Marshall, and his partner Chuck (Played by DiCaprio and Ruffulo). They go to this mysterious island enveloped in fog to investigate an escape. From these opening scenes, Marty has set up a dark and creepy premise. Almost the whole movie incorporates this story as Teddy desperately tries to find the truths he seeks. Teddy is shown as a scared man; a man of war and violence as portrayed in various flashbacks. These will go on to be increasingly important as the story progresses. We follow Teddy on his quest, through every dark corridor and perilous confrontations. Slowly, we are given pieces to the puzzle, but the audience does not even realize it. For we, like Teddy, are blind. For the moment at least. It is because of this that the thrilling conclusion will leave many blindsided. But, you see, that is where this thriller becomes something more. We as the audience are put in Teddy's shoes, and we feel all the things he feels. It is a complete assault on the senses, and it works beautifully. This is a film you must watch carefully. That is another thing that sets this apart, it is a horror film that makes you actually think. In this day and age, I'm not surprised some found it terrible esp. after their brains have been turned to mush by these new gore filled horror films. Scorsese's ultimate goal here is to wake you up. And trust me, you probably wont like it. This is also a film I would recommend seeing a second time. In fact, it is even better the second time. All those pieces of that puzzle you didn't catch the first time, you will the second. You see, we as the audience are first put in the shoes of Teddy. The second? Well, without giving too much away, lets just say you are put in someones else's shoes entirely during the second viewing. Shutter Island. A film that will make you question your own sanity. A film that will leave you breathless. A film that has re-ignited the thriller genre. A film that will leave you, and the main character, searching for answers. 10 out of 10 -CLS


                
It is one of the best movies made by director Martin Scorsese. It is perhaps the best movie starring Leonardo DiCaprio. Honestly speaking, it is one of the greatest films of the decade. DiCaprio featured in two movies in 2010, the other one being "Inception". Both were excellent. To this day, they are some of the best cinematic experience I have ever had. That being said, I found "Shutter Island" to be much more superior, as "Inception" feels a little bit of a mumbo jumbo many times.Good.
"Shutter Island" is simply a masterpiece. The beginning of the movie suggests a very basic plot of a detective story, possibly a thriller. As the movie progresses, the plot becomes bigger and bigger with more and more complexity added to it. The way this happens is incredible. The pacing is really good. That is what makes the movie so interesting. And, even though the movie gets more complex, it is not difficult to keep up with the major plot points. And, the final twist is one of the best plot twists I have ever seen. I did not expect it at all. And, like the main character portrayed by DiCaprio, we are not ready to believe what is being told until a lot of reveals finally convince us. There are a lot of many things that might seem to be pointless before the final twist which are totally relevant with the story that is actually being told. The character of Edward Daniels is superbly written. We get to know where the character is coming from and we can get behind the character - yet another excellent thing about this movie. There are some dream sequences that seems like a filler, but is a major indication to the reveal. There are quite many "illusions" which feel very real, but carry no real meaning in the end. There are many additional things which may seem like a diversion from the story being told, but are actually enhancing it. Some dialogues between the main character and an imprisoned character get a very different interpretation after it's all set and done. So much of a complex story, yet no giant inconsistencies at all. It's just superbly written and directed and acted. It's totally different from "Memento" (2000) but still, has a lot of similarities. We get into the main character's head and we just get his interpretations, different types though. Towards the end, we don't want to step fully outside his head, but when we finally do, it's mind blowing. The ending moments were conceived by many to be confusing. But, if you keep up with the entire story, it's meaning is quite obvious. The movie is dark and psychologically engrossing. Yet it does have a short lived and very brief happy moment with the tiny plotline involving Dr. Cawley's motives. That's all I can say without getting into complete spoilers. Leonardo DiCaprio, Mark Ruffalo and Ben Kingsly have given some of the great performances till date. I don't have anything that bugged me. So no mixed or bad aspects of the film.Conclusion.
On the whole, for me, it's the movie of the decade. The decade is almost over, and still I have not got any movie in the league of "Shutter Island". It's a very engaging and thrilling movie. It's one of those films I consider to be an all time great.Rating.
Score : absolute 10/10
Grade : A+


                
From the look of the trailer, Martin Scorsese's "Shutter Island" looks more like a horror film<U+0085> This is a dangerous place where isolation rules under fascist control. A U.S Marshall is sent to an asylum to investigate a missing patient but discovers so much more. A demon? A ghost? Something more? Is this going to be as disappointing as I think it is?I was skeptical walking into the theater, wondering if this twist could hold water. The film starts with Teddy Daniels and his new partner, Chuck, standing on a ferry. They talk about their assignment. What's suspect here is that there is no additional development. We are bam, smack right into the story without so much as an opening montage. All that we see is the men smoking a couple cigarettes. Though this is what begins as momentous development. As our hero smokes we that this isn't the glorified top lit smoking of a beauty or that of a sophisticated and confident gangster. We see that this is a harsher character with poor posture, someone who doesn't sleep well, someone with a deep past<U+0085>They are greeted at the gate by guards whose attitudes' seem immediately suspect. Soon we meet Dr Crawley, a seemingly complex and modern man who runs the asylum. However, he soon turns uncooperative with the investigation. Inmates and staff are hiding something but what? Everyone here seems off. Evidence and clues begin to appear but not before our hero seems riddled by psychosis himself. "You act like all this madness is contagious." Daniels says to the guard. Is it? Soon we begin to wonder, too, but not before he uncovers the tip of the iceberg and it's not only painfully intimate with his own past but also a mass conspiracy. The Nazis had concentration camps and the Americans have Shutter Island.Though, it doesn't stop here, but to say anything else would do the story injustice<U+0085> Kingsley is in his finest role in years. Similarly, DiCaprio reaches new levels. Amongst others Elias Koteas, Ted Levine, Michelle Williams, all play small but wonderful roles. Robert Richardson captures a world all of its own.While Scorsese is a master of film I'd say that his specialty has been more character than story. This is a fresh balance of both. It's a mix of noir and thriller. It's only sort of a horror movie and could be compared to "The Shining" but it makes it look like it's a one trick pony. All this praise being said it's not for everyone. The story is complex. It takes some attention. At times it's a bit bleak and dire. Of course it all makes a little less sense when you actually think about it but then again that's film. There are a couple of moments where the story gets lost within itself. Things become a bit too complicated. At this point you might begin to lose faith in its viscosity, but don't worry because the story has you right where its put you.


                
Really, Scorsese should just give it away for anyone. The man is one of the most brilliant directors of our time. Anyway, let me get to the actual movie; I just saw it at a early screening and have to write this while I'm thinking about how stunning it was. Shutter Island is certainly not a typical film, not even for Scorsese. It is a different take for the director, and he does it, as he does every film, perfectly, so much as to be in his own league of film-making. I don't want to give anything away, but I will say this: Shutter Island was completely unexpected, and a great start to 2010. It had all the components of a great film, and then some. The acting is spot on from every character; none of it seems forged or out of place. The script is fantastic; it has one of the most intriguing plots I have seen in a while (exception being Tarantino's Basterds). Everything, down to the set's lighting, was perfectly executed. I will say that not everyone will like this; Shutter Island, again, isn't your typical movie. To those, though, who do choose to see this film, be ready for a compelling, gripping, thought-provoking experience, so much so that you might think to see it again for further clarity (I know I will; it was so entertaining and my mind was blown!). Don't be surprised if you see this at the next Oscars...


                
If Paramount Pictures had released Martin Scorsese's Shutter Island last year – the original release date was October 2nd, 2009 – I would have considered the film the best movie of the year. As it stands, the rest of 2010 has a long way to go in terms of matching the quality and effectiveness of Scorsese's new picture. It's a fascinating character drama, an exciting and almost experimental exploration of the human mind, a reinvention of the horror genre and a dynamic acting showcase for its star, the incredible and still very underrated Leonardo DiCaprio.Shutter Island is also an incredibly appropriate entry in the Scorsese canon – it's a film about an alienated man haunted by his past. Add Teddy Daniels to the list of Scorsese's tragic and multilayered antiheroes – Jake La Motta, Travis Bickle, Henry Hill, Howard Hughes, Billy Costigan, Rupert Pupkin, Jesus Christ. The film also continues Scorsese's fascination with our understanding of violence (it should be noted that our perception of the lead character's violent actions changes dramatically when watching the film for a second time).Shutter Island is eerie from the very beginning. U.S. Marshal Teddy Daniels (DiCaprio) and his newly assigned partner Chuck Aule (Mark Ruffalo) steadily approach an island off the coast of Massachusetts known as Shutter Island, a mental hospital for the criminally insane. The year is 1954, and Scorsese and music supervisor Robbie Robertson subtly incorporate vintage (and sometimes downright disturbing) 1950s music into the sound mix. Once on the island, Daniels and his partner meet with Dr. Cawley (Ben Kingsley), who explains to the Marshals that one of the island's patients has mysteriously disappeared overnight. The investigation that ensues is a fascinating exploration of insanity.Hovering over every scene is a paranoid, post-war anxiety shared explicitly by our protagonist and thoroughly felt and realized by Scorsese. Tensions rise as Teddy recalls horrific memories from liberating a concentration camp during the war, and his suspicions of Nazism and conspiracy by the House of Un-American Activities on the island become our suspicions. The best Scorsese films force the audience to live inside the minds of moderately-to-severely delusional characters weighed down by an enormous and overwhelming guilt. Shutter Island does just that. There is an unease throughout the entire film, deliberate disturbances in continuity that some audiences might mistake for sloppy editing. That's simply Oscar-winning editor Thelma Schoonmaker toying with the audience, making us question the reality we're watching and the reliability of our protagonist. The film is a brilliant melding of film noir, detective mystery and psychological horror, at its very core an exploration of an emotionally disturbed human psyche, disguised as a Hitchcockian thriller that works as both a homage to Scorsese's favorite psychological thrillers from the 1940s and 1950s while simultaneously elevating itself into something larger and more complicated. When you watch Shutter Island, you're not just watching Scorsese's film – you're watching thousands of classic movies at once, assembled together in a picture conceived by a filmmaker whose encyclopedic knowledge of film history pours into every detail of every frame, so much so that an already-genuinely suspenseful scene of DiCaprio racing up a flight of winding stairs simultaneously serves as a homage to Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger's The Red Shoes (1948).Unfortunately, Shutter Island has come under attack from, as my good friend calls them, the pseudo-intellectual crowd. From what I can gather, the general complaint is that the movie takes itself too seriously dramatically, and that some of the dramatic shifts in the film are laughable. Perhaps this is because Scorsese refuses to compromise his vision by winking at the audience. When discussing The Best Films of the 1990s with Martin Scorsese in early 2000, film critic Roger Ebert notes that at some point in the 1990s, existentialism, "the idea of what we do with our lives," was "replaced by irony, so that everything has quotation marks around it." He then adds, however, that Scorsese's "films are not in quotation marks...they are meant."And he's absolutely right. Scorsese can't make an ironic film - a film too afraid to deal head- on with real, palpable human emotion, therefore putting the actions of its characters in huge quotation marks. My favorite films of the past few years don't have ironic quotation marks around their characters, either. I don't buy movies that do that – it's a cheap way of pleasing the cynical, highbrow crowd who only accept genuine human emotion in films if it comes from Pixar Animation or a foreign-language film. I love those movies, too, but I haven't given up on serious American films that aim for high character drama and succeed. I'm talking about Clint Eastwood's Mystic River (2003), Scorsese's The Aviator (2004), Ang Lee's Brokeback Mountain (2005) and now, Shutter Island. These are films that take their characters and their plights seriously.Every negative review I've read doesn't seem to consider how effective the film is on a visceral level, how strong and forceful the performances are from top to bottom and the powerful manner in which screenwriter Laeta Kalogridis keeps the story grounded in the deep emotional turmoil of its characters. Shutter Island is a real film, the kind they don't make anymore, exceeding the supposed limitations of its genre and offering its audience something challenging and psychologically fascinating. Scorsese doesn't have to make movies anymore - he's already made more masterpieces than any other living filmmaker - but we're lucky that he's still exploring his obsessions in new and inventive ways. Shutter Island should be met with applause, not simply because the film marks the latest work from our finest living filmmaker, but because it's also the best damn movie you'll see this year.
Shutter Island centers around two U.S. Marshalls who must search for a missing patient on said island, which has a large complex specifically designed for harboring the most violent and disturbed mental patients. Agent Teddy Daniels and his partner must try to understand the mysteries of Shutter Island while attempting to unearth a plot that may go all the way up to the men who run it.Shutter Island is a very unique and interesting movie. The acting, directing, and the script are all excellent as can be expected in a Scorsese movie. But the quality that sets this apart from most of his previous works is the tone and genre. Scorsese does an amazing job of creating a haunting and dark tone that fits such a suspenseful movie very well.The twist is also very good, even though it was given away by the trailers. At the end of the movie it is revealed that Leonardo DiCaprio is a patient on Shutter Island and everything that has happened has been an attempt to allow him to live out his delusion of a missing patient and two U.S. Marshalls investigating a secret plot. This idea is a bit far fetched, but that is easily forgivable when you consider how well it was interwoven into the plot.Upon watching it a second time I noticed all the subtle hints that were placed throughout the movie. That is another quality of Shutter Island that I admire; it's re-watchability. After you know what Leonardo DiCaprio is, it makes the second viewing an entirely different and highly enjoyable experience. You can find all the things you missed the first time and understand all the things that seemed vague and confusing when you didn't know where it was going. The only real gripe I have would be that Scorsese never really captures true emotion here. The scenes that are supposed to resonate don't really pull you in like they should, specifically the scene by the lake with his wife and kids. Not to say that you don't care about the characters just that it misses the mark somewhat in the drama department. Shutter Island is a very underrated movie and ranks with some of Scorsese's best. His trip into suspense/mystery actually works very well and he captures a tone that I've never seen before. Somewhere between horror and suspense he finds a gray area that gives Shutter Island a feeling all it's own. Certainly worth watching and re-watching again and again.
I read the novel so I knew the story going in, and I still got chills in several places and really was moved at how incredibly good this movie is. I won't get into the plot, because that could spoil things, but Leonardo DiCaprio investigates a missing patient/inmate in a top-secret island fortress for the criminally insane. He keeps getting frustrated as his interviews with doctors and patients raise more questions than answers. Ben Kingsley, who plays the primary doctor on the island, deserves a Supporting Actor Oscar nomination, and we will see how far the rest of the cast and movie will go into next year's awards.The best comparisons for me were the Shining, for the psychological horror aspects of both movies. And a little bit of Silence of the Lambs, when the hero goes into a row of cells to talk with one of the inmates/patients. DiCaprio is good, but not up to the level of a younger Jack Nicholson, who would have been absolutely brilliant in this part when he was in his mid-thirties.I am not sure if someone who hasn't read the book will be confused by some of the story... or simply be blown away at how it unfolds.I have seen all of Martin Scorsese's movies and this is one of his top 5 or 6, better than Cape Fear, Aviator and the Departed but a hair below Goodfellas, Raging Bull, and Taxi Driver.This is a very scary movie, the truest horror film Scorsese has ever done. I can't recommend it to my wife or otherwise squeamish viewers, there are too many terrifying moments for them to enjoy it.What a great movie, I will surely see it again in the theaters. Haven't seen one twice since the Hurt Locker, and before that one it's been 10 years.


                
From the first note of the score, to the last shot on the screen I was completely enthralled by Martin Scorsese's latest Picture. Shutter Island, the story of two federal marshals investigating a patient escape at a maximum security hospital for the criminally insane, is very simply put: an experience. Shutter Island works because it pulls at all different emotions. An audience is both humored, and on the edge of tears; jumping out of their seat, and sinking deep within it. For 2 hours and 18 minutes, one is completely submerged into a Gothic, noir like world that is intriguing and horrifying at the same time. Shutter Island is definitely under the genre of thriller, but it is much more than just this. Sir Kingsley said it beautifully the next day at a press conference I attended: "Though it looks like a thriller, the glue that holds it together is varying levels of tenderness." The characters are enthralling and real, whether it be the protagonist, Teddy (DiCaprio) or Dr. Cawley, the head psychiatrist of the asylum (Sir Kingsley). From the opening shot to the final scene, the audience is left guessing to the mysteries of this island and its patients, being thrown into a world that is extremely claustrophobic without being tightly spaced. This feeling, and the success of the island's atmosphere, can be credited in many ways to the film's iconic director, Martin Scorsese. Fresh off his first Oscar ever for Best Director in The Departed, Scorsese takes things to a different gear in Shutter Island. While The Departed was a modern day mob thriller, Shutter Island is set in the 1950's, post WWII and at the start of the Cold War and McCarthyism Era. Paranoia is at an all-time high, many people are on edge, and this story is not only set during this time period, but on a secluded, Gothic island with only one way to leave and at the start of a terrible hurricane. If that doesn't excite an audience, it should simply be Scorsese's style. The film is full of flashbacks and haunting dream sequences that range in location from the island itself to the concentration camp at Dachau. The audience is constantly trapped in a world where one questions what is reality and what is dream. This is already interesting on paper, as seen in the critic's praise of Dennis Lehane's novel which the film is adapted from, but Scorsese absolutely blows the audience out of the water with the visuals; frightening images of pain and anguish, terrifying fears and paranoia, and jarring cuts and sequences that leave the viewer as haunted as the characters themselves. Scorsese truly rolls up his sleeves and produces a powerfully intense film that shakes the viewer until the very end.Aside from the amazing direction, the acting performances in this film were quite moving as well. Dicaprio, Mark Ruffalo, Sir Ben Kingsley, Michelle Williams, and Emily Mortimer were brilliant in their roles and (with the help of a masterful director's skill) took Shutter Island to a terrifyingly beautiful place that keeps us wanting more and more. From every beautiful crane shot, to each close up, Shutter Island is the latest tour de force in an already astonishing resume for Martin Scorsese. No one ever escapes Shutter Island unscathed, but if you can handle its pure power, it truly is a fantastic cinematic experience.
i was one of the lucky ones to sit and watch the pre release of the shutter island in the opening with the director himself.as said "It's 1954, and up-and-coming U.S. marshal Teddy Daniels is assigned to investigate the disappearance of a patient from Boston's Shutter Island Ashecliffe Hospital. He's been pushing for an assignment on the island for personal reasons, but before long he wonders whether he hasn't been brought there as part of a twisted plot by hospital doctors whose radical treatments range from unethical to illegal to downright sinister. Teddy's shrewd investigating skills soon provide a promising lead, but the hospital refuses him access to records he suspects would break the case wide open. As a hurricane cuts off communication with the mainland, more dangerous criminals "escape" in the confusion, and the puzzling, improbable clues multiply, Teddy begins to doubt everything - his memory, his partner, even his own sanity"enjoy
I have been avoiding this movie for almost 8 years, since it got mixed reviews when it was released.I loved Scorcese's movies and was looking forward to watching this when it was released. But the trailer didn't impress and then the reviews.Watched it last night, and loved it. Watched it today again and was pleasantly surprised that the second view was more satisfying than the first go round. It's amazing how a different perspective can give a whole different movie experience. Scorsese is a genius!!!


                
CAUCHEMAR PSYCHIATRIQUE. Ne nous trompons pas sur la marchandise. Ce n'est pas un film policier ou un thriller bon marché. C'est un film hautement politique et qui nous parle d'enjeux vitaux pour notre avenir. C'est d'abord la reprise de ce thème de l'horreur héritée de la deuxième guerre mondiale, et en particulier celle de la découverte des crimes monstrueux commis dans les camps de concentration, dans ce film Dachau. C'est absolument banal de dire comment les deux principales puissances victorieuses ont récupéré autant de scientifiques allemands que possible, y compris dans le domaine de la médecine, pour leur faire continuer leurs recherches dans des conditions protégées. Il est banal de dire que les prisons et les orphelinats ont été des lieux infernaux de torture et de violence à des fins d'expérimentation médicale ou autre et de châtiment sans commune mesure avec la moindre notion d'humanité. Le deuxième niveau est le traitement des criminels qui sont au-delà de toute réforme, ou récupération. Doit-on les lobotomiser pour les transformer en gentils animaux domestiques ? Ou bien les soumettre à des traitements de chimiothérapie tels qu'ils en deviennent des zombies pharmaceutiques absolument manipulables. Ou bien encore les manipuler mentalement pour qu'ils se convainquent de leurs crimes et de la justesse du châtiment qui leur est imposé. Quelle que soit la solution retenue nous sommes dans l'inhumain. Le summum de cet inhumain est la production d'outils humains totalement inconscients et utilisables dans des guerres. Mais le film va encore plus loin et nous n'avons pas de solution finale. Soit les deux policiers étaient bien des policiers et ils ont été kidnappés par l'autorité de cette prison psychiatrique pour les empêcher de provoquer une enquête sur les maltraitements et expérimentations pour le moins non éthiques de cet établissement. Soit ce sont les médecins qui ont raison à la fin et les deux policiers était l'un un criminel et l'autre son médecin. Il n'en reste pas moins alors finalement que le choix est bien de soit vivre en monstre (même si on ne l'est pas puisque toute défense contre un édit diagnostic médical devient une preuve de la justesse de ce diagnostic) ou bien de mourir dans la dignité, sans que l'on sache vraiment ce que cette dignité peut bien être dans les circonstances présentes ; On a là le style de Scorsese en concentré extrême.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Université Paris 1 Panthéon Sorbonne, Université Paris 8 Saint Denis, Université Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID Boulogne Billancourt
Shutter Island is one of the most intriguing film , which I have ever seen. When I started to watch it, I thought that is not interesting film at all because I don't like detective stories about policeman. But it amazed me at all .This film is based on the novel of the same name by Dennis Lehane . It is take place in the mid-1950s where a main character, Teddy Deniels and his partner Chuck Aule, are sent to an island where there is a security prison for patients with some methods health disorders and many of them are so dangerous for other people. The plot is very unusual and unpredictable . You want to watch it and to see what happens at the end of this story.This horror film with tons of atmosphere to music ,directions and set to a wonderfully story.I believe that the main idea of the plot is to find your demons inside your own island in your head. Not only Teddy doing it.As for actors, in this film you can see Leonardo DiCaprio who plays Teddy Deniels (main character). He gave one of the best performances hero and showed a man who has their own «demons» and many strange things inside him. He tried to solve the mystery of the island and this situation was really important for him. I'd recommend this film for people who like detective and mysterious stories with unpredictable ending.


                
Shutter Island. I'm going to tell about this interesting film and express own feelings. First of all, a plot of the picture is so thrilled then you feel some fear from beginning to the end. Mystical hospital on the island has many puzzles and you begin to ask different questions yourselves. Then, play of the main character is so real and his searching for mystical truth excites all the time. I think that the main part of a good film for people is their interest in it. And you can't fall asleep after watching a Shatter Island. Illness or conviction? When I saw it once, I believed that we have a deal with an illness weirdo because strange lighthouse prove a simple one without any secrets, and awful experiments like he earlier imaged are not exist. However for the second watching, I understood that he is convinced. Secret pills, cigarettes, woman's note "run out" and a fascinating logic intellect can't belong to a crazy man. May be... Well, I was surprised after culmination. Who could imagine the end like this? I think none of us. We amazed by this plot, idea and then we begin to adore this film. This is an achievement of a director and fantasy which reflect interesting motions in Teddy's head. The secret of successful film- surprise, shock and our wish to see it one more time exactly with the same actors. People want to find some new, fresh and unusual belong boring and not good movies. And if you a person like this, you need watch Shutter Island. In conclusion, I'd want to say that we must watch films like one in order to being surprised and exited about opportunities of our mind. We must have wide open eyes on our usual world:)
This is, without a doubt, easily in my top 5 favorite movies of all time. There are light parts of this movie, but the most of it is definitely a dark piece of art. This psychological thriller should thank the wonderful talents of Mr. Leonardo. The whole story was incredibly well thought out and wonderfully acted. If you love movies that make you want to watch it again, you better see this. Shutter Island will leave you shuttering for days. Just writing this review makes me want to watch it again...I think I just might. 10 stars, easy A++. Movies like this shouldn't be passed up. The movies nowadays are becoming more and more "cars and buildings blowing up."Thought provoking movies ROCK!!


                
I watched this movie a couple of months ago and am still baffled by it. I had a preconceived notion that it was another horror because of the trailers for it. Leonardo Dicaprio's performance is outstanding from start to finish. His portrayed his character with such immense emotion and skill. At the start of the movie you believe that you know the way it will end. This could not be further from the truth! The storyline was gripping, controversial and had my attention from start to finish. You will either hate or love the ending as it is not expected. I personally loved it and it was a jaw dropping moment. I highly recommend this movie to all types of people. A must see!


                
For me Shutter Island was revelatory, in sympathy with the protagonist Teddy Daniels, the Marshal who comes to investigate the mysterious McCarthy-era Shutter Island asylum, I experienced feelings associated with metanoia. This is the theoretical process whereby the mind, or more specifically the model by which one understands the world, reforms itself as a result of challenge and becomes uplifted after a period of apparent mental illness. The feeling that it culminates in is a realisation that everything you understood before is wrong. By the end of the movie I felt lifted out of myself, as in a moment of clarity.Shutter Island therefore seems to work the best when you associate with Teddy. If you do, you're forced into a deep introspection, where you realise how much of your persona is built out of coping strategies. The feelings it provoked in me were very personal, but I would expect that if the film "worked" for you they might be similarly cathartic. I felt I could feel how deluded I often am by depression, I felt how beautiful some of the people I know are, as if seeing them for the first time.Aside from this wellspring of emotion, the film has plenty to offer in visual terms. Mr Scorsese and director of photography Robert Richardson provide strange and beautiful images in the movie, a darkened chamber, pools of dripping light beneath an antique, coffered, barrel-vaulted ceiling; golden hair, and a golden locket mingling with red blood; a family room softly snowing ash. There were also some horrifying images, concentration camp scenes that have drawn flak from critics. I think though that if you reject the film because of this, as Pontecorvo's concentration-camp-set Kapò was rejected, you throw the baby out with the bath water.A big pitfall for twist movies can be the expositionary info-dump at the denouement, but for me it worked here, because I felt involved in the struggle for Teddy's soul.Good acting is to be found all over, sprouting in abundance, like the daffodils in Spring; Mark Ruffalo and Leonardo di Caprio I feel steal the show, though the jeep ride with Ted Levine's Warden is one of the most astonishing things I have seen in a cinema, pure dream fabric.I wonder if the choice of Penderecki and Ligeti in the soundtrack is a Kubrick homage (he used these both for The Shining). In any case the soundtrack choices are an triumphant. I was close to tears listening to a resetting of Dinah Washington singing "This Bitter Earth" over the credits, and I'm not prone to such behaviour.Obviously I can't recommend this film enough.
If you're looking for an intense thriller that holds you on the edge of the seat, this is perfect for you. A truly outstanding movie from its genre, mixing police investigation thriller with accurate psychology studies. The acting is also on point for the main characters, DiCaprio portrays the man haunted by his past in a very realistic and twisted form, making you feel the emotions of the main character. The story is unique and amazing, you won't find any movie alike, specially with such a twist.


                
It's just as well that I recognize this directly - I'm a real "sucker" for stylistically strong movies and in Shutter Island there's a lot of it. It are also going to make people happy (at least from my point of view) who read the book by Dennis Lehane that the movie are based of.. Yes, the film follows the book very carefully. So If you then agree that the film must follow the book, the director Scorsese is a pure genius in how he treated the material. His constant photographer Robert Richardson does a great job of getting that rainforest island to look magnificent and Teddys dreams and flashbacks are nothing but adorable beautiful. Yes, there are ghostly shadows, rain that goes down from gray-tailed clouds and weathery men in trenchcoats with troubled ankle dragons. Tortured by all, is the agent Teddy Daniels (Leonardo DiCaprio). Not only does he hate water. Now he is going to investigate a strange escape from a prison hospital for mental illness on an isolated island. With staff members who is not particularly cooperative and a doctor with strange Nazi connections, police work much effective. He also have to fight against his nightmares and increasingly annoying migraines. It is really great characterized by Leonardo DiCaprio, which has really made evelopment from the breakthrough in "Titanic".


                
I knew that this movie was going to be one to pay attention too. I ignored all of my friends so I could fully grasp and understand what was going on. The theater was packed and a lot of younger people were talking about how they didn't understand what was going on. You need to pay attention and try and understand. The info is not spoon fed to you like other movies.Do not go in thinking you are seeing a horror. I left the theater with people saying, "Wow, that wasn't scary at all!" It's not 'spose to be.All in all, it was an AMAZING movie and I'm planning on spending another 10 bucks to see it again next week. I would suggest seeing it, but not with your friend that loves to talk during movies.Enjoy!


                
I knew I had to watch this the moment I saw the trailer, I went in with high expectations, and this still blew me away. Taxi Driver, Goodfellas, Casino, Gangs of New York... OK, not Cape Fear, but that was a mistake from day one(it didn't need a remake), the talent involved notwithstanding... I've loved everything(with the one aforementioned exception) that I've seen by Martin Scorsese, and this, while it might at first appear excessively mainstream, is another example. This is beautifully shot and edited, and the lighting is just astonishing. The look is amazing. This also has outstanding FX, though they are clearly not the focus, only a tool to tell the story, which is rather brilliantly put together. In general this is immensely well-written; the dialog is clever and there are numerous memorable lines, the script is smart and every character is credible, well-developed and psychologically accurate. The acting is flawless. Levine gets an unforgettable speech that he delivers impeccably, Lynch does his "there's something funny about that guy..." thing perfectly, and the entire principal cast are spot-on. The score is grand and really helps set the tone and the mood, if it is arguably over-dramatic in a place or two. This is quite creepy, terrifying and exciting. There is plenty of bloody, at times gory, violence and disturbing content, relatively infrequent strong language, brief nudity and a sexual description. I recommend this to any fan of the director and thrillers that mess with your head. 10/10


                
I went to see this at the theater on opening day, not only did I see it once but twice, it's that good. Imagine an ex US Marshal who was put in an Institution for the mentally ill/criminally insane. It happened to Teddy Daniels, an Ex US Marshal in the 1950's. The story starts out as an interesting on to Marshal's show up on Shutter Island for an investigation. Once there clues start to pop up about a missing patient Andrew Laddius. Daniels and his partner start to investigate this so called missing patient or # 67. The viewer starts to put the puzzle together, with the help of other patients at Sutter Island we see that this is not a real investigation, it is a last ditch effort to cure Teddy Daniels. He was committed two years ago when he found out his wife killed their 3 children. I would say maybe he had some sort of break down or something that part wasn't clear to me.Teddy's doctor is doing a new treatment in order to cure Teddy Daniels of his violent behavior. It is like a role playing game they are preforming at Shutter Island. Teddy/Andrew Laddius, must convince the doctor he is cured of his delusions of being a current U.S. Marshal or else this experimental treatment is all for nothing and the next step for Teddy is a Lobotomy . This treatment has most everyone involved, that works there; as well as some of the patients, and his partner is really his psychiatrist. In the end Teddy/Andrew finds out the truth, what his doctor is doing, what happened to put him as a patient at Sutter Island, but in the end when you think he would snap out of it he doesn't. I thought with an experimental treatment, maybe it would work. Then the ending comes and he begins to talk to his psychiatrists/doctor, like he's still with the Marshal Service. Then U see the psychiatrist shake his head; and they come to take Teddy away.I loved the movie; but the ending I thought could have been better. I thought sure he would snap out of it and realize that it was a therapeutic way to treat him; but it failed. I guess if anyone when though the psychological trauma he did, it would be a miracle if you could heal from that. THX, Kris L. CocKayne
A few random observations that don't really add up to a theory of the movie:Some odd clues in the movie: 1. Dachau was liberated in the Spring of 1945, not the Winter. 2. Dachau is a town near Munich, so the weather was warm in Spring. 3. The sign "Arbeit Macht Frei" was over the entrance to Auschwitz in Poland, not Dachau. 4. Auschwitz was liberated by the Soviet army in January, 1945, so it would have been cold, as shown in the movie. 5. The guards at Dachau were not executed by U.S. troops. Who knows what happened at Auschwitz? 6. Why does Teddy speak German so well? 7. Dr. Naehrung's name means "nourishment" in German.According to Ebert, much of the flavor of Film Noir was a depiction of the PTSD suffered by G.I.s in WWII.It is well known that the U.S. military conducted very dubious research during the 50s into the use of drugs to affect behavior.Is this the Dark Side of "Men Who Stare at Goats"?


                
Too rarely are we offered films that are so well written (Laeta Kalogidis does a marvelous adaptation of Dennis Lahane's mesmerizing novel) that after viewing the audience is almost afraid to leave the theater or home screen for fear they may have missed some important information that will help them figure out why the story is so successfully enigmatic. Such is the case for Martin Scorsese's brilliant film, SHUTTER ISLAND. It is only in retrospect, after the shock of the film is over, that the magic of quality cinematic achievement can be appreciated. Then in rethinking the events the film portrays so well the story is as straightforward as Scorsese's vision. The film opens in 1954 nothingness - from out of the fog slowly appears a ship headed toward Shutter Island, a terrifying prison for the criminally insane, and almost incidentally we meet US Federal Marshal Teddy Daniels (Leonardo DiCaprio) emetically cloistered in a ship's lavatory while his newly assigned partner Chuck Aule (Mark Ruffalo) awkwardly waits for him on deck. The two are on a mission to investigate the escape of a female prisoner. They are greeted by curious wardens who escort them onto the terrifyingly ugly and ominous island to meet with the famous psychiatrist Dr. Cawley (Ben Kingsley) and Dr. Naehring (Max von Sydow). Curious restrictions are placed on the Marshals who decide to return to Boston because of lack of cooperation from the psychiatrists. A hurricane prevents their exit and slowly the story unwinds: Daniels is haunted by memories of his war experience in viewing the concentration camps in Dachau and delusion of his wife Dolores (Michelle Williams) in nightmares he cannot explain. The various aspects of the Marshals' investigation lead them to all of the compounds where prisoners are kept and treated and surgically altered and the terror mounts. To tell more of the story of one man's descent in to madness would distract from the viewer's own grappling with the conundrum of this tale. It must be seen to appreciate the brilliance of the story. In addition to superb performances by DiCaprio, Ruffalo, Kingsley, von Sydow, and Williams there are astonishing well crafted cameos by Patricia Clarkson, Elias Koteas, Emily Mortimer, John Carroll Lynch and a very large cast of bit players. The cinematography is superbly crafted by Robert Richardson. The music score for this moody piece is a montage of works by such brilliant composers as György Ligeti, Krzystof Penderecki, John Cage, Morton Feldman, Schnittke, Lou Harrison, John Adams and even Gustav Mahler whose rarely heard 'Quartet for Piano and Strings in A minor' plays a significant role in the film. On all accounts this is a superb film. Why it did not do well in the theatrical run is puzzling: perhaps it is a long film that is way ahead of its time. Watch it on DVD and become absorbed by all the bizarre mysteries it captures. Grady Harp


                
How can someone not love Martin Scorsese? He continually reinvents himself and usually comes up with some of the best films ever seen in Hollywood. And he's also tried almost every genre there is: from deep sports dramas ("Raging Bull") to horrifying case studies ("Taxi Driver") to poignant period pieces ("The Age of Innocence") to blockbuster action thrillers ("The Departed"), he adds a generous touch of greatness to all his films and makes them memorable in our minds. He does the same with his latest cinematic triumph "Shutter Island", a psychological thriller of almost surreal proportions and breath-taking beauty; it's not your typical Martin Scorsese film (then again, no Scorsese film is TYPICAL Scorsese), but his genius is apparent throughout the entire two hours and twenty minutes of the film.The story follows Teddy Daniels (Leonardo DiCaprio), a war veteran who's investigating the disappearance of a dangerous psychotic murderess from Shutter Island, a secluded high-security prison for the criminally insane. The island itself is enough to give you the creeps: the only building is the prison itself, and the rest of the island is a vast wilderness of falling trees and jagged rocks. It's constantly being beaten by rough waves and storms, and the island is situated in the middle of nowhere; the only way in or out of the island is through its feeble port, which is controlled by the US army. The wardens at the island are mysterious and creepy (they're Ted Levine and John Carroll Lynch, the psycho murderers of "The Silence of the Lambs" and "Zodiac", so you get the picture) and the chief doctors and psychiatrists at the prison are even creepier: Dr. Cawley (Ben Kingsley) and Dr. Naehring (Max Von Sydow), very intelligent specialists who always seem to be on the 'patient's' side and who mysteriously are uncooperative with Teddy's investigation.A patient named Rachel, a woman who drowned her three children, is one of the most dangerous inmates at the prison. She's quite violent (they say), and she lives in a delusion where her children are still alive and where the prison is actually her home and the inmates are her neighbors. During a stormy night, Rachel goes missing from her cell...which is quite strange, given the amount of security this particular prison offers, and she is now out and about who knows where. Teddy arrives to Shutter Island with his partner Chuck Aule (Mark Ruffalo) to investigate her disappearance and to aid the wardens in her search. Nevertheless...Teddy has a secret agenda in accepting to help this investigation. As a war veteran fighting in the liberation of Dachau during WWII he learned of some horribly inhuman psychological experiments that were being conducted by the US government on the criminally insane, and he plans to uncover if Shutter Island has some connections to these experiments (which it probably does).Teddy is a highly tormented man: his experiences in Dachau, where he came in full view of the horrors humans are capable of have left him scarred. Not only that, but his wife Dolores (Michelle Williams) had recently been killed in a fire accident in his LA apartment, where the pyromaniac janitor who worked there had been proved guilty and had been sent to Shutter Island but of whom (mysteriously) no one in Shutter Island has heard of. With a heavy heart and a heavily-laden agenda, Teddy aims to uncover the truth these creepy wardens, psychiatrists and patients are withholding from the world...but Shutter Island turns out to be more than Teddy can handle, and he soon finds himself in a nerve-shattering race to stay alive and, more importantly, to keep his sanity.The movie has all the elements of a pitch-perfect thriller, and it is just that. It's a thriller that has you breathless from the very first scene all the way to the very last horrifying twist at the end. Over two hours long and it doesn't waste a single minute. Once again, Scorsese gives a heavy dose of depth to his characters, especially Teddy whom we come to understand and identify ourselves with very early in the film. Every single scene is perfect! The cinematography is breath-taking and sublime, the lighting is a thriller's dream of perfection, the sound design and the music augments the film's tension to nerve-shattering levels and the exemplary acting makes the events unraveling on screen and the truths we discover all the more astounding. The screenplay, adapted from a Dennis Lehane novel has little or no flaws, and Scorsese seamlessly weaves all these quality aspects into one of the best films of the year! What can I say? I'm afraid that I can't say too much, for if I utter another syllable of the plot I would be giving the game away, and the individual aspects of the film work in such perfect symbiosis that they CAN'T be reviewed piece by piece lest the film is deprived of the wonder it conveys upon watching it. Suffice it to say that it's one of the best Scorsese films ever: VERY intelligent, suspenseful to a tee, deep, poignant, entertaining...you'll want to see it at least twice; I did, and the second time around it hadn't lost an iota of its greatness. Rating: 4 stars out of 4!! Oh, by the way: I can't fathom a possible reason why this film was left out of the Academy Awards this year. There's no reason, human or divine, why it shouldn't have received some nods. I can only hope it will be taken into consideration for next year's Academy Awards lest the Academy wants to indirectly declare themselves a fraud.


                
