Finally, a horror/thriller that actually, genuinely scares the crap out of you. Not because it has fancy villains in masks or sadistic buckets of gore throughout. No, it scares you because it messes with your mind. Most will hate this movie, they don't like their brains being tampered with. I loved it. It's what we needed after all those gory R-rated and sometimes lame-duck PG-13 horror crap-fests.The horror/thriller genre has been raped lately, with gore and scantily clad- women replacing the noir and terror that Alfred Hitchcock perfected in the '50s and '60's. Here director Martin Scorsese delivers in full blast, crafting a thriller in his own unique vision. The atmosphere throughout the movie is tense and unsettling. Slow as it may be, but it is crucial to the movie and it's genuinely gripping. Your attention WILL not be lost. The scenery is beautiful and finely done with no excessive lighting, grain or darkness. The editing by Thelma Schoonmaker is fluid and pitch-perfect, and never makes the film lose focus. The movie is based on a book by Dennis Lehane and is packed with twists and turns that will leave you breathless and uneasy. The movie cranks the breathlessness and uneasiness up to the power of 5. The music is also perfectly suited with the scenes. There is sometimes no music during suspenseful moments, and sometimes the music makes the scene even more disturbing and memorable. Alfred Hitchcock's noirish thriller style is back with a vengeance, here to teach today's moviegoers the REAL meaning of suspense and horror.All the actors in the movie are in top-form. Once again, you can't go wrong with a Leonardo DiCaprio/Martin Scorsese collaboration. As the protagonist, we the audience are thrust into his shoes and we are about as confused and scared as his character is, we feel what he feels. It becomes a psychological trip that poses many, many questions about oneself, that to discuss them here would spoil the entire movie. There are some flashbacks in the movie, but all of them are important clues to DiCaprio's character. DiCaprio gives a stunning performance, once again tempting the Academy to give him another Best Actor nomination. DiCaprio gives a vivid portrayal of a vulnerable, haunted and ultimately terrified man. Apart from DiCaprio there's really not much I can say about the supporting cast, because they are all also terrific. Ben Kingsley; Mark Ruffalo; Michelle Williams; Max Von Sydow; Jackie Earle Haley; Emily Mortimer; Patricia Clarkson; Ted Levine; Elias Koteas; John Carroll Lynch. All of them.In short, this is a psychological and frightening masterpiece that will make you scared, will make you think, and will make you seek psychological help. This is one of the best films of the year. See it, go in with an open mind and prepare to be blown away.Overall value: 9/10.


                
Martin Scorsese is in my opinion the greatest living movie maker . He started off during the New Hollywood era in the late 1960s and is described as a " movie brat " , a film maker who was brought up on a fine diet of cinema during his formative years and it shows . He is very much an aficionado of cinema and this in depth knowledge shows in SHUTTER ISLAND The story itself is somewhat similar to the works of Val Lewton and Scorsese shows his influences and he builds upon the tension . He's on record as saying he's been a big fan of British cinema and anyone who remembers the opening shot of ALICE DOESN'T LIVE HERE ANYMORE will have noticed a similarity to the great British director Michael Powell . Throughout the running time the cinematography emulates the glorious rich and lurid look of a Powell film whilst Scorsese adds grotesque imagery of his own . Even if you're not overwhelmed by the story there';s still much to admire about the movie !!!!! SUGGESTIVE SPOILERS !!!!!Alas the problem with the movie is that it's constructed around a plot involving a twist ending . Scorsese has never been a director who makes plot driven movies , he makes character driven ones but the faults of the film are down to either screenwriter Laeta Kalogridis or even the original source novel by Dennis Lehane . There's two ways the film will end . One that is similar to SHOCK CORRIDOR - the One I was hoping for - or the one we did get which was the one I hoped we wouldn't get . Scorsese deliberately uses unrealistic mis-en-scene on occasions that shows where the movie is heading but even if he didn't you'll still manage to work things out for yourself There is a telling question the film poses at the end if it's better to live as a monster or to die as a good man ? but this isn't enough to rescue the pay off . Worse still the screenplay has an overlong sequence where the plot is spoon-fed to the audience as if they've been in a coma for two hours . INCEPTION is another film that felt the need to explain its plot mechanics . One worries that in the future we'll be seeing a film directed by Michael Bay where characters have to explain what explosions and loud noises are All in all SHUTTER ISLAND is something of a disappointment as has much of the director's work in the 21st Century . Movies like THE AVIATOR do improve on second viewing since they're character driven . The problem with having a high concept plot is that once the cat is let out of the bag it stays out of the bag . That said it is remains a highly impressive film on a visual level and posing the question of " Is it better to die as a good man than live as a monster ? " is consistent in keeping with Scorsese's running theme of existentialist angst in most of his work .
US Marshal Teddy Daniels (Leonardo DiCaprio) travels to an island asylum facility for the criminally insane with his newly assigned partner Chuck Aule (Mark Ruffalo). Their reason for being at Ashecliff Hospital is to investigate the mysterious disappearance of murderess Rachel Solando. But Teddy has another issue to deal with at Ashecliff, namely a meeting with Andrew Laeddis (Elias Koteas), the man he believes responsible for the death of his wife (Michelle Williams). Nothing is what it seems at the facility though, and the further Teddy & Chuck investigate, the murkier the truths of Ashecliff become.Directed by Martin Scorsese, Shutter Island is adapted from the best selling novel of the same name written by Dennis Lehane (Mystic River/Gone Baby Gone). It finds the talented director getting closer to horror than at any point in his career, it also finds him arguably over cooking his grits. Lehane's novel is a page turning lesson in thriller writing, there's no need for deep cranial thinking or fill in the blanks like musings. Scorsese has crafted a movie that, whilst both stylish and moody, is far more intricate than it needed to be. Already we are seeing reams of amateur reviewers dissecting the film and searching for other worldly cinematic meanings. The truth is is that they don't exist, it is just a great story pinging with psychological twisters. Lehane himself said he felt it was a book he kind of knocked out while in his flow. Scorsese, clearly loving the source to be sure, has crammed too much in for the film to be an across the board winner. Technically accomplished? Without doubt. Depth to the story? You bet. But the reality is that the depth isn't enough to sustain all the genre blending atmospherics that is Marty's want. One is inclined to feel that he so aware that he is treading on well worn genre ground (spot the homages to film noir, old time horror and Hitchcockian grandeur), that he's trying to steer the viewers away from the obviousness on offer. The film is further let down by the second half, where it positively crawls along, something not helped by the fact that the first hour bristles with moody excitement and a promise of clinically executed terror. Anticipation can be a real killer at times.Yet as is normally the way with a professionally assembled Scorsese picture, there's still much to enjoy and moments that ensure it will always be a divisive film in the New Yorker's cannon. The cast are mostly great, DiCaprio delivers a stunning performance, one that can only be appreciated once the story has reached its climax. Ruffalo (restrained), Ben Kingsley (shifty) & Max Von Sydow (troubling) all do what is needed and in keeping with the tone of the piece. While the girls - Emily Mortimer, Patricia Clarkson & Williams - have small but crucial parts to play. Then there's the supporting characters played by some quality character actors. Koteas is joined by Jackie Earle Haley, Ted Levein & John Carroll Lynch. How many of you noticed that we here have a roll call of cinematic serial killers? Edgar Reese, Freddy Krueger, Buffalo Bill and Arthur Lee Allen! (OK, Allen was not proved but Zodiac the movie lends us to believe it was him). The music used is suitably heart pounding and Robert Richardson's photography is on the money, especially within the dimly lit Ashecliff walls. The costumes too have a nice 50s look to them, our first encounter of Teddy & Chuck sees them splendidly adorned in film noir hats and coats. While Thelma Schoonmaker's editing is up to the usual tight standard.Already we are witnessing a difference of opinion with the critics as to how good Shutter Island is. What most agree on is that the film fluctuates in quality and should have been, given the talent behind and in front of the camera, a much better picture. There's also no getting away from the fact that if you have read the book first the impact of the ending is considerably weakened. Personally I feel Scorsese was the wrong director for the source, but that's me, and be that as it may, he still manages to come out of it in credit with his fans. 7/10


                
I am an extreme movie goer. So obviously I follow the works of the great Martin Scorsese. I heard this movie was also a thinker and much like an old style Hitchcock film. Considering Hitchcock is my favourite director and is a master at his work and a genius at the art of psychological horror...I was overwhelmed with excitement for this movie.In all I say the plot of this movie was...okay. Don't get me wrong, it's very smart and completely original and as far as I know not done before. However, if you are as much a movie buff as myself this twist ending is a give away obvious one right off the bat. this is why it lost 3 stars for me. However, it touches on many emotions and other aspects besides the main plot of the film and runs deeper then its first visible roots. A truly complex film.Now on too why I gave it the seven stars. Martin Scorsese, Martin Scorsese, Martin Scorsese. If for no other reason, see this film for its amazing directing. Shutter Island truly brings back the psychological thriller and is both beautifully and horrifyingly directed. This right here is why Scorsese is known for being a true dominator of his medium.And so for Performance of the movie by both the actors and director I give this movie a probable 9.5 but for plot and story I give it a probable 6. I recommend it, but for those real film buffs out there who know the layout of how movies work and are good at guessing the twist endings...don't get your hopes up. However 45% of the people I went with said they didn't understand it so I guess that can be taken into account as well.


                
Well, after months and months of waiting, Shutter Island was finally released this weekend. I've been dying to see this movie, I love Martin Scorsese and Leonardo DiCaprio. These two together just equal gold and you are always sure to have a guaranteed good time at the movie theater. But maybe it's not always a guarantee; unfortunately, Shutter Island was a huge disappointment to me. The weird thing is, it's over something silly but important, the editing. We have fantastic actors, a great story, awesome direction and a spooky atmosphere. But the problem is, the movie does run a bit long, being at almost two and a half hours, it was exhausting to get through the movie. The beginning is so slow paced that it looses track of it's characters and by the time for it's exciting conclusion, I just felt a bit empty.It's 1954, and up-and-coming U.S. marshal Teddy Daniels is assigned to investigate the disappearance of a patient from Shutter Island's Ashecliffe Hospital. He'd been gunning for an assignment on the island for reasons of his own -- but before long he wonders whether he hasn't been brought there as part of a twisted plot by hospital doctors whose radical treatments range from unethical to illegal to downright sinister. Teddy's code-breaking skills soon provide a promising lead, but the hospital refuses him access to records he suspects would break the case wide open. As a hurricane cuts off communication with the mainland, more dangerous criminals "escape" in the confusion, and the puzzling, improbable clues proliferate, Teddy begins to doubt everything -- his memory, his partner, even his own sanity.I feel so awful because I wanted to love this movie, I was expecting it to be my favorite film of 2010. Still Leonardo DiCaprio, Ben Kingsley and Mark Ruffalo held their own and carried the movie very well. The whole feeling of the film was extremely spooky and does have some very frightening and intense moments. I absolutely adored the ending as it's a puzzle for the audience and it lets you make up your own decision on what has happened throughout the film. The story does have some clever twists and turns that should keep you locked in the movie. But like I mentioned before, the story really did need to be cut down. I have a feeling that if the movie was more like an hour and forty-five minutes, it would have worked a lot better.The tension just wasn't enough for me to keep interest, my friends were also a bit disappointed, they felt the same. By the time the ending and all the answers came together, they were just disinterested in the story and characters. Now, I don't mind a lengthy movie, but that comes with the exception that the makers of the film keep up with the action and whatever is needed to keep the plot going. I felt like the Nazi story that Teddy kept dreaming about could have been kept to a limit, it's constantly brought up. Also another question I had was that it seemed like Teddy seemed to favor his daughter over his other children and I don't know why; because when he finds out that his wife killed his children, he immediately rushes to his daughter vs. the sons, he also dreams more of her than the boys. The ending was also semi anti-climatic. The critics were saying that the ending makes the movie all worth it and while I agree it's a great ending, it fell flat the very last second for me. I'm thinking this movie would be better as a rental, because you have the chance to have better concentration at home with what is going on in the story. Martin and Leonardo did a good job, but the film just wasn't what I expected, but I guess we all can't be perfect, right? Just why did this have to happen with Marty and Leo? Well, here's to the next project with them, maybe it'll be better.7/10
A fresh attempt to make a story with an unexpected twist to keep the audience guessing until the end is just what this films attempts to do. Attempts but doesn't quite succeed as well as others have before. The film does leave the audience wondering what really is going on. We have two detectives that arrive at shutter island and must figure out the mysterious disappearance of a patient.The set design and production values are well accomplished. Leonardo DiCaprio and Mark Ruffalo are accompanied by Ben Kingsley and perform outstandingly through the film. The acting isn't over done and is spot on for each character. The acting really brings to life the story. Although in parts the plot is quite disturbing and can make one look away and cringe for the most part it isn't full of holes and does all tie together.This film falls short however in the fact that it's so much of a tale about trying to figure out exactly what the real story is that you already guess what the real story is and then have to sit and wait for the picture to tell you what you already know. It's like watching the DaVinci code and knowing what the solution to the puzzle is, the intrigue loses something when you already have the answer to the riddle.All in all the film is something fresh and tries to be new, It's acting is superb and story line flows fairly well. It simply falls a little boring once you know the punchline. The ending line of the movie however does bump up the score one point just simply because you don't really know how it ends even after you know how it ends.


                
I often enjoy it when what some may call 'prestige' directors forte into what some may call 'mainstream' move-making for a film or two. You get the best of both worlds; a film palatable for a Friday night, and as well as weight behind the camera. Few would argue that Spielberg's War of the Worlds or Ron Howards Angels & Demons are their respective best work but I'm not one to throw on Citizen Kane over Bad Boys II when I simply want to relax after a day in the grind.The same can be said for Martin Scorsese's Shutter Island. While I don't want to make unfair assumptions about how other filmmakers would have handled the material, his prowess behind the camera certainly adds some pizazz and gravitas to the material. Shutter Island is the third successful instance of a Dennis Lehane novel, after Mystic River and Gone Baby Gone, being brought to the big screen and here's to hoping this streak of winning adaptations continue. This time around we follow U.S. Marshall Teddy Daniels (played by Leonardo DiCaprio) and his partner Chuck Aule (Mark Ruffalo) as they investigate the disappearance of a mental patient from a stormy island penitentiary off the coast from Boston in 1954. The shifty resident doctor (played deliciously by Ben Kingsley) does not make things easy for the two as Teddy is haunted not only by the facility itself, but by past demons of his wartime traumas and the death of his wife years earlier.Revealing much more than that regarding the plot would an injustice to the viewer so I shall say no more. What I will reveal is that DiCaprio turns in another star performance and while I feel it may be lost in the shuffle of the year to come, it is an award worthy exploit. His character complexly navigates between instances of professional integrity and unhinged paranoia. Ruffalo is by all means good in his role but it is, to be blunt, unmemorable. Not for his acting but for how the character is written. The real star is the set design and art direction which never release its grim grip for the length of the film.There is nothing overtly terrible about Shutter Island only that there is nothing outwardly remarkable about it either. The middle portion sags before its fantastic conclusion and there are a few too many flashbacks and dream sequences all of which add up to a solid, but not great genre exercise. Contrary to the ominous aura of the film, the score utilized is far too brash for its own good; clanging and banging its way through the Gothic atmosphere. While I would not go as far as to create a direct comparison, it recalls the disastrous score from 2008's Blindness. It could have gone a long way to use more Drag Me to Hell style acoustics, which utilize everyday objects and sounds to eerie effect.As is the unfortunate case with many thrillers and horror flicks, I cannot see Shutter Island standing up to repeat viewings with much potency. I will not deny however its sinister mood and great performances kept me more than entertained for 120 minutes and with its complex and rewarding twists it is still the best movie of this young year.Read all my reviews at simonsaysmovies.blogspot.com


                
This is one of those rare films that only a genius could make. And having said that, I wasn't particularly *entertained* by it. In retrospect I realize there is a lot to it, a lot of implying, a lot of symbolism. Now, I like Scorcese, but I don't love Scorcese. The maestro can direct, no doubt, he can tell stories like none other, and he wields a camera like Davinci, but can he scare us? Not quite, though I don't think he meant to.This is a movie that just oozes quality, its like a Mercedes, you ride around in a plush and finely crafted interior, but somewhere along the way you lost the feeling of being in control, the passion of driving.To me the passion is missing in this film. I admire this film for its technical quality, but I was bored. I have two main issues with this film, first, no matter what the artistic intentions were, I disliked the music. It was either an unorthodox use of music in the narrative, or just plain over the top schlock. Second, the storytelling just fails to really engage. I never got caught up in the happenings on screen, in the emotional flow of fear or whatever this was supposed to do to us as we watch. It's broken up by strange dreams and hints and implications that ultimately add up to not really knowing anything, and maybe that was what was supposed to scare us, but I wasn't scared.When you reach the end of the film, you've been brow beaten into a paranoid state where nothing can be trusted, and then voila' you are shown that everyone was just playing along in a little game. This is both disappointing and interesting to watch, but not frightening. Its more of a relief, all the questions have been answered...So, in the end, all the questions are answered, that is good to know.
Relax. This review won't give away the ending which comes as somewhat of a surprise, although many will admit to guessing the overall situation pretty early on.If you like your mysteries drenched in atmospheric surroundings, look no further than SHUTTER ISLAND. Director Martin Scorsese starts out with murky skies and a foreboding of doom as two men (a sheriff and his partner) approach a rocky coastline on a ferry as an ominous looking island looms into view. The plot, although keeping the viewer in a sea of confusion as it unravels, only becomes clear toward the last thirty minutes--but until then, the less you know about the outcome, the more you will enjoy the satisfying ending.None of the exposition is direct. Instead, we see the story from the viewpoint of a man (LEONARDO DiCAPRIO) who is obviously very troubled about tragic incidents in his past and who only gradually begins to see things in a different light. His journey is compelling right from the start, thanks to the marvelous performances of DiCaprio and MARK RUFFALO who begin their investigation into happenings at the island housing the mentally insane--some of them very dangerous cases.Director Martin Scorsese has the benefit of an excellent cinematographer, ROBERT RICHARDSON, whose camera work makes every frame of the film captivating. All of the exterior scenes along the rocky coastline of Maine have a sinister look. The story is told in a leisurely way but there is always an air of mystery in the relationships between the main characters, including BEN KINGSLEY as the psychiatrist in charge of the institution and MAX VON SYDOW as a suspicious looking German doctor.It's best not to dwell on the final outcome--but let's just say it probably won't come as a complete surprise to everyone. Nevertheless, it's the sort of thinking man's psychological thriller that any mystery fan should be able to savor.


                
Shutter Island is a movie with Martin Scorsese signature all over it. How fantastic direction can made ordinary plot interesting is the highlight of movie? Nice camera movement, shadow photography, multiple flashbacks and capable cast selection made this one worth watching.Even though plot of movie is not new, Scorsese was able to create engaging trill and suspense out of it. On top of that Lionardo once a cute Titanic boy again shows that he can deal with rustic role with same vigor and success. His eyes and facial expression reveals as much as the crisp dialogs do. He is one of the few actors who make acting looks so real. Only if editor kept it shorter than what it is, will make watching movie more pleasant. All in all, Shutter Island did a nice job and after Avatar, it will be another treat from Hollywood to watch this year. 7.5/10


                
Perhaps I should better begin this user comment by underlining that I'm primarily a horror fanatic and, moreover, that I have a specific exaltation for genre movies taking place on (A) remote inescapable islands and largely set in (B) mental asylums. I've seen numerous cheap horror movies, ranging from astounding to abominable, featuring one or both of these keywords and I personally think they are fundamental components to help determine the creepiness impact of a certain horror movie. "Shutter Island" features both these key ingredients as well, so normally this should have been one of my most anticipated movies ever, but instead I was quite skeptical ever since I first saw the trailer. First and foremost I'm annoyed again that everybody seems to avoid labeling this as a horror movie. Like it's still common to think horror is in an inferior genre that acclaimed directors and actors don't even lay their hands on. If you look on the main page on this website, "Shutter Island" is categorized as drama, mystery and thriller. I assure you, given the subject matter and the scenery featuring here, this is a horror film. It has everything to do with atmosphere and nothing with bloodshed or ax-wielding maniacs. Secondly, I tend to be very tolerant and easygoing on those aforementioned cheap horror movies because they're often low-budgeted and struggling movies from aspiring and hard- working directors. However, in the case of "Shutter Island", where the budget is practically unlimited and all the involved people are highly respected and critically acclaimed names, I feel I'm entitled to be extra demanding. I expect everything to be impeccably perfect, including the plot, the atmosphere, the set pieces, the acting performances, the directing, the continuity and the tension level. The greatest news to announce is that "Shutter Island" lives up to most of these expectations, especially when it comes to atmosphere and choice of locations. Right from the opening seconds already, you can tell this will become a thoroughly ominous and gripping film with a professional eye for detail. A ferryboat appears from a thick cloud of fog, there are clear signs of an approaching hurricane, there is recitation about an "asylum for the criminally insane" and the first long images of the titular island are brought under the guidance of excruciatingly sinister musical tones. The intensity of the opening sequence promptly grabs you by the throat and you want the two main characters – Federal U.S. Marshals Teddy Daniels and Chuck Aule – to get away from the island as far as possible before they even set foot on it. "Shutter Island" first unfolds as a compelling mystery set in the paranoid and depressing post- WWII era of the early 1950's. The island is a controversial governmental place where the Doctors Crawley (Ben Kingsley) and Naehring (Max Von Sydow) are running a mental institute facility for "normal" male and female cases as well as incurably dangerous patients. The Marshals are called to the island to investigate the inexplicable disappearance of a female patient, but there's obviously a lot more brooding underneath the surface. The doctors and wardens deliberately boycott the Marshals' investigation and Teddy Daniels has a personal and much more critical agenda to fulfill. He's looking for the pyromaniac patient responsible for the death of his wife and he intends to expose the island as a place where the American government uses mental convalescents as subjects to experiment upon. Teddy also suffers from painful War traumas, like the sights of frozen cadavers in a German concentration camp, and he still has conversations with his deceased wife Dolores. When the hurricane vanquishes the island, Teddy and Chuck see an opportunity to sneak into the infamous C-Block, where they lock away the worst cases and presumably the experiments, but the revelations where Teddy stumbles upon as from that moment are certainly not what he expected or hoped to find out. "Shutter Island" is the type of film that overwhelms and deeply impresses you with plot twists, subliminal themes, red herrings, convoluted conspiracy theories, character drawings growing increasingly complex and intriguing but ultimately irrelevant sub plots. The script feels like a solidly structured and tightly woven wholesome for as long as you're watching the film, but it's definitely worthwhile to analyze the movie afterwards. Unfortunately I can't elaborate too much without revealing some essential plot elements, but I urge you do it yourself. Once you leave the cinema or take the disc out of the DVD player, starting thinking back about the little things that were done or said throughout the entire film. Movies like this deserve to be discussed and analyzed rather than to just walk away with a feeling of overall astonishment. You'll notice that some minor details fit in perfectly with the denouements revealed at the end, whereas other story aspects will suddenly become illogical, senseless and implausible. And also, if you've seen a lot of grim, obscure and long-forgotten horror movies (the kind I talked about in the first paragraph), well than you honestly won't be surprised at what you see that often. You won't hear me claim that "Shutter Island" is unoriginal or predictable, but like so frequently the case, it does incorporate many little facets (whether just a certain noise, bizarre characteristic or tiny plot detail) that I spotted already in other movies. That really isn't a complaint; merely a footnote. I don't intend to say that "Shutter Island" ripped any other films, simply that horror fanatics are likely to be slightly less impressed than the more mainstream audience. My only main complaint is that I personally found "Shutter Island too long. Admittedly I have a bit of an aversion towards long films, but I really felt that some of the sub plots and repetitive hallucination sequences could have been cut shorter. The filming locations, set- pieces and scenery are tremendous and particularly the re-creation of the 50's atmosphere is admirably accurate.


                
After having recently finished reading Dennis Lehane's smart,tense Gothic Horror mystery-Noir novel Shutter Island,my anticipation for seeing the film adaptation greatly increased when I found out who the director and cast were that are connected to this movie,which started to make me really looking forward to going on a holiday to Martin (who due to both of us never having exchanged X-Mas cards with each other,I will not call "Marty") Scorsese's Shutter Island.The plot: Arriving to a hospital for the criminally insane based on an isolated island in 1954,US marshal Edward "Teddy" Daniels (who has been brought out of early retirement related to the brutal murder of his wife by "the force",who feel that he is one of the very best for this case) and new recruit to the force: Chuck Aule go to meet the chief psychiatrist, (Dr. John Cawley) on Shutter Island to find out why they have been ordered to pay a visit to the isolated hospital.Hardly wasting any time with even greeting Teddy and Chuck,Cawley tells the marshals that they have been ordered to pay a visit to the place,due to one of the hospital's most dangerous patients (Rachael Solando) having mysteriously "disappeared" from Shutter Island a few days ago and not leaving a single trace of where she may have gone.Deciding to search Solando's cell,Daniels and Aule do an extensive search in the cell and sadly find no clues at all to what may have happened to Solando.leaving the cell,Teddy suddenly notices that one of the floor panels is broken.Carfully moving the panel,Daniels finds a cryptic note,strongly hinting about there being a "secret" patient hidden deep inside the hospital.Being told by,the suddenly frightened looking Cawley that he should ignore the note as "The words of a mad woman",Daniels begins to wonder what Cawley is trying to keep hidden away on Shutter Island,and also if it might be connected to the man that killed his wife.View on the film: Smartly focusing on the essential elements of Dennis Lehane's novel,screenwriter Laeta Kalogridis cleverly makes sure that the Neo- Noir and Horror elements of the plot stay evenly balanced,with Teddy's flashbacks to the last days he spent with his wife allowing Kalogridis to create some very strong macabre moments,whist Daniel's (played by a tense Leonardo DiCaprio) and Aule's (played by a fantastic "by the book,sir" Mark Ruffalo,who along with this,2004's Collacteral and 2007's Zodiac has become one of the main faces of 00's Neo-Noir) increasingly dangerous search for the "truth" on Shutter Island allows Kalogridis to build a good Neo-Noir feel,as Teddy and Chuck get deeper in the murky waters surrounding the island.Although Kalogridis does not build the solid foundation which made Lehane's "turning of the cards" truly masterful,and also shockingly gets near to giving away the "twist" early on, Kalogridis is still able to get some "kick" from the ending,by including a number of moments,which initially look completely minor,before the film unleashes its "surprise" and makes those moments look like some of the most important sections in the movie.For Teddy's dreams,director Martin Scorsese shows an amazing eye for just using the right amount of CGI to make the scenes really unsettling,whilst never taking the easy option of completely going overboard with the CGI.Despite the film having an absolutely fantastic setting which looks like a near guarantee for the movie to be filled with thrills and chills,Scorsese unexpectedly shows a restrained side to his directing for most of the film,which despite having a misty feel never transformers into becoming a truly under the skin haunting atmosphere which would have made Shutter Island a place that you would never want to leave.
You know, while reading this film's reviews you get to think it's the best 2010 movie. But after really watching, you get disappointed.The cast does it's job, the director as well. The suspense is well created, the atmosphere is tense and it's very intriguing. But the conclusion of Shutter Island is similar to the end we've already seen in a bunch of other movies, such as "Identity", "The Others" and "Never talk to strangers".I strongly wished the writers of this film were a little more daring and could have had more creativity to make it more original and amusing. But it's a good watch anyways.
Unlike many of the other reviewers, I actually thought this movie wasn't scary at all. Rats, people with scars, Nazis - this is all being used BETTER before. The movie as a horror fails. The movie as a mystery fails completely. I don't think someone will buy this story since Memento said it all.MAJOR SPOILERS AHEAD!!!!!!!! Please know, that I reveal the full story - incl. the ending.The story is about a guy, who was a US Marshall- married, with 3 children. He didn't pay enough attention to his wife and drank too much. His wife was unhappy and had mental problems. One day she got completely insane and murdered their 3 children. When our main character, the US Marshall Teddy Daniels (Leonardo DiCaprio) gets home, he found his wife completely crazy, his children murdered. So he can't take this - he shoots her, so that she doesn't have to be put away. But this whole guilt destroys him slowly. He also gets insane, paranoid and have to be put away. His guilt kills him slowly from the inside, and so he creates this imaginary world - where he is still a Marshall and he investigates a disappearance of a patient from the mental hospital. The doctors in the hospital try through the whole movie to help him, to make him face the truth. And in the end he does. But what can you do when you can't take the truth, when it is too much to bare? How can you live with all this guilt? Isn't it better to be insane and not face the reality?The movie is following the book very strictly, except the ending. THE ENDING isn't shocking, or scary. It is purely dramatic and rises moral questions.I think this movie fails completely to be scary movie, thriller or whatever Dicaprio and Scorcese intended. But I think accidentally they found something deeper, something really dramatic and interesting.The big problem is, they didn't go further with that, but basically count on cheap tricks to scary the audience, instead of make her think.
I thought the movie was an excellent portrayal of the book. it followed it nearly word for word. Even though I knew what was going to happen I still thought it was good! I really enjoyed listening to people in the theaters letting out "WHAT?!" and "Oh Wow" when they started to figure out what was going on. I think people lie when they say it was predictable. The way they lied when the 6th sense came out. It's not that predictable. Unless you think like a person who has been on a nut hut island! The music was a bit extreme it was like the opening credits rolled and fog and then (Dumb Dumb Dumb!!!!!) They just overdid the music a little bit. Could've gone without the panic horror movie music gave me a headache. I think the end slowed down a little bit but overall I think it was definitely a really good movie.
Shutter Island is a body of land in Boston Harbor which has a hospital for the criminally insane. It's run by a pair of doctors played by Ben Kingsley and Max Von Sydow who have certainly essayed roles of some very deep villainy. Couple that with the fact that this film is set in post World War II where America has just been fighting with people who have mysterious accents like Von Sydow and Kingsley. It's a recipe for a Hitchcock like thriller.US Marshal Leonardo DiCaprio has been sent to Shutter Island with his new partner Mark Ruffalo to investigate the disappearance of a woman who was declared criminally insane by the courts and is now confined to the island facility. Though it is a hospital also, primarily Shutter Island is a prison and run by the Federal government and subject to their jurisdiction. Although Ruffalo is content to follow DiCaprio's lead, Leo's not happy with the lack of cooperation he's getting on the investigation, even more unhappy that inclement weather is forcing he and Ruffalo to stay on the island. Something suspicious is going on and DiCaprio's going to get to the bottom of it.Actually something very suspicious is going on there, some very intricate mind games are being played, some experimentation is being conducted by the staff. But trust me, it's beyond DiCaprio's powers of grasp.Shutter Island marks the third film that Martin Scorsese and Leonardo DiCaprio have teamed as director/star. It's possible Leo is trying to tie Robert DeNiro for times working with Scorsese. This part is certainly one a younger DeNiro might have done. I don't think Shutter Island ranks up there with either The Aviator or The Departed it's still an intricately plotted story and one where the lead has to be convincing or the film goes nowhere. DiCaprio doggedly plods on with his investigation while battling some inner demons that the audience is gradually let it on. A younger DeNiro couldn't have been better.The rest of the cast ably supports Leo, but in the final analysis Shutter Island belongs to him and to Martin Scorsese for putting it all together. Alfred Hitchcock would be proud.


                
I love the combination Scorcese and DiCaprio. It's like Depp and Burton; somehow it's a magical combination. They put together a brilliant thriller at the first sight. Two cops go to an island to investigate a break-out.As the story continues with riddles of which you know you'll get the clue somewhere at the end of the movie, you already know Kingsley is behind the whole thing. There is something about Kingsley you know as a viewer you can't trust.The SS past of DiCaprio is almost well done. I like the fact Scorcese made this aspect a part of the movie, even with Kingsley in it who made his movie about Anne Frank's history. But when there is a line up and people are getting shot, they are shot all together at the same time but they drop on the floor at the time the camera is shooting them.The movie is exciting until the end. The end, where the plot drastically and originally changes, is wonderful. But then I got the feeling this movie had some flavor of the movie "a beautiful mind". As sudden this uniqueness changed into unoriginal.The very last ending of the movie was not happy, but very suitable.
This is a good movie, but for Scorsese, it's disappointing. It has the acting and the visuals, but falls flat in the subtlety department. If you watch many psychological thrillers, you will almost immediately be aware that at least some of the events in the movie exist in DiCaprio's head. This is barely a spoiler, it's just incredibly obvious. There are many, similar movies that have an overly stressed police officer/agent/whatever, often with headaches, often with a new partner, who try to unravel a labyrinthine plot only to discover that much of what they assumed is an illusion, usually caused by past stress. If this kind of framework sounds familiar to you, Shutter Island won't be very impressive. Some of the events in the movie lack subtlety. I would have appreciated the scenes from Dachau more if they hadn't be explained point blank-- just suggest that this knowledge of evil is with the main character, don't beat us over the head with it.On the plus side, the island looks perfect. The wind and rain are terrific, the whitening flashes of lightning are great, and the visuals in general are spectacular.The acting was also good, but it can't elevate an average storyline.I do recommend this movie. It was a disappointment to me, but it's not bad, and for viewers who aren't as familiar with psychological thrillers, it might be quite fresh.
"Shutter Island" is a schlocky, second-rate screenplay--which has the incredible good fortune of being directed by Martin Scorsese.A psychological thriller wasn't really what anyone expected from the acclaimed filmmaker, and although he sometimes feels lost in the unfamiliar genre, Scorsese lends a natural authenticity to the predictable plot and an earnestness to the would-be flat characters that salvages what might have been another "Wolfman" for something half-way memorable. And, hey, he won his Oscar. What better time to branch out?The problem with Scorsese's experiment is ultimately that it feels safe, which is half a function of an unremarkable script, and half his unfamiliarity in directing horror. He approaches the genre in the way a famous baker might prepare a steak—He goes back to the recipe. Sure, he sears some effectives sequences, with palpable suspense and unsettling visuals, but it's missing those hand-written notes in the margins that bring you back for seconds.His take on the story, while infinitely superior to, say, Joe Johnston's, still isn't quite ideal, and he seems to cling to the familiar whenever possible. He has a tendency to play up the noir element, with a fetishistic infatuation for the fifties period trench coats and fedoras that Leonardo DiCaprio and Mark Ruffolo sport, and for conversations punctuated by cigarettes, with a performance vocabulary that screams of the gangster flicks he's known for. That "Shutter Island" so clearly bears Scorsese's fingerprints is sort of the issue: a film about an insane asylum should be anything but predictable.But the director's successes should not be undermined either, and when "Shutter Island" works, it really works. For instance, DiCaprio as Marshall Teddy Daniels suffers from a particularly disturbing recurring flashback (compelling perhaps because it wasn't spoiled in the trailer) that features the young man as an Allied soldier liberating a Nazi concentration camp. The grotesque imagery of the war blends beautifully with the heady horror, and the cinematography is so sharp that one might wonder why Scorsese has never taken on a war film.Scorsese also achieves some masterfully atmospheric scenes on the island itself. He has a way of making the omnipresent hurricane a character, and the way the rain beats against the windows and leaks in during the night is subtly threatening, ratcheting up the intensity that he skillfully pays off in exteriors. These great moments are hardly lonely, but even the director's eerie visuals and tight pacing falter by the final third of "Shutter Island's" overlong 138-minute running time.The film becomes so suddenly talky and expository at its end that the whole thing almost capsizes under the weight. There is a twist, and you will likely understand it long before Scorsese is finished spoon-feeding you the solutions to each presumed non sequitur and tying up absolutely every loose end.But even though Scorsese is feeling his way through the dark in directing a modern psychological horror film, watching him work is still enjoyable, and I stress that the vast majority of the problems with "Shutter Island" on the screen are problems with "Shutter Island" on the page. Scorsese elevates the mediocre script into an above-average thriller that, if nothing else, is better than what's playing down the hall. Whether you enter as a fan of the genre or the director, "Shutter Island" is a palatable film. Just don't expect to be hungry for seconds.
This is a very uneven movie: It has a sappy story, and is drawn-out in the telling, and it has sensationalist references to Nazis and the Holocaust; but these references can't be taken too seriously and thus seem exploitative, even though they are possibly important in understanding the main character. But there are some brilliant surrealist scenes and shots in SHUTTER ISLAND. The use of colour was very effective and involving.I'd read the book, so the suspense wasn't as great; the friend I saw it with, who had not read the book, liked the movie better than I did, and thought it was deeper than I did. The acting was good, particularly by Mark Ruffalo, and by actors who have only one scene, among them Patricia Clarkson, Elias Koteas.


                
Shutter Island (2010)You know when a friend tells a story and includes lots of interesting details, and tells it really well so you listen to everything, and then they finish and you think, "And?"There is a lot of that on Shutter Island. Martin Scorsese is a director who knows very much how to tell a story. And this movie, told so well, might become famous for having no punch line. It's not that the end is bad or illogical, or that getting there was so bad. Just the opposite. The end is heartwrenching and sensible, and the two hours getting there is fabulous stuff, great movie-making, and filled with all kinds of strange and beautiful moments.So you have to realize this is more about being there than the actual story. It's a finely tuned work of art, really, as a visual experience, and with a fabulous score. Expect another solid, impassioned performance by Leonardo DiCaprio, along with a whole host of superb secondary acts. Even just the island with its cliffs and gloom and sprawling old brick buildings is creepy and fantastic. The characters on it, from the glaring cops with shotguns to the host of crazed and criminally insane people, are colorful to say the least, but not exaggerated. Once you realize that the cunning Ben Kingsley is in charge or that Max von Sydow is possibly an ex-Nazi at the end of his life, you really pay attention. And then, as if this isn't enough, there begin flashbacks to World War II, and to a brutal murder, and other visions appear, including some really dreamy moments of magical realism. And you wonder how real it all is and whether it actually relates to the basic point of DiCaprio's being there as a federal marshal.As usual with this kind of movie, the setting is a pastiche of places far apart, though all in the North East, including famous Peddocks Island in Boston Harbor (which is a park, not a prison). The horrible treatment of the German (and other) prison guards shown in the Dachau scenes has some basis in truth, but in fact was probably more sporadic and messier, and did not apparently involve a whole lineup of American shooters. You can look up the Dachau Massacre for details, but of course, the bigger (much bigger) massacre that is Dachau itself belongs to Nazi cruelty, and is represented with reasonable (if cinematic) fairness here, toning down (if anything) the gruesomeness. There is a long history of unethical experiments on mental patients held by the U.S. Government, though nothing I could find that involved this particular surgical option (by the government). Lobotomies (including those made with an ice-pick sort of instrument from the eye socket, into the brain, scrambling it up a bit) were still an option available to doctors in the 1950s, when this movie was made.Still, I wouldn't take any of this movie as a history lesson. It simply layers up lots of real horrors with the imaginary ones of the fictional plot, which is pretty horrible, too. In all, we have a formal gem, a masterful construction that will dazzle and beguile your eyes and ears. But might leave you, as it has many viewers, wanting a little more for your own unscrambled brain, too.
Most people go into "Shutter Island" expecting that director Martin Scorsese will pull off another "Taxi Driver", or "Raging Bull". Though this is not the case, Scorsese succeeds in constructing one of the best psychological thrillers in years due to his prodigious directing, brilliant cinematography and excellent performances from each member of the cast.Shutter Island takes place off the coast of Boston in 1954. The film follows U.S marshal Teddy Danial's(DiCapro) as he investigates the disappearance of mental patient Rachel Solondro, who has escaped from her room in the mental institution located on the island. As a violent storm hits the island, Teddy discovers that there is more to this case then he first believed. As the plot unfolds, and Teddy begins to hallucinate about his dead wife, and images of past experiences of concentration camps while he was a soldier in WW2, he begins to question why he is on the island. Is he there to kill the man who murdered his wife? Is this all a set-up for some sort of dark conspiracy? Or is it something of much greater importance? Though many aspects of this film are similar to "The Shining" (haunting music while we reach the mental institution, quick cuts to dead children, etc) this is NOT a horror film. Like "Taxi Driver", each scene (with the exception of the beginning of one), has the protagonist in it as if we are viewing the world through his point of view. Scorsese makes us feel what Teddy feels and due to Scorsese's brilliant direction, we as an audience are unsure what is real and what is fake by the middle of the film.When you have made more then three masterpieces and have perfected your craft so efficiently , you are able to break some of the rules to make the audience feel a specific way. Scorsese tends to break multiple rule such as noticeable continuity errors, abrupt camera movement when there shouldn't be, and edits that seem to be just one beat off. But Scorsese does this on purpose to make the audience feel both out of place and uncomfortable, and he does it very well.The juxtaposition of the beautiful sets while Teddy dreams of his wife, and the bleak, film-noir set of the mental institution are also quiet compelling. This just goes to show you the range of the directors capability and how he is able to combine two very different setting to create an intriguing story.Unfortunately, after the first two acts (which were near flawless), the script seems to fall apart. The twist is not only predictable to many viewers, but has also been done multiple times. There are many things in the first two acts that make it seem like the twist could not be possible and you walk out of the theatre thinking to yourself, "wait but if that was so, then why did this happen?" Though unintentional, some of the dialogue throughout the film also seemed quiet comedic as if it came out of one of a scene in the "Scary Movie" trilogy. Lines like, "I'm dead", come out as comical instead of the tone that the director intended.Though flawed, Scorsese has created one of the most compelling psychological thrillers in years and has redefined the thriller genre. "Shutter Island" is a better film then Scorsese's "Gangs of New York", but comes no where close to that of "Taxi Driver", or "Raging Bull". But when you've created films like those two, it's not understandable that this one is not as brilliant. This film is one that you need to see at least twice but when you see it for the first time, expect a slow paced psychological thriller, because it is NOT a horror film.8/10 HINT: Though I will not ruin the ending for you, pay very close attention to the last scene. Though the narrative suggests one thing, something Teddy Daniels says and how he acts during this scene suggests that it is not what it seems.


                
SHUTTER ISLAND is the story of two U.S. marshals, Teddy Daniels and Chuck Aule, who are summoned to a remote and barren island off the coast of Massachusetts to investigate the mysterious disappearance of a murderess from the island's fortress-like hospital for the criminally insane.SHUTTER ISLAND is Martin Scorsese's first jab at doing a horror/thriller-type film since CAPE FEAR. However, there's no doubt that the film will disappoint many who are expecting a straight up horror film as the TV spots and trailers suggest. In fact, it's further from the truth. At its heart, SHUTTER ISLAND is all about atmosphere and the building of uneasiness, which, at times, do fail to work. It's not a perfect film, at least for me. It's far from it. I found the pacing to be slow at times and the mystery didn't quite pull me in as I expected it to be. Director Martin Scorsese also seem to have a hard time trying to build up suspense, especially towards the end.I also found it to be a frustrating movie experience, but I say that as a compliment. The film does get it at you in the head with the intentional inconsistent editing of scenes and making the viewers very confused with what the film has to offer. In the end, however, Scorsese manages to put all of the puzzle pieces together without cheating the audience. Sure, some might find the ending to be very bad and others might find it very obvious, but there just can't be a movie that everyone ends up liking.I loved how Scorsese refrained from using clichés from certain scenes that begs to have clichés be used. You know those scenes where the music builds up to a huge pop up scare? Well, there's none of that here. Scorsese lets the scenes play out for themselves, rarely using any building up of music at all. This is how he achieves the tone and atmosphere of the film. It's the working relationship between the cinematographer, production designers, director, actors, etc that molds every scene together which is one reason for this film to stand out on its own.The film brings along a lovely cast, including Leonardo DiCaprio, who gives it his all in here. He gives a terrific performance even as his mental state breaks down as the film progresses. Ben Kingsley does a great job in here as well along with a few scenes by Michelle Williams in her Boston accent and Emily Mortimer. Patricia Clarkson also shines through with her brief but important role. The film is also visually stunning. It's obvious that attention was put in every detail of a set and every other thing surrounding it.SHUTTER ISLAND is a film that is handled with precision and care, although sometimes losing it's focus on the big picture. It's not an Oscar-worthy film as some might hope it to be, but I enjoyed the psychological game Scorsese plays with in the audience's minds and the film's overall haunting story and tone. See this film if you like to enjoy a psychological thriller with a good story that supports a great cast and a fantastic director.


                
This might have Spoilers.OK, I like this film. It has good dialogue all the way through, a nice pace and lots of strange things occur. The mystery keeps building and building like a puzzle and I like that. Over all I really like the conspiracy idea that Leonardo's character comes up with. This I find fascinating as it does tie in with covert operations that the Americans were doing in mental hospitals after WW2 and the mind control experiments of the Nazis and the Korean military in real history and I'm a sucker for things like that. Love it. For this reason the plot at the beginning is highly plausible and compelling, such as using humans as guinepigs as a part of secret government experiments into trying to control their brains with mind altering chemicals etc. The sad thing is that the ending was clichéd and disappointing and left me cheated and feeling unfulfilled. I cannot believe that the whole film amounts to the 'it was all a dream' 'or it was all in his head' a bit like the characters in The Wizard of Oz or Secret Window or a Beautiful mind. It made the film seem like one big goose chase in the end. There was so much brilliant effort made into making the viewer believe that something really serious was going on but- there wasn't!! Compelling and mysterious film but bad, bad ending.
I think the best feature of this movie is to amaze spectators at the last part and the second best feature is creating a dilemma making spectators think which side has right and which side is wrong.I have always impressed by movies with an unpredictable and surprising end. This is a movie like that.As a negative view, I would like to express that more action scenes and more excitement would make this movie more amazing and more unforgettable, however this movie deserves 7 points out of 10 due to its intelligent fiction, thrilling atmosphere, and making viewers think and wonder.


                
