I know there is already a spoiler warning up top but I am going to warn you again. Don't read this because I am going to give everything away.I had this movie all wrong I will admit at the start I didn't get it and I was angry but after having a chat with my friend who went with me we both gasped when we realised what happened. The twist wasn't that he was the inpatient (seriously I think everyone saw that coming from a mile away!) the twist was the intervention actually worked. He was cured, he deliberately made it look like he relapsed because he did not want to live with the memory of what happened to his family. He blamed himself for ignoring that his wife was clearly unstable. The line "would you rather die as a good man or live as a monster" Depicted he wanted to die as a good man (lobotomized) then live with the memory of what happened. Also the symbolism of fire and water tells you when he is hallucinating (fire) and when he is lucid (water trickling through.) The delusion he concocts to save himself from accepting the truth is that his wife died in a fire. All the people he talks to surrounded by fire is a hallucination – the woman in the cave, the patient in the cell, the scarred faced man who he thinks killed his wife, the car blowing up – all a delusion. The water symbolizes reality trying to break through. He is afraid of water – ( and rightly so!His kids were drowned, they all died in front of the lake.) Also at the start he says he gets 'sea sick' – he is mortally afraid of water. He has to swim to get to the lighthouse.To truly get the best affect of this movie you have to see it more than once. (I have only seen this once but I promise you I will see it again)I think John Anderson from the Wall Street Journal got it right when he says the film - "requires multiple viewings to be fully realized as a work of art. Its process is more important than its story, its structure more important than the almost perfunctory plot twists it perpetrates. It's a thriller, a crime story and a tortured psychological parable about collective guilt."
Martin Scorsese returns to film making after winning the academy award for The Departed with his fav star Leonardo DiCaprio.. This time he move to a completely different script which keeps the audience humored and thrilled from the first scene till the last! The movie( which i saw at the Berlin film festival!) blew away the minds of many people, the plot being so strong and thrilling which kept the audiences guessing! When it comes to acting Leonardo lets no stone unturned! The supremely talented actor has once again showed that why Martin casts him in his every movie as he is simply superb! He not only fits into the role smoothly but delivers a terrific performance every time! Sir Kingsley being the head psychiatrist of the asylum has also done a marvelous job!The film is full of flashbacks and haunting dream sequences that range in location from the island itself to the concentration camp at Dachau. The audience is constantly trapped in a world where one questions what is reality and what is dream. Don't miss this one!


                
Sure everyone knows the typical Scorsese film. Normally there is a mob present, or in most cases, a tough brute who loves to flash the "F" bomb in almost every sentence. But what about a thriller? I mean sure, we have seen it in "Cape Fear", probably one of my personal favorite remakes. But what about a top notch mind bending thriller that really makes you think. Something the likes of which we have never seen Mr. Scorsese do. But given his previous works of art, its really hard to doubt that he cannot pull this off.Grasping the concept of this movie is a no brainer. There is a mystery on this island filled with crazy people, but you can tell that there is a lot more under the surface. Yeah, it doesn't sound that original........but my oh my, you just wait until Scorsese begins to pick at your brain. Not since "Taxi Driver" have i seen Scorsese really make a valiant attempt at a character study of someone going insane. In "Taxi Driver", its like your in the back seat......watching as Robert Deniro slowing progresses into his insanity. With Shutter Island, its like your inside the mind of Dicaprio, and everything is starting to crumble. Scorsese really does a fantastic job of toying with your mind. You cannot help but second guess everything your thinking, but then again, i think that was the ultimate goal.......and yes, that was hint towards the end, which i think will raise a lot of debate. Now i always hear the phrase "Twist and Turns" when someone describes a decent thriller. Then i see the movie, and i say to myself........"That was a Twist and Turn? It felt more like a road bump." But in this case, Scorsese really does re-define the term. Because in this film, you really have a hard time judging what is actually real, and what is not.......and what you think is happening, is actually not happening at all..........that is a twist and turn people. Not you finally figuring out who the masked killer is at the end.......okay, im sorry that all thriller movies are not like a Scooby Doo episode. And since we are on the subject of crappy thrillers......i am so glad that Scorsese chose not to use elevated music in some of scenes. For example, someone jump out of a dark corner......in most cases, the music is raised and the audience jumps.......but in this movie, Scorsese doesn't add any music at all......he just uses the fear of an eerie set to make your skin crawl. Much like an old Hitchcock movie. However, there is music in this, and let me tell you, it is so very fitting. You can tell Scorsese has been down this path before, so he sort of used the same style that he did in "Cape Fear", with Benard Herman's deep, dark, and haunting tones that just pull you in more and more. Honestly, there is not one bad aspect of this movie. The acting, the directing, the score, the cinematography.....all pieced together with one hell of a script.Bottom Line........people, this is what a thriller is suppose to be. Especially a psychological thriller. I thank god for directors like Scorsese.....because this movie really isn't his type of film. My guess is he saw enough crap in this genre' and had enough.......so he threw his hat into the ring and gave a rebirth to the classic Hithcock type thriller.......not only that, i really think that he redefined it in a way. Now i know that it is really early in the year, but i can easily see this movie staying in my top 10 of this year. Absolutely fantastic film, best i have seen so far.
Yes, Scorsese's eye is all over "Shutter Island" what I din't feel was his gut. And for me a Scorsese film bears his gut. From "Mean Streets" to "The Age Of Innocence", "The King Of Comedy", "New York, New York" The presence of his gut, his poetic gut, his Scorsese gut, made those experiences, emotional and timeless. "Shutter Island" is extraordinary to look at. It has some bravura shots that will take your breath away. It's no uniquely Scorsesian like, "Raging Bull" "Casino" or "Goodfellas" It doesn't have the energy and passion of "Taxi Driver" or the commitment of "Bringing Out The Dead", "The Last Temptation Of Christ" or "Gangs of New York", doesn't have the freshness of "After Hours", "Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore" Doesn't have the scope or ambition of neither "The Aviator" nor "The Departed" but I liked it very much.


                
I watched this in the cinema on a Friday night and expected a horror film because it was hyped as a horror film. Make no mistake, this is a chilling psychological thriller and I can quite see why Scorcese likes to work with Leonardo (from 'The Departed') and with Robert Richardson from the cinematography for 'Inglorious Basterds'.As others have commented, Scorcese has borrowed (but not stolen) from Hitchcock suspense movies and the scary flashbacks remind us of the recent 'Inglorious Basterds' and at times 'Cape Fear'.There is nothing to laugh or cry about in this movie and there are no really gory scenes, though some scenes (as in Pans Labrynth) I question whether I can expose my 11 year old Son to see.This is a challenging and intelligent movie although for the first 40 minutes or so, I do wonder if I am watching a comedy as Leonardo as (Teddy) spars with Ben Kingsley (as Dr Cawley) in the 'why am I really here?' stakes.The film also reminded me 'a touch' of Michael Douglas in'The Game' where you are never sure what is reality and fantasy. As a movie goer, we have the right to expect the unexpected and we got it for sure in this movie.I am not a Scorcese fan and as much as I like the movie overall, I understand why it is not suitable for Oscar nomination.I like the ending of the movie personally and I have never read the book. Hands up who has read every book for every movie out at the moment? The final scene between Leonardo (as Teddy) and his Partner Chuck linked with the opening scene on the boat perhaps tells the story we want to know while puzzling throughout on everything which happens in between.Yes definitely see this movie but no need to take the tissues for this one or hide behind any bedsheets if watching on DVD. Absorbing, interesting and one to reflect upon afterwards.
An avid movie-goer such as myself always steps into a Scorsese movie expecting benchmark cinema and why not?The man has raised the bar time and again.Having said that,Shutter Island is an exceptionally well-made movie staying true to its plot and premise throughout.But once the credits roll, deep down you will feel, that there is a fine line between "Good" and "Great" and it is that line which this movie fails to cross.Scorsese has previously excelled in psychological thrillers when he gave us "Taxi Driver" and made Robert DeNiro a legend.Shutter Island, on the other hand is slightly different,closer to Hitchcock and the likes of "Psycho" and "Silence of the Lambs".Set in Post WWII America it explores the story of U.S. Marshal Teddy Daniels (Leonardo DiCaprio), who has been assigned the investigation of the disappearance of a patient on Shutter Island's Ashecliffe Hospital.He is partnered by Chuck Aule (Mark Ruffalo).The hospital is headed by Dr. John Cawley (Ben Kingsley), who is shown to believe in radical techniques to treat the mental patients instead of adopting the barbaric and sinister practices,namely Lobotomy, which were in practice during that era.From here, weird occurrences in and around the hospital coupled with a peek into Teddy's troubled past slowly blur the line between what's real and what's not and lead towards a gripping finale.Scorsese gets most of it spot-on.The plot is tight and the casting perfect.Cinematography is top-notch creating a sense of macabre and desolation.The score too,lends to the eerie atmosphere.There are plenty of twists and turns to keep you hooked and confused till the very last piece of the jigsaw is revealed ,rendering the entire movie a worthwhile experience.The movie hits jackpot as far as the performances are concerned.DiCaprio delivers his best performance till date, and yes,I mean better than Inception.The movie revolves around him and its a stellar act from him;perfectly nuanced,subtle and yet very sharp.He portrays contrasting traits,almost contradictory;shrewd yet vulnerable;keen yet hesitant and its in the uneasy gray between black and white where he successfully manages to color himself.Ben Kingsley is a delight to watch.His persona brings to the movie a sense of haunting and foreboding which it would have otherwise lacked.The rest of the supporting cast are fine too,especially Michelle Williams, who,playing a manic depressive, delivers a short yet chilling act.But then where does Shutter Island fall short?It does actually.In more ways than one.The script,though well-written, has its share of loopholes.DiCaprio's character and the reason for his insanity is never quite established.Neither do we ever come to know why his wife lost it one fine summer morning, and what exactly propelled her to committing murder.Besides, there are numerous sequences,which in hindsight seem unnecessary as their connection to the plot is never fully revealed.Especially the sequences of Teddy's dreams pertaining to his military exploits do not add much to the story except for telling us that he hallucinates about his family a lot!All of that not withstanding, Shutter Island is an entertaining watch.It is fast,well-acted and well made.Its a handsome tribute to the noirish productions of the 50's and 60's and stands tall and strong among the plethora of the mediocre which we are regularly subjected to.It does not disappoint.But then Scorsese never does.Does it leave you impressed?Perhaps.Amazed?Maybe. Awed? Not quite.
Shutter Island. The story starts you off with a strong suspense of something really wrong in the so called island. It then develops a very subtle intrigue to the story, which keeps us assuming and guessing repeatedly on what the actual truth is. When the story progresses, just when you've received the pieces of the puzzle to actually delve the story, you then realize that you've been working on the right pieces, but in the wrong puzzle.The acting was very good and well coordinated. You could feel the dramatization of the characters and subtle elements that will keep your mind moving. They also arranged the sound well, with a simple yet chilling heavy bass orchestra to psyche up the moment, and at the same time complete silence to pique in your senses. I was a bit disappointed with some parts of the editing, but these small bricks didn't affect any major enjoyment of the movie.This movie should be watched with great attention to detail, to give yourself a satisfying outcome once all the mysteries unwind itself, leaving you with a repeating portrait of the story in your mind.


                
US Marshal Teddy Daniels (Leonardo DiCaprio) and his partner Chuck Aule (Mark Ruffalo) are dispatched to Shutter Island, a facility that combines mental health treatment and criminal detention. One patient, Rachel Solando, is missing and has slipped through the walls as if through evaporation. Where on the island could she have gone?DiCaprio and Scorsese are a great team, let's just say that right away. If you've seen "The Aviator", "The Departed" or -- my favorite -- "Gangs of New York", you are aware of the greatness these two can achieve. While I do not feel "Shutter Island" is on par with "Departed" or "Gangs", it can still be counted as a fine film in its own right.The scenery captures the feel of the 1950s and the dank lonesome feeling that accompanies insane asylums of this period. Much like Arkham Asylum, the very building itself comes off as creepy and disturbing as those it houses. Poorly lit, plenty of stairs and mezzanine, and a feeling of oozing insanity. The inmates here are nasty, not least of which is George Noyce (played by the same man who brought us Rorschach and the upcoming Freddy Krueger). Michelle Williams, while only seen in dreams and flashbacks, really captures the viewer with her role of Dolores. This is quite possibly her best role yet, overshadowing her work in "Brokeback Mountain". Could we see a Best Supporting Actress nod? I freely admit that tears were brought to my eyes by her performance.I appreciated how closely the film followed the book by Dennis Lehane (author of "Mystic River"). Unfortunately for those who read it, the twists won't be as shocking, though you might pick up on the clues before your friends do. The film downplays much of the detective aspect, and almost completely removes the code-breaking parts. You could fairly say it has been dumbed-down.Scorsese, or his screenwriter, have also added in plenty of extra violence to turn this into a bit of an action flick. An extra gun shot here, a needle there, a firing squad sequence... this works well to keep viewers engaged. At the same time, the inclusion of the Dachau flashbacks dragged the pace down, and I think this will not work with some audiences. The biggest complaint I've heard yet was about the film's length.After seeing what I felt were disappointing previews for "Shutter Island", the film comes out well and on par with the book, a rare event. They use every tool at their disposal to amp up the visuals, and while the final twist may have you recalling other films (it's not the most original), all in all it's a fine piece of cinema. Along with "The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus" and "Youth in Revolt", it is one of the best films of 2010 (so far).


                
1954; US Marshal Teddy Daniels (Leonardo DiCaprio) is investigating the disappearance of a patient who has escaped from a psychiatric hospital on Shutter Island. Once Teddy begins his investigations, he notices strange anomalies such as; Rachel managing to escape from a room that has been locked from the outside, the fact that she manages to bypass all the other patients and security staff without anyone noticing etc. Daniels is puzzled by Rachel's seemingly 'unexplainable' disappearance and is determined to get to the bottom of it.I'll be the first to say that mystery films are probably my favourite genre (when they're done right) and films like Shutter Island help to cement that feeling. Shutter Island hooked me in straight away due to how creepy it looked - this was down to some superb cinematography. Then as the film progressed, I found that I was more and more hooked in. Shutter Island takes you in one direction, but then pulls you in another direction and it's all these twists and turns that help to keep things fresh. I felt a constant sense of paranoia throughout this film. I found that I never knew who I could trust when I was watching this film and this merely helped to increase the suspense. Daniels' dream sequences gave his character an added depth, but also added another layer to the plot. I found that Shutter Island not only kept me in suspense, but also kept me thinking and the two elements combined are cinematic heaven as far as I'm concerned.Acting wise, Scorsese has got lots of big players on board such as DiCaprio, Kingsley and Von Sydow to name a few and all the players on board put in stellar performances. As mentioned, the cinematography was superb and this really helped to give Shutter Island a creepy and mysterious feel.Where Shutter Island falters slightly is in the heavy handed way it dealt with one particular plot twist (which I won't reveal). Suffice it to say, this did lessen the impact when it was revealed. However, just when I was prepared to be majorly disappointed, Shutter Island throws in more twists and turns after the obvious twist was revealed and these added twists did surprise me somewhat.This is an excellent film that will most likely appeal to fans of psychological thrillers or mystery films. I loved it and would strongly recommend that you watch it.


                
In 1954, the Federal Marshal Teddy Daniels (Leonardo DiCaprio) and his new partner Chuck Aule (Mark Ruffalo) from Seattle travel by ferry to the Shutter Island to investigate the disappearance of the patient Rachel Solando (Emily Mortimer), who drowned her three kids, from the mental institution for dangerous criminals Ashcliffe Hospital. Teddy is veteran WWII soldier traumatized by the war experience in the liberation of the Duchan concentration camp and the loss of his beloved wife in a criminal fire. Teddy is unable to access the records of employees and patients and feels that his investigation is obstructed by the management by the Federal facility. Teddy has severe migraines and when there is a storm, Teddy and Chuck find that they are stranded in the island. Teddy interviews the internees, discovers that one is missing and follows a lead to the lighthouse, where he discloses the mystery about the sixty-seventh patient of the Shutter Island. "Shutter Island" is a good but predictable psychological thriller. The production has a high budget and consequently a great cast, costumes, locations and special effects. However, the major twist when Teddy Daniels finds the truth about the Shutter Island and himself is not a surprise. In this regard, "Identity" and "Haute Tension" for example, work better and better and really surprise the viewer after the plot point. Further, the IMDb Rating Top 250: #246 is absolutely overrated. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): "Ilha do Medo" ("Island of the Fear")


                
Dark and intense mental therapy...Leonardo DiCaprio is a great actor and together with director Martin Scorsese, DiCaprio moves up a notch. It is not an understatement to claim that Shutter Island only works because DiCaprio makes it convincing. It may seem to be one of Scorsese lesser work in first glance. However, the film does not disappoints, with enough suspense and interesting moments to get us through to the finish line. The ending itself is what made this film a cut above genre conventions. The film ends by raising more questions than it answers and in turn allowing the audience to decide for themselves as to what really happened. For me, it works, but for those looking for answers, it will probably just leave you wondering. Shutter Island is like a classic noir flick, its dark, its murky, it's even depressing, but it is also quite a satisfying experience to sit through.The movie goes like this: DiCaprio plays a cop who is assigned to an isolated island with a mental hospital. The year is the 1950s and a mental patient have escaped the maximum security of the Shutter Island. Together with his counterpart (played by Mark Ruffalo), they explore the island and like a haunted house or a horror story, nothing is what it seems to be.Ben Kinsley is what you call a method character actor. He has the unique ability to make even the griminess of smile into something hidden or evil about it. He has the grin and looks of a cunning interior. Kingsley plays a mental health professor, but somehow he is more to it than that. A clever actor in his own right, Kingsley made his character quite an interesting one to watch. DiCaprio as mentioned before carries the film with both of his shoulders. Maturity has certainly passed him by and not for the first time, he continues to impress me with the emotional range that he possesses. His moment of mental breakdown is a joy to watch and if that moment near the end is given to a lesser light, the film may have already been blown off the rails. This is a steady-fast performance that works.All in all, Shutter Island is a departure from the director usual aim of winning awards, but that does not mean that Shutter Island is any lesser of a movie. With strong acting turns from the increasingly reliable DiCaprio and the ever intriguing presence of Ben Kingsley, Shutter Island is convincing enough to be believable. The thought provoking ending may actually be a blessing in disguise. There is a quote that leaves us pondering: "Which would be worse, to live as a monster or to die as a good man?" For me, what it means is that DiCaprio chose to erase his memory and die a good man. The reason to it is simple. One of the saddest and toughest aspects of life is to have a good memory. Memories are what shape us, but also is what makes us more cynical and bitter about the world. At the end of the day, Martin Scorsese has created a movie that allows the audience to come up with their own viewpoint of what happens. Whether that is a good or bad thing, it is really the way you approach and think...(Neo 2010) I rate it 8/10www.thehkneo.com


                
The Second World War was one great big mess and those who survived a visit to the Concentration Camps were doubly affected. Famed film director Martin Scorsese and novelist Dennis Lehane teamed to bring his book to the big screen. The movie, like the novel is called " Shutter Island. " The year is 1954 and two U.S. Marshalls Teddy Daniels (Leonardo DiCaprio) and Chuck Aule (Mark Ruffalo) are sent from the mainland to an offshore island for the criminally insane. The reason is simple, a violent and dangerous inmate Dolores Chanal (Michelle Williams) has somehow escaped the maximum prison and remains at large. The two Marshalles are introduced to Dr.Cawley (Ben Kingsley) and Dr. Naehring (Max von Sydow) who seem very reluctant to divulge any pertinent information on any aspect of the place, patients or their protocol. With the warden (Ted Levine) watching their every move, it's difficult to proceed. However, with dogged skill, Daniels finally discovers much more than he's suppose too and finds himself the target of what he believes is a monstrous conspiracy involving Nazis, illegal experimental drugs and murder. The movie begins suspensively driven, shifts quickly into a dark mode and then flings the audience into the realm of the diabolical. All in all, the fast paced drama is another triumph for the team of De Caprio and Scoresese. Easilly recommended. ****


                
This film was a traditional Scorsese picture. The cinematography was fantastic, acting excellent, music emotional and direction superb. That being said, I have trouble saying that this film is an instant classic. The technical elements were sound. If I were to go through with a score sheet, "Shutter Island" would receive a perfect 10 in each category, yet something about the film left me wanting more. I don't blame the ambiguous ending. On the contrary, I enjoy an ambiguous ending. ("Gone with the Wind" anyone?) I can't put my finger on what it lacked for me, but I can safely say it was missing that something that I was hoping for. Perhaps, it was the hype that surrounded the movie. Well, say that's what it is...for now.Onto the positive aspects of the film, the first thing to strike me was the fantastic score Scorsese compiled. Classical music was used sparingly and effectively. Also, the use of silence in this film was remarkable. As Teddy (DiCaprio) is walking through the terrifying halls of the mental hospital, the silence scares the audience more so than the darkness and prison-like cells patients are thrown into. The cinematography was also fantastic in this film. I loved the switch in color palette between life on Shutter Island and the recesses of Teddy's mind. This plays a huge part in the story line, helping the audience decipher what is real and what is clearly a hallucination though even that can trip you up.The acting was wonderful. DiCaprio is at his finest. He is believably and charming. You can't help but empathize with his character, no matter what. Ben Kingsley is intellectually terrifying. Though not the same, his performance hearkens to Christoph Waltz in "Inglourious Basterds," Mark Ruffalo is overshadowed in this film but does a nice job. Emily Mortimer is quite convincing as a mental patient and Michelle Williams' depth was a pleasant surprise. I didn't think she'd play quite as large a role as she did.Scorsese directed. I think that's all I have to say. He is a master. He knows what he wants and how to get it.


                
Shutter Island is one of those thrillers that can really only go one of two ways. The first option is the "he/she's gone crazy option". The main character is dreaming, on drugs, insane or dead and no one can seem to help him or her recover from their unfortunate condition. A Beautiful Mind or The Sixth Sense are prime examples of these types of films.The other option is the massive conspiracy option where the character is being heartlessly manipulated by numerous people in some sort of cruel diversion required for him to truly appreciate his charmed existence. Movies like The Game or The Forgotten played that angle to ridiculous extremes. Shutter Island tries to have the best of both options and still manage to come off as a credible movie.Don't get me wrong. It's an entertaining movie with a great performance from one of the best directors and best actors of this generation. Leonardo and Martin can help create an engaging movie, however it doesn't change the fact that the main characters in this movie have to jump through incredible holes in the plot to get to the truth.The audience has believe that a in facility full of nurses, doctors and policemen that all these "protect and serve" types are just going to let a delusional person run around the compound and try to figure out his true existence. We have to suspend all belief in reality in order to serve the needs of one troubled character. No one will try and help him? No one will try to stop a possible criminal from roaming around the complex questioning everyone he sees. This seems a bit much to ask of people who work at this facility, even trained professionals.Would they really risk endangering all the people who live near or on this facility to be exposed to a possibly dangerous or deranged individual? It doesn't seem very likely especially in an era where anyone who acted different than the mainstream population: Communists, educated African-Americans, gays and Rock 'n' Roll stars were all cause for alarm in 1950s American society.I the movie's acting, cinematography and direction were top-notch (except for forgettable Mark Ruffalo as Leonardo's buddy). It was just to hard to ignore the gaping holes in the plot.
The less you know about Martin Scorsese's latest, the better. The film opens in bright white light, which is gradually faded to reveal Leonardo DiCaprio's character, a senior investigator from a US Government agency, suffering seasickness on a ferry crossing. He is en route to the eponymous Shutter Island, to assist with efforts to find an escapee from the island's prison-cum-hospital; a facility that is home to some of the most notorious mentally deranged criminals of 1950s America.Immediately, we are hooked. The car journey from the ferry to the facility is filled with foreboding and intrigue, melding eerie sound textures with dark, bleak images of the unwelcoming island. Once we arrive, the curious behaviour of the accompanying police officers and the local staff, in addition to the more understandable actions of the patients/prisoners, further builds suspense, paying homage to classic Hitchcock techniques.The most impressive achievement is that the storyline is consistently riveting for a running time in excess of two hours, seemingly without a single wasted scene, shot or line of dialogue as the plot unfolds in lavish, cinematic scale. DiCaprio's mature and compelling performance, in a character not too dissimilar to his undercover police officer in The Departed, is complemented perfectly by Ben Kingsley, Mark Ruffalo and the wealth of heavyweight acting talents playing minor characters. A couple of minor plot contrivances aside, this is a robust and stimulating addition to Scorsese's canon; albeit one that it is unlikely to reach the same high plateau of critical acclaim as much of the director's preceding efforts.The film is based on a novel by the increasingly impressive Dennis Lehane, whose Mystic River and Gone, Baby, Gone were also translated for the cinema, and who was also a writer for The Wire. The themes and settings of Shutter Island represent a diversion of sorts, but it transcends the B-movie genre in the same way as the TV/movie adaptations of his other writings were much more than just crime stories.


                
When it comes to directors who are of the caliber of Martin Scorsese, even when they're not producing their best stuff, it is still so much better than most everything else out there. That is the case with Scorsese's Shutter Island. This was not a perfect movie. Not by any means or stretch of the imagination. It was a bit long, and some of the material felt a little recycled. In fact, there's a sequence near the beginning of the film where it seems that Scorsese was borrowing a little too heavily from movies like The Shining or Psycho. However, this was still a movie that kept me on the edge of my seat, and thoroughly entertained. And I have to say, Leonardo DiCaprio turned in one of his best performances to date. His reaction near the end of the movie when his character faces a reality that is absolutely horrifying, was both heartbreaking and genuinely moving. I have to admit, even I got a little choked up during that scene, and that is something that almost never happens. It's interesting. When Paramount pushed back Island's release date to February 2010, I got a little nervous. After all, this time of year is a notorious dumping ground for production companies' crap. However, the fact that it was Scorsese kept me interested. I don't know why Paramount pushed the release date back. And I really don't care. All I know, is I'm glad they did. It was nice to go to the movies in February and not feel like I was throwing my money down the drain.
After the disappearance of one of the patients on Shutter Island, two Marshalls are assigned to the case and figure out what's going on. The only problem is that the people working there aren't really helping, and weird things start happening. Scorsese and my favourite genre? Instant win. The film is so masterfully crafted and well shot that it almost feels too good to be a part of this genre. Yet the script and theme fits perfectly. Yes, I knew the ending when they first showed the trailer ages ago, but that did not spoil the intrigue and suspense this film had. There were even a few surprises added on which was nice. Dicaprio is again, on his game. He pulls out crazy very well. It's not a spoiler that he goes a little crazy while investigating, it's all over the trailers. Added to the cast of characters if Mark Ruffalo, he does his best as the sidekick, Ben Kingsley and Max Von Sydow as eerie doctors , Elias Koteas in creepy make-up in one scene and a scene stealing Jackie Earle Haley.The film has it's Kubrick feel here and there, but it's Scorsese's stamp on it. It doesn't reach the heights of his previous efforts, but it's still better than 90% of the stuff that's out there. Scorsese knows this genre well enough to know where to pull the strings. The music is a key part in this and the restriction of jump scares shows that this is a well done film that wants to focus more on it's story, than to scare the audience. That being said, the film is not scary, but it does make you feel uneasy at times. When they go to Ward C, you can't help but feel the hair on your neck stand up as they search the halls.The twist is obvious, but the unravelling of everything is interesting enough to keep your attention. At times I did question myself, but in the end I knew I was right. Scorsese is able to chip away piece by piece the lead character's sanity to make the film work. Some people may feel cheated, others will like it. I found myself liking it, even if some of it is a bit out there.Shutter Island is one of the better films you'll probably see this year, it's no masterpiece and it tends to be a the long side of the running time, but it works.


                
I am sorry to say but this movie is not worth your time. There is nothing sensible, nothing clear, nothing solid, nothing interesting (at the end), no poetic license, no license for anything, this movie or the story behind it is nothing to be excited about. You will leave the theater, wondering who the real nut in the movie is, and what's really going on. I hate leaving a theater not having a clue what has happened in the movie, no matter how promising the plot is, and how wonderful the photography is. I wish somebody gave me a clue of what is going on. Maybe I am dumb, but I don;t have a freaking clue where de Caprio is walking to in the last scene of the movie. A big waste of resources, good actors, brilliant photography. This is a movie you will never get a clue of what really happened. Where the h@ll is de Caprio going to die as a good man? In lobotomy? in post-Nazi experiments? getting the chair out of the island? why does a director as brilliant as scorchese builds something so big only to make me feel like an idiot when the end titles start?
'Shutter Island (2010)' is a film entirely about perspective, and the first time I watched the picture I was so immersed into the perspective of the protagonist - who's point of view is intrinsically inseparable from the narrative and integral to the success of its various reveals - that I was totally swept up and taken along for the ride, made to dance like a marionette to the thriller's tightly-timed and twisty tune, so much so that I was completely in sync with DiCaprio's increasingly disheveled detective and experienced all the same emotional beats that he did, ranging from fear and confusion to sadness and even denial, which meant that I was captivated and totally board no matter how outlandish or somewhat confusing certain aspects may have seemed; I've now seen it twice, however, and the second viewing was a very different experience as, while our perspective isn't entirely out of sync with that of the protagonist, the knowledge of what's to come provides a slightly different point-of-view that makes even something as simple as a sideways glance into something altogether more monumental and, while this time around inevitably isn't as impactful as the first as it exposes a number of issues such as some second-act pacing issues, it holds up remarkably well under the scrutiny of examination afforded by the separation of audience and character that occurs once you know the flick's final hand, while still being surprisingly emotionally resonant too. 8/10


                
Shutter Island (2010) 
Director: Martin Scorsese 
Watched: May 2018 
Rating: 8/10 Excellent performances from an all-star cast, 
Brings you into the mind of a traumatized and psychologically complex man, 
Fire: Hallucination :: Water: Reality, 
A commendable ending- realistic and psychologically honest rather than easy fairytale, 
Though some predictability, suspension of disbelief required, and overdone parts. Gogyohka literally translates to "five-line poem." An alternative to the tanka form, the gogyohka has very simple rules. Five lines with one phrase per line. What comprises a phrase? Eye of the beholder- or the poet, in this case. 
#Gogyohka #PoemReview


                
I think this is just about as good as it gets within the psychological thriller genre. The whole cast are first rate and this has to be one of DiCaprio's best performances. Max Von Sydow is superb as always.The atmosphere is wonderful, Gothic and distinctly unsettling and the setting just perfect. The photography is beautiful and never over fanciful and the plot keeps the viewer engrossed for the whole two and a quarter hours, which is the sign of a great film. It is a return to the old fashioned thriller style, with relatively little in the way of special effects, which is one of its great strengths in my view. The detail is exceptional and not a frame is wasted. I can't say I like all of Martin Scorsese's work, but this is top stuff.


                
That legend being Scorsese of course.Okay, bad stuff out the way first... Shutter Island's tendency to rape your mind with chilling hallucinations from DiCaprio's character Edward Daniels ultimately ends up being a bit on the superfluous side because at one point its completely obvious what the twist is going to be (Noyce cell scene). Unlike the deceptive and absolutely beautiful visions that Daniels has throughout the film, its 100% clear that the Noyce scene is really happening and because he is talking complete sense its clear that he isn't lying. All other attempts at making me wonder what is true and what isn't true then become null. I know how it will end and Scorsese doesn't surprise me.Now the good news... seeing the twist coming a mile away doesn't destroy the film. Not even close. Unlike other directors Scorsese packs every scene with enough power and weight and beauty that a twist being predictable hardly matters at all. Between the haunting cinematography, cool CGI effects, razor-sharp musical score and trademark Scorsese violence this film will suck you in and spit you right out. DiCaprio completely redeems himself here from his bleh performance in Revolutionary Road. The supporting cast also does a great job.And that's the long and short of it. Shutter Island is a masterful thrill ride. It's a roller coaster of a film and a roller coaster isn't any less exciting just because you can see the end of the track while waiting in line. Hope that sounds smart.
Shutter Island is an excellent suspenseful thriller with some flaws which I'll get into later but the good more than outweighs that bad in this one. Director Martin Scorsese is admirable in making Shutter Island giving audiences nearly everything they could expect or want from one of these films. Leonard DiCaprio is great as always as Teddy Daniels a US Marshal on route to a remote island for the criminally insane to investigate the disappearance of a murderess who somehow escaped from her locked hospital room. Or as Ben Kingsley's mysterious head Dr. Crawley explains; "We don't know how she got out of her room. It's as if she evaporated straight through the walls." Leonardo DiCaprio brings an intensity to the role (like in Blood Diamond and The Deaprted to name a couple) and at times vulnerability. He continues to show audiences and critics his talent as an actor. This film is no different. Well done. The rest of the talented cast including Mark Ruffalo, Ben Kingsley, Michelle Williams, Emily Mortimer, and Max von Sydow in a small role are effective as the supporting characters in their limited screen time. Particia Clarkson, Elias Kosteas, John Carroll Lynch, Ted Levine, and Jackie Earl Haely are also very good in their brief extended appearances since most of the story's focus is on DiCaprio which isn't necessarily a bad thing. Shutter Island turned out to be much better than expected. It has an interesting story, suspense, an eerie mood, and atmosphere with strong performances from the cast. The movie also has some nice twists and surprises. One I sort of did suspect and others I found surprising to say the least. So it's better to avoid spoilers and watch this film without knowing too much about the plot for you to truly enjoy Shutter Island. I found this film to be much better than others who disguise themselves as suspense thrillers (The Grudge, The Happening, and Shutter to name a few). I enjoyed that Scorsese didn't heavily rely on CG except for some and instead used for the most part realistic locations and atmosphere to create the suspense. The location they chose for the island was a perfect setting for this story to take place and it added a lot to the movie. The flashback sequences of Teddy's time in World War 2 were an interesting touch that give us some insight into his traumatic past which continues to plague him while on the island. The pace of the movie was a little slow in the beginning before the suspense really started to kick into high gear but overall I can't think of all that much I didn't like about this film. Sure it might have some tiny flaws including a surprise I sort of saw coming but I thought Scorsese still did a good job with the execution of the twist none the less. In some ways Shutter Island reminded me a bit of the Shining because both films used actual locations, surreal images, and atmosphere to create suspense build up instead of relying on CGI. I was impressed with this movie and I plan to watch it again sometime because second viewings I think are needed to fully understand the story so it makes sense. Not that the story itself is very complicated but I believe Shutter Island's worth watching a second time even with a 138 minute running time because the film is that good despite it's few flaws. If you're in the mood for a suspenseful thriller or you're a fan of the genre, you can't go wrong with Shutter Island. It has an intricate story, suspense, twists, surprises, and solid performances by the cast (especially DiCaprio, Ruffalo, and Kingsley) who make this thriller worth the time to watch.


                
Not your usual police investigation. The Doctor in charge, Ben Kingsley, appears to be hiding something from the beginning.Leonardo DiCaprio played a US Marshall who was tortured by his own demons from the War. He also lost his wife, and was constantly dreaming of her.Well, everything is not as it seems, as the third act completely takes you by surprise. You are led by director Martin Scorsese to a point where the truth takes you completely by surprise.DiCaprio and Kingsley are magnificent, and ably assisted by Mark Ruffalo, Max von Sydow, Ted Levine, and Emily Mortimer.A very suspenseful film that really challenges your mind.


                
There seems to be a divide among critics and audiences on the twist and ending to "Shutter Island," with some calling it brilliant, and others calling it cheap. I found the ending to be effective, and here's why.I think it helps cement the picture as a statement on what a person will do to block out (or warp) a bad memory. Keep in mind that Andrew Laeddis (I will refer to Leo's character by his real name here) did not want to be associated with killing anymore after the incident in Dachau. Because he was so traumatized by that, and by the actions of his wife, he tries to fulfill his commitment by putting the murder on someone else. The reason he goes insane is because his mind will do anything to deny the truth, even if it means falling into delusional traps. The last scene may also show how far he is willing to go to wash out the memory of him murdering his wife. Has he really regressed, or is he just pretending so the memory can be gutted out?Laeddis wants to remain a good person. Yet not only does his insanity block him from the dark truth, but it also makes the other people on Shutter Island not trust him or take him seriously (Laeddis once remarks that once you're declared insane, anything you say or do is perceived with a wary mind). He's a war veteran, he is a former U.S. Marshall, and he's living in the era of Cold War paranoia. How far will he go to avoid, as he puts it, to "live a monster"?Yes, "Shutter Island" plays numerous mind games and misdirects us. But not only do I feel this is understandable (since the protagonist is an unreliable narrator), but I feel it all plays into the film's themes of denial and sanity (or lack, thereof).I give it an 8.5/10, and I will stand by my belief that this is another solid film from Martin Scorsese.
