There is one line of dialogue, right at the end of Shutter Island before the credits roll, that elevates the emotion of the film and makes it much more powerful. For those of you, like me, who read and enjoyed the novel before seeing the film and felt that the trailers and advertisements for this film were leading you to believe there wouldn't be any narrative surprises in store, think again! Scorsese's film features that one brief piece of dialogue at the films conclusion that results in an entirely different perception of the final act. The rest of the film, however, is very faithful to Dennis Lehane's already great story.Shutter Island represents exactly what one should hope for when seeing a novel being interpreted to film. While it certainly does the source material justice, it also adds small changes that make for a distinctive experience. Even if you've read the novel multiple times, you'll feel like you're reading the book for the first time again while watching. Scorsese perfectly recreates the menacing atmosphere of the island on film. Every location is foreboding and drenched with hints of unseen danger in dark corners. The lighthouse, the caves, the civil war fort housing "the most dangerous patients," and the island itself--every locale seems large yet claustrophobic and isolated at the same time.I often experience claustrophobia myself and there are certain films that really capitalize on that personal fear and make it more relevant and eerie to me. Neil Marshall's The Descent was one such picture, and this is another. An confined island is a terrific horror location and it comes with its own type of fear. The utter desperation to escape from a persistent and confined nightmare is something Teddy (Dicaprio) is receiving in high doses, and so does the audience.As with Scorsese and DiCaprio's previous collaborations, this is a movie that must be seen. Here they explore the horror/thriller genre with gravitas, with no small part played by Laeta Kalogridis in supplying the screenplay. While most modern pictures of its kind lack character or any real sense of suspense, Shutter Island doesn't go for cheap gags. I concur with Ebert when he says one of the key elements to this film is that it releases its tension through suspense instead of mindless action sequences. That's not to knock a well-deserved frenetic scene of violence every once in awhile--it works to the advantage of some films like Evil Dead II and Planet Terror--but had Teddy and Chuck gone running and gunning through the facility's faculty, the mood this movie keeps in check so well would have been lost.However, that mood isn't sacrificed and "spooky" is punched up to full force. A considerable amount of that spooky is generated by a "best of" collection of actors that have mastered the art of creepy: Ben Kingsley, Jackie Earle Haley, Ted Levine, and Max Von Sydow just to name a few. Had Tom Noonan been thrown in the cast as well, my "Top Five People I Would Not Want to Be Left in the Dark with, Especially in a Room with No Doors or Windows" list would have been completely exhausted. On that note, is it just me or has Sydow mysteriously not aged since The Exorcist? Was there a secret pact made between Lucifer and Father Merrin? Whether he sold his soul or not, he's quite ominous in every single scene he is present in. All of this great talent in front of the camera doesn't mean anything though if you don't have a faithful orchestrator behind it. Luckily you have Scorsese leading the lens and he points the movie in the right direction, even if this isn't among his very best works. His style works amazingly with suspense laden projects and at times he even seems to channel Hitchcock and Kubrick, though there's always something distinctively Scorsese about the presentation. I found the editing in the opening scene, with Chuck and Teddy approaching Shutter Island, to be very odd and frantic, though I think the audience will know why Scorsese displayed the scene the way he did after completing the film.With a body of work so impressive, Shutter Island is among captivating company. The good news is that Shutter Island carves out a place of its own in his resume. While no Goodfellas or Raging Bull or Taxi Driver, I have no problem placing Shutter side by side The Last Temptation of Christ and Bringing Out the Dead. The cinematography is bright and gorgeous. Scorsese doesn't rely on the over-grainy, ugly presentation that most modern horror or suspense-riddled thrillers rely on. He uses lush, bright color during daytime and dream sequences to flush out a distinct feeling of terror.Shutter Island isn't just a pretty face, its also got a great story to boot and this is why I've been anticipating the film for so long. As mentioned earlier, I've been exposed and digested the source material myself before seeing the movie. I was worried the trailers for the film were giving away too much through their spots on television and on the silver screen, but Scorsese has added enough to the film for the story to feel fresh even for those "in the know." You are transferred in the films paranoia and phobia once the camera pans through the mental facilities open doors. Lehane is one of the luckiest authors on the planet to have his work adapted to the big screen by talents such as Eastwood and Scorsese, but his work is brilliant and deserving of such treatment.At the risk of spoiling plot points for potential viewers who have not read the book, I'll leave a Related Recommendations section concealed in "Spoiler" tags. Discussing this story at any length can be quite revealing.


                
Martin Scorsese has done it again. He pays attention to every detail in this film, making "Shutter Island" one of the best suspense thrillers of all time.Visually intriguing, simplistic and absolutely phenomenal. The story is kept simplistic enough so it doesn't get absurd, but allows for an ending which you probably won't see coming. The film doesn't go for cheap thrills, so although you will be on the edge of your seat you won't get needlessly scared.The film uses everything at its disposal from breathtaking scenery, to detailed laid-out shots, and to actors at their finest to completely engross you in the film. I loved every minute of it and highly recommend it to everyone. Even if you're not a usual fan of the genre, this film has so much more to it.


                
I just saw Shutter Island this evening, just prior to its American release. I have to say this film was full of intrigue. Prior to viewing this film I had built a preconceived notion of what this thriller was going to be like because I was fooled yet again by good marketing when watching the trailer. This is probably not the movie for your average film-goer who wants an easy plot line to follow and little thought required. This movie does challenge the viewer physchologically and definitely holds your attention all the way through. For someone who was never much of a Leonardo fan, his performance is brilliant, so much range to his character. In fact all of the acting in this film is excellent. The directing is probably the best quality to this film. I always enjoy watching a film that is as unpredicatable as this film and where the director has turned the plot line on to his viewer.


                
I saw this and I knew what to expect going in to the film as I had already read about half of the book but never got the chance to finish it. But I was surprised at how faithful the film was to the original material.The directing was also masterfully done and pretty cool I saw some cool camera tricks I hadn't seen since Martin Scorsese directed Bringing Out The Dead, Martin Scorsese did one great job and everyone was top notch especially Ben Kingsley and DiCaprio and I never though I would jump out of fright especially in a Scorsese film but I did. All in all a solid thriller with a good story and some great performances and for me it's the best film I've seen in 2010 so far.


                
Similar to my rating for this film, you can argue that 9 out of 10 people who watch this movie, it will not be their first Scorsese film. Most of us know the genius that he is and coming into this showing we should expect brilliance, and gladly he delivers a captivating storyline driven by great acting. Unfortunately with the release of Shutter Island was also a press release that Taxi Driver may be remade, so that news made me hesitant to care, but I'm glad I was wrong.Shutter Island is the story of Teddy Daniels, A U.S. federal marshall sent to the island with his partner Chuck Aule to search for the disappearance of a patient. Each scene provides a turn against their leads and compels them to look for more whilst searching in places we couldn't comprehend, including their minds. Leonardo DiCaprio and Mark Ruffalo feed off each other and supply great performances for their characters as expected, but some of the other characters whose names are riveted on the posters or marquees are sensational as well. The two that stuck out to me most were Ben Kingsley (Dr. Cawley) and Michelle Williams (Dolores, Teddy's wife), each of whom brought so much dramatics and new questions to the movie, developing plot twists and controversy. I don't think this film would be the same without them.Even to begin explaining details of the plot and how everything comes to fruition causes me to feel migraines alike the ones Teddy gets in the movie, therefore I won't ruin anything for you now. Take my honest word that if you enjoyed any Scorsese movie in the past or have enjoyed movies that include surrealism, Shutter Island combines the two into an intense thriller that boggles the mind and possibly even "corrode it, rusts it". Also, if you are hesitant to watch this film because the trailer perceives it as a horror film with a lot of "jumpy" scenes, ignore that. I had the same feeling entering it, and there was only one towards the very end, but it was worth the shock. You will miss so much detail trying to cover your eyes for a few minutes sporadically throughout that it's not worth it. Take the risk of jumping out of your seat for once, because it was the best scare I could ask for.9/10. Not Martin's best work, but come on, could you make a better movie than him?


                
This is my first film directed by Martin Scorsese. And I am amazed at the script, the actors play, storyline. Undoubtedly, this is one of the best movies I have ever watched. Why I was interested in?Firstly, it is the atmosphere of the film. 1954. Many people watch films like this because they want to plunge into the atmosphere of antiquity. So, the spirit of antiquity is shown dynamically. Since the beginning of the film the contrast between the island and the outside world emphasize very clearly. And when the story starts to develop in a bad condition for Marshall, you begin to understand the hopelessness of the situation - and this ending seems really confusing and intriguing.Secondly, it is an actor's game. DiCaprio. And that's all. Wonderful play, emotions, story comprehension. Mark Ruffalo is able to create a perfect image of partner. I especially want to mention the scene in the room when Rachel called her husband Marshall.Thirdly, it is a plot. In my opinion, the further the film, the more puzzles which keep us in the entire movie screen. And all of the solution - at the end, though all at once. The plot is the most important. That's why you must to see the movie. You never know what it will end.Fourth, this is the place. The island with all its old buildings is perfectly suited to the scenario. Weather, fortress, mysterious hundreds of rats, ominous cliff ferry with shackles and horror picture, lighthouse are created for the brilliant creations Scorsese. I was surprised by the memories of the main hero. Camp Dachau, wind, dead bodies, burning by hate DiCaprio or the burning house with his wife. Everything is shown to stop the viewer's heart. I recommend this film.
I thought this film was fantastic, i wouldn't call it scary or easily frightening, I would call it a mystery thriller masterpiece. As usual with Leonardo DiCapro, he was always excellent at playing the right roles. Gee, he had to play two characters - Ted and Andrew which could make you confused to which one is he really acting as. That must be really challenging but i say Leonardo is well able to do any role at the same time!I liked the fact this was based on a mental asylum on an island because it just gives you the curious feeling of what will happen next. You really don't to skip a minute or two to not see the full movie since you just gotta find out what really is going on. Although be warned, you will just get one jump-scare. Its the scene where Andrew shot his wife after she killed their three children and you wouldn't have expected it since it was so fast!This is a really great masterpiece of DiCapro's work, I give this movie 9/10 :)
Shutter Island is an absolute breathtaking movie with a tremendous storyline that will keep you interested all the way through and a brilliant cast that all follow through with their performances in an overall terrific film once again from the great Martin Scorsese.The movie sounded pretty plain to me,I thought it would be an average thriller that I would enjoy but it would be pretty forgettable,but it totally wasn't,the movie had me curious and also confused,and the twist was one of the greatest,most surprising and most shocking twists i've ever seen in a movie,I literally never suspected it,not even once,and when it did happen I still didn't believe it.Shutter Island is a must see for all fans of Leonardo DiCaprio,Martin Scorsese,thriller and mystery.Teddy Daniels (Leonardo DiCaprio),a US Marshall,sets out with his partner to a mental institution in a quiet island to investigate where a missing patient could have gone.But there's something suspicious about the island that they didn't bargain for.


                
A 1950s ward for the criminally insane isn't a pleasantry for anyone. The terror behind the walls has a mystique to the public. It's as though unspeakable acts of torture can exist within the confines of padded rooms so long as the public never witnesses first hand. The isolation, or in the case of Martin Scorsese's Shutter Island the possibility of it, could be enough to drive you insane.Leonardo DiCaprio stars as U.S. Marshal Teddy Daniels. Having met up with new partner Chuck (Mark Ruffalo), he's on assignment to investigate the disappearance of Rachel (Emily Mortimer) from the secluded mental hospital on Shutter Island. During his visit, Teddy is plagued by vivid recollections of his days as a soldier liberating a Nazi death camp and visions of Delores, his deceased wife (Michelle Williams). These tie in with Teddy's ulterior motives: investigating rumored inhuman experiments and locating his wife's murderer.I didn't read the book; get used to it. I watch movies and I review them on their own merit. I'm not one to bicker about the source material being wronged when I know full well that a book typically contains an unfilmable heap of situations that need to be whittled down into entertainment in a convenient sub-three hour block. I care about the movie, and in the case of Shutter Island I speculate that fans of the book will have a far different experience since they should have a very solid notion of what happens. For me, someone new to the material, Shutter Island is captivating.When it comes to the plot there is a ton that I'd like to discuss, but can't simply because this is a puzzle film and I don't want to ruin it's intricately woven pattern of suspense. I'll say that some elements are very familiar, but that doesn't stop it from being a shocker. Elsewhere I can say that it's a well-crafted film on technical levels. The visions of the dead wife are often complemented with CGI that's used with discretion. Cinematography is strong, showing the colors reminiscent of a similar era prison film, The Shawshank Redemption. Originally I felt that the theatrical score was beating me over the head, but it didn't take long to assist in providing atmosphere. Editing also plays a role as cuts are made in unorthodox fashion, purposely creating misaligned audio, but this pertains mostly to the dream sequences. The cast even excels as each role becomes deeper than speculated. Leo gives another powerful performance now that he's cleared the hurdle of being typecast as "the kid".When it comes to the twisted thrillers, I prefer endings to be less blatant. With Shutter Island the longwinded conclusion spells out every last possibility. I'm not looking for something open to interpretation, but requiring more participation. There's still plenty of evidence to spot that you'd want to view it again for the details or chat with friends. As I think more about it, that's what separates the thrillers from the horrors. The thrillers make you think about outcomes, motives, and twists. Shutter Island doesn't tie itself into a knot, but it gets close. That frustration can polarize an audience, but if you've trusted in me this far then you're ahead of the game.NOTE: If you are playing the Shutter Island drinking game, be sure to take a shot each and every time Mark Ruffalo says "boss". That's the only rule you'll need.


                
My expectations were a prison movie with US marshals on the rampage story, little knowing that it was a psychological jig-saw puzzle. Often offering horror movie and holocaust atmosphere with lashing of blood rather than logic, you enter an on-screen game that references past glories of cinema (WWII movies, horror classics, concentration camps) and throwing them at you like the ever present debris of a storm raging on the outside walls of the institution and with screams of insanity from within, the movie unravels the mystery in our minds. The movie was truly brilliant.Filmed on an island off Boston (1954) during a fascinating period in history which has been mostly overlooked by film makers (end of war 1945 to 54), it shows an almost forgotten period in time, rich in costumes making you almost think everyone is dressed and ready for church or a funeral. Post-WWII, pre-Kennedy's, pre-rock'n'roll and the end of the Great American Song Book period with up tempo jazz/crooners, it was a period in history that has been left in the dormitory (or mental institution buildings of the movie) for so many years. The world was recovering from the end of WWII; the baby boomers were learning to walk or starting school; the baby boomers were 5 years from bobby socks. It was a rather sedate world that was awaiting the arrival of Rock n Roll.While watching it, I was constantly thinking Hitchcock and North By North West where Cary Grant questions his sanity against the background of a story that develops on screen - also similar to Vertigo and other Hitchcock where the main character suffers paranoia. In the background, there was an ever present suspenseful sound track reminiscent of again of Hitchcock and the literal cliff hanging scene.There were some truly disturbing images contrasted with absolute tenderness. In a few spots, I thought Leonardo was playing a weak role but as it works out, he is playing the character's weaknesses and flaws. For a moment, in one scene I thought he showed the facial expressions and mannerisms of a frustrated Jack Nicholson to brilliant effect.Great support cast including a few look-a-likes and almost circus caricatures. A prison scene shows a character looking like Robert De Niro in "Mary Shelley's Frankenstein" but it is not him. The security guards and hospital staff were perfectly picked looking like main street cops and prison guards from 1950's USA. Hilarious and disturbing selection of extras as patients - they were straight from an old horror movie.Mark Ruffalo plays a different part as a breakaway from his usual rom-com roles. Great to see the past masters like Max Von Sydow and Ben Kingsley. Patricia Clarkson keeps popping up in movies these days as a careworn eccentric and her old world-style glamour. She usually plays the supportive wife, mainstay or consort of a lead but here plays a gutsy character role.A dazzlingly and macabre revelation was Michelle William's character (Dawson's Creek and mother of Heath Ledger's child) who was amazing as Leo's wife. A truly magnificent role for our sweet Jen Lindley: I kept looking for Dawson. Joey and Pacey; expecting to spot Jack and the baby - all grown up.
I had been wanting to watch this film for a while and when I finally got round to doing so it did not disappoint. Leonardo DiCaprio was perfect in the role of the marshal Teddy Daniels and he really brought the whole film to life with his performance. Mark Ruffalo was also memorable for his portrayal of the supporting character and their relationship was a crucial part of the story so it was important that they both played their parts convincingly. What I loved about this film was the whole psychological aspect of it which makes it extremely gripping. It's the type of film which constantly makes you wonder who is telling the truth and it pushes the viewers to try and figure out what is really going on. As the film progresses and reaches the final stage there are more and more twists revealed. Even after having seen the big revelation at the end of the film I still know I could watch this film again in the future as it would be interesting to view taking into account the truth at the end. Even though this film is over 2 hours long it certainly didn't feel like it and the thrilling scenes and build up of suspension throughout made it go so quickly. This film is definitely worth a watch and some people may have mistaken it for a horror from some parts of the trailer but it was simply a good psychological thriller.


                
Scorcese is an accomplished cinematic mind. There is no question of this. When he dies, we will celebrate the loss of a talent.But his life has been compromised by limits in the depth of his religion of cinema. This has haunted him, and he will not be happy to die until he conquers this.The problem is simple. I'll call it the curse of the character, and link it to Dante, or even Homer. That it dominates much written narrative is purely an accident of war. This is the idea that humans exist as complete, each one of us carrying a universe within us that some of us are able to project and carry around us.If we build stories, then, the stories are about the nature of the worlds attached to characters. The characters can actually be tragic, manipulated by their own world forces, or even uninteresting. But no matter how you slice it, the narrative follows people and the containing world is an annotation, an effect. I believe this is "Italian" in film-making and Scorcese was captured by it. Unfortunately for him, the cult of the actor in Hollywood (and associated market forces that support critics) feeds this. So he adopted deNiro and made films that were at least competent. But the camera could only follow bodies.But all the real juice in cinema is in this idea of noir. It has penetrated everywhere to some extent because it matters. The religious cosmology of noir has a world that exists apart from any humans. It pre-exists, has its own laws and dynamics. Being external to the souls of humans who appear, it blows them around and tinkers with those souls.It has the advantage that the film's narrative can entangle the existence of the world with the viewers and their needs. It brings the film to the viewers in a sort of contract, a dialog that cannot be refused. It also allows the camera to exist in a world apart from the characters. Thus, the filmmaker can inform us of the situation. Space matters. Texture, color, light all have their own lives.Scorcese has been bothered by the fact that his films did not do this; could not. Here he was with the craft, the skills, but not the vision. So in one of the most intriguing inner stories in Hollywood, he attempts to escape his own limits.He shifts from deNiro-like actors to deCaprio style. He tries, really hard to discover. His "Gangs" was a noble attempt, but a failure because of problems with funders. "Aviator" was his first noir success, helped by the influence of Cate (playing Kate). Check out the story, which mirrors Marty's plight. Marvel in that cool scene where the room is filled with strings.The rat movie was a retreat. And now this. It is a pure victory, an personal achievement. Some of us have been rooting for the man in his encounter with himself and are doubly rewarded with this film.There are elements in the story that reflect this quest of the filmmaker. I wouldn't want to focus on them too much here, because the reader may think that the story itself matters more than it should. But see the references to Spielberg's similar quest with "Close" and "List?" See the imposition of the noir narrator and the notion of slippery trust? See the folds in the anagrams? Look how at the end, we have shifted truths but the ambiguity remains. He could indeed still be the investigating cop, now compromised. In fact, this could be a flashback to the episode we learn happened nine months previously. (Note in particular how the tie changes toward the end.)Those story elements would have made a good comment. I'll do that elsewhere. Here the point is to look at how Marty has a new eye. Look at how the camera is almost never anchored to a person. Look at how it always — always — starts with some focus on an element of the world then slips to catch a person (always Teddy, then his focus). Look at how well we understand the importance of location, architecture, place, space, situation. Look at how for the first time ever, Marty shows space: flying paper, ash, dust, hail, leaves, trees. Look at how he even explores the architecture of water a bit. Watch with admiration as he announces his love for Thelma (his editor), and allows her some rubato in how the thing is paced because she owns the clock of the world, now hers.My immediate context: I saw this in a theater with a pride of chattering young Marines. They could not follow the story and left laughing at themselves.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.


                
Have you ever lost your orientation under water? Fallen into a river and momentarily become unsure of which direction is up and which is down, for example? It may only last a split-second, but it's a terrifying experience. While never frightening or terrifying, Shutter Island brought me as close as any movie has to becoming that disoriented, and it can do it to you too<U+0085> if you let it.OverviewThe movie starts out rough. Some wooden dialogue is exchanged between two detectives on a ferry. Honestly, it had me worried those first few minutes. Fortunately it doesn't take long for the mystery to begin, and after that it's hard not to get pulled in by the questions that build up. The movie keeps you chasing after answers like a carrot on a stick. If you pay attention, virtually every scene adds more questions to the mystery, and any answers that are given become increasingly tenuous.While the unanswered questions about Shutter Island drive the story forward, there's more than mystery to keep you entertained. That's an important point — the movie holds its own even if you're familiar with the plot. Most of the dialog is clever. While the characters are flat and 2-dimensional, each one functions well within the story. Interesting silhouettes all, you could say. Possibly the most intriguing aspects of the film are the dream sequences. To me they felt very dream-like (a hard trick to pull off), and they intertwine with the plot brilliantly.The CastEvery actor is well placed in their part, and it's an interesting assortment of talent. Ben Kingsley is a stand-out and manages to convey the position and feelings of his character with simple glances and expressions. Leonardo DiCaprio<U+0085> well, as always, his acting is excellent in some ways, but at times I felt like his voice was too controlled and somewhat stiff. I also have a suspicion that he intentionally seeks roles that don't suit him just so that he can show his breadth of range. Once or twice during the first half of the film I found myself wondering about this once. As the story progressed, however, I began to identify with him more and more as Teddy Daniels, and I began to see less of DiCaprio. I could have sworn that his acting got better as the movie progressed, but that might have been my mind playing tricks on me.Some of the most interesting acting went into the minor roles — Patricia Clarkson, Emily Mortimer, Max Von Sydow, Ted Levine and Robin Bartlett all deliver memorable, if brief, performances.The EndWithout going into details, all I'm going to say is that the end of the movie is very satisfying, in a thought-provoking way, and not because of any "twist." The last line, in particular, has interesting interpretations. (Note: If you've seen the film and you're confused about the last line, I've written a few brief words on it)How to enjoy this movie:* Commit yourself to trying to solve the mystery of exactly what's going on, and just go along for the ride.* Don't expect a whole lot of action. This movie is full of suspense and mystery, but not much of a thriller.* Don't expect the main character to make all the right moves. It's easy to think "He should be doing this," or "Man, what's he thinking? I wouldn't do that," but then again we have a bird's eye view of this story's progression.* Pay attention to where people cast their glances throughout the movies. Very telling? Maybe, maybe not. Very interesting, for sure.* Don't put the weight of your judgment on "the twist" (this one applies to all twist movies). I don't understand people who do their best to guess what the twist is going to be, only to whine and complain when they get it right. They set themselves up for disappointment and then blame it on the movie rather than themselves. My advice: Don't fall into that trap. Simple as that.Weak Points:* If you try to get the better of this movie, or try to be smarter than it, you might succeed<U+0085> but then you won't get anything out of it. Intellectual masochists beware.
Martin Scorcese has laid many cinematic landmarks in crime genre, and as a result, has earned a spot as one of the most influential directors to ever step foot in Hollywood. He has been met with much critical acclaim with his gritty portrayal of the gangster life in his film such as Taxi Driver, Goodfellas, Casino, Gangs of New York, and The Departed. Teaming up with his frequent collaborator Leonardo Dicaprio, Scorcese takes a more dark and surreal direction in this psychological thriller set with plenty of twists and turns. Leonardo Dicaprio plays U.S Marshal Teddy Daniels, who travels across seas to investigate a mysterious and deserted island along with his partner Chucke Aule (played by Mark Ruffalo). There lies a hospital run by Dr. Cawley (played by Ben Kingsley) and Dr. Neahring (played by Max Von Sydow) holding mentally insane prisoners, where Daniels and Aule are in search of a patient named Rachel who has mysteriously disappeared. Going further into their investigation, the two quickly turn the dark and sinister secrets behind the wretched prison of a hospital, soon to the point where Daniels deteriorating of his mental state and his identity all together. Mixing elements of neo noir and elements of pure horror, this film conveys a dark and surreal plot that unfolds to something truly shocking and well crafted in a unique way. The psychological elements conveyed throughout the story go very deep in ways that may remind those who seen films like 'Seven' or 'The Sixth Sense' as these both deal with individuals who are psychological damaged. This film paces steadily through one spine- chilling thrill after another, and as the story progresses, the tone gets more and more eerie; building up an astonishing plot twist at the end that is likely to leave you startled. Like David Fincher's 'Seven', this film never lightens up in tone, giving you the feeling of hopelessness throughout its run time, yet it's still entertaining. The plot doesn't go without its flaws however. The film has its moments where gets overly convoluted to the point I could leave you scratching your head. Ultimately, the plot picks up not to soon before it reaches its grim climax.Leonardo Dicaprio has been one of my favorite actors for as long I can remember, an actors always shows off powerful performances, yet has never landed an Oscar for his works. His performance as the main character Teddy Daniels is terrific. He is very charismatic throughout, especially when his character go through some spine-chilling changes. Mark Ruffalo who plays his partner also deserves some applause for his performance, playing his role very solid and willfully. Ruffalo is who I believe is an underrated actor and hope garners an Oscar one day (as well as Dicaprio). Shutter Island is a twisted, but stunning piece of entertainment by Martin Scorcese, complete with a terrific screenplay, powerful performances, and a strong narrative that grabs your attention. This is much different than the typical Scorcese fare. Nonetheless, it is astonishingly entertaining.


                
I watched Shutter Island a few hours ago and I'm shocked to imagine that I almost missed it on the theaters. The trailer made it look like a modern horror movie: full of silly jump scenes, dissonant music, grainy cinematography, fast editing. I found the trailer so disgusting to look at, I nearly missed the movie.Well, I'm glad I watched it after all, because I wouldn't hesitate to consider it a modern masterpiece. It's also the best Martin Scorsese movie I've seen by him since Casino.The movie, a mystery set in 1954, follows US Marshall Teddy Daniels and his new partner, Chuck, as they arrive at Shutter Island, a desolate place that holds a mental hospital for the criminally insane. Their original mission is to find a patient who disappeared, but Teddy has a secret mission: he believes Shutter Island is keeping sinister secrets, involving experiments on the patients. And he took the mission to get on the island and gather evidence to prove it.To reveal more would spoil the movie.In recent years Martin Scorsese seems to have been making only Oscar bait - his historical epics, Gangs of New York and The Aviator were clear attempts at getting the prized statuette, and it's ironic that it was his least ambitious, more banal movie to date, The Departed, that finally got him an Oscar. But it seems that it released him from this obsession and he has gone back to making great movies without Oscar concerns. Shutter Island is his first movie in a long time to make a good combination of plot and character, and use pacing in an exciting way, drawing the viewer into the story slowly but hypnotically.Leonardo DiCaprio has improved a lot in recent years, taking more interesting projects. In Shutter Island he gives a great performance as Teddy, an ex-soldier who witnessed the liberation of Dachau, haunted by the horrors of the Holocaust, who became a US Marshall only to be hit by a tragedy in his own country. His face and body language, but especially his eyes, transmit the pain of a man who's seen too much and suffered too much and yet continues to cling to life. Although the movie starts as a mystery, it's in fact a character study of Teddy.The supporting cast is just as good: Mark Ruffalo is hit and miss for me, but here he hit it as Teddy's likable partner, Chuck. Ben Kingsley gives a great performance too as Dr. Cawley, a man who radiates nothing but caring for his patients and yet Teddy thinks there's something evil in him. Max Von Sydow, with less screen time than any of the others, is also perfect as a truly sinister doctor.The rest of the movie is in the hands of Scorsese's usual team: Thelma Schoonmaker, Dante Ferretti, Francesca Lo Schiavo and Sandy Powell. I loved the cinematography throughout the movie, every shot was so well framed, so elaborate, the movements so fluid and unusual. I was quite happy to learn it was Robert Richardson (Platoon, JFK, The Aviator) in charge of the cinematography: he's one of the best DPs working in Hollywood nowadays.Another aspect that captured my attention was the music; it seemed so fit for each scene I was amazed to discover none of it had been composed for the movie. I especially loved the use of Max Richter's music in it; he composed one of the best scores I've ever listened to - Waltz With Bashir - and his non-film music can be quite good too. The piece used, On The Nature Of Daylight, was one of my favorite tracks in the movie.Shutter Island is an exciting, tense, and heartbreaking movie. Leonardo DiCaprio made Teddy Daniels such a likable person, the ending might leave some people sad over his fate. It's not death, but this movie shows that there are things worse than death in this world. And perhaps that's the best praise I can give this movie, that it shows new types of horrors we're not accustomed to think about. For that, Martin Scorsese and everyone involved in Shutter Island deserve a lot of praise.
2010 was very good to Leonardo DiCaprio. Shedding his pretty little boy image, he played in two very gritty and similar films, "Shutter Island" and "Inception". I saw them both and enjoyed them both. And, to buck the tide, I'd have to say I actually liked "Shutter Island" a little more...really. Now do NOT just rush out to rent this one, as I can't see this film appealing to everyone. It IS confusing. The plot can feel a bit tiresome and slow. But, if you are very patient, it all comes together perfectly--with the last 15 minutes totally enthralling me. I think part of it is because I am a retired psychotherapist and psychology teacher--and the film is a great psychological drama. And, the story actually is consistent psychologically and is actually plausible.Now I could recap the plot, but currently there are something like a bazillion reviews on IMDb for this film. Instead, let's talk about what I liked. First and foremost, the writing was simply great--very intelligent and well-crafted. It really makes you think and doesn't underestimate the audience's intelligence. Second, the acting is really good. DiCaprio was excellent, but having Ben Kingsley and Max Von Sydow REALLY made this a wonderful picture. Watch this one...it's currently on premium cable. And, it's also a film that bear re-watching as there are many layers to the film you won't notice the first time.
Shutter Island: 9.1/10 - As should be obvious by now, Martin Scorsese is all about creativity; painting a picture through film and completely absorbing the viewer in the world of the movie. His undeniable ingenuity of the process of film-making and truly creating a work of art makes Shutter Island that much more impressive. Scorsese does what he does best, creating a vivid and surreal world and sets one underlying mood that is present constantly throughout the movie; however, he didn't stray far from the story that Dennis Lehane created. In fact, he captured every element piece by piece, presented the atmosphere with delicacy so as to bring the island, the characters and the story to life.The narrative time-line of Shutter Island isn't that of your normal film. Some scene cuts seem awkward and make the viewer feel as though they may have missed something. However, Scorsese does a beautiful job of displaying this type of feeling. While reading Lehane's book, one cannot help but feel like they are missing something as they go page to page; that is not by accident. Lehane structured his book to give off a level of uncertainty, to give off a feeling of something missing just like how Teddy Daniels seems to always be missing something. Through Lehane's writing and Scorsese's directing the audience is brought into Daniels' world; full of fill-in-the-blanks and confusion.However, Scorsese didn't stop at simply confusing the audience and pulling them into the mystery; we also brought Daniels' innermost struggles and tortures to life. The nightmare sequences are by far the highlight of Shutter Island, at least from a filmmaker's perspective. In these shots the viewer is introduced to haunting images such as Daniels' memories from war and mesmerizing sequences between Daniels and his dead wife. The connection between all of it, much like the film, is a bit hazy, but for specific reasons: just as Daniels struggles to put everything together, so does the audience. Likewise, Scorsese uses a great deal of foreshadowing, especially earlier on in the film that might not be so easy to pick up on, thus adding to the puzzle.Outside of the techniques and elements used to successfully capture the atmosphere, tone, and mood of the setting, the cast does some of the best work thus far in 2010. Lead by an almost superhuman performance by Leonardo DiCaprio, which may very be his best work to date; each actor portrays their character exactly as described and made out to be in the novel. Aside from DiCaprio, Ben Kingsley (Dr. Cawley), Michelle Williams (Dolores) and Jackie Earle Haley (George Noyce) are especially effective in their roles as is Mark Ruffalo (Chuck Aule) to a lesser extent.Though it may not seem so, Shutter Island is the best movie to have been released in 2010 so far. Because although its structure and design may seem nothing more than a nightmare to some viewers, even nightmares contain a touch of beauty and a great deal of art if you can dig deep enough.
The trailer had me wondering if the movie would miss its mark. I was expecting the haunting atmosphere with a mystery to boot. I kinda wondered if there were going to be ghosts or evil creatures. But I left that in the back of my mind. I opted more for the mystery and atmosphere.Unfortunately, I expect DiCaprio to disappoint me because he just doesn't have that "quality actor" appeal for me. I am also aware I am probably not in the majority. But as it goes, I am slowly coming out of my cloud of negativity. This was one of DiCaprio's better roles. I liked him best in The Departed but Shutter Island is going to stick in my mind for a long time.Ben Kingsley was at the top of his game here as the mysterious Dr. Cawley. He was an easy man to be suspicious of thanks to his squinty eyes and devious smirks. Thanks also to the implications and direction of the movie. While DiCaprio and Kingsley easily filled the bill for leads, all the actors did a great job of keeping this viewer's attention.The atmosphere and scenery provided satisfactory background while the action and actors merged well to make this such a great, void-less movie. Yes, the sea was angry that day my friend, but actions, icons, trinkets and memories kept the restless mind rolling. Push came to shove when doubt tried to overrule belief. "Up" and "down" had no meaning or relevance when it came time to analyze. What did have meaning was the love for the mystery and love itself.Once again, Scorsese puts it altogether in such a beautiful way. You sir, are the boss! And I mean that in a good way. Thanks! 9 of 10


                
This is a brilliant adaption of Dennis Lehane's novel. The atmosphere, the setting, and claustrophobia are all very well done.Shutter Island, is set in 1954, where US marshal Teddy Daniels and his partner Chuck Aule, arrive at the Ashclifff mental hospital, to investigate the disappearance of a female patient. Yet, as we quickly discover, nothing on shutter Island is what it seems. Martin Scorsese, I though peaked with his brilliant 2006 film, The Departed. Sadly I now have been proved wrong. For someone who was never much of a Leonardo fan, his performance is brilliant,SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER The film is very faithful to Denis Lehane's novel. For those who have read it every thing falls into place.
WARNING - Contains spoilers - WARNINGMartin Scorsese adapts Dennis Lehanes's novel Shutter Island into a near perfect film. Starring alongside Leonardo DiCaprio is Sir Ben Kingsley, Mark Ruffalo, John Carroll Lynch and Elias Koteas. If you're a fan of Scorsese you'd know that his cast always delivers and this one was no different. The acting for the majority was top-notch but DiCaprio especially stood out. He was absolutely amazing, his attitude, intensity and emotions in his eyes made you feel what he was going through at every point throughout the film. For his performance he deserves the best actor nod for next year's Oscars. The story revolves around two U.S. marshals Teddy Daniels (Dicaprio) and Chuck Aule (Ruffalo) who are sent to Boston's Aschecliffe Hospital for the criminally insane; which is located on the island to investigate a disappearance of an inmate. When they arrive they're told by Deputy Warden McPherson (Carroll) of what is where and the rules. This scene engages you instantly and makes you curious about what is hidden behind all those locked doors. Next they meet Dr. Crawley (Kingsley) who informs them of what has happened since the prisoner vanished and this is when the investigation begins. Throughout the search, we were shown multiple locations that made the atmosphere authentic; they didn't have to use music in order to make you anxious and or frightened. The different types of landscapes they utilized worked perfectly. For once there weren't any CGI and green screens in this, and I'd like to thank Mr. Scorsese for using actual environment shots on the island. However some of the scenes were irritating. For instance one scene, which involved a fire, was beyond annoying when two of the characters were in this cave discussing the matters about the island. The usage of fire was a good choice for light but shot in the worse way possible; while they were talking the flames kept flickering in front of their faces. That was such a horrible distraction and made you want to close your eyes and sleep through the scene. Don't know if it was Scorsese or the Director of Photographer that decided to shoot the scene like that but it should never be done again. During another sequence of events, the parts that got frustrating were the constant flashbacks. Even though it's based on a novel which should be followed to a certain degree, some of the scenes should have been cut. It was confusing sometimes because you didn't know if it was real or a flashback. With all these different flashbacks, it felt like it was Saw for several minutes and with regards to these scenes it almost takes away the flow of the movie. Nevertheless, this is one of the best psychological thrillers out there. This is a must-see for everyone except for children. Do not bring your child to this. As much as this is an amazing film sadly it's the type of movie you see once.9 out of 10
This movie is better than most people realize. Only after watching it a second time is the true brilliance of the movie revealed. This movie is about perception and the way the mind chooses to see/ things. At the beginning, unknowing of the facts, we follow along with Leonardo DiCaprio's character, believing and seeing as he does. Eventually we reach the end and the twist is revealed to us as it is simultaneously revealed to DiCaprio. While watching the movie the second time everything its very obvious what's going on. The viewer is able to see the movie from the perspective of everyone else. I have to say the actors did a great job creating duality in a single experience. I would highly recommend.


                
Leonardo is one of the best, if not, maybe the best actors this 21th century has ever seen. His range of roleplay is beyond limit. He dwells so deep into his acting roles that he lives with them, he becomes one with the story. He deserved an Oscar so much, that people disliked the fact that he got one with the Revenant, but in fact, that Oscar was won because of all his previous masterpieces, it was a long waited and deserved victory. This movie is something else, it is beyond your average movie and beyond the average plot twist. It plays with your mind the way his mind plays on Leonardo in the movie. The story is phenomenal, it is beyond beautiful, but the ending... oh, how good that ending was, those last 20 seconds. 9/10


                
## This does contain information that could be considered "spoiler"ish##The set up: Leonardo DiCaprio and Mark Ruffalo are federal marshals sent in 1954 to the dark and foreboding Shutter Island to investigate the near impossible disappearance of a patient from the island's asylum for the criminally insane. It soon becomes clear the staff is as suspect as the patients and that DiCaprio may actually be right when he jokingly says insanity is contagious.The good? So much has here has been done right. The mystery quickly grows with so many possible explanations to pick from. Is it supernatural? Could the ghost Dicaprio's dead wife literally be helping him solve the mystery? A government conspiracy? Continuation of Nazi experiments? There are some beautifully shot dream/hallucination scenes infused with drama and emotion by superb acting on the part of DiCaprio and Michelle Williams who plays his dead wife. The script is smart, clever with comments on the horrors of war and how the view of humanity was altered by assembly line like mass murder of the Holocaust. DiCaprio is the center of this drama in ways you will only realize at the end but the rest of the cast is equally adept. ##Spoiler## The bad? I guess I should give the obligatory spoiler alert here...Half way through the movie I began to suspect where it was going to end and said a little prayer to the movie gods that it not be true. In the post Sixth Sense era, moviegoers have been, in my opinion, deluged with movies that abuse the "twist" ending. Often it is just lazy storytelling rather then a clever trick. It was not until later that I found out Shutter Island is based on a book; so my one big criticism does not really add up to too much. Rather than a conscious decision by Scorsese, the ending is consistent with the book. What is the twist? Don't worry I won't tell but let's just say that doctors on Shutter Island have some pretty progressive treatment methods.One last note, when Brittany Murphy died, I saw someone online post, "who is going to play the crazy girls now?" I nominate Michelle Williams because in Shutter Island she plays crazy in ways that are scary good.
I was lucky enough to see this film on opening day and like a lot of people I was interested to see how Scorsese would tackle this new genre. I must say that the movie was nothing like I expected, but in my opinion is one of the best films to come out in a very long time.That being said, I lined up the very next day with a different group of friends to watch it a second time to see how different the perspective would be having that I already know the twist. I really believe that it's not until you watch this film the second time (or that you have an extremely good memory) that you can't really appreciate just how good this film is.A lot of people have been bagging out the film saying that the twist is predictable. Well yes, obviously it's not a stretch to work out that Leonardo's character is somewhat psychopathic given the constant flashbacks and how overall unstable he appears to be. Although, Scorsese does do a good job of trying to throw the viewer off the scent (e.g. the second meeting with Rachel). However for me, the actual twist was not the fact that he was unstable, more the fact that the entire film had been a set-up by the institution and Leonardo was, as so aptly put by a patient, 'a rat in a maze'.The thing I really liked about this film (and again, watching a second time I highly recommend) are the subtleties across the entire film that suggest the twist. Things like Mark Ruffalo struggling to get his gun out of his holster early in the film (obviously because he's never had to unclip a holster before). The institutions flat out refusal to hand over records of staff. The joking and lack of attention when Leonardo is interviewing the staff. When the axe lady was asked about Dr Sheehan, she mentions that he is good-looking and a very quick shot is then taken of Mark Ruffalo (who we later find out is Dr Sheehan) glancing back at her with almost a smirk. The constant dropping of various lines across the film to try to spark Leonardo's memory. Various glances between staff working at the institution. The first Rachel scene where they try to jog Leonardo's memory about his wife murdering the children. The warden's obvious dislike towards Leonardo claiming that he is violent and knows him well. Theses truly are the things that I believe make this film (and there are a tonne more) a cut above most other Hollywood trash.This was a brilliant film and whilst I don't believe this is something for everyone, I feel it really challenges the viewer mentally and you can't help but go through the psychosis with Leonardo, wandering if he is actually insane or whether the institution is setting him up. Throw into the mix some first-class acting and this is a real winner in my books, watch out for this as a contender for some big awards.
Every body has it's own imagination, dreams, fears and etc. But what makes us to get lost in our imaginations? What makes us to cross the line? What makes us to look crazy as much as we seem normal?I think this movie has answered some of those questions. I realized that when you have nothing to believe in, no one to trust in and you suddenly loose every thing you have, you have no way but going through your imaginations.By a survey at Scorsese's movies we see that most of them have a kind of apocalyptic atmosphere. "taxi driver", "The departed", "The gangs of new york" and the last one "Shutter island". And the best term to describe their hero's situation is this; "when you're facing a loaded gun, what's the difference?"[1][1]: "the departed"


                
