In the first episode, you can already see the amazing animation, the well-chosen voices, the immediate gripping of fear over the future in your chest. Death Note is a must-see for those who love to have a good 5 minutes of thinking because Death Note beautifully weaves suspense and unexpected turn of events that leaves the audience stunned and fascinated.You'll notice the good production, but to truly decide whether it's worth watching you will have to watch to the 2nd (and for those who are stubborn, the 3rd) episode. If you are planning to watch this for a limited of time, you're in luck because the series is only 37 episodes long since the manga already ended.While the IQ of the two main characters is straight-out impossible, you still cannot feel but admire just how logical their reasons for making possibilities and theories are (what makes it even scarier is that most of the theories that L or Light, the two protagonists, are true). If you are one who watches things from a personal view, you would have a hard time deciding whether the things they are doing are right and if they are, in reality, insane.There is slight humor that adds faint scratches on the anime, but it is soon covered up in the next minute with what a character has done or said. There was not a moment where I wasn't sitting at the edge of my seat, my eyes literally sticking to the screen. Every minute is worth watching, even the sinister theme songs played by Nightmare.What makes this anime/manga unique is that it's a mystery thriller where you hardly question the origins of something. You rarely ask yourself unanswerable questions (not even in the back of your mind) and without realizing, you're only focused on the present events.I promise, no matter what kind of audience you are, you will be gripped by this chilling life and death chain of events of a bored genius who kills criminals mercilessly with the mysterious Death Note.


                
I haven't read all the manga's, but from what I've read of the mangas and seen in the anime, this is one of the finest and truest conversions I've seen in a long time.The show somehow creates a great sense of action without a ton of mecha and ninjas and also contains a lot of well crafted tension. This is an intelligent triller with some great characters which thankfully isn't full of anime clichés! As with most great shows, let alone animes, as the story progresses and more intriguing characters are introduced the quality rises and you become hooked.I highly recommend checking out at least a few episodes to see how it sits with you. A lot of anime have a completely different feel from its peers and its worth giving some of them a chance to progress a little before dismissing them.


                
It's a great show, until L dies. It should have ended there. I hate every episode past L's death.
I read the manga, and now I just finished watching the anime series (next up is live aciton), and I'm quite thrilled.The plot as a whole is original. The premise of a DeathNote in itself is quite ludicrous of course, but once you get over that you just watch in awe as the most epic cat and mouse game in a long time unfolds before your eyes over 37 episodes. You never quite know where everything is headed. The plot and constant twists always kept me guessing and thus highly entertained. (Not exactly in the anime version because they followed the manga very closely, but still. Watch the anime. I actually would recommend this in this case.) The characters are quite fascinating. While I didn't care much about Misa, even she played her role. But its obviously L and Light that take the crown. Their relationship pretty much carries the series, and it shows when L is suddenly absent.Light is one of the most scariest, twisted, nihilistic and most of all intelligent bastards in recent creative history and you still root for him. L is pretty much every detective ever and I couldn't really place why I like him but I did. You end up rooting for both sides, and that makes for the fascination in this series.Truth to tell (and thats why I'm subtracting stars) I didn't that much care for the things happening after L's demise. It was a nice twist, but I never really warmed up to his replacements. Hence I also didn't like the ending. It just seemed like N and especially M didn't deserve to win. Things like they were, I would have much preferred for Light to succeed and the ending to be open.Still, this was one of the most original series I've seen in a while and is definitely worth a watch. If you're not hooked after three episodes though, it's probably not for you.
This is a super-difficult anime series to describe--especially to those who are not anime lovers. This is because the plot is so totally bizarre and complex, but I'll take a stab at it: I death god ("Ryuk") is bored, so he drops a death notebook randomly to see what occurs when a mortal finds it. A brilliant high school student, Light, finds it and soon realizes that if he writes a person's name in it and concentrates on the face of that person, then they will die! At first, Light uses this notebook to kill off the evil scum of the world and he becomes a pop hero--though no one knows who is doing these murders or how they are done. Eventually, the police decide that murdering these scum is bad and try to put a stop to it (why, I don't know--he is performing a community service).At this point, most viewers will likely side with Light and the story isn't all that compelling. However, the writing is brilliant, as Light slowly transforms from a well-meaning young man to someone with a god complex--and a person willing to kill ANYONE--whether they deserve it or not. The anime really has a lot to say about the notion of power corrupting, though I would sure be willing to use a death notebook to see if I would be corrupted (look out DMV workers with an attitude and trial lawyers, here I come!).As is typical of any anime, the original manga is slightly different and the live-action movie is even more different yet. I advise you to give the series a try or watch the first movie (which is even better). Even if you are not a huge anime fan (and I am NOT), you'll enjoy it if you are willing to give it a try with an open mind.
"Follow the teachings of god
then the blessings of the sea will be bountiful
and there will be no storms"Those are the words that we first hear from Yagami Light, the main character of this show. And in many cases, this represents that we are about to watch. A god who will bless those who follow his teachings, and strike a storm on those who don't.
Death note is a show about Yagami Light who finds a notebook on the school grounds. Someone must have dropped it. This catches Light's attention. So after class, Light checks the same place to see if the notebook is gone, which it isn't. He takes the notebook and reads the next on it, which says that "The human whose name is written in this note shall die".
Light drops the note and walks away thinking that it's a sick joke, but something makes him take it home anyway.
He decides to try it out, and it works. Light has found a way to kill anyone. He has become a god.And if I had to describe the show in one sentence, it would be that Light tries to become a god. With the accompanying sacral score and dramatic animation, we see how Light's mind works. How his god complex is affecting him.But even though Light is the character that makes everything work IMO, it is L who makes it all stick.
L is the "detective" character who is introduced as the contrast to Light. He is very unpredictable, quirky and calm. But even though they're personalities are different, they're "intellectual levels" aren't. L is the only one in Lights way. And that is what makes L's character work so well. Even when similar characters are introduced in the last third, they could never compete with L.This is both a problem and a blessing.
Cause L works best when Kira is active. Both of them work the best when both are active (BTW, this doesn't really have anything to do with the story. Just my opinion on the characters). And so when one of them isn't, my enjoyment suddenly changed. And if you have seen the show (Which I hope you have), you know why I bring this up. Cause when a little more than a third of the show has gone, Light isn't Kira anymore. He gives up his role as the killer. This made his character a lot less interesting IMO, and therefore L's too. And when that arc has finished, L dies too.So as you can see, I wasn't nearly as big of a fan of the second half than the first one. It wasn't bad. But if one of them were gone, then the show lost what made it special in my opinion.But again, I really liked this show. I'll give the show a 9/10. I know a lot of you will disagree, but I couldn't ignore my lack of enjoyment during the parts where one of Kira and L was gone.
I really liked the show from the beginning. It was intense to watch Kira and L trying to defeat one another. They are both pretty smart and I was surprised more than one time about what they came up with to reach their goals. The main problem occured after L's name was finally written into the death note. L was replaced by Near right away, which just felt wrong for me. It's basically the same character. Why not just leave the case to the rest of the team? (And let Kira win) The new characters where introduced much too fast and weren't really interesting which really bothered me. The second half was still ok I guess but not as good as it could have been. It just felt less interesting because I'd have loved to see what the characters would have done without the help of N.
I loved this! I usually watch peppier romantic animes so this was different for me. But I enjoyed it SO much! The one thing is that I was so sad about Ryuzaki and Watari! I just feel like Near and Mello just wasn't as fun watching like L. But I don't think it would have ended as it did had they never died... but honestly, my heart broke seeing how betrayed Touta felt when Light confessed.
Like many, I first watched Death Note on Adult Swim many years ago. Back when I felt rebellious sitting in a dark room until 1:00 A.M. And nothing was more fitting than Death Note. Dark, borderline controversial, smart, and page-turning, its probably one-of-a-kind.After half a decade, I decided to watch it again. I wanted to see how it held up. For the most part, I still think its one of the best animes of the 00s. Its fascinating and suspenseful to see the characters set up their elaborate plans, only to be countered by those a step ahead of them, or with even smarter ideas. Most of the characters are realistic and likable. Even Light, by all means a selfish man, has ambition and charisma. Writing-wise, its excellent. Even when little action is in an episode, I couldn't help but see the next one.However...two problems stuck out to me this time around. I still think Death Note is great...but I lowered my score because of them, and I can understand if they're deal breakers.The first big problem is the post-L episodes. Going in, I had no idea why they got so much hate. I figured it was due to whiny Light/L fans. But now I realize how bad Mello and Near really are. Mello has surprisingly little presence for a main character. When he dies, you don't think of him as a misunderstood genius, but an impulsive idiot. Even when his role is revealed, I still didn't like or respect him. Near is even worse! He's basically L without any moments of personality and Gary Stu levels of intelligence. Light and L were unnaturally smart, but Near is just unbeatable. He's never stumped, nor wrong about his assumptions. L didn't need to survive to the end, but his successors show that not even Death Note's writing is perfect.I should note that I still found the second season very exciting, despite the imperfection.I've never seen the next problem get brought up before, which I find kinda distressing. Throughout the show, you are forced to wonder if Light's actions are morally right. We get a good idea of his philosophy - the truly evil do not deserve to live, and their deaths only benefit society. Regardless of what you think about it, its an actual, human belief. As for the humanistic side? L, Near, and the task force are all complete i-d-i-o-t-s. It is rare for their arguments to go beyond "Murder is wrong, yo." Yet few questions are asked when they... A. Consistently violate others' right to privacy B. Use death row inmates as pawns C. Even encourage the death penalty (L says so at the end of episode 2). Evil is evil, no matter the intended purpose...unless they do it? Its hypocrisy, but its barely brought up, so it just seems like bad writing. No wonder why so many Death Note fans have become pro-vigilante justice. You and I could make a better case against Light.For these reasons, I no longer call Death Note a "masterpiece". But its still very good. I don't hand out 8s often. I'm glad I watched it, and for the early impressions it gave.
The central premise of Death Note is one that, to say the least, left me rather sceptical, the whole idea seeming like something dreamt up for someone's high school creative writing homework.It doesn't take long, though, to realise the error of such a judgement. The skill and precision with which the story unfolds is rather breathtaking - the central battle of wits between Light Yagami and his nemesis 'L' must surely rank amongst the subtlest ever laid out on screen, yet the pace never seems to drop for a moment. A mere self-introduction has surely never been as electric in any other story as 'L's is to Light here...Much of the success of the story can be put down to the brilliant characterisation of these two protagonists, engaged in a life-or-death struggle that essentially boils down to a difference in moral opinion - each considering himself a bastion of justice. It's a story that's been done many times over, sure, but it's kept fresh here by the particularities of the set-up. Indeed, Death Note is a story where everything comes down to the minutest of details, where one simple slip-up could mean total failure or death.The supporting characters work exceedingly well too; the Shinigami (Death God) Ryuk in particular, playing the role of the voyeur, providing some blackly comic moments of respite from the ever-present tension. Amane Misa is, perhaps, a little grating at times, but even she eventually charms.If there's anything to criticise in Death Note, it would probably be the slightly disjointed final act. The events at the end of the second act are understandable from a storytelling perspective, and a very bold move in terms of writing. From then on, however, it somehow fails to quite measure up to what has come before. A shame, really, but it doesn't do much to dampen the brilliance of a quite extraordinarily entertaining story. Highly recommended for fans of quality anime. Or, indeed, anyone.


                
Light, a Japanese high school student, finds a so-called Death Note, that enables the user to kill people by writing their names in it. He sets about cleansing the world of evil, while the police try to determine who he is... and stop him. This is the first animé series I watch, so I can't draw comparisons to others. It gets extremely visual at times, but at least half of the time, it isn't, particularly. The focus is on the writing, the twists, the mind games. There is a lot of cat-and-mouse going on, and we follow the investigation. Thankfully, both the law enforcement and our young lead are rather smart, so it is a very even match, and quite interesting to follow. In fact, at its best, this keeps you on the edge of your seat, and you'll find yourself watching multiple episodes in a row. At least until about the halfway point, after when it, at times, seems to not particularly move forward(and it suddenly decides to follow something that hasn't been brought up at all prior to that point, and sometimes soon after stops doing so). There are a few plot threads that go nowhere, or that could have been removed to tighten this up. The characters vary... L is awesome, definitely. We do have some that are clearly mainly comic relief, and yes, this does have a little of the silly humor that can be found in a lot of mainstream manga. The animation is nicely done, with some stunning moments and impeccable style. There is brutal, bloody, violent content in this. I recommend it to those who like the concept and want to see it explored, or anyone who enjoys this kind of detective thriller. 8/10


                
This anime is just amazing...you gonna fall in love with it just by watching its starting 2 episodes...it is an absolute thriller you could ever ask for...till episode 25 it is a 10/10 anime but after that its level falls drastically


                
Life is quiet boring sometimes. And that's not onLy true for humans, but also for Shinigamis (japoneses gods of Death). But when a shinigami gets bored, the consequences couLd be dramatic for the world. And that's the story this anime chooses to tell.Ryuku, one of those Shinegami, decides to drop one of his Death note to earth, in order to watch the interesting consequences of his act. This death note has the power to kiLL everyone as soon a the name of a person is written in it. And the young boy who found it has decided to kill plenty : he wants earth to be a paradise, where every criminaLs are erase from its surface thanks to the power of the death note, and to become the god of this new utopia. But things won't be so easy for Yagami Light aka Kira : if he wants to kill someone, he has to have his exact name and to visuaLize his face, and InterpoL, aware of this experience, send a genius detective to stop him, mysteriously named "L".The most interesting part of this complex and inventive anime Lies in the confrontation between Kira (the owner of the Death Note) and L, that takes the appearance of a deadly chess game, where a single mistake Leeds to failure and death. The first 18 episodes are a mentaL masterpiece, scenaristicaLy very impressive and visually extremeLy convincing. If the rest of the anime is a LittLe less good, the conclusion is also quite surprising and really beautiful.As Ryuku, that symboLizes the spectator point of view in the show finally said : "It was very pleasant to kill time with this game for so Long. That was really amusing".


                
Death note is one of the best anime series I have ever seen. L is the greatest detective and Light is very evil, Misa is quite dumb and Ryuk just wants to eat apples -.-L vs Kira was amazing. After L dies the show was not that good. Near tried to be L but wasn't anywhere near himThe 2nd episode of the series is epic. Light will do anything and use anybody to achieve his goal. He is the Walter White of this show.The beginning episodes were nicely written but in the last few episodes they were just dragging it. Overall I was glad that I watched an amazing show which could have been mind-blowing.
I watched first 6 (out of 37) episodes and I'm hooked. Although this type of animation goes on my nerves, it's not as bad as in other anime I encountered so far, and the story is so good that I have to see it through, no matter retarded looks of Shinigami and all the other flaws of the genre. This would be excellent feature thriller, either movie or series. If possible, in Japanese or European production, although I doubt even Hollywood could screw it too much. But, speculation on the side, in this form, I rate it8/10As the series progressed, I was more and more tempted to give it a 9, or even 10, but the last episode was a real disappointment. Someone who has been living a triple life for six years and playing the game at such a high level would not make such an amateur mistake. I knew they will get him eventually, but I was expecting some highly intelligent mindfak, not the outworn cliche of a villain exulting in the face of the enemy before his plan succeeded. Final rating8,5/10
This is the most intelligent game of cat and mouse you'll ever see. But, surprisingly, after dozens of episodes of mind-bending battles of wits, your brain starts to get tired and you forget who to root for and why. The two main characters are unique and well-developed, and you may find yourself changing your mind about who the protagonist is. However, there are only so many despicable acts that one can forgive. In the end, I was left pondering the big picture: what other potential uses for this power would their be, and why did the show creators choose to only explore the "power-trip" scenario?


                
So when I first got into anime this was one of the first series' that I began watching, and I can tell you that I wasn't disappointed in the slightest...at first. So the series follows almost perfect protagonist Light Yagami, who is a flawless student with a clear and promising future, his life is changed however, when he comes across the Death Note, a book holding the powers of a death god. He uses this to wipe the world clean of criminals, but his morals soon come into question. Obviously the authorities notice this and use what they can to catch the person killing the criminals, who is nicknamed 'Kira' The premise is absolutely fantastic but the only thing that did get me at first was how quickly Light descended into madness, by the end of episode one he was already showing signs of it, which got to me a bit. The characters are great and realistic, and Light's rival named 'L' is a complex but equally interesting character, his goal is to catch Kira and soon Light and L have a game of cat and mouse between them, switching roles on occasions. Now here's for the bad parts of Death Note; First off, the series makes the most simplest of things dramatic, for example, there is extremely dramatic music playing while Light is just writing names down in the death note or just eating potato chips, it isn't that bad, but it makes the series look less serious than it should be. Now here's for the main flaw, the series begins to get repetitive, but then gets good again by episode 20, and episode 25 is absolutely brilliant, but after episode 25? It just gets boring as hell, I nearly gave up on the series because of how boring and uninteresting it got, it introduced two characters, Near and Mello. Near is a little sh*t and makes the series worse while Mello just acts cocky and eats chocolate, which didn't really appeal to me and after looking at other reviews, it didn't appeal to a lot of other people. So in conclusion I recommend Death Note highly because it is a must see series for any anime fan out there.


                
Death Note is a fine thriller, the tale of a student named Light Yagami who is given th hee ability to kill people (if he has their name and face) via a notebook called the 'Death Note'. He begins a crusade to rid the world of criminals, all the while pursued by the best detective in the world, the mysterious and introverted L. The best part of Death Note is the rivalry between Light and L. Their interaction is amazing to watch, especially as they outsmart each other at every turn. The mythos for the gods of death, or shinigami, is also great. The show isn't as good after L dies, because it loses the rivalry and the game of cat and mouse between L and Light. Still, Death Note is a thrilling ride, with a few issues that may affect your enjoyment of the second story arc. 8/10.
"Death Note" is a Thriller/Mystery anime series directed by Tetsuro Araki, and produced by Madhouse. Consisting of 37 episodes, this series is based on the manga by Tsugumi Ohba.Basic plot: A young genius named Light Yagami, who dislikes the Japanese justice system, accidentally finds a mysterious book called Death Note. Learning about its power, he kills lots of criminal people one by one by writing their names on the book, in order to become "the God of the new world". Calling himself a "Kira", he even gets a death God named Ryuk as his company. And so a mysterious character called L is presented, and his task is to capture and arrest Kira.This series has to be one of the most bizarre anime series I've seen so far. The story itself is very original than many of the animes I have watched. Beside from the animation and the story itself being great, once you get into the series, the story gets somewhat more and more complex in later episodes, leading to a suspenseful end. So you might have to pay attention to this in order to understand what is going on.This anime is basically serious throughout this series, but the funniest part of this anime has to be how Ryuk has to eat apples, just like how we people get addicted to drugs and cigars.Beside from having watched this anime, I even have a figurine of Misa Amane, a Japanese idol who has a crush on Light Yagami. I bought this figurine while on vacation at Copenhagen, Denmark.Two animated movies of "Death Note" exist. However, these movies are basically summaries of the original series. Also, three live-action movies based on the same story exist.Several other bizarre anime series I've watched include: "Elfen Lied", "Gantz" and "Highschool of the Dead".


                
I give it 7.5 stars....Eight for the first parts.Spoilers ahead. An ultimately frustrating show for me that went on too long if it was to take the plot line it did.I'm just going to dwell on my frustrations that held this show from being as good as it should have been.I feel it weakened when it replaced L with N...almost like for like to extend the story.Also the company involvement was pretty boring in the middle part. One of my main frustrations which became more and more as the series progressed was that nobody tried to Kill K or his associates. It was ludicrous that K was treated with the softest of kid gloves whilst all around various bad and good characters were being assasinated or dieing in their droves. K was like a blood soaked terrorist with his finger over the trigger of a bomb. When it was known beyond reasonable doubt who K was somebody should just have killed him, not even for punishment, not even to prevent further serial murders but for mere self-defense...he is killing all the authorities who are after him and can kill by just writing your name. From watching the ending it seemed the only resolution in mind was confronting K with irrefutable evidence AND getting him to confess so they could, not kill him....just lock him up! All the while giving K numerous opportunities to escape or just kill them by writing their names down.So an interesting show that, for me, just couldn't sustain itself with the plot line it took. I did however appreciate who resolved K's fate...it was quiet apt.


                
This show, by far through the past half year that I've spent watching anime, is the best one. The show is about a very intelligent high schooler named Light Yagami who is extremely bored until he finds the Death Note. Sometimes later, he also finds Ryuk, the shinigami who dropped the Death Note. Starting during this moment of the show, Light's journey to start a new world with no criminals begins, but shortly after, the hugest detective in the world, L , interfere with his plans when he tries to uncover Kira's identity. The worst thing about this show was the art since it wasn't too unique. Even then, Death Note strides for some huge big marks.Story: 10/10 I don't think that I've have ever found any show anywhere that had even a remotely close plot to the one this show has. The only problem was that after episode 25, you could sense some of what would happen during the rest of the show's run. But still, the plot is amazing. The show had been very dramatic at some points such as during Light's death and even had somewhat comedy such as when Light and L were chained together. The show had never lost anything, even when Near and Mello came along. It also had a really slow pace to focus on approximately 5 years of Light's life, from high school to him being promoted to the leader of the Japanese police. This was good for the show because it added to the suspense. It actually took time to reveal the plot when compared some other shows that came after it such as Terror in Resonance or blue Exorcist.Art: 8/10 The art on this show wasn't too unique. The only character designs that I found to have been somewhat different were the shinigamis.The background however, was decorated beautifully enough to contribute to the mood.Sound: 10/10 The show had a huge diversity of openings and endings. It ha everything from classic rock and roll to heavy metal which I haven't found a lot of shows, even Durarara to have done based off of Death Note. The background music was also great and it also helped the mood. The sound was done pretty well also, it really added to the detail of the show.Characters: 10/10 The characters on this show were amazing. The most unique thing that I found was that although Light was the protagonist, he technically acted as both, the hero and villain. L was also a good character. I could tell that he inspired some characters which were found in shows after Death Note finished such as Izaya Orihara from Durarara. The only character that was off was Near. He was basically a copy of L. The only thing that was different between both of them was that Near loved playing with toys while L didn't. Misa Amane was also great. Her Gothic nature added to the darkness of the show so she was pretty well developed. Overall the character development was great.I don't think I have found any show that has come near to or has met the level of Death Note besides Steins;gate so the creator Tetsuro Araki did a fantastic job by creating Death Note.
I'm not an anime fan at all, simply because I've never given it much chance but also because the few times I have, it's just not for me. But a friend heavily pushed me to see this, and I'm glad I did. It's an anime TV show that I could see having influence on many of the dramas going on right now (Breaking Bad perhaps as one of them). I saw the dubbed version, but the voice acting was pretty spectacular. It hits some rough spots, the second half or so (after the first 15 or so episodes) isn't as great as the first half, but the final two episodes are magnificent and end the series on a very high note. This is definitely recommended, it's full of extremely moral dilemmas.


                
