It sickened me in the past to see the Batman movie franchise slowly digging it's way to an early grave. After the quality Tim Burton films, the series pretty much went down the toilet, beginning a horrifically campy age of 'Bat credit-cards' and an armored Arnold Schwarzenegger tossing cringe-worthy puns at a Batman who seemed to be trying not to be embarrassed by the fact that his costume had nipples. So what could Warner Brothers producers hope to do to resurrect the franchise? Pretend it never happened, and start the whole series over again with a talented director, compelling story and capable cast. Enter Christopher Nolan, the mastermind behind 2000's 'Momento', widely praised as one of the most innovative films of the decade. As director/co- screenwriter, Nolan creates a richly dark, atmospheric world for Batman to inhabit, similar to that of the Burton films, but less cartoony. The film's screenplay, written by Nolan and David S. Goyer is quality stuff, it's true that some of the dialog exchanges can seem kind of contrived, particularly between Wayne and Liam Neeson's character, Ducard, but it sounds so classy you tend not to care. Nolan also puts a lot of trust in his audiences to stay put while the first hour of the film comprehensively explores Bruce Wayne's backstory, with no cape donning and few fight sequences. Nevertheless, the pace never slows, and the story is so unexpected and fascinating (who would have expected a Batman film to begin in a prison in Tibet? only Nolan could pull it off!) there's little chance of us losing interest. And this way, we really get a sense of who Bruce Wayne is, a trait none of the past movies were able to capture, including the Burton films. We see what drives him, what leads him to become this iconic crime fighter, and the reasoning behind the mask.Of course, to help the audience get under Bruce Wayne's skin, it doesn't hurt to have such a talented lead as Christian Bale. Bale has been emerging as one of the most talented actors of his generation, and he brings that talent to a peak here, playing the darkest of all superheroes. If you were to break down the role of Batman/Bruce Wayne, you would find that it is essentially three characters: Wayne as Batman, behind the mask; Wayne's public facade as the billionaire playboy; and the real, brooding Bruce Wayne. Bale plays all three of the characters to absolute perfection, and molds them together well enough to make it clear to show they are still the same person. He has been given tons of accolades for his performance already, and needless to say, he deserves every one.And the sheer quality of the supporting cast is mind-boggling, if for the number of big names only. It's very hard to find a weak spot in the incredibly strong array of performances here, but if one had to be found, it would have to be Katie Holmes. It's not that she gives a bad performance, on the contrary, but just she seems too young to be convincing as a district attorney. For me, Michael Gough will always be the definitive Alfred, but Michael Caine does an excellent job of taking over the role, giving a very strong (and often funny) performance. Liam Neeson is sheer class as Ducard, Wayne's mysterious mentor, as is Morgan Freeman as Lucius Fox, Wayne's arms manufacturer and provider of the Batman gear. It's wonderful to see the incredibly talented and much underrated Gary Oldman as Sgt. Gordon, the only decent cop in Gotham, and he truly makes the role his own. Even cult favorite Rutger Hauer makes an appearance as Richard Earle, the ambitious head of Wayne Enterprises. And (surprise surprise!) the villains are also actually menacing for once, as opposed to cartoony and corny. Cillian Murphy just about walks away with the show as the truly chilling Scarecrow (the sequences involving his 'fear gas' are surprisingly frightening) Ken Watanabe is mysterious and creepy as guild leader Ra's Al Ghul and Tom Wilkinson is very convincing as Carmine Falcone, head of the Gotham city mob. Nolan's knack for realism also comes as a breath of fresh air in this age of CGI bloated blockbusters - there are next to no computer generated shots in the movie, even a sequence with Batman standing on top of a high building staring down at the city was filmed with a stuntman. And it really works, the Batmobile actually interacts with it's environment, and looks so much better real than computer generated. But don't think that the film will come across as too serious and stuffy because of Nolan's realism - true, Gotham seems too dark and dirty to come across as a fantasy world, but Batman Begins retains that unmistakable sense of fun that seems to only be present in comic book movies. We jeer and fear the villains, and cheer the hero as he lays his life on the line to vanquish evil and save the city. And that is how it should be. There's even a surprising twist near the end, which is doubly surprising because it actually comes as a shock. What's not to love here?(and, further cudos to director Nolan for finally managing to make a swarm of bats actually frightening for once)Overall, I'd have to label Batman Begins 'The must see movie of the summer' - it's a well written, authoritatively directed, impeccably acted (especially by Bale's powerhouse lead performance and Cillian Murphy's sickly menacing Scarecrow) and very high quality production. Indeed, most other summer blockbusters could learn a thing or two from Batman Begins. If the Batman franchise died under it's own gaudiness years ago, let us rejoice this glorious rebirth - Batman truly does begin here.-10/10


                
Christopher Nolan (and cast) have pulled off what I hadn't dared to dream - a Batman every bit as good as Burton/Keaton's vision - and eradicated the camp, feverish memories of Clooney, Kilmer and (cough..) O'Donnell.The story is as good an origin story as you'll find - covering all the major (true-to-the-comic) events, and not wasting ages on them. We see Wayne's all-important training period (previously ignored), and his connection to the Tibetan shadow-ninja clan led by Ra's Al Ghul. We see Bruce come up with ideas for his symbol, his costume, his gadgets, his car, his cave - IT ALL FITS SO PERFECTLY.That's not all - Liam Neeson is perfect (as ever, when Lucas isn't writing his lines), Batman's first mad nemesis (the Scarecrow) is genuinely frightening; with some outstandingly scary 'fear' effects.. Gary Oldman looks just like a young Commissioner Gordon (and doesn't dominate), Morgan Freeman and Rutger Hauer give solid heavyweight support to the boardroom machinations at Wayne Enterprizes. I love Michael Gough(?) but Michael Caine is great as Alfred. It's only Katie Holmes who didn't ring true for me - not because of her performance, but simply because she looks all of 15 years old (sorry Katie). I am always blown away by Christian Bale, and this is no exception.The fights are great, the Bat-gadgets all there, the car is amazing, the plot is thorough and exciting, Gotham looks great, Batman really is frightening & menacing (and lethal!).. And the scenes with the bats themselves FINALLY get across the idea of how scary they can be.There is some humour, but it's fairly dry. The soundtrack, like all the best original soundtracks, is excellent - you hardly know it's there, but the emotions of the scene are enhanced and boosted. For the most part this is a serious Batman film, with plenty for long-time fans. This NEW Batman is one I'd like to see again. Bravo Mr Nolan, bravo.


                
I had fearful reservations about this one. I loved Tim Burton's Batman - 12 years old when it came out I was the perfect age for it and I also enjoyed Batman Returns. The franchise went so wrong under Joel Schumacher that I wasn't sure I wanted it resurrected. Not least because Batman was one of the few comics I read and enjoyed as a kid and was always my favourite superhero. I grew up reading the comics, watching reruns of the Adam West TV show and then getting Burton's celluloid vision. I was spoilt for choice as a kid but as an adult now I was concerned revisiting the franchise, especially given Warner's record over the last decade of screwing up summer blockbusters with potential all over the place (dare I bring up the Matrix sequels?)However, I am pleased to report I could not have been more wrong about how great Christopher Nolan's Batman Begins is. This is better than Burton. Sacrilege, you say?! Well Burton was still cartoony in many elements, he wasn't churning out the bilge of Schumacher but Burton's Batman was still over the top. As a kid this was ideal but Nolan's Batman is real. Everything in this world seems plausible and it is therefore a world that draws you in. Characters' vulnerability is that much more present. Every bruise, every scare, every concern, every emotion seems real.Part of this is that Nolan has assembled an exemplary cast. Again, this concerned me prior to seeing the film. I wasn't sure a cast of big name legends like Michael Caine and Morgan Freeman and well known names like Liam Neeson and Katie Holmes wouldn't detract and distract from Batman. I was always sure Christian Bale could be the great moody Batman he's been waiting his career to be but the others I wasn't so sure about.That said Bale is not just good, he's superb. I never thought I'd really be able to envision anyone other than Michael Keaton as the definitive Batman for me but since seeing Batman Begins a couple of days ago Bale has cemented himself in the position. Perhaps Keaton will now be able to escape the spectre of Batman he hasn't truly shaken off for 13 years.The rest of the cast is also pitch perfect. Cillian Murphy is creepy as hell, Liam Neeson is authoritative and imposing, Katie Holmes is strong and sexy (I particularly thought she'd be insipid, she should jettison Tom Cruise and let her talent - which she does have naysayers just watch Pieces Of April - speak for itself) and Michael Caine is an Alfred you've never seen but in fact far more likely as a butler than the aristocratic pomp with which he is usually portrayed. Gary Oldman is also superb in a rare wholly decent character for him as Lieutenant Jim Gordon who gets far more to so here than Gordon has ever had to do before. Only Tom Wilkinson is a little off with a slightly comedic wise-guy American accent that never really convinces.The emotional bond between Bruce Wayne and Alfred is actually a wonderful human heart to the film than Nolan and Goyer have written perfectly.Don't let that make you think the action is not front and centre though. From Wayne's training through the early stages of the film to his early missions as Batman at about the half way point to a thrillingly choreographed chase sequence and an edge of your seat finale this film delivers the cool quotient in bucket loads.Great villains (especially Murphy), great story, great cast, great action... put simply, great film. Probably the best comic-book movie ever made (that's excluding the genius Sin City which I consider a moving comic-book rather than a comic-book movie, that will never be bettered but Batman is a different beast and the best of its kind).


                
I got a chance to see 'Batman Begins' just this past Friday evening. I must say that before seeing the film, I felt in my heart this is the 'Batman' film we've been waiting for. Within ten minutes into the movie, I turned to my date and said to her, "This is it! This is the movie!" I just can't believe that after all these years, Warner Bros. finally got it right. For me the most intriguing part of the film, apart from the great script, and great acting, was Christopher Nolan's decision to base the film in reality. Deciding that Batman could really exist in our universe and our world was a stroke of genius. Another aspect of the film that's so refreshing is that instead of the focus being on the villain, Batman is the film's star. And rightly so. It's amazing what can happen when a studio leaves a respected director, and the creative team alone, and allow them to make the best movie possible. The only two negatives that I can think of is Katie Holmes and the fight sequences. Holmes does indeed look like a teenager playing grown-up. Her performance isn't bad per SE, it's just that you really don't buy her as an Assistant D.A. As for the fight sequences, I felt the cameras angles were too tight on the action, edited too quickly, and lit too dark so that you really couldn't tell what was going on and determine who was hitting who. Maybe we can attribute this to the fact that Nolan is not an action director. Hopefully the next film will open up the fight sequences so we can actually see Batman use the martial arts skills he developed during his exile. But apart from those relatively minor quibbles, the film is excellent, and I'm definitely going back on opening day June 15th, and seeing it a second time. A third and fourth viewing is definitely not out of the question.


                
To tell the truth, I thought the Batman franchise could never be saved, and I was really let down that I may never see my favorite superhero in a good movie ever again. Then I saw the preview to Batman Begins, I didn't really know what to think. New Batman. New Alfred. New story. New style. I wasn't sure why I wanted it 'the old way', but maybe I wanted to the actors in the Batman films I grew up with, to revive themselves and make a good Batman movie. I wanted Robin and sadly, Batgirl, alongside Batman saving the world from another familiar villain.I heard Batman Begins, and I thought great, this was called "Batman" in 1989, selfishly I said, "I want something new!".But, of course being a big Batman fan, I went opening night to Begings. 2 and half hours later, like the rest of the audience was completely blown away. It was the only movie I had ever been to (and yes I have been to some great ones) where the crowd claps and the end. This was not just golf claps for a popcorn clip, this was a standing ovation for 10:30 pm show in a crowded theater in Austin, Texas.I never would have thought this would have worked, even with Nolan directing. But I was wrong, so wrong. After seeing the X-Mens and Spidermans, I clearly thought Marvel had the upperhand and DC was just simply trying to keep up, again, so wrong.Nolan gave us a dark, gritty, and pleasantly realistic, view of Batman. Bale gives a tremendous performance as both Batman and Bruce Wayne. Michael Caine was a fabulous Alfred, and Morgan Freeman almost stole the show as Luscious Fox.Even though X-Men and Spiderman(all of them) are wonderful superhero movies, Batman Begins, is just a good, no, great movie. And I think that is what blew people away, that it wasn't just some superhero, special effect, hero gets girl, good guy wins movie, it was a truly dark and well crafted movie, and it maybe stupid to say, but it didn't even feel like you were watching a superhero movie.I don't even think Burton, and his animated style(which works), could have revived this troubled series, that Schumaker wrecked, because like Fantastic Four and Daredevil, tried over do it and give us the latter part of things.So, here is to you Chris Nolan. You saved a franchise. You made an unforgettable movie, that will be remembered as the best superhero movie of all time, but just an all around great and unforgettable movie classic.


                
This film easily trumps any live-action incarnation we've scene of the Dark Knight before, borrowing heavily from both the comics and the Dini and Co. animated series. This is a hard, fast, driving, heartfelt epic that draws you into the character of Bruce Wayne and makes you damn well care. Batman doesn't play second-fiddle to the villains here like in the other films. It's his movie and that's the way it should be.Much has been said of the film's "reality" quotient, and I'm here to say it works. Nolan talks about how Batman's strong because he does push-ups, he gets around because of his gadgets, and by introducing each of them with a plausible explanation, we forget to quibble and go along with it. The technology may be fantastic, but it's believable. And, unlike the "reality" of something like Daredevil, Nolan doesn't forget his ideals halfway though and start having Batman wire-jump thirty feet into the air.


                
I just came back from a special screening of Batman Begins and I must say this is the best movie I have yet seen this year. All of the blockbuster movies I had seen this year with much expectation have been disappointing. But Batman Begins is not the typical corny action film; it incorporates all aspects of genre: action, fantasy, drama, and even comedy. I was at the edge of my seat from the thrills in some scenes and clapping & laughing from the humorous lines that director Christopher Nolan had written for the characters. I was really amazed by the acting performances from the new generation of actors, assuming that they wouldn't have been able to compete with and compliment the talented, veteran actors such as Michael Caine, Morgan Freeman, Gary Oldman, and Liam Neeson. I mean you couldn't have asked for better actors!! Christian Bale was just perfect for the role: he had the intensity, physique, and charm you'd expect a Batman character to encompass. Every actor was casted perfectly for their roles. I even give props to Katie Holmes for playing a district attorney considering her previous roles consisted of "the young girl" or "girlfriend". I hardly ever see action films nowadays because I don't want to waste my time watching a conventional, corny, over-digitalized,plot less film. To be honest, I gave this film a chance not because it was a Batman movie, but rather because of the talented veteran actors as well as being a fan of Christopher Nolan's previous films. Whether you're a fan of Christopher Nolan or just a Batman fanatic, you'll enjoy every single second of the movie. People of ALL ages will appreciate this film. The violence in this movie is not vulgar, but rather sends out a lot of great messages of loyalty, respect, and humility. Not only is "Batman Begins" the best of the Batman series, it is the most unconventional. This recommendation is coming from a person who mostly watches art-house/independent films.


                
BATMAN BEGINS lives up to what I heard about it being a "darker" version, with much less reliance on flippant one-liners or gags, the result being a more realistic feel for what might have been.From the very start, there is a nice chemistry between Alfred, the butler (superbly played by Michael Caine) and Bruce Wayne (excellent job by Christian Bale). The humor is of the gentle kind, almost subtle in its implications, and it sets the stage for the more realistic flow of events to follow. There's a pulsating background score by Hans Zimmer and John Newton Howard that races along with the film, punctuating it in just the right places, at just the right moments, to give a vigorous punch to the action scenes. And there are plenty of them.But the quieter moments are all extremely well played and given depth by real characterizations--not just cartoonish figures. There is depth in all of the performances with the possible exception of Katie Holmes, an actress who speaks in a voice barely above a whisper and fails to project the belief that she is an assistant district attorney. Miss Holmes needs lessons in projecting her voice.Looming over the landscape is Liam Neeson, a distinguished actor who excels in his carefully concealed villainy. He is a force to be reckoned with and displays all of his versatility here. Equally effective in lesser roles are Morgan Freeman, Rutger Hauer as the Board Chairman that Bruce Wayne ultimately replaces, and Gary Oldman.The story is forcefully presented with magnificent visuals and eye-popping sets that all have a realistic gleam and are yet stylized enough to give credence to the fact that this is all based on a comic strip character.I can't praise Christian Bale enough as the man who dons that mask. He has all the strength and wily intelligence behind his serious good looks and makes the perfect embodiment of the action hero he is portraying. Firm of jaw, direct of gaze, he makes an excellent hero.Praise too for Cillian Murphy, who makes the most of his Scarecrow role behind a mask of creepy blandness, underplaying his role (as most of the others do) so as not to become a caricature, as so often happens in these Batman enterprises. If it's a series of running gags that you expect--as from previous Batmans--you won't find them here. The thrills come one after another, set pieces that are astounding to watch.Well worth the wait. Christopher Nolan has done an excellent job of handling his subject matter with great skill and flourish. Warning note: Perhaps a little too intense for children, but adults are certainly going to appreciate the fact that the real Batman has arrived.


                
Eight years after the infamous abomination Batman & Robin that killed the Batman franchise, Christopher Nolan stepped in and started a whole new series a darker (even darker than the first two Tim Burton Batman movies) and realistic level. Now at first, I wasn't mad on Batman Begins because at first I thought it was boring and it took a while to get to the part where Bruce Wayne becomes Batman. But after a while, I loved the film. In fact, it turned out to be my favourite Batman movie even though I really like the first two Batman movies by Tim Burton. I really like how we get to see the origins of Batman like the tragic death of his parents and becoming a martial arts expert in somewhere in Asia. Also I think it's clever how they made Batman act like a ninja than a superhero. Christian Bale is really good and intimidating as Batman but I think he's not as good as Michael Keaton's Batman. But also I think the rest of the cast did very well like Katie Holmes, Liam Neeson, Michael Caine and Cillian Murphy. But I can't understand why Katie Holmes was nominated for a Razzie for Worst Supporting Actress. I liked her as Rachel and she was a lot better than Maggie Gyllenhaal; not to mention better-looking. It's too bad The Dark Knight and The Dark Knight Rises weren't as great as Batman Begins. I mean I think The Dark Knight is really overrated. I mean most people seem to be overglorifying it just because of Heath Ledger's performance as the Joker and his death. But The Dark Knight Rises was brilliant and gave a nice ending to the trilogy but I don't think it wasn't as fresh as Batman Begins. By the way, happy birthday to the creator of Batman, the late Bob Kane!


                
With all obvious accounting, the Batman Magic' is back! Not since Michael Keaton, when the first modern and great, big screen Batman appeared in 1989, has there been such a commotion made about a new Batman movie. I had not seen this in the movie theater, but as with the first I started seeing bumper stickers and baseball caps and posters of the Batman Begins logos and the like, that's what let me know this was different, than the others. The first Keaton one, I saw it right-off-the-bat! No waiting, with this there had been so many in between, that seemed to be slipping more and more with every new installment, that I simply 'balked' at the thought of Batman 'Again'.Well after I had caught my breath I was astounded at the beauty of the first scenes and how this film instantly whisked me into the whole story. Amazed, as I watched 'Bale' brought on the 'Knight' with a new era of and a fresh-feeling crisp new character/hero. Liam Neeson, enters from out of nowhere and he is a thing of beauty. A solid-cast mentor/trainer in the fine art of crime fighting. Neeson is a pillar in the 'Begin' set. As the grueling training comes to a successful end, there comes the time to re-enter his broken life, complete with his estate and butler. Michael Caine is delightful as the classy care servant 'Alfred'. There was some real genius, to place Caine in this position, he fits to a 'T'. Rutger Hauer, is an acting hero of mine from way back and this was just an unexpected treat of a performance that he had in the story. Gary Oldman, is versatile, Tom Cruise wishes he was as good as Old' Gary. Oldman is inspirational with every labored breath that he took. I was amused too, at one point as the Batman made a surprise appearance at Gordon's (Oldman) home, on the steps Batman informs him of the situation and as he answers Oldman is doing a perfect 'Christopher Walken' styled delivery, just in those few sentences. That gave even a wider performance overall. In the hotel, I laughed as Bruce Wayne having friendly dinner conversation with colleagues from his company when asked about the news of the Batman, says "A man dressed as a bat clearly has some issues to take care of." Schluffing it off, as just another crazy man in the dark city. Pure gold.I must say, that Katie Holmes seemed a little too young for me in the beginning, albeit she came through toward the end with a satisfying role. Tom Wilkinson, playing the big crime boss, was reminiscent of the days of Nicholson (the Joker) with the late great Jack Palance,(Boss Grissom) but surely didn't reach the criminal element that these two gave off in stellar performance's in Burton's 89' Batman. At one point in the prison holding room, Wilkinson seemed to be acting much like Dan Hedaya, as he was speaking to counsel as the crime lord.Morgan Freeman is wondrously refreshing, and apart from other roles he has played, I enjoyed Lucius Fox for everything that he (Freeman) gave it, simple, easy and likable. The other players all found excellent fitting surrounding our main names. There was a lot put into this one no denying it, I was overtaken by the classic yet new styling of the camera shots and the places that the story took us to, and last but not least that Bat-Vehicle is something that every Hummer 'wishes' it could dream, wake-up and become. The Bat-S.U.V. for all your needs.Thoroughly penetrating in delivery, this has a strength and smoothness in it's style, it is a solid tailor-crafted action/drama ...a sure fire hit. (*****)


                
........ ..............................................from Pasto,Colombia...Via: L.A. CA., CALI, COLOMBIA and ORLANDO, FL Warner Brothers gave us a very special gift for Father's Day, 2005... BATMAN BEGINS. Despite displaying some lethargy in its opening scenes, and suffering from some of the excesses so common in this genre of film, not only might you say it is the best of the Batman Franchise, so far, but also that it is definitely the best super-hero film ever!Director, Christopher Nolan, who dazzled with his amazing talent in the 2000 Cult Classic, MEMENTO, has assembled a formidable cast (Michael Caine, Liam Neesom, Gary Oldman, Tom Wilkinson & Morgan Freeman, among others), an outstanding script and special effects all well focused in a film that transforms a two dimensional comic strip into a work of real depth! In the title role, we have Christian Bale, British, 31 at the time the film was made, someone who has spent most of his life in front of the cameras, without reaching, at least at this juncture in time, the long-awaited status of "Super-Star". In 2000, Bale took on another title role in American Psycho, a 'Cult Classic' which received ample attention from both critics and audiences alike. (If you have not seen this psychological thriller, do so<U+0085>What a gem it is! Bale is chillingly creepy!) On the one hand, Mr. Bale is one of very few British actors (Well, Welsh, to be exact) capable of playing an American where his accent, intonation, and even body language, is absolutely perfect, impeccable! (After taking in American Psycho, I could have sworn he was American!) However, in BEGINS, although his performance seemed quite good, it was slightly below my expectation. I attribute this to two factors. First, as I'm sure Bale was already aware<U+0085>audiences went in with tremendously high expectations regarding his role. And secondly, with a supporting cast of the caliber involved in this film, it would have been almost impossible to stand out in the same way he did in American Psycho. .For my taste, the only really weak link was the now famous for being Tom Cruise's-EX, Katie Holmes! Before appearing in BEGINS, Ms. Holmes never had a real stand-out role, at least in my opinion, nor really had been in many high profile films. To all fairness to her, though, it wasn't so much that her characterization was extremely lacking as much as that her performance just wasn't up to those of others in this brilliant cast! .To highlight the very best that Batman Begins shows us, unlike almost all movies in this genre, its characters are anything BUT black and white. Just as in real life, almost all of them evolve in a kind of constant metamorphosis, responding and interacting with lady luck, day to day life events, and reactions from those around them! And they do it most convincingly, not the least bit far-fetched. .Before rushing out to see it, just a little warning. For those who yearn for Action-packed blockbusters, Begins might leave you feeling somewhat unfulfilled! And for those who crave really intense human drama, since, at the end of the day, this is still a comic book "super-hero", not some conflicted politician, or not even anything close<U+0085>Let's try to keep things in perspective, O.K.? In conclusion, if you have EVER seen any film based on a comic strip that you have liked in the past, then don't hesitate to see Batman Begins...I guarantee you'll be rating it at least 7 STARS! 10 SuperHero Stars...ENJOY/DISFRUTELA! Any comments, questions or observations, in English or Español, are most welcome!.....KissEnglishPasto@Yahoo.com


                
I thought this movie was absolutely spectacular, I took me by surprise. I never thought I would see a Batman movie with depth and that showed the true fear that is the character Batman that he brings to his enemies. Christian Bale did a excellent job and I truly look forward to him in another Batman Movie! The story was absolutely amazing and in my humble opinion very original. Raj Al Ghul is an excellent villain and to portray him in the way he was portrayed was top notch, not to mention he was played very well. Many people I talked to complained that the actor who played him was not of Asian decent. However I believe it truly didn't matter at all.Not to mention Alfred was great. Gordon (later Commissioner Gordon) was excellent as well.No other Batman Movie has portrayed Batman truly as the Dark Knight and as I said already I truly look forward to more along these lines.-ND


                
All i can say is thank you Chris Nolan,,,I still think you will have to be a magician to beat Tim Burton's Batman film's but Nolan has is well on his way to becoming Houdini. This is a film that describe's Batman as he was in the comics and i think as Bob Kane imagined...So how has Nolan done it..Simple..i've seen the xtras on the Region 2 DVD and it appears that he didn't rush anything and really worked hard on this and recruited the best of the best in the movie making business,it's an extremely hard character to portray and a risky franchise as a director to do a good job as Joel Schumacher found out. He has had some good films like The Lost Boys etc but his take on the Batman was purely a joke and i think he had potentially ruined a huge money making franchise...But however it has been saved with Nolan's amazing take on Gotham and Christian Bale's Dark Knight which truly is an amazing likeness to the comics,,,This film has everything that we wanted and more because it has a beginning a middle and an amazing end which makes batfan's itching for more and a sequel which promises just that,,,it has an all star cast too,Morgan Freeman and doing an amazing job in succeeding the great Michael Gough's Alfred we have Michael Caine..The villain is the Scarecrow but in true Gotham Style there are more corrupt going's on in Gotham than good and who are they gonna call to clean it up..Simple.....THE BATMAN...This film has more gadget's and lifelike special effects than any other Batman Film so it's definitely one to watch..Thanks and i hope you enjoy it as much as i did..


                
For those of you who were disappointed with the last few Batman movies, 'Batman Begins' redeems the caped crusader in a big way. 'Batman Begins' takes us on a journey through Bruce Wayne's tragic past again, giving us a real insight into what drives and fuels his quest against suffering and injustice. We discover how the billionaire came to be trained in the martial arts, develop his alter ego, and acquire his technological arsenal. Christian Bale gives us a riveting performance as not only a very dark hero, but also a tortured soul looking for the means to combat the wrongs of society, a society that we see is also responsible for the death of his beloved parents. Another thing we notice from the beginning is this story does not tie into that of the other movies in the series. This is however not a disappointing feature, in fact it seems to breathe new life into this timeless classic. So for all of us who have followed the Dark Knight's journey's, strap yourself in for a wild and inspiring ride.
I've seen all of Batman movies and they were OK at best and sometimes awful .. I nearly lost hope of this series but when I heard that Nolan is directing the next Batman .. I braced myself to a very good movie at least and Nolan hasn't let me down .. it is the only Batman movie that you could call a masterpiece even people who liked it less consider it a very good movie and the best batman (so far). This movie is loaded with class A starts (like other batman movies) but they are the best of the best .. Liam Neeson & Michael Caine were very good .. Morgan Freeman wasn't at his best but he was OK at least .. Christian Bale is a unique actor and I think he will show us great performance in other movies to come in the future .. he is the type of actor he will try everything and anything that makes his performance good .. keep in mind his awesome performance in "The Machinist" .. he has a great facial expresses that he uses very good .. Gary Oldman wasn't very good but wasn't bad either .. Cillian Murphy also was very good .. even Katie Holmes was good. The visual effects were convening and were so realistic that sometimes I feel that they didn't use much of computer effects. What can I say about this masterpiece !! in short, Christopher Nolan worked hardly on this movie and he surely has lifted it up to the masterpiece level .. everything sounds prefect in this movie. Do not miss it .. it is one of the best in 2005 and absolutely the best batman movie (so far) .. I hope Nolan is directing the next batman so I enjoy it as much as I enjoyed Batman Begins.


                
What a movie,they who have made this movie has got an excellent idea about "The dark" man. The other batman movies i did not like,but this is the best "cartoon movie" ever!So if you did not like the other movies like me,i highly recommend this film,can't wait to the next film comes to the store!'The plot is genial,i can't understand how the other crappy movies has been made,and P.Bateman is The Batman him self,wounder about who is playing Robin in the next movie.At the end i will also say that this movie are not for kids,scared the hell out of me,and i am a more Saw 1,2 and 3 lover!
Christian Bale is superb in this film, directed by Christopher Nolan. This is the best heroic movie ever produced, and it sets the stage to become the most phenomenal production the world will ever see.Additionally, Christian Bale is the best Bruce Wayne, and Batman I have ever seen on film. Although Michael Keaton was good, Bale exceeds his performance, and excels in this film with epic features and excellency in all aspects of heroism.I highly recommend this film to all, as it may be the best movie ever produced, in my opinion. Furthermore, Michael Caine is a wonderful supporting actor, and he makes "Alfred" impossibly believable during the film. He provides character to the Wayne family. Lastly, Katie Holmes makes a great appearance in this film, and has a strong character who tries to fight the impossible growing criminal society of Gotham City.


                
I can only say what several critics have said before me; at last they capture the essence of the Batman legend on film! What makes this movie so great is how it takes its material so seriously. There is also a main theme that ties the movie together: Fear. It's relentless in its quest to explain why and how a man of Bruce Wayne's wealth and public persona would dress up like a bat and battle crime. This is the core of the movie, and it treats this with confidence and conviction. When a movie believes this much in the story it's telling, it's much easier for the audiences to believe in it as well. This is a big cinematic experience, and it shouldn't be missed. One of the year's best films, and quite possibly the best comic book-hero-movie of all time. If you have seen this movie once, then it gets even better by the second time you see it. And if you haven't seen it yet... well, what the hell took you so long?!


                
This is the Batman I have been waiting for! Tim Burton's Batman (Batman, Batman Returns) movies were good Tim Burton movies, but not great Batman movies. Joel Schumucher's (Batman Forever, Batman and Robin) I'm convinced were made to mock the Dark knight and destroy his good name. But this new one is everything Batman should be and needs to be. And the villains are all played to perfection! Christopher Nolan is my favorite director and this (along with Memento) is his best work. If you see no other movie this year, see Batman Begins.Note: This is not a prequel to Tim Burton's Batman. This is a completely new Batman movie series.


                
this was one of my favorite movies of the year. and i don't say that lightly. i saw this movie with my friend as a backup to lords of dogtown which was sold out and boy am i glad i did. Christian Bale did an amazing job with the tough role of being batman. i then saw this with my cousin who loved it as well. this is probably the best superhero movie I've ever seen. superman, horrible. batman, OK. spider-man the first one, OK. spider-man 2, boring. and so on. but this, this was amazing. it was well worth the 10 dollars to see it and i cant wait until it comes out on DVD. one of the best movies of the year and it deserves to be in the top 10.


                
Saw a free screening on Tuesday. I must say, I had my expectations low for this one, as the previous Batman franchises was just cartoony, over the top, and flat out mind dumbing. Why do studios continually think that spending money on 'bankable stars' and special effects will make a ton of money on box office receipts? Granted "Batman Begins" has a pretty sizable budget, but they made the right decision with casting actors that can act and hiring a director that shares the same vision of the comic book. You will not see any caricatures of the comic book, but rather be immersed in how Bruce Wayne has that internal conflict of morality as he becomes Batman. Christopher Nolan takes his time developing Bruce Wayne's character in the image that Bob Kane had with his own flair to it. Anyone familiar with Nolan, Christian Bale, and Cillian Murphy's work will not be disappointed with this movie. Make no mistake about it, it is a dark movie, which is what makes it so great. Nolan uses CG effects very sparingly (thank God!).I rarely give movies a 10 out of 10, as I am pretty brutal with ratings, but Nolan resurrects a failed franchise. Personally, this is what Batman should have been all along - The Dark Knight! Anyone who is a Batman, Nolan, Bale, Murphy fan will not be disappointed. I only wish I took that money I spent on "Star Wars: ... Sith" went to "Batman".


                
yup, this film made me cry. it really did. being a hardcore batman fan, i assume i know every little secret, history, background about the dark knight. i've waited 13 grueling years (discounting batman forever and batman & robin for reasons far too obvious) to see a decent BATMAN film. Not only is Batman Begins decent, it has got to be one of THE BEST FILM EVER! i watched the film on its last screening together with my friends in Alabang. after the movie, the entire theater was deserted and i just sat there, still trying to catch my breath. It is that damn good.Christian Bale plays the perfect Batman/Bruce Wayne. Charming, handsome, and "rich," as Wayne. Terrifying, maniacal, sadistic, and blacker than black as Batman. "It's not who i am underneath, but what i do that defines me." Michael Caine as Alfred, humorous, he is the rock of the Batman family. Almost always, the exchange between Bale and Caine where Christian tells him "You still haven't given up on me, have you?" Caine answers "Nevah." Morgan Freeman as Luscious Fox. Quite different from the character in the real Batman mythology (which for me is the comic books), but important nonetheless. He's told in the film as the one who supplies Bruce with all of his "spilunking" stuff. :) Morgan plays it brilliantly, from his face in the Tumbler while Bruce is driving, to his deadpan humor near the ending of the film. "Didn't you get the memo?" That got one of the biggest laughs in the theater.Liam Neeson, Liam Neeson. Awesome! As Henri Ducard and the real Ra's Al Ghul, he was cold, beyond reason. Cold, bad-ass in a great way. Esp. the scenes where he and Bruce were in their ninja suits playing a game of "hide-and-seek" with all those ninjas. Some of the best lines came from Neeson's Ducard character. "Are you ready to begin? Katie Holmes. She's actually the "weakest" link as far as all reviewers or critics are concerned, but for a fan, well, she actually is. Not weak, but pretty much, the film could have gone without her. Having her die at the end of the movie would have made an even better way to start the Begins sequel given Batman's occasional experiences with deaths that he feels responsible for. (i.e. the drowned girl in the VENOM series, Jason Todd) But she does put some nice boy meets girl syndrome during the early years of Bruce. (Oh, speaking of history, Bruce Wayne did NOT finish college nor did he finish in Princeton) And, imho, the end scenes where she and Bruce kissed was ABSOLUTELY YUCKY! i dunno, but for me, it was totally unnecessary but seeing as how the protagonist and the girl should kiss even once in a movie scheme held up, well, there ya go. "You better run!" Cillian Murphy as the Scarecrow actually should have gotten more screen time. He was really scary even in his "doctor" mode. the first time we get to see the mask during his talk with Falcone, awesome. We really got to see the extent of how this lean, geeky fellow could actually become one of Batman's worst enemies. Ken Watanabe, very limited screen time. Doggone good nonetheless.and who could forget...Gary Oldman as Jim Gordon. "I have to get me one of those." Damn right. "I think you're trying to help." Can't wait for the next Batman sequel just for the fact that i'd love to see more of Jim Gordon's interaction with the Batman.Overall, this movie gets a perfect 10 out of 5 stars :) This movie has it all. Great plot, dialogue, action, and an array of Oscar caliber actors, definitely, Batman renaissance has begun. Batman Begins.


                
Over the years the Gotham City that was once a dark place lined with evil and corruption, in desperate need of a hero, deteriorated into a circus tent of Hollywood displays with over-dramatic architecture and special effects... Where criminals dance around in blacklight sensitive face paint and so-called villains compete for best comedic performance. Behind all the bright lights and all-star celebrity casting, we lost grasp of what the saga is really about: Batman.Batman Begins opens with Bruce Wayne's discovery as a little boy of an underground cave where he is traumatized by an attack of massive waves of thousands of hideous bats. From this incident came an instilled fear that will forever torment Bruce Wayne. After the death of his parents, a deep hatred towards crime grows more and more until Bruce decides to vanish from Gotham City. He learns the skills of an ancient vigilante ninja organization, developing not only the skills of martial arts but most importantly the mastery of fear- skills that will ultimately be the best weapons in facing the evils that will reach Gotham City and to avenge the death of his beloved parents.Batman Begins restores the integrity of the Batman saga and goes into an even deeper conflict... his constant struggle with fear and his deep hatred towards everything evil. What the other Batman movies lightly touched on, Batman Begins tells vividly. Why a billionaire would devote his life to fighting evil. Where he gets all his nifty convenient gadgets. Why Bruce Wayne can take on 30 armed guys all on his own and without a gun. And finally why he dresses up as a bat... after all "A guy who dresses up as a bat... clearly has issues." And Batman does and should have issues, especially after witnessing first hand the death of his loving parents, deaths that he feels partly responsible for. The other movies didn't emphasize enough the true anger Bruce Wayne has towards those that commit to a life of evil, but in this movie, Batman, effectively played by Christian Bale, is clearly depicted as a man anxious to release his anger and frustration to avenge the death of his parents.Evil is definitely present in this movie. Where the villains in previous Batman movies seem like decent people to hang out with, or in Poison Ivy's case make out with, the enemies in this movie know there is a job to be done and that there is no time to be funny- not to belittle Jack Nicholson's role of the Joker, who has a right to be funny. The depiction of the Scarecrow was amazing, possessing an evil presence unlike any other Batman villain.As much as I loved Tim Burton's work, and Michael Keaton's portrayal of Bruce Wayne/Batman, I'd have to say that the direction of Christopher Nolan and Christian Bale as Batman put together the best Batman movie ever made. Besides Christian Bale, the casting was impressive. Alfred, played by Michael Caine and Fox, played by Morgan Freeman, are both characters you'll be glad to have alongside Bruce Wayne.It really is refreshing to see Batman and to finally learn after decades who he really is. A Batman who is angry and troubled and there to kick some ass not just for show but with a passion. Now the legend can live on with dignity and generations from now on can see the true man behind the bat... not just some heartthrob in tight pants.


                
Forget the others. They tended to be comedic in comparison (no pun intended). It always seemed to be about who had the bigger codpiece, or the sexier heroine.The Batman comics and graphic novels are much more than costumes and special effects. While those things to play a large roll in bringing the audience into the story and keeping them engaged, the storyline and plot, as well as solid character development are as important, if not more important. The cast(Bale as The Bat and Caine as Alfred...brilliant!) is unparalleled. The direction keeps with the dark, brooding theme that makes the Batman comics so intriguing. The storyline and the morality story presented are timeless. Anticipating the next in the series with excitement! A must see and a must add to one's movie library!


                
Finally someone has got it right.The beginning of batman from the perspective of the original DC comic with a few added twists to render this film the best of all the Batman Genre.All the artists are fantastic and this film should go down well with all Batman enthusiasts as it is in my opinion an in depth portrayal of the beginning of the Black Crusader and his commitment to combat all evil.Having been an avid reader of the Batman series in the past,the film tries very hard to explain Father/son bond which unfortunately could not be realized due to the sudden killing of both his parents.It would now be interesting to know how the next Batman film will begin.Could it be with a joker?Who knows!


                
