It seems like I am the only one doesn't like Batman Begins. I'm not a fan, and my knowledge of Batman comes from the ones I watched back when I was 8, but it is still no excuse that the movie was done so poorly.First of all, the plot and reasoning is nonexistent. For some reason, Bruce Wayne is in a Chinese prison. Somewhere along the line, *ninjas* become a part of the plot. The supposed Ra's Al Ghul is the leader of Liam and the ninjas, but what comes out of Liam's mouth is neither Chinese or Japanese. And Liam, being Caucasian, utters the only Japanese you'll hear in this movie, teaches Bruce "ninja skills" and proceeds to make a fool of himself by saying the lame Japanese names for every move before he executes them. Am I the only one who sees the problem with this?The action scenes are dizzy and done in too many close ups in too many shots. The "batmobile" is an ugly, enormous, tanker, and all the stuff Bruce gets for his Batman gear comes not from Alfred but from his dad's company, which for some reason is involved with making trains AND making all this high tech military stuff that even the military doesn't want. Bruce's voice, when he's Batman, is just Bruce Wayne with a sore throat.The biggest disappointment was the dialogue. The mentoring bit was too full of hocus pocus that is just repetition of "FEAR this" and "FEAR that" and "OVERCOME fear" that is supposed to be spiritual but results in what you can expect from a session with your psychologist but a thousand times cheesier. The dialogue was so poorly written that in every scene you have at least 3 actors reciting one-liners intended to "lighten up" the (pretentious) mood and garner knee-jerk chuckles from the audience, as you can see from the extremely long list of "memorable quotes". It was like the script writer said to himself "Hey I know, why not stick lots of funny one-liners one after the other so I can show the audience how witty I am". Also, his knowledge of "dialogue" doesn't extend further than questions and answers. For example:Bruce: Who are you working for? Man: blah blah blah Bruce: Where? Man: blah Bruce: Why? Man: blah Bruce: When? ...ad nauseumI could go on about more distractions and sheer idiocy (like when the city is sprayed with hallucinogens, Rachel and the random kid are not affected) but that would be beside the point, because the whole movie IS ONE BIG distraction. From other, better, movies that probably cost a quarter of Batman Begin's production cost.
I caught this offering on a freeview channel. And at first I began to wonder if the listings had got screwed-up. Where was Batman? For a seemingly indefinite time, somebody - I suppose it was Bruce Wayne - was faffing about in what I think were the Himalayas. They were mountains anyway. There was a bald-headed monk with a self-satisfied gaze like a hang-over from Quai Chang Kane's adventures, and Wayne getting the crap kicked out of him frequently. Here, I gather, was supposed to be the 'why he became Batman' expose, but the whole boring and verbose pantomime went on for so long that this little grasshopper dozed-off before he could grasp the pebble.I've awarded 3 ex-gratia stars for whatever I missed because so many people rave about this movie. But judged by the 20 minutes or so of what I did watch I'd offer no stars at all as it couldn't even sustain my attention enough to keep conscious.I would suggest aspiring viewers fast-forward to about halfway through. Presumably it livens-up a bit.
I can't believe we waited 8 years for a Batman movie, and this is all they can come up with. This film is a complete mess, from the confused non-linear storytelling (whenever its convenient), to the amateur picture and sound editing, to the sloppy, distracting directing. I hate to say it, but I'd rather watch the Adam West version of Batman (which actually had some wit) or even the George Clooney/Joel Schumacher disaster, only because it provides SOME kind of entertainment (in a B Movie kind of way). This film is devoid of humour, wit, suspense, mystery or even drama. All scenes are clipped down to their climaxes, and we are never given a chance to catch our breath.Once again, we are given 3 (rather than 1) villains, which makes the film 1/3 as good as it could have been (no, not 3 times as good!), while it tries to cram 6 hours worth of story into one rushed 2 hours.It's cut together like a movie trailer, rather than a story, so you're never really 'inside' the plot. You don't feel the suspense, or even the moment-to-moment reality of what's happening. So many scenes come and go with no real contribution to the 'story' other than to 'update' you on what's happening with the characters at the moment (don't confuse that with a real story!).There are elements of the film--mostly superficial--that do work, but they barely register as a blip in this mess. Gary Oldman (our finest actor?) plays Sgt. Gordon to a 't', but his sub-plot doesn't allow for much of his 'man-on-the-inside' role that he provides in the comic. Ras-al-gul resembles the comic book version in name only, as he has somehow switched from an Arab to Liam Neeson as a samurai (!?!?). Looking back, the film should've focused on the Scarecrow (and maybe an earlier draft did; the original working title was Batman: Fear, and 'fear' seems to be the main theme of the piece). Cillian Murphy's unique features couldn't have been imagined by a comic artist. Like the re-created version in the animated series, Scarecrow actually looks scary, and uses a power that would've been more satisfying is he actually got to use it more. Katie Holmes is excellent, Morgan Freeman is fine, and Michael Caine is adequate (I'm not British, but his accent seems way off for Alfred). All in all, it seems that there MIGHT have been a good film in there somewhere, but it was simply ruined by last-minute editing and a soundtrack that seems like an afterthought ( usually the same boring song runs through several scenes in a row, reinforcing the 'movie trailer' feel). Then again, the weaknesses could lie with the most important creative choice of all: the writer. I don't know where David S. Goyer ever got the reputation as a good writer, but considering the only credits he has to his name are trash-film comic book adaptations, he must have another career as a playwright or a novelist. First he adapted Nick Fury for TV, which landed him the Blade trilogy. Blade, despite its unexplainable popularity, is typical dark fantasy/action movie garbage; all silver/blue colours, heavy metal soundtrack and 1 dimensional characters. I suppose the shareholders at Warner must've seen the numbers on Blade, because not only did they give him Batman, they also gave him the job of adapting the beloved Flash to the screen (God help us all).It just goes to show that Warner should've stuck with their original plan of letting Frank 'Sin City' Miller and Darren 'Pi' Aronofsky adapt 'Batman: Year One', but that would actually require them to base their decisions on talent rather than the (imagined) potential profits.Oh, well, another in a long line of comic book bombs, I suppose (after Elektra, Catwoman, Daredevil and Hulk, the future is already looking dark for superheroes). The sad thing is, the investors might look at the choice to let Christopher Nolan (Memento) to direct as a reason for its failure, and thus shy away from letting other 'indy' directors take on big budget superheroes. Sadly, this could mean the next Bat-film might star Will Smith and be directed by Michael Bay or Roland Emmerich. Where's Michael Keaton when you need him?3/10


                
Of course, when in comparison to many of the films released this year, Batman Begins stand higher than others, and I might say that as a stand alone film it is quite entertaining. However, it would be blasphemous to consider this even a door step in comparison with Tim Burton's masterpiece, which starred Michael Keaton in his signature role. The original, a realization of a comic legend, only received 7.4 on the IMDb scale. It confuses me how the general public thinks these days. Are they comparing Batman Begins with the other films released during the year, or are they being serious about it exceeding the original? Here is what I think about Batman Begins............It doesn't even feel like a Batman movie. It misses the point completely. And I hate the excuses of 'making a new Batman film for the new generation'. THE NEW GENERATION ALSO NEED GOOD FILMS. I agree with the casting of Christian Bale, a great actor and once a child prodigy (most memorable in Spielberg's Empire Of The Sun), however he alone could not save this film from disaster. Christopher Nolan is a respectful director, but did he really think he could create his own Batman? Or was it a cash-in opportunity? The Batmobile - every time I looked at it, it made my face grimace. I understand the director wanted a modern prototype of Batman, but this.......what a contraption. The Batman suit did it worst for me though. The new re-done Batman symbol is pathetic. It looked more like the Nazi Eagle than the original symbol that really looked like a Bat. Why does Nolan require Batman to be modernized anyway? It is the Gothic, 1950's film noir style of the original film that made Batman a household name. The whole atmosphere so vividly created by Tim Burton in the original was breathtaking and bought a comic book to life. Christopher Nolan wanted a more serious approach to Batman, for it to be more realistic. The fact Batman is wearing a Bat suit is ridiculous enough anyway, and so the fact that the director sees the legend of Batman as serious totally misses the point of THE BATMAN LEGEND. It is just a comic book, and so the unbelievable can still be believable. It doesn't have to be explained, because it is simply fiction. Like the larger than life Gotham City Tim Burton vividly bought to life and much like in the comic book itself, it is just a story that takes us to another world - and utilizes our imagination. We don't have to make Batman real. It's like explaining how Superman flies.Although the film ran for well over two hours, and felt way overlong, the characters were poorly developed. I felt, walking out of the theater, like I didn't get to know the characters. It didn't feel like they were communicating in any way to the audience. Alfred, played well by Michael Caine just didn't click with me<U+0085>.nothing to do with the veteran actor. He just didn't have enough screen time or dialog for me to feel anything between him and Bruce Wayne. Also, the death of Wayne's parents in Batman Begins compared to the same death in the original, is like comparing the song "Rain drops are fall on my head" to "adagio for strings". Nolan was attempting to make a dramatic, touching scene and failed miserably. It seemed almost ridiculous <U+0096> like an episode of Bold and the Beautiful. They should have made this scene the focal point of the film, so we could feel Bruce Wayne's pain and understand his Legend. I thought 'Scarecrow' was an effective villain, and he scared the hell out of me first time he revealed himself. But he too could not have saved this film from inevitable down fall.Worst of all, fighting scenes were atrocious. Unlike the Tim Burton classic, I couldn't see what the bloody hell was going on on screen. Close-ups, over-layered by shaky cameras, over-layered by quick-cuts so as we don't see how well the actors really fight - what a joke. Sure the story is great, but we came to see Batman kick the enemies butts. Some nice CGI effects were added to the film well, but they could not assist Batman in anyway, because they literally weren't really needed. I think people have either forgotten Tim Burton's unmatched atmosphere of Batman or what makes a good film. From Beginning to End I didn't feel like I was watching a Batman movie - it felt more like a normal action blockbuster we see too much of. It missed the whole Gothic exterior that made the original film larger than life and at times scary. The actors, including Michael Caine, Rutger Hauer, Liam Neeson, Morgan Freeman and Gary Oldman all did great jobs, apart from a few. It was the sets designs, the suit, the Batmobile, the normal look of everything that made this just a boring entry that shouldn't even be called 'Batman'. It is definitely better than Val Kilmer and George Clooney's mediocre sequels. However for this film to get a higher score than the original is like spitting in Tim Burton's face and forgetting the greatness of how film used to be made. Let's not forget one of the most memorable movie scores of all time from the original that assisted to define THE BATMAN. I can only predict that Batman Begins, only in a few years, will be laughable.


                
Batman Begins is the latest film entry in the Warner Brothers Batman franchise that I've been looking forward to, even while my interest was marginally low as a Batman comic fan (I contemplated skipping the movie). I own Batman Black & White, Batman: A Death in the Family, et al and I enjoy reading the comics immensely for well-constructed stories. I thought Christopher Nolan's new vision of the rise of Bruce Wayne as a cleverly intelligent billionaire playboy and a valiant crime fighter would herald the beginning of a promising new Batman movie franchise after the abominable failure of Batman & Robin.After the screening, I had difficulty evaluating the quality of the film - flat-out mediocre, weakly fair or shockingly bad. I attribute my disappointing impression to the one fatal flaw that ruined the film for me, as far as the movie-going experience is concerned: editing.Batman Begins is the distant cousin to Armageddon. Editing is what totally ruined the movie experience for me when it kept visually pummeling the viewer who was trying to follow the story amidst bizarrely chaotic action, marginal character development and fairly impressive direction by Nolan.Don't get me wrong, Batman Begins is close to being a good quality movie on the surface level. It's good to be different that spurn the conventional norms to make a truly unique film. But the crime at the scene pointing to the fatal outcome is maddeningly pretentious MTV-lite editing style that killed my interest in what happens in the movie. Some of the action scenes are so chaotic it's confounding and difficult to follow coherently from scene to scene. I thought Edward Scissorhands was brought in to become O.D. on the combined in-take of cocaine, speed and caffeine in editing the film to shreds to render it barely watchable for those who rise above the general audience's attention span of a goldfish.Batman Begins starts differently pertaining to the development of the main protagonist Bruce Wayne. At this stage, I thought the movie is going in the right direction that stands to purge the bad memory of enduring Batman & Robin at a sold-out movie screening the opening night in June 1997. But as the film progress, the film editing takes precedence in how the visual style should look. It may represent the fast-paced action of the latest comic book series, but for me it gave me a migraine headache. And the film got too predictable. There are the plot points in which I correctly guessed to be divulged, although I liked the creatively constructed plot twists towards the ending. It's fair enough to develop the story to take in the wholly fresh new direction, but I didn't find it compelling because it's very clichéd.Christian Bale shines throughout the film in spite of the excessively self-indulgent editing. He's a damned good actor and he shows that he can carry the movie without bearing a burden on his shoulders. The supporting actors in the film are basically cardboard cutouts as fairly underdeveloped characters suffering the savage hands of the auteur hack editor Lee Smith with the approved oversight by Mr. Nolan. No emotional impact and attachment whatsoever. Katie Holmes is close to terrible as District Attorney Rachel Dawes in Batman Begins - courtesy of Dawson's Creek acting school. No chemistry whatsoever, either - so bland it makes William Shatner's interactive chemistry with Kirstie Alley in Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan seem convincing. Furrowing your eyebrows and pretending to be too serious do not equal good acting. Katie Holmes's miscasting is one of the worst flaws that undermine the film besides rotten caffeine-induced editing. And the ending is so blatant in its opening a slot for a sequel that it felt tacky instead of subliminal.Batman Begins is a forgettable film typical of the summer blockbuster movie mentality. The only memorable sequence is Morgan Freeman & Christian Bale test-driving a pre-modified custom-built Thundertank...er, Batmobile and it was amusing to watch as it pokes fun of itself with a self-acknowledged wink of humor.Christopher Nolan did a fine job speculating on the legacy of Batman's beginning, but the editing basically destroyed the film so it registers a negative response from a jaded moviegoer like me. Christopher Nolan and his team of editors should watch Ingmar Bergman's Fanny & Alexander and The Seventh Seal for noble film art in slow-burn psychological character development intensity with slow-moving but precise editing and learn what can be artful while developing an otherwise overwhelmingly commercial film.Batman Begins is worth seeing in a dollar theater. Otherwise, it's a waste of hard-earned money for a brief, limp escapade of following Bruce Wayne's adventure and vendetta with lesser psychological and visceral impact than expected.** out of four


                
Christopher Nolan blows the opportunity to make a definitive Batman movie by delivering a tepid, poorly structured effort that wastes the impressive acting talent assembled to re-tell the origins of the Dark Knight. It all starts reasonably well with a decently thought out, if a little rushed, origin story, but the film quickly unravels upon Bruce Wayne's return to Gotham. What awaits him (and us) is a dull, contrived tale with weak villains handled by a director whose talents obviously do not stretch to handling this kind of material. The action scenes in particular have you crying out for someone who knows what they're doing, while the character development and story (Nolan's supposed strengths) lack cohesion. Watching the film you have to assume its massive budget was spent on paying the actors, because it's certainly not up there in terms of design, settings or effects. It all adds up to a terrible waste of talent. Unfortunately, returns speak volumes and I'm sure Warner Bros. are already rubbing their hands at the prospect of equally banal, box-office conquering sequels. I only hope Superman Returns delivers a more satisfying, better quality effort and that one day someone will make a movie that truly captures the essence of the Batman of Dark Knight Returns & The Long Halloween.


                
The beginning was slow at parts but pretty good. The last 2/3 of the movie was very bad. There was no entertaining bad guy other than Scarecrow who didn't have enough on screen action. Batman and Batman Returns were good because of their colorful and enchanting atmospheres and entertaining villains, this movie lacked both except the Scarecrow who wasn't in enough scenes. The movie is very boring and it can cause you to miss a major or major plot points so you just have to assume what the story the rest of the way because it is too hard to catch on. Without understanding the plot you can clearly see Katie Holmes is wanted by the bad guys because she is a DA and that the movie is about stopping the guys with drugs and stopping the plot to destroy the water supply. Michael Caine is good though he doesn't have enough screen time to develop a bond with him. Christian Bale is non charismatic, as were I believe the past Batmans in the other movies, but it doesn't have to be about Batman, it can be more about the villains, with some Batman, as long as it is entertaining.


                
Batman Begins begins with what is nearly the worst sound mix ever. It is alright that the music track is loud and it is OK that the characters whisper <U+0096> but not at the same time. This movie justifies everything Norma Desmond ever thought about sound.Then we have the close-camera fight scenes. What's with that? Everything is a meaningless blur. This cinematography is actually worse than the Bourne Identity sequel. If the idea is to make us feel we are in the fight rather than watching the fight, it is clear the cinematographer has never actually been in a fight. It is sad that a lot of great effects and stunt work were reduced to smeary blurs. What a waste of footage and of the viewers' time.If the audience could watch the action and could understand the actors' dialog, this might be a cool flick <U+0096> except for the inane car chase which requires cops who can read minds. As if. With prescient police Gotham wouldn't need a righteous rodent.


                
I cannot remember the last time I was so disappointed with a movie. I went into BATMAN BEGINS with pretty much no expectations, and I was very disappointed. I actually felt sad on the way home afterwards because I was so disappointed. I really can't even think of much that I did like. Christian Bale was alright, but the only scene where he really shined as Batman was when he interrogates a crooked cop atop a fire escape. But otherwise, he was just so-so as both Batman and Bruce Wayne. I missed seeing Michael Gough as Alfred, but Michael Caine was the highlight of the film, without question. My favorite scene of the whole film is in a flashback where Alfred tells young Bruce that his parents' murder wasn't his fault. The rest of the cast was okay, except for Katie Holmes, badly miscast as a District Attorney. Gary Oldman fared pretty well as a pre-Commissioner James Gordon (he certainly looked the part), but he's given almost nothing to do and seems to only be in a handful of scenes. Rutger Hauer is the CEO of Wayne Enterprises in a subplot that isn't needed at all. I couldn't help but feel that a lot of the movie was just padding that could have easily been trimmed out.As for the villains, we get the Scarecrow, Ra's al Ghul, and Carmine Falcone, a local gangster. Now, I know the point of this movie was to make it Batman's film, but the villains were handled so badly I practically felt cheated. The Scarecrow, one of my favorite of Batman's Rogues Gallery, is seriously wasted. He's no longer the Ichabod Craine-looking college professor, but instead a sophisticated-looking pretty boy psychologist. In the comics, his poisons cause people to experience their greatest fears. Here, they simply make people act crazy more than anything else. Ra's al Ghul is also wasted. He appears to be killed early on, but turns up later in an unnecessary plot twist that reveals Ducard (Liam Neeson) is really Ra's, the one we saw killed having only been a decoy. Thus, Ra's is absent for a good bulk of the film, and as a result fails to make much impact as a villain. Even worse, the "villain" shifts constantly, from being Falcone to Scarecrow to Ra's, instead of just giving us one for Batman to deal with, the way it should be. This was the problem with the third and fourth Batman films, and I was very surprised to see them falling for it again in this film. (Anybody remember how well it worked out for the first BATMAN and SPIDER-MAN when when you've only got one villain?) It just really ticked me off how they handled the villains, because they were using two of the most interesting ones. We saw glimpses of Scarecrow's potential in a few moments, and when he finally gallops into the thick of the action at the end, on horseback and (finally) in full Scarecrow costume, we expect to really see things hit the fan. But what happens? He gets zapped with a stun gun by Katie Holmes and runs off screaming into the night like a little girl, never to be seen again. What!? And Falcone was a total waste. We already had two other much more interesting bad guys, so we could have done without him.Other things that irked me: I really hated the Batmobile, even more so after seeing it in action instead of just pictures. And the scene where it jumps across rooftops? Geez, wasn't the point of restarting the franchise to get away from the junk we got in the last two films? I couldn't believe it. The murder of Bruce Wayne's parents was also poorly-handled. It had much more emotional impact in Tim Burton's BATMAN, where I actually felt sadness seeing it happen as opposed to this one, where it's over and done with before you can really react to it. (Which I guess is something they might have intended, but it still had no affect on me.) And Gotham City! I know Christopher Nolan has said they wanted to make a "realistic" Batman film, sort of bringing him "into the real world." Well, it clearly doesn't work. The Gotham City of Tim Burton's film lived up to its name. Here, the movie could have just as easily taken place in Los Angeles. And this is really just a small complaint, but Batman's gadgets were hardly used. Where's his gas pellets during his escapes (like we saw demonstrated for him earlier in the film)? And the Batarangs were virtually missing in action. The action scenes, what few there are, were terrible. The MTV-style editing and camera work didn't help, practically drowning out any suspense and excitement they may have had. Half the time, I couldn't even tell what was going on and who was hitting who. And the excessive use of flashbacks in the first act made me feel like I was watching an episode of LOST.By the time the movie was over and I was heading out of the theater, I really didn't even feel like I had just seen a Batman movie, but something else entirely. It's really a shame. The film had lots of potential, and after eight years of waiting, this is all we get. It could have been something really good. I know everybody's raving about it, but I really didn't see the big deal. I thought it was pretty lackluster. Perhaps if the writer hadn't been David S. Goyer? Who knows? All I know is that I'm extremely disappointed. Of the four live-action Batman movies (not counting the one with Adam West), I guess I'd rank BATMAN BEGINS at Number 4, right behind BATMAN, BATMAN RETURNS, and even BATMAN FOREVER. It seems that SPIDER-MAN's place as the best superhero movie of all-time isn't likely to be challenged anytime soon.BATMAN BEGINS: 3/10
A great cast wasted. More Hollywood vacuous tripe. I paid Euro18 to take my 12 year old son to see this and we both came out the cinema shaking our heads in disbelief at the sheer awfulness of it. When will they realise that these comic adaptations just don't work on the big screen. The idea that even in the US, companies exist that spend huge money to develop super weapons that somehow never see the light of day until our leading man comes along to liberate them is so convenient and such a cop out. It insults the intelligence of the audience. Mumbo jumbo pseudo science, hackneyed stereotypes and woeful dialogue. My mother in law is scarier than Cillian Murphy even with the mask on.If you are considering going to see this then think a slightly better version of Daredevil. If that floats your boat then go for it. Otherwise stay well clear.


                
I can only mildly recommend this movie out of the strength of the cast, The plot and dialog of this movie is horrible and not the enduring caped crusader i grew up loving in DC comics. The cast is a dream cast except for Bale (whos work i love and thought he did OK as batman)although I feel is too young and looks more like Robin than stoic batman). But enough of that lets get down to it and my main complaint..this has the same plot as 1989's Batman with Keaton..What am I saying ?!?!...let me explain..PLOT OF 1989 BATMAN: The Joker Kills Bruce Waynes parents and wants to destroy gotham city by POISIONING and robbing them ( a poison which drives everyone insane which he released in float balloon leaving them with joker smiles, DEAD, remember that movie?).PLOT OF BATMAN BEGINS: Ras Al Gul, leader of the League of Shadows a vigilante group of Ninjas wants to destroy a corrupt Gotham city with..you guessed it A MICROWAVE INDUCING RAY GUN THAT POISIONS GOTHAM CITY DRIVING THEM INSANE..THEN DEAD)..You got it bat heads, this is the same movie, different villains. This is why i am so disappointed in the bad taste of reviewers and fans. This is not the Batman of my youth, this Bruce Wayne is written like an obnoxious snob (Bruce Wayne would have never have done what he did when he bought the hotel, a funny scene but completely out of character and unbelievable for a rich person yet alone a Wayne), hes a doormat to his childhood sweetheart whom he acts like he tolerates and is not a love interest. Another scene has Wayne acting like an a** to save guests which probably politically would have cost him everything in real life and ignoring Alfreds remarks of be the person your father wanted you to be (again acting like a prissy snob, although slightly unintentionally), in every scene of Wayne we see him acting unbecoming whether its rude "funny" quips like these or remarks to Luscious Fox of "gee, do you speak English" when Fox talks about poison antidote ingredients (hardly the detective genius batman i grew up loving). This wayne is ruined by horrible dialogue that is unbecoming of a person, if I had kids I would disown them if they acted the way Wayne/batman did in this movie.If you wish to know how a hero should ask when writing a plot for a hero in a film or book then just ask yourself, If you were sitting giving advice to your child when they asked (the characters are fictional but as example:) "dad/mom if i ever have to fight Ras Al Gul on a train should i leave him or kill him...OR SHOULD I ARREST HIM AND SEND HIM TO ARKHAM ASYLUM THE WAY A REAL BATMAN AND HERO WOULD DO.), what would you tell them to do? For those who like the dark batman i have this to say,a superhero is a hero not because of their powers, but because of the values that they instill and endure in spite of their powers.You want to make a movie about a vigilante running around in a cape fine..don't do this to batman, its beneath him.That is the essence of the batman comics.Superman is a hero because he protects people, has values about human life and protecting people being an adopted earthling saving people and criminals alike, arrests them and doesn't vaporize them with heat vision.Spiderman is a hero because he has kids bullying him, has great powers, but doesn't beat them to a bloody pulp for doing so or flip out and go on a rampage because he's teased. Batman is a hero in the comics because he suffered greatly at the loss of his parents to crime and still does the right thing, he arrests villains and is always a POLICEMAN, a lonely detective, he is not a vigilante. These hero's know the difference between right and wrong, the difference between the good fight, fighting what you hate and not becoming what you are fighting. This is not the fatherly, stoic, broad shouldered police detective i grew up loving as a child but a sad shame.This batman the cops fear yet in every Batman comic i grew up reading he was the police mascot..they even gave him a signal..he never acted like a vigilante (and yet i think the graphic novels completely got him wrong, have the joker committing acts of violence but Batman, other than a good beating..no)To me the writer completely missed what a hero is about and what batman comics were about, as did reviewers of this movie and franchise. A sad sign of the times when preachy inhuman values are being taught by filmmakers, even more so watching movies like this and wondering why i have to sit through movies like Terminator 3 and Episode III(both given rave reviews which I disagreed), this film and its undue praise are why.I don't mind a dark batman, I don't even mind a violent Batman film but remember a superhero is a hero because of how they act, not because of their superpowers. I can only mildly recommend this film out the strength of its cast, watch the original for a much better (and darker) Batman with Keaton and Nicholson.
Overrated movie with lots of fans.The Batman story doesn't actually reinvents itself with this one. Like almost every superhero movie of the last 2 decades, this is also a dark movie and not because of its Dark Knight Character.Still its a better approach than the ridiculously flamboyant version of the past starring ...Clooney or Kilmer, but for me isn't something to write home about it.The visual are mediocre, even unattractive like some horror effects with some guys wearing a mask.I didn't like it much. I've seen it here and there (catch it on television) 3-4 times. Didn't grow on me. The 2nd and the 3rd are better, but I guess for someone who hasn't see them and wishes to have a little marathon this one is the one which you should start.Zimmer's music is also bad. I wasn't expecting a John Williams's theme but 1-2 notes of heavy brass and horns isn't music for me.


                
While I enjoy Tim Burton "Batman" immensely, I cannot stand this one. What are the problems with "Batman Begins"? Well, I can name at least three ones. But what three!Reality. How come they put Gotham City into the real world together with Rome and other true-to-life cities? It is simply laughable. In the Burton movie Gotham is such an amazing ethereal place that it just frees your mind. And here we have a dirty town next to New York or whatever.Background. In certain amounts the background is great. But when everything gets explained, stretched out, chewed and re-chewed with a detailed psychological analysis of the characters... it gets boring and nauseating. In "Batman" (1989) we had two psychos. They just clashed and the whole Gotham was a battlefield for the two maniacs who did not have to back themselves up with the loads of facts from their lives - they were too stylish for that paraphernalia and too insane. And what do we have here? Numerous flashbacks which are annoying. The main character's idiotic samurai-like training as if he were going to become a Jedi knight from "Star Wars" trilogy (and there is also that actor who performed in "Star Wars: Episode 1"). Scrutinized explanation of the technology performed by Mr Morgan Freeman and of the way it can be purchased. Deep speeches delivered by the evil and good guys that resemble the notorious rubbish talks from "Matrix: Reloaded".Actors with profound performance. What the hell is wrong with the performance? It's too self-imposing. I feel as if these actors are going to burst from inside <U+0096> their self-importance is simply overwhelming. I feel the need to shout at the TV-set: "Come on guys! It's "Batman", not "Born on the Forth of July"!" Those serious talks and big serious faces resemble scenes from "Godfather". Fine, they are making a deep criminal saga out of a comics booklet. Just brilliant.That's enough to lower the mark to a 3-out-of-10 level. The conception has been ruined. It's no match for the "Batman" from the 1989. By the way, I tried to watch this movie twice. For me to watch it from top to toe was unbearable.My verdict: unwatchable for the most part of its running time, but at least not completely tasteless and repellent (its major achievement). 3 out of 10. I would never bother commenting this one but it's on the top list while "Batman" (1989) is not. I cannot take this for granted. Thanks for attention.


                
It does take a really really long time for Batman to appear as such in this film. The serious and dark theme of the movie "fear" is really hammered into the ground. The word "fear" must be used at least 50 times in the first 30 minutes of the movie and I don't know how many times after that. Bale makes a very good Bruce Wayne, but when he is "finally" in the Batsuit he does sort of a whisper shout line delivery which is sometimes way over the top. Of course being in the Batsuit is about kicking Bad guy ass. In this department we get confused shortish fight scenes against bad guys who obviously have no chance. The cast is full of good actors all of them have their moments, though that's about all they are allowed. Katie Holmes is miscast and not especially good in a not too well written part. Most of the special effects are very good, save a sort of "island of the crazies" part of town that looks like a big half rendered CG thing. This is too bad as much of the later part of the plot takes place here.Batman begins is a new start but it still has some of the problems of the last series and though it has a newish take on the material it's not so novel or convincing a take not to keep it being just a shade dull as we wait for the big scenes to arrive.SPOILER WARNING.Okay there's this whole segment in Tebet to somehow inspire Wayne to be Batman. This seems totally out of place really in the overall lore of Batman. But the thing is Wayne is afraid of bats. There is a very extensive use of flashbacks to how Bruce feels he killed his parents and this is connected to bats also, though I won't give that away I'm only giving enough info to explain my point. So in the Asian retreat section of the film there is talk of fear this fear that. It's all KUNG FU type dialog, but Wayne never makes the connection or assumes the role of Batman during this section. He only thinks of it, almost by accident after all this. Shouldn't they have tortured Wayne with bats to master his fear? They basically babble about fear and then kick his ass over and over that's the training. They don't follow through on their own fear concept they just repeat the basic concept over and over again. Set up an idea. Pay off the idea. That's what the audience is waiting for.Speaking of set up. It turns out that all the super gadgets that Batman has are just basically lying around in the basement of Wayne Enterprises headquarters. They just happened to make all this stuff for the military but never sold it. Sort of a happy accident isn't it? I don't know if this is convincing, though the new Batmobile is pretty cool its one big car chase scene is long but not too exciting.So they don't just happen to have Bat helmets in the basement. What is our hero to do. Well the plan is that they will order 10,000 of them from some military producer in Asia. They have to also order 10,000 helmet type things and 10,000 Bat ears with listening devices inside because this will somehow attract less attention. What? Can't they just make one bat helmet in their high tech sub basement where they made the prototype Batmobile. I guess not.Okay right at the start of the film a untrained Batman beats the crap out of either 6 or 7 guys depending on who you believe. So towards the end of the film the villain ( I won't say who that is) is confronted with Batman and is going to escape by leaving two Ninja type henchmen to fight Batman. Batman makes some remark about "only two"? Suddenly two more super ninjas drop form the sky and the villain leaves. Okay, so what. He kicked the crap out of 6 guys before he knew anything. A short bad fight scene follows. Let me point out that Batman in several other scenes has easily beaten many more men than 4 men every time. If you set up a hero like this you need to also be able to set up real challenges for him and they don't.Finally the plot hinges around a rather shakily set up but decently paid off super weapon. The villain is racing on a train to the center of the city to turn it on and destroy everything. The device is the immediate and large danger and all you do is flip a switch to turn it on. There is no positive use for the device. Batman gets onto the moving train at last. What should he do? Destroy the device? All it would take it some good kicks to render it useless. Or does he engage the villain in a protracted fist fight. He doesn't even really try to stop the train--though he sort of does--I'm not here to give that away or ruin everything, just to mention odd gaps in the script that ruin some other good ideas. Batman fights and fight and fights and the device just sits there in the middle of the train car. Oh yeah the villain gets to mention fear a couple of times again in case we haven't figured that out by this point in the film now that it's almost over. Here in order to have an elaborate "ticking clock" ending they ignore a simple simple solution. Batman would break the machine and then kick the guys ass given the choice. And the screenplay gives him the choice which is the mistake.
Batman Begins is a muddled mess. It begins with an hour long origin story, which is almost identical to the origin story in The Shadow <U+0096> which is not a great film, but is a better film than this one. In this version of Batman's origin, Ras Al Ghul trains Bruce Wayne to cloud men's minds/fight evil, with brief flashbacks to the traditional Batman origin. Sadly, while Bruce impresses Ras with his ability, he never impresses the audience. He beats up a bunch of people, but we never see how he does it. He never makes any really cool moves. We just see a flurry of arms and legs and then a bunch of people have been knocked down and Bruce is still standing. Nothing about the plot even begins to make sense, and none of the cool stuff we've been waiting for and hoping for ever happens.Rick Norwood, sfsite


                
I'm sure you've read other people's reviews, so I'll spare the plot details. As I watched this movie, I decided that two words accurately describe it -- disturbing and boring. These aren't two words that usually go together, but batman begins was at times tedious and at times truly frightening. The scary parts remind me of Jacob's Ladder. The scarecrow gives people a dose of a hallucinogenic drug that causes victims to see the most frightening things imaginable. The way this is portrayed on screen so strangely and so often had me just wanting to leave. This is definitely not for young children. I think the director had some bad acid trips and decided he'd make these real for everyone with his multi-million dollar budget. The parts that weren't disturbing were slow and tedious. Repeated shots of young Bruce being traumatized. There was nothing uplifting about this movie. I'm not a fan of artificial comic relief (and there wasn't much of that) but I just kept waiting for some element of happiness to appear and it never did. If you're not a fan of the comics, I would say avoid this. I left the theater feeling worse than when I went in.
This is the only Batman movie where the villains are not just complete losers but are also completely pointless. How can even begin to compare a mostly non-existent Scarecrow to the Joker in the first movie? The first half was pretty decent if not extremely unrealistic and highly questionable. At the end, there are too many things thrown together, making little sense. Its all one big bloody mess. There is no real plot in this movie.Bruce Wayne's character was completely ruined by bad acting not to mention ridiculous scenes. As batman, he did little fighting and comes out as a complete idiot. In one scene where Katie Holme's character pepper sprays someone, Batman is seen molesting...er...fighting in the background. It really does look like molestation. The second half of this movie is atrocious and total crap. The sets used are also crap.


                
They should have called this movie Ninja-man. Seriously...why is Batman in this flick? At best, this is Hollywood hackery with all the loose ends tied up in a tidy little convoluted package. It takes Batman - who is such an obvious fantasy hero living in a fantasy world - and tries to spread him over real life. The result is embarrassing to behold. Act I feels like a tasteless film noir riff on The Last Samauri. Act II is downright insulting - every single major player loses common sense to an almost surreal extinct. Act III is basically Die Hard IV: Die Batman Die. Now, this is coming from someone who loved, loved, loved MEMENTO and INSOMNIA, as well as Tim Burton's BATMAN and BATMAN RETURNS.As bad as BATMAN AND ROBIN was - at least it wasn't pretentious. The soundtrack sounds like it was cobbled together from various faceless, forgettable Action Movie Trailers. It is utterly soulless...but that matches Bruce Wayne's (non)character. Wayne is supposed to be clever - a scientist! Here, he comes off like a frat boy with a silver spoon in his mouth and a chip on his shoulder. Instead of appearing mysterious, he is inexplicable and unaccountable if not simply an utter dolt. Batman Begins exhibits a one-dimensional Bruce Wayne unconvincingly leading a double-life. At times, he borders on non-dimensional. I've got some advice for the producers of this film - re-title this thing The League of Shadows, cut out your half-baked "Batman" subplot, compose an actual score and you'd have just another Bad American Action Movie rather than a Pretentiously, Embarrassingly "Serious" Comic Book Bastardization. To be fair, this movie does have about 15 minutes of interesting material. I'm sure it makes for a great trailer. But the rest is Bat droppings. Sorry fans, I really wanted to dig this flick. I hate to rain on the parade of praise rolling in for this thing. I'm glad so many of you enjoyed this and I wish I could share in your enthusiasm. I'm just trying to warn readers like myself to lower their expectations.


                
i was surprised to see the good reviews this movie has had so far. i think a lot of people are blinded by the fact that it's so close to the comics. this movie is NOT the ultimate batman flick.. its not even a good movie at all. the editing is to fast, you don't' care about the batman at all, the villains are none existent (whats up with scarecrow being a big wuss that doesn do anything, except ride a horse) and the music is below average. All the actors are on auto-pilot and i was annoyed by a lot of them. I can't believe Nolan did such a crappy job with this one.i'm sticking with the Burton batman films, at least those were better cut and FUN to watch.Batman Begins rapes Batman for me... shame....


                
I've heard people talk about this film, about how intelligent it is because it talks about the character's fears and motivations and how he deals with them, and it all sounds great. Nevertheless, actually sitting in this film and watching it, I couldn't help but think--this is dung. The philosophical babbling was tedious. The action and fight scenes were dull and nothing different than 1000 other films. Batman was a plastic, chisel-faced manikin. Katie Hudson was nothing special. What happened to the color-fol villains? The Joker? The Riddler? The Penguin? This villain was boring as hell. I'll admit that this is not my favorite genre. But I liked some of the earlier Batman movies, and I liked both Spiderman movies. This one was just junk. If I had been by myself, I would've walked out.


                
In future releases, we may finally know why Daffy Duck is mean, learn of the dysfunctional family of Charlie Brown or discover the psychological traumas suffered by Olive Oyl during her youth, thanks to some filmmakers' urge to turn icons of popular culture (as comic book heroes/heroines) into cinematic "human beings" (resembling old movies more than real life), and eventually into myths of an apocryphal North American saga. Many Batman's fans were pleased with this incursion into the rules of the 19th century novel, declared it a masterpiece and the final word on the darker aspects of Bob Kane's creation. To me what Christopher Nolan, David S. Goyer and Christian Bale successfully achieved is taking Kane's universe out of the world of dreams and turning it into a melodramatic and fascist action movie of the latter days of American imperialism, without the previous films' campiness, high aesthetics or humour. Now we have a masochist psycho as the winged hero, a Batmobile of the globalization era, a gun supplier a la James Bond's "Q", and a sect of terrorists who babble Buddhist ideas but reject compassion. Although the terrorists want to destroy New York (here called Gotham City...) because they have made corrupt empires fall since the good old days of Constantinople, they look like today's Masons deciding the future of the world's economy in a secret room of their loggia. All this flirting with today's world affairs, more than pleased audiences, moreover because as an action movie it's above the standard. As a Batman product, though, in my case I prefer Tim Burton's superior diptych.


                
Here's what I liked about this movie:- I liked Gary Oldman as Sgt Gordon, he acted very well in a part that really didn't give him all that much to do. I liked Morgan Freeman, it was nice to show how Bruce Wayne acquired all his "toys" for Batman. I liked Rutger Hauer, but the story behind him working for someone else really didn't come out at all, just a "stolen microwave" thing. His character could have had so much more to do. He would have been an excellent pawn in the baddies master plan. I liked Micheal Caine, excellent as Alfred. I liked Christian Bale but I really didn't believe him as Batman, sorry. Not enough trauma and too much showing of him going bad.OK, here's what I didn't like. I didn't like Liam Neeson pretending to be a bad Jedi/Sith again. Liam, you died in the Star Wars series - get over it! Let's train Bruce Wayne in the art of Ninjitsu (supposedly takes a life time but Bruce is only away from Gotham for 7 years?) and teach him to be a force for good but when he questions his teacher about ethics and morality they suddenly want to kill him? Er, WTF?Newly trained "ninja" Bruce Wayne defeats a whole room full of people who were teaching him - I Think NOT! If you've seen the trailer then you've seen the best bits of this film. If the police chasing the Batmobile looks familiar then it should do, thats Lower Whacker Drive in Chicago, used in The Blues Brothers over 20 years ago.The creators of this film thought " Right, lets use tons of stuff out of Batman comic books" - This is of no use to those of us who don't read Batman comics is it? Most of us are going to know Batman from previous films or the old TV series. Yes, we know The Joker, The Riddler, The Penguin. Scarecrow - who the hell is he then? No explanation behind why he's The Scarecrow, what made him this way - how he got the name. The whole "have you seen my mask?" and the voice changer inside along with the hallucogenic drugs still don't explain how or why he became Scarecrow.The attempt (And it was damn feeble) to explain how Bruce becomes Batman and chooses the nickname. "I'm scared of bats so I think i'll use a bat". He was attacked by bats. NO HE WASN'T! He fell down a well and spooked some bats who tried to fly away from him, there was no attack, just bats fleeing from a perceived threat. (Oh and real bats wouldn't fly anywhere near a person, they have excellent radar so whoever did the computer generated bats did NO research into how bats fly)Sounds pretty normal but nothing like an attack, eh? Adult Bruce goes down the well with no torch but finds a torch which seems to just appear in his hand like magic. No attack from the bats again? No, of course not. That'd be far too damn sensible. The flashbacks that seem fairly useless, we don't really see why Bruce is arrested. Stealing stuff that belongs to Wayne Industries. Not really theft is it, especially once they've asked him what his name is?The appearance of Liam Neeson in the prison cell. We've put Bruce Wayne into solitary to protect other prisoners who you were fighting with but this hasn't been deemed serious enough to warrant any further prison time, we'll just release you like we were going to.The whole "people spooked by gas that makes them scared and insane" just looks like a scene from a Romero film, them shuffling along like Night Of The Living Dead.The girl whose supposed to be insane from gas but sits meekly in a strange fast traveling vehicle. She doesn't recognize Bruce Wayne's voice until near the end of the film, despite the fact they were childhood playmates. No, I don't think so. Plus Bruce already had the cure and he didn't carry it with him when he went to save her? The reason for her being in the house isn't explained? I assume her mother works for the Wayne family. Why do they take Bruce to the opera at all? Why do they leave by the back door?We aren't supposed to question this person killing Bruce's parents when we already know about Jack Napier (aka The Joker) from a previous film.Watch the film and forget about the plot. There isn't really MUCH actual plot to forget about but if you just watch the action and enjoy the fights and the gadgets and The Batmobile then you will love this film. Turn off your brain.The fact that The Batmobile has to jump into The Batcave but it looks like it would be physically impossible for it to jump out. Lets paint the Batsuit black but it's black already - why? Two guys get into an elevator in a fire - the most dangerous thing you can do. Really smart message to the kids, ignore the danger warnings - lifts are safe in a fire if you need to get down from somewhere.The plot of the film gets a 2/10, the action gets a 5/10.


                
This movie tarnishes the Batman legend forever. Even Robin wouldn't like this piece of cinematic guano.Christian Bale is no Batman. His raspy whisper is more hysterical than menacing. How can they let something so patently foolish leave the studio? At the very least they could have dubbed in some more sinister... like Porky Pig. He's easily the weakest of all Batmans. Adam West looks good by comparison.The chemistry is missing between and among the cast. They never seem comfortable with who and/what they are supposed to be. The interaction is stiff; the humor is forced. This could kill a couple of careers... or so one hopes.The story is weak. We all know Batman's origins, the details could have been worked through more expeditiously and knocked a tedious hour or so off of this monstrosity. By the time this film muddled towards climax, I didn't care how it ended---I just wanted that damn thing over. And when it was over, I just wanted my money back. My second disappointment of the day as it turns out. I guess theaters don't do that any more.
This movie was one of the worst movies I have ever had the displeasure of watching. It was so bad, I felt the need to write this. There were just so many things wrong with this movie...KATIE HOLMES. She cannot act. I always thought she was a decent actress based on the few episodes of "Dawson's Creek" I've regretfully seen, but her performance in this movie was on a Britney Spears-Crossroads level of bad. Also, in practically every scene, Katie Holmes appears to be a little chilly (if you catch my drift), and it is so noticeable that I felt the need to throw it in.EVERYONE ELSE'S ACTING. Christian Bale's performance was a disappointment also. His tone and the movement of his lips reminded me of Donald Trump. And honestly, I feel like Donald Trump probably would have done a better job than Christian Bale in this role. Seriously, it's that bad. The ONLY good actors in the movie were the veterans -- Michael Caine and Morgan Freeman. They are way beyond this movie.THE SCRIPT. This movie delivered some of the worst and most corny lines I have ever heard in a movie. Seriously, I laughed out loud at some of the things that were said. Liam Neeson had the worst lines of all. I understood maybe three things he said. The rest of what he had to say included all sorts of odd metaphors, or was just unimportant.THE CAMERA WORK. I was so confused about who was being slapped, shot, punched, etc. The editing was done too quickly so that the film was jumpy, and that was one of the reasons that it was so hard to differentiate who was getting hit. In addition, the camera angles were tight.Aside from all the negatives, Cillian Murphy was scary. He would be standing idle, and I would get chills. He was good as the villain -- very creepy. I also found the preface to be really random and unnecessary.In conclusion, don't waste your money or time on this movie. I wish God would refund me the 2 hours and 21 minutes of my life that was wasted seeing this movie.


                
Where Memento was psychologically deep and engulfing, Batman Begins is shallow and repetitive. Chris Nolan's breakout masterpiece Memento showed us that he could tell a story that keeps us riveted and constantly guessing through unique editing and story telling techniques. However, Batman Begins flowed poorly. I commend Nolan for not using the quick flashy editing techniques of directors like Guy Ritchie, but his more subdued style failed to engage me. The placement of the flashback sequences were jarring, and failed to move the plot forward in an interesting way.Unlike the Spiderman films, Nolan failed in creating sympathy for both the hero and the villains. The story is a classic battle between good and evil, but I found it too simple. The film attempted to engage us in a good dialog about the reasons for crime and corruption and how poverty is both a symptom and a cause of both. Unfortunately, it was grossly simplified for the sake of mass consumption. I do not believe this is Nolan's fault as I doubt he had final cut status for the film. In general, Hollywood underestimates the intelligence of the movie going public and tends to just throw explosions and nudity at them in place of good plot. Though there was no nudity in this film, I feel that this film did not fulfill it's full potential for the sake of more action. A good discussion about crime and evil would have given Bruce Wayne believable motivation for becoming Batman. The whole "a burglar shot my parents" motive could have been done better. I had a hard time empathizing with Bruce Wayne as a result.The acting in the film was as good as the dialog allowed. I always find Liam Neeson's acting rather poor, and this film was no exception. Neeson's character in this was only slightly different from that of his character in Star Wars Episode I. I found his character and the whole "league of shadows" very cheesy.In general I would not recommend this movie to anyone.


                
