Compared to the movies I have seen these past two years, Batman Begins does an adequate job of putting batman on the screen. However, it is still a bad film.First, I have to establish that I am a fan of the comics, and I really dislike it when movies completely disregard the story and history established in the comic books.With that out of the way, Batman Begins casts Christian Bale, who is the best Batman actor I have seen, but it doesn't say much when you look at the past Batmans. The story is divided into two parts. One talking about the beginnings of Batman, and the second about him saving gotham.As always, 2 villains are cast. Raz-Al-Ghul, and Scarecrow. Scarecrow is played over the top, but that is a good thing as I believe that's how villains should be played in Batman.Raz is a different story. The Raz in the comic is much better, and this one does not do him justice. The actor is very good, but it is the way Raz is portrayed that really disappoints.Then, plot holes. Mr. Wayne wears a tux, but rides the subway. They come out of a high class opera house to the lowest slum. It just does not make sense.Katie Holmes is the most horrible thing about this film. She throws in corny one-liners as if her life depends on it.Bottom line, compared to the stuff I have seen this past 2 summers, Batman Begins is actually entertaining enough to be worth the $5.25, if you are willing to completely forget what you know of the caped crusader.


                
I can't believe you Batman fans! I can't believe anyone really liked this movie! It's a total BS film that destroyed the story of Batman. The movie wasn't even that enjoyable, it was brought more into a horror movie than a comic book or even a whimsical/corny TV show. Christain Bale as Batman? He's better than George Clooney, that's for sure, but he didn't give much depth to his character. It's like "Look! My voice can get scary! I'm Batman! No, really, I am!". Katie Holmes? I'm recently ticked off with her and Tom, so I'm going to back off and just pretend she wasn't in the movie at all. The villain? Who was it? There was no main one! Plot holes!!!! There were a million. OK, supposedly, this homeless person killed Bruce's parents, NOPE! WRONG! It was Joker, and even before Jack became the Joker, he was a smooth gangster. Not a homeless man if you will. Also, this is supposed to be a prequel to the first Batman? Then why are people using cell phones and updated cars? The first Batman was set in the 80's.Jeez, people! I'm not trying to be all harsh on this film, but this was in no way the best Batman! 4/10


                
The moral absolutes of comic-book movies have never seemed so relevant as now, as Star Wars: Episode III and Sin City brilliantly showed ( Yellow Bastard's castration will go down in history as the great shared moment of anti-Bush catharsis. ) But Christopher Nolan's dreadfully earnest Batman Begins is too obvious in its attempts to draw parallels with America's current malaise, and may ultimately tip the scales back to Joel Schumacher's neon-ribbed codpieces. Nolan strikes me as a calculating, soulless filmmaker who should be making movies about Rubber Man, as he twists himself into a Superpretzel trying to please the comic-book mavens, the intellectuals, the Friday-night date crowd, the SUV driving suburbanites, the sensitive artistes AND the action fans. But a Batman movie is not the place for him to trot out his knowledge of German literature and philosophy ( Novalis and Nietzsche, primarily. ) It sort of reminds me of all those Yale grads who end up writing sitcoms and Pixar animated features, and who drop various arcane references in order to pretend to themselves that they haven't sold out. This movie may seem to have integrity at first, but a closer examination will reveal just how made-by-committee it is.What really torpedoes the project, though, is something much simpler -- Nolan has no style, no juice, no cinematic blood in his veins. Did anyone really want to see a Batman movie directed by Sidney Lumet? Who wants to see anonymous drug-runners, cops with greasy mustaches and dull British character actors in this kind of movie? The only supervillian, The Scarecrow, is played by 20-something Cillian Murphy, and his scenes with the equally juvenile Katie Holmes make the audience feel as if they're sitting in on a laid-back acting class on Santa Monica Boulevard. There is a lack of imagination in the action scenes that will become fatally apparent to even the most impressed fans once they get this movie on DVD. This film is born to collect dust. There's not one memorable setpiece in the entire movie, nothing like the museum sequence in Burton's Batman that could put this over the top -- just lots of generic karate shot close-in. The big showdown at the end is like something out of the Speed movies.Ang Lee's version of Hulk -- the underrated trailblazer among the Serious Comic Book Movies, and the one that will stand the test of time -- is the perfect marriage of pop thrills and myth-savvy credibility. Almost every scene is memorable, from Hulk's eerily quiet rageout in in the desert, to his Shakespeareanly wordy confrontation with father Nick Nolte. It not only starts out as realistic and plausible as this Batman, but has the courage to plunge into the irrational and abstract at the end. Batman Begins, by contrast, is a dead weight, a humorless 70's cop show tarted up with cod philosophy.


                
There are some wonderful scenes but the movie left me cold since it didn't tell a "real" story. Rather than following the hard-won lore of storytelling as described in the Hero's Journey by Joseph Campbell, Chris Vogler and others, the plot meandered, starting a new thread, failing to end another, and then jumping back to a thread which had petered out. Finally, the viewer was left not really caring what happened, resigned to watching special effects for their own sake rather than as part of the story.Let's hope the next Batman movie (as well as the next Superman movie, et al) can attract some writing and directing talent.


                
I don't really care for this movie. Needless to say it's not the worst Batman movie, but it's not the best either. Now remember this is just my opinion. First of all I don't think the acting in this film is good. Christian Bale is good as Bruce Wayne, but Goofy as Batman. Mainly because of that infamous growlish voice. Liam Neeson does good as Ra's Al Ghul. Needless to say I don't really like Ra's Al Ghul, but Liam Neeson does good as him. Scarecrows is the coolest of the two villains, but it's a shame that there's not much focus on him. Michael Kane is also great as Alfread. He's better than Michael Gough. Morgan Freeman also does a good job, but I need to ask one question. Is he in the comics? I just always wondered that. Now lets talk about what is easily the worst part of the movie and that is the action sequences. They are the worst of all time. The camera angles are annoying half of the time, I could not see what was going on. Also I really dislike the scene where Comisioner Gordon drives the Bat-Mobile. It always seemed Dumb. The story to this movie strikes me as not to interesting. When his parents a killed, millionaire playboy Bruce Wayne relocates to Asia when he is mentored by Henri Ducard and Ra's Al Ghul in how to fight evil. When learning about the plan to wipe out evil in Gotham City by Ducard, Bruce prevents this plan from getting any further and heads back to his home. Back in his original surroundings, Bruce adapts the image of a bat to strike fear into the criminals and the corrupt as the icon known as 'Batman'. But it doesn't stay quiet for long. Special thanks to FilmFanUk for the synopsis. In the end I don't know weather or not you should see it or not, but me I don't care for it.
The problem with many, many superhero films in this day and age is that with each and every single one, the fantasy element seems to decrease. there is a worrying amount of realism applied to these films. lotr, the star wars trilogy, the matrix, even sin city, were all excellent because the film makers crafted a thoroughly believable fantasy world that absorbed us. batman begins sucks because it is based entirely within the real world (gotham city could just as well be new york, LA, even London or Paris).when in reality, if a guy dresses up in a rubber suit, as a 'bat', and starts to fight crime, he'd be arrested for being a pervert/ vigilante or both, and would get sent down to the loony bin for life.many fans of comic books, or 'geeks', as i like to call them, have got to understand that comic books exist as pure fantasy and nothing else. I have noticed, esp. since harry Knowles aicn, that a lot of emphasis has come into making super hero films real and dramatic. Could you imagine if the lotr or star wars trilogy were treated as gritty dramas rather than the outstanding piece of genre film making that they are? Theyd be terrible.There is one scene in batman begins that seems especially ludicrous. commissioner Gordon (played by a wasted Gary oldman) is seen having a dead pan conversation with a guy dressed as a giant rubber bat, and doesn't seem to batter an eyelid. The scene is played out for real, and like the rest of the film we are expected to believe, without any clever twists, that this could really happen. When without all the explosions, action and SFX, the film would be nothing.If these 'geeks' want their fantasy films and nothing else, then so be it. If they want human drama, realism, plausibility mixed with the surreal, watch either classic 70s films such as taxi driver, clockwork orange, apocalypse now, day of the locust, David lynch films, or Japanese horrors such as uzumaki. a gritty drama about a giant rubber bat is kinda pushing things a bit too far.


                
I just learned that Memento, this film and The Prestige were all directed by Chris Nolan. I know, "what, have I been living under a rock or something?" Right, but, I really liked Memento, a lot. Now, I can see a lot of similarities directorially between the three films once I thought about it. It also occurs to me that one of the things a dislike so much about Batman Begins and The Prestige is that they have so much going for them and they fail to deliver. They both have great actors, good plots for the most part, very good atmosphere and pretty good story telling on some levels. Unfortunately, they all three rely to much on some type of gimmick. Memento was done before the clever twist was so overused which helped it a great deal. It was also done in a particularly clever fashion with the story telling mimicking an aspect of the protagonist's situation. Batman Begins, while it does not rely on one major plot twist, does rely on a series of gimmicks for its main story. Even though this is typical of comic book inspired stories, Nolan does not handle these elements very well and I found it very hard to suspend my disbelief. The same thing happened to me with The Prestige. I think Nolan likes stories that have mostly dark characters that do not have any of the typical redeeming qualities we are used to seeing in main characters in stories. He seems to like characters that allow their obsessions to overtake all the other aspects of their lives. I have to applaud him for being willing to take on these types of characters. However, I think he spends so much time on their dark side that is very difficult for audience members, or, at least for me, to invest any real interest in the outcome of their story. It worked in Memento because the character had a physical flaw that made it difficult for him to deal with his character flaws. In Batman Begins, as well as The Prestige it falls flat.Perhaps it is a sad commentary on the time we live in that these films get the high ratings they do. Maybe very few people are able to believe that there is actually good in most people even some that do bad things. We went from having clear cut heroes, to having the anti-hero, to just having different shades of villains all mixing it up with one or the other arbitrarily winning. I know, the Batman fans out there are saying "but this is one chapter in a much larger story". Even though I am a comic book fan I look to the film makers of this genre to make the films episodic for maximum entertainment value. This was very nicely done with the Spiderman series, by the way. On the other hand, Batman Begins doesn't make me sympathetic enough to the protagonist to really care one way or another how things turn out. Save the price of the DVD and go buy some of the comics, I am sure it will be a better experience.


                
I hate to say it, especially in light of the raves, but Batman Begins is a bore. This thing needed a few more rewrites (or at least one by a good writer) before it was set to film. The basic story is very well thought out, the origin of all Batman and all his iconic and psychological paraphernalia, but the dialog is horrible and the visuals lack style. Now I know that director Nolan was trying to set Batman in the "real" world, but does the real world have to look so dull? More importantly, do the people have to all talk like zombified, robotic idiots? Even the fatass morons down I see buying candy bars with food stamps at the Safeway utter more colorful dialog than is offered in this movie. There is a complete lack of any wit, spontaneity, or intelligence in the dialog. The conversational dialog is stiff and--oddly enough for a film striving for realism-- archly cartoonish. And there are more lame, unfunny scene-ending bon mots in this thing than a 1980s Roger Moore James Bond movie. Oh, it's just freakin painful! If they couldn't hire someone who could write decent dialog they should have at least hired a director who knew when to CUT out bad dialog; this would have been much better as a silent film. And on top of that, the thick rubber bat costume STILL looks stupid. It is really jarring to have all this drab, "realistic" set design with a guy in a fake-looking, goofy rubber suit running around in it. This thing makes thin Christian look like a black chipmunk with its ears clipped. I'm surprising even myself with this, given the high expectations I went into the film with, but I much prefer Tim Burton's Batman to this boring, predictable junk.


                
Plot Outline: Disillusioned after seeing his parents murdered, millionaire heir Bruce Wayne (Bale) travels distances to unravel himself and to find means to fight injustice while, his wealth, his company has fallen into bad hands. Bruce returns to Gotham, a new man with a dark side: Batman, a caped crusader who teams up with upcoming cop Gordon to fight crime.Comment: Christopher Nolan's Batman is credited with the focus on the central character and its development with unprecedented detail. Sadly, it has been painfully overstretched. Although one would argue that there is more of Batman than the weird-villains, I would rather say that villains bring out the best in superhero movies rather than a bland portrayal of the character's mental development for 140mins. Probably, there are shades of Nolan's inexperience with Action flicks and his comfort with movies like Insomnia.Christian Bale dons the cape as the fourth Batman after Michael Keaton, Val Kilmer and George Clooney and looks like he needed to spend more time in his cape to establish himself as Batman. Liam Neeson's Jujutsu and Ninja classes reminded me of Fishburne in Matrix. Stars like Morgan Freeman, Michael Caine and Cutie Katie Homes are underutilized. Technical work is neat on SFX but nothing great to look for.Rating: 2/5


                
Down-and-out young man meets a master of mysterious powers in the East and learns from him.Young man returns home after a falling-out with his master & uses the powers for good.The master returns with a nefarious plan & the young man must defeat him.Wasn't that the plot of "The Shadow"? Why is it being reused here? Too much far East. Too little Batman.Since ten lines are required, here are some additional comments:Batman reveals his identity to Rachel. This raises two questions:Who the heck is Rachel? Are we trying to imitate the ending "Spiderman", but in reverse?Why should Batman do this? What is the point of having a secret identity if you are going to tell it to every young lady who takes your fancy?The vision of Batman under the influence of the psychedelic gas also raises a question:Why does Batman look like a Ralph Bakshi character from his animated version of "The Lord of the Rings"?
First of all, I'm not against this movie. I found it entertaining, it wasn't boring (and that's rare nowadays), but... I can't understand why critics celebrate this so much. It's not gonna be cinema history as Tim Burton's first film, it's not as dark as the first film, and even the plot is not as good as the first films. There are lots of events in this movie copying Batman 1989's scenes. The escape of Rachel, Batman and Rachel in the Batmobile, then in the Batcave, the dialog is almost the same as the first Batman's. Remember Batman and Vicki Vale in those scenes. The music is not so characteristic, like Danny Elfman's was, and the image of Gotham City is not what a fan imagines. Even the actors: Bale is OK, Caine is good, Liam Neeson is the same as the jedi master, but KAtie Holmes is less than a Batman-girl... first of all, blond looks better in dark Gotham, and after beauties like Kim, Michelle or Nicole she looks more like a mouse. I don't like rewriting the story (The Joker is gonna show up again) and summarizing: it's not what we except from a Batman movie. There are no great stars with charisma like Nicholson, Basinger, de Vito, Pfeiffer or good characters like Christopher Walken was, there's no comic feeling, not dark enough, no cool Gotham or Arkham sets, no Cool Bat-music, no blonde beauties, no good villains... Next time, make the movie more BATMANISH!!!


                
-Possible Spoiler-"Batman" is all about a man who battles his enemies and inner demons. It's about fear, acceptance, morality and reality: Batman is not a superhero, Contrary to popular belief. He doesn't have extraordinary powers. He's human, Physically and emotionally.I admire the technical skill of this production. The fight scenes are fast and Blurred <U+0096> I usually hate this, but it works well in "Batman Begins," because we're Meant to fear the unknown. Sounds are used to great effect. Cinematic ally, Batman becomes a movie monster on occasion <U+0096> the scene where a group of Smugglers are picked off one-by-one in the darkness, with scattering sounds Screams and gunshots piercing the silence, Batman questions Crane while he is On drugs, which results in some truly terrifying images that will shock children Who are familiar with Batman as a flawless hero? Batman Begins is a well told Story of the origin of Bruce Wayne/Batman (Christian Bale).At first I was excited to watch this movie, I have nothing against the Production and effects, it was really good but I don't like much the story, it was Not fast paced. Personally speaking, I hope this movie wasn't titled "Batman Begins" it should be titled "Batman Begins after one Hour!!!" I was also got Irritated by Katie Holmes character, she wasn't appropriate with her role, Character was thoroughly useless to the story. The movie would have Gone without her. There are lots of actresses better than her like Nicole Kidman and Natalie Portman.One of the only scene I like in this movie are when Batman and Rachel Flying in every roof, it was suspenseful, but overall, I didn't like the movie, Good Effects and production have nothing to do with my personal taste.
The fact that it's a Batman movie and that it's jam packed with stars just wasn't enough to float my boat. The acting? Peachy. Of course, Michael Caine and Morgan Freeman are great actors. And sure, I feel that Christian Bale was a great choice for the next Batman (naturally, anyone will do to wipe out the memory of Clooney). But where was the thrill? The entertainment? In Burton's Batman, Michael Keaton's Batman shows himself right off the bat (no pun, I swear), taking out thugs and strutting his weaponry--examples of his weaponry and his prowess multiply as the movie moves along. In "Begins", a scenes are wasted with Batman either hiding in the shadows snatching up villains, or the fight scenes are slapped together, the frames flickering by too quickly to see any real hand-to-hand. There was no intensity to this movie, no drive; okay, the bat-tank tears up the street--but that was the longest action sequence! Whoopty-doo! I read a review that said that his movie was 1000 times better than Spiderman 2. Pppppleeeeasseee. This movie just seemed thrown together. I was so bored. Really.


                
This film has everything: the right director, the right cast, the right script. Everything but that spark of excitement, of comic-book madness that would actually make it all work. I've watched it through once, and tried repeatedly to watch it again. But each time, about five minutes is all I can stand before suddenly remembering why I disliked it.Tim Burton's Batman was goofy, ridiculous, revisionist. But Burton is a great director, and he made a great Batman movie. (Actually, 1.5 great movies.) Nolan is also a good director, but maybe he was being over-cautious here. This film takes no chances, pushes all the hot buttons, and fails miserably. Two hours of this and I begin to wonder why I've been a Batman fan for 40-odd years. Give me Adam West!Here are some of the things that I dislike about this film:* Spends endless time setting up the character, then uses him as a soulless puppet.* Burns down Wayne Mansion. (The Start Trek TNG movie syndrome: every movie, they just HAVE to destroy the Enterprise.)* Creates no chemistry between the hero and the girl...* ... played by the insufferable Katie Holmes.* Horrifically inappropriate casting of Michael Caine as Alfred.* Somehow pretends to be a "darker" Batman, with no actual darkness.* The Bat-SUV. (Leaps tall buildings... oops, wrong movie.)* Ludicrous plotting, but without Burton's panache.* Christian Bale's totally expressionless Bruce Wayne. (And he looks even less like the comic character than Michael Keaton did.)* Ras al Ghul. (Surely, THE most ludicrous and uninteresting Batman villain.)* Morgan Freeman.I could go on, but none of this is the point. Batman Begins is a movie that's much less than the sum of its (theoretically excellent) parts. In fact, it's a movie that's much worse than the sum of its faults.
I had high hopes when I saw "Batman Begins". I shouldn't have. From the rushed opening hour, to the unspectacular entrance of Batman and the mediocre, uninspired score, "Batman Begins" is a big budget waste of time. It makes 2004's "The Punisher" look like "Ben Hur".Christian Bale was okay as Bruce Wayne, but he's no Michael Keaton. The rest of the supporting cast were good. I wish I could say the direction was. The action scenes are shot in the dark with a jittery camera, perhaps to conceal the lackluster Batman suit and the movie also includes one of the funniest moments ever captured on film. In a homage to "The Simpsons", the Batmobile is being chased by the police, Batman simply turns off the lights and the cops race past...Batman drives a ghost car! In a zillion dollar picture like this surely David Goyer could have thought of something better than that.There are other problems too. For starters, Wayne Enterprises built the tumbler, the car that is used as the Batmobile. When Batman has this big chase, the whole thing is captured by a news crew and played on TV. Problem: Didn't anyone from Wayne Enterprises see the Batmobile and go "Hey! That looks like our tumbler, only black!" Other troubles are the mentioned action scenes. There's no set piece. No grand entrance, no bit where your pulse races. The makers just seemed content they had a Batman picture and that was enough.Then there's the ending. Not since "Red Dragon" have I groaned so loud.David Goyer is a writer who with each successive film is proving "Blade" was a fluke. His screenplay for this movie is pedestrian at best and Christopher Nolan's direction shows he should stick to intimate thrillers.This Bat's had its wings clipped -- big-time!


                
This movie was a horrible portrait of Batman. Christian Bale's performance was quite horrible. He seemed way too dark, even as Bruce. As for the plot, it was pure frailty. The plot was so stupid I could barely keep my attention on the big screen. The villains seemed to obtuse and nothing seemed to click. Also, the whole part of the story that told about how he became Batman was just bitter. Apparently Batman is a super ninja. As for how he gained his bat-gadgets, well, it's just moronic. One would think that Batman MADE his tools, but, they are all military tools that were never good enough to produce. Also, the Bat-Mobile was TANK!!!! That's stupid!!! I really didn't enjoy this movie. The effects were good, though.


                
Now I'll be the first to admit that I'm not a big comic book reader, and perhaps this has clouded my judgement on this film but having seen it, after all the hype, this film is, in my opinion, rubbish. What angered me the most wasn't the story as such, but the directing. The beginning was painful slow to the point of boredom, the fight scenes were a blurry mess and was there any need to treat the audience like goldfish by replaying the scene with the stethoscope and his father again at the end of the movie when Bruce picks up the burnt remains. We can remember, you only showed us an hour ago!!! Not what I expected. I should have waited for the DVD release from Blockbuster.
Warners attempt at re-imagining the Batman franchise will certainly prove to be a money maker, but many will feel disappointed by this one.The comic book elements that the original movies established so well has been abandoned here, so the dark, unsettled and distinctly "fantasy" world of Gotham City is reduced to a more reality-based vision. Everything from the skyline, cars, suit, weapons and characters all feel a little too viable in todays society, then to fit into this now legendary fictional city.While a great idea to show how our hero "begins" and an obviously fresh perspective into this character, many will feel frustrated when an hour into the movie, the Batman has still not been revealed in all his suited glory.Those not familiar with the first four movies will surely be impressed with this beginning and there is much to celebrate here. It is essentially a well told story and the direction is clearly solid. The cast is also impressive, however, the acting heavy-weights such as Morgan Freeman, Michael Caine & Gary Oldman, clearly outclass the acting of Bale and that is something that really undermines this one. When you leave a movie having a deeper memory of the supporting characters then the lead, something has definitely gone wrong somewhere.


                
This is an over rated film that has taken itself as a serious drama. First of all, remember kids... it's Batman. A comic book. All the melodramatic music that played throughout the film made me chuckle. The opening tries too hard and shoves too much down your throat too quickly. You are expected to care about people you just met on screen 3 minutes ago. The hour long back story could have been summed up in ten minutes. Plus, Liam Neason seemed to have too much of the Jedi knight bug in him... I like Christian Bale as an actor. I do... Now, he looked the part, smelled the part but wasn't the part at all. He was lifeless and boring kinda like the film itself. There wasn't enough Bruce Wayne in the film. The billion dollar playboy. The moments he did have just seemed like a spoiled rich kid that could have used some anti-depressants. I didn't feel confusion or insanity in his role. Yes, his parents were in it a lot more and hopefully that would have made you feel his pain when they were killed. Unfortunately, their characters were crappy as well so my heart couldn't pour out for anyone. Nice try though. Katie Holmes character was bad as well as Katie Holmes herself and her so called chemistry with Batman. Who was the villain again? The Scarecrow could have been a more thought out character. He seemed pretty non-existent. Morgan Freeman and Gary Oldman are both fine actors but were they needed... No. Now, I'm not too familiar with the comic which is fine cause the film should work on it's own but did Batman drive a Hummer? The action sequences were boring (too fast and too close) and seemed as though I've seen them thousands of times before. I wasn't very impressed with Gotham City either. It just seemed too normal and not very threatening. The only thing that kept it from looking like any other city I've been in was the double layered trains. Hmm... I did like Michael Cane, the hallucination drug and Nolan's attempt to do something different with the series.


                
i did not like the first hour of batman begins. it was stupid and made no sense. in all the batman books i have read Bruce Wayne was never in a camp in china. batman begins when as a kid his parents were gunned down. and whats with all the flashbacks the movie finally settles down to what a batman movie should be like. the bat car was better then those long stupid ones we have seen in the last movies. the actors were great.in 1939 the year batman came out.a lot of you were not born yet so my take on this film is completely different then yours.i rated this film a 4.i did like all of the batman movies good or bad.they were still entertaining


                
Weren't the parents killed by Joker? We see that in the first movie with Micheal Keaton. Now the murderer is someone on the street. It is a huge mistake. Did I miss something? How come no one mentions that? Joker says:" You are a lucky kid," then walks away shouting "Have you ever danced with the devil in the pale moonlight?" Then Batman recalls that scene in the movie, etc. What was this movie about? Does not this movie follow the previous movies? Is it an all new Batman based on the comic book sequence? I would be glad if someone could make it clear for me? And if it does follow the comic book sequence, then it is a very wrong adaptation of the scarecrow. Think about it.
Let's make it short, the story is OK, but the casting... Bruce's parents are very rich people. They are going to see an posh opera, but when they leave, the outside is very dodgy, it's like a no man's land. This doesn't make any sense, this area could have been better. Why changing Bruce's voice when he's holding his bat mask. Keanu Reeves could have play it better ( see the dumbest movie of the year: Matrix II and III). Apart from that, I found it very boring but with some nice effects: especially when Bruce appears, speaks his 3 words and then disappears. How can a good director like Mr Nolan ask talented actors playing like this.
... and the three main reasons such an average film is so revered are probably: 1. It's a Batman movie (cult following..) 2. Christopher Nolan directed it (and everything he does MUST be great, right?) 3. It takes itself extremely seriously, and it's sort of trendy these days with superhero movies. I guess comics cult/passion has been so laughed at (as immature and childish) during three decades, that the aficionados needed some sort of virtual hero (in the form of a mainstream and somewhat competent work done by a "serious" director) to make them feel better...The worst parts are probably the corny revelations about Batman's "past" (so he's a NINJA? *LOL* Must be the most laughable plot device ever..), and the totally uncinematic, sloppy, dull action scenes. I'm not a fan of comic books movies (though I like the first 2 X-men movies) but if I enter such a world, I want at least the action sequences to be highly cinematic, spatially engaging, in short I want movie magic, something to transport me. Found those in "Begins" about the most dull ones I ever attended in the genre (I had more excitement in seeing kids fly on a stick in Bedknobs and Broomsticks!). Very Tee-vee, and not even on par with stuff like Buffy the Vampire Slayer (the series). Looks like low-budget, sloppy and incompetent action. Why are some mainstream movies even trying to pull off elaborated, difficult action sequences after all (Van Helsing, King Kong, X2, Pirates of the Carribeans..) if such tasteless action stuff as found in "Begins" is satisfying enough for the masses? This is gonna be gooooood news for the movie executives! *LOL*Every other aspect of movie-making here is competent, but straightforward, unimaginative and formulaic. Been there, seen that. Vaguely adequate pacing, the usual elliptical storytelling, formulaic staging and sets, monotonous editing... very, very average. I DID find something very good: Cillian Murphy's performance.I have a good laugh when thinking about the fact that so many people out there consider this (judging from the ratings and its position in the top 250..) as being in the same league as cult classics like "2001", "Citizen Kane", "12 angry men", "Rashomon", "Vertigo" and the like... kinda surrealistic for such a mundane, shallow and unremarkable flick. An insult to the face of the great movie masters of the past.
I didn't quite walk out of the theater.Here is a short list of the problems with this movie, with no spoilers: The action scenes were poorly choreographed.The action scenes were poorly photographed.The action scenes were few and too far between.The car chase was poorly shot and poorly scripted.The movie pacing was awful, and the directing was so poor they had to insert several awful cutaways to explain what was going on.In a number of places the dark motif was so dark that you actually couldn't see what was supposed to be happening.The main bad guy was an uninteresting and relatively unknown villain from the DC franchise. The secondary bad guy was better known, but too poorly conceived in the movie to have much impact.The acting was stilted.On the positive side, it was not as bad as the previous 2 movies in the franchise, but it does not compare with the first two. I liked the new bat-mobile.I went into this movie with low hopes that it might be better than the previous movies. It was, but the margin was much narrower than other reviews led me to believe.


                
I still can't believe that Nolan's Batman was such a bore. The first 30 min was something different, dark, adult, impressive and really made me anticipating the best. After an hour of screening, when Bruce Wane finally put on his costume the movie sinked into boredom. The car chase seen (with the ugliest Batmobile ever) was a disaster. I wish I had a remote control to 'forward' it a lot. The films villain was naive and indeferent, Batman deserved a better opponent. Katie Holmes lacks talent, and the bunch of really talented actors was completely wasted. Lets face it, Nolan was an one film director. He tries to copy the 'Blade Runner' atmosphere but he misses. Bale stands out, he is mature, serious, and impressively sexy.


                
