Batman redone. It gives us a new origin of Batman (Christian Bale) and how he got his powers and such. He still plays playboy Bruce Wayne while fighting evil as Batman. His first two villains are the Scarecrow (Cillain Murphy) who produces intense fear in his victim with a gas and Ra's Al Ghul--who trained Batman and knows ALL his weaknesses.OK--it's MUCH better then Tim Burton's dreadful movies but I still wasn't too impressed. I didn't like the new origin at all and it's a full hour before Batman even shows up! It does have good parts--Bale is dead on perfect as Bruce Wayne AND Batman. He also pumped up for the role (we have at least two shirtless scenes). It LOOKS great (if very dark) and it has elaborate special effects left and right (with tons of explosions thrown in too). But I was mostly bored. The training sequence at the beginning just went on endlessly--it was more like The Shadow's origin than Batmans. Also this movie was WAY too heavy on darkness and atmosphere. At one point it was raining and I noticed nobody in Gotham pulled in their clothes from their lines. This isn't nit picking but obviously it was all out there to add an "atmosphere" to the scene. Also when you find yourself worrying about little things like that the movie just isn't doing its job (i.e. entertaining you). However Batman's costume, the Batcave and the Batmobile are all explained pretty logically.Acting varies--Bale was just great. Michael Caine (as Alfred) matched him. Even Katie Holmes (a limited actress) was good--too bad she won't be in the sequel (this inexplicable romance/marriage with Tom Cruise is destroying her career). Laim Neeson was very dull as a teacher--he appeared to be drugged out. Gary Olman was (suprisingly) terrible as Jim Gordon--he seems VERY unsure of how to play the role. But Rutger Hauer, Linus Roache (who bears an uncanny resemblance to Bale) and Morgan Freeman were all great.To be totally honest I looked at my watch more than once. I couldn't wait for this thing to get over. All the praise this is getting is beyond me. I give it a 7--and that's mostly for the acting.


                
It's such a rarity when a director of Christopher Nolan's caliber and background decides to take on or rather expand on a franchise of this magnitude, especially after two of its more than imperfect outings were considered a flop. Similarities were bound to emerge and making comparisons was extremely easy to account here since there was both the good and the bad to look back at.I tried to keep my expectations at a normal high, even though the product was featuring a cast of very respectable actors and a stellar director. Batman Begins starts out with an somewhat orthodox style of comic-to-film story-telling, something every film of similar roots needs to do in order to build the much needed momentum. I guess after witnessing the wide range of actors portraying Batman, I was positively anesthetized and open to what Bale had to bring to the table, more so since I've enjoyed majority of his work. As the many well known actors started to resurface within the story, to no ones surprise their delivery and level of sophistication was unwavering and well intended, but since the film was set to revive the series and basically start from scratch, I enjoyed the freshness of Cillian Murphy more than I did of the others. However don't let this serve as a negative since the present ensemble was far more superior than the circus crew of the last two films.So with actors in place and a story rolling with strong force, it was the action that had the potential to further prosper the experience. Unfortunately not much action was present this time around, and I say 'this time' because the ending feel of this film in a sense was similar to that of Spider Man 1. No, it didn't share the lightness and tiring melodrama of Spider Man, on the contrary it was far more suitably darker, but as the movie was nearing the end there was a feel of something more grandiose lurking in the path of Batman. As much as I like to be teased ultimately I was left hungry for more conflict between the good and the evil. But with the main villain taking his leave of absence for the most part of the film, the deeds of the troublemakers were left in the hands of two characters, Falcone and Crane, both of whom were made to look rather harmless and easily subdued. As Ducard made his way to Gotham, not enough time was left for him to wreak havoc and again I can' be too harsh since the movie had a lot of ground to cover and understandably not enough time to simultaneously improve and originate on every level.On it's own Batman Begins was a good effort, compared to last two films it was flawless, but the fact that it could evolve from this form to something better, is a notion that keeps me leaning on the good side of things rather than the not so good.


                
After Batman & Robin I have not counted that I would see anything worse (or better for that matter) with Batman on the big screen. And, surprise surprise, here it is - a good Batman movie, with great Christian Bale as Bruce W., and fantastic Gary Oldman as Jim Gordon (he finally got a positive character, that nut). And it's just the top of the great names here, followed by Rudger Hauer, Morgan Freeman, and Michael Caine as Alfred.The movie itself is much more comics-faithful than any previous part. It's dark and bleak, although not that sinister as Batman comics can be (especially from the post-Frank Miller era). We finally can have a good look on Gotham and how vast it is. I didn't like though the bad guys, one of which is a loser with a bag on his head, and the other a former Jedi master, who also happened to train Bruce Wayne in martial arts. Overall, a great entertainment foreseeing even better next parts.


                
Batman Begins isn't another superhero movie in the line of Spider- Man, the X- Men or the Hulk. In fact, even if you don't care for Batman or any of his costumed colleagues, you can still enjoy this film as a good action- thriller. It doesn't thrive on special effects and big action scenes but offers a decent story with lots of attention to character development. The movie is fairly low tech and because it doesn't rely on computer technology in the way other recent superhero movies do, it has an old school feel to it, kind of like an early 80s fantastic film or even Superman: The Movie. Of course, Batman Begins is much darker than Richard Donner's beauty, but the evolution of both main characters from youths, coming to terms with who they are, to caped crusaders is depicted in a similar way. As far as the actual crime fighting goes, this movie puts right everything that was done wrong in Batman Forever and Batman and Robin. Our hero's weapons are not covered with blinking lights, but sober and practical: no computer controlled Batarangs, but ninja stars shaped as a bat. No design costume, but military armor, decorated with a cape and mask. The Batmobile is no skyscraper climbing super car, but a rejected army vehicle put to new use that befits the general atmosphere of this movie. Batman doesn't fight villains in shiny outfits who fly around on supersonic gliders or have tentacles as arms. The bad guys in this film are real people: gangsters, a corrupt warden of a psychiatric ward, a martial arts specialist and lots of crooked cops. If you take into consideration that Batman Begins is based on the Year One comics, written by Sin City's Frank Miller, one cannot help noticing the similarity between Robert Rodriguez' newly created world and the one depicted in this movie. In fact, Sin City could just as well be Gotham City without Batman. So forget Joel Schumacher's monstrosities. In fact, Christopher Nolan has even gone one better than Tim Burton and created a credible movie with a good story, realistic characters and the filthiest setting the world's Darkest Knight has ever called home.


                
I hated "Daredevil". I didn't like either "Spider-Man". The "X-Men" movies were mediocre. I can't say that I remember the "Superman" movies fondly. The 1989 "Batman" was dull. I hated all the "Batman" sequels. "Catwoman" was abysmal.In fact, by my definition, a superhero movie usually equates to a moronic, silly and childish piece of crap designed specifically to make tons of money with merchandising and Burger King tie-ins.I hate them. I hate them. I hate them.In fact, I resent the genre for angling the entire medium of film toward a younger demographic. Every major release in this day and age seems to appeal at least somewhat to kids in order to capture the massive dollar amount that they generate. I say... "Fuck the kids"! This is an adult world. They can have it later. That's why I almost always appreciate a film that ignores the 13-25 year-old demographic and delivers a literate and intellectual story about adults and for adults.Okay, that rant is over for now...In fact, the only superhero film I even remotely liked was "The Hulk". Not surprisingly, it was the one superhero film that didn't do too well with the younger demographic. It was arguably the least financially successful superhero film in the last 20 years. (Not counting the joke that was "Catwoman").So, I finally arrive at "Batman Begins", a film I presumed would follow the trend of silliness evident in all the other movies of this ilk.I actually liked it?????? What the hell??????With movies like this, so popular and so familiar, I usually dispense with the plot summary. So I will delve right into the opinions...I loved the look of this film. It maintained the slightly somber feel that accompanies the Batman saga, but it wasn't afraid to venture into daylight from time to time. Heck the first third of the film takes place in the snowy mountains of somewhere or another... I wasn't paying attention.My biggest gripe with comic book films is the lunacy of the plots. I usually cannot suspend my disbelief at all. However, "Batman Begins" had me from the get -go. I was buying the story... it didn't seem ridiculous to me. SHOCKING!!!Another thing that surprised me was that the villains weren't absolutely ludicrous. Comic book villains are usually so dumb and over-the-top that I lose all sense of belief. Here, they are relatively subdued... I liked that a lot.The only problem I had with the film was the insanely stupid 'Batman Voice' that Bale chose to use. What the hell was that all about? Very silly indeed!The acting was rather impressive all around... Especially from the supporting cast. Only Katie Holmes left me wanting for more. She was rather dull. I liked the turns by Morgan Freeman, Michael Caine and Gary Oldman... they brought some added weight to the film. Liam Neeson and Cillian Murphy were both solid as the bad guys. And apart from Bale's silly voice, he was a very good Batman... his face carries the emotional weight of the character and doesn't let the character venture too far into camp territory.I will say this though... Superhero movies by their very nature are not capable of a grade in the A-range. It would have to be tremendous just to merit a B+ from me. The silliness of a man bouncing around in a spandex suit with pointy ears just will not allow me to go any higher. But "Batman Begins" was about as good as I could have imagined from a film in this genre. I teetered between a B and a B+... but because of the pleasant surprise, I am going to reward it with a B+. "Batman Begins" is the best in it's genre because it isn't too silly It isn't too campy. It isn't too childish. It doesn't take itself too seriously. It strikes the right balance. It is geared to a slightly older audience than your typical popcorn flick. I had a really good time with this one!


                
In my opinion the very fact that this film was a batman film is the element that weakened it. It seem to work so much better when it was character building, in the first 40 minutes. I found as soon as our hero put on the black cape the film didn't work, it lost its attention to detail, sloppily slipping in and out of sentiment. I think Christian Bale is a great performer, his performance in American Psyco and his butt kicking gun carter from the cult hit Equilibrium, have proved his presence. His performance as Bruce Wayne is deep and rooted, but as soon as he plays batman, it becomes a rather cheesy affair. The same can be said for Cillian Murphy, who is suitably sinister as a corrupted Phycologist, but his character nose dives with the cheesy lines of the Scarcrow character. I have to say this now that Katie Holmes is a promising performer yet her performance is rather poor here, not terrible though. Another problem with this film is the music, not denying the prowess of such grand performers as Hans Zimmer(Gladiator) and James Newton Howard (The sixth sense). Unforortunately these two creative forces collide like two power sources canceling each other out. The composers music worked much better when it was separated. Howards sweeping emotional score, with Zimmers synthesized epic quality. Yet personally i would have just gone with Howard, for a strong emotion suspense score. forget Zimmer as he didn't suit this film. Yet not all is lost, this is a great film, and its nice to see major studio's such as Warner issuing such, investment and creative control to a too often ridged and commercial industry. Christopher Noland, director of the masterful 'Momento' brings this film a dark edge. This film isn't perfect, but its miles ahead of most of the crap American studio's are pumping out these days. i can only hope that this is the start of an assent ion from this slump wave been having with originality and quality. 14/11/07: after viewing the film again it's clear this film is a bit of a mildstone. looking forward to the dark knight.


                
Tim Burton made Batman look a bit childish in Michael Keaton's figure, and were always beaten by his great villains in both Batman (1989) and the fabulous sequel. But then suddenly Joel Schumacher decided to trash and destroy everything that was cool, stylish and fascinating about the knight of night. So he made Val Kilmer do Batman and topped it all in 1997 by making the horrifyingly bad Batman & Robin that included a terrible Arnie as the main bad-guy.Christopher Nolan, the man behind MEMENTO and INSOMNIA decided making a whole new start to the famous story of one of the most beloved superheroes of all time. BATMAN BEGINS offers a totally new and inspiring gem into the whole Gotham setting. And Nolan ends of his trilogy of psychological settings here; were MEMENTO were lead by memory loss, INSOMNIA followed up with a sleepless Pacino and here he tops it with phobia and fear. And casting Christian Bale as Batman was surely a good move, the former Patrick Bateman looks as his on the edge of breaking all the time, making him intense and pretty scary in his look and atmosphere.We meet down-and-out billionaire Bruce Wayne that's being held in a prison in China. Being a pretty aggressive person he joins the League Of Shadows up in a Himalaya monastery were he's thought totally new skills, but he refuses their methods and returns to his home town Gotham. After his troubled childhood he still suffers from phobia, returning to get rid of the criminality that killed his parents, he dresses in black as Batman and teams up with the only fair people in the city...And Gotham looks better than ever. Not being that peculiar and interesting as Burton's Germanish inspired dark-goth, and not as pathetic and cyber as Schumacher's new wave punk - it looks fashionable but under the surface it suffers from crime and gangsters, violence and cheating. The underworld AND over-world worth remarking, is lead by corrupt cops and laws, mafia bosses that doesn't press charges but shoots you (Tom Wilkinson) and a creepy Scarecrow doing the dirty jobs as a pleasure. In here Batman takes his loop as the dark knight he is and gets allied with off course his best friend, butler Alfred ( played wonderfully by old-English Michael Caine), the policeman (Gary Oldman), Wayne Enterprises R&D man (Morgan Freeman, perfect choice!) and uses his childhood sweetheart (Katie Holmes) just as much as an informant on the law-side as a love interest.And Batman looks better than ever; his dark voice and aggressive attacks leaves old man Keaton and Schumacher's choices as pathetic baby bats. So, flying like a bat and stinging like a bee, Batman's back for business. Filled with great actor performances, amazing action, great CGI, fine dialog and absolutely great settings; Batman Begins is the best Batman movie so far. And one more thing; the Batmobile rocks! Or is it a car or a tanks?
The movie is pretty great. Is quite brilliant how it explains the way Bruce wayne learned to fight and all the abilities Batman has, where and how learned the escaping techniques and all that stuffs. Its nice to see how he is becoming Batman, and acquires all the weapons the instruments and the bat suit. The bat mobile is quite impressive!! it is not a car, is a tank.....amazing. One of the other thing that really stand out are the characters. All of it has a very well defined paper, and the performance is spectacular. Michael Caine doing Alfred is really good. Christian Bale rolling Bruce Wayne is really good too, but what is most spectacular is that he gives Batman back that darkness he has lost in the last two horrible movies, Batman Forever and Batman and Robin. Because that's what Batman is; is a Dark Hero. The only thing that didn't like me was that the person who killed the parents of Bruce wasn't the Jocker, so ins that way they didn't respect the original story.


                
I attended the 6:35 pm showing Wednesday (opening) night at a suburban multiplex in Minneapolis. It was a very sparse audience of mostly 50 to 60-year old men, some of whom had dates of equal vintage, which seemed like a very odd audience for this type of film. Perhaps it was the day and hour, but it certainly wasn't the audience I expected. Though better than the most recent "Batmans," this visually impressive actioner fell a little short. In this prequel we learn how Batman came to be, starting with a nightmare. Stuck in an Asian prison at the base of a glacier encrusted peak, Batman-to-be Bruce Wayne awakes from a flashback of his childhood, where he fell down a well and was terrified by swarms of bats. Orphaned when a common thief kills both his parents, Bruce embarks on a personal journey for seven years. Inter-cut with his former cosseted life as the only child of a doctor mogul, is the quest of this current young man, living among criminals in order to understand how their minds work so that he may someday vanquish evil. Now imprisoned for some criminal act, he rather quickly frees himself, lured to the aerie of Ra's al Ghul. There he undergoes ninja training by Ducard (Liam Neeson) who spews aphorisms more akin to Steven Segal than the Dalai Lama. Much mumbo jumbo later, Bruce Wayne evolves into a skilled killing machine, only to reject the role of executioner of bad guys, and membership in the elite League of Shadows, the position for which he was groomed. He burns down al Ghuls house and returns to Gotham to fight evil on his own. Constructing his Batman persona and superstructure with the aid of his wise and loyal butler, Alfred (charmingly played by Michael Caine), Bruce Wayne becomes Bat-man because it symbolizes a fear he has conquered. As he reacquaints himself with Gotham he eventually finds that his father's company, its legacy chairman, most of the Gotham police, and Ra's al Ghul are all tied into the dirty workings of Gotham's king of corruption, Carmine Falcone. When Falcone has the man who murdered Wayne's parents killed to prevent him from testifying against Falcone, Bruce confronts him for fostering corruption. It is then Bruce quickly learns that insulting Falcone only puts those he loves, Alfred and his childhood girlfriend, Rachel, at risk. The conflicts between all parties are satisfactorily entangled in a heinous plot to destroy Gotham, and is then skillfully unraveled by Batman with truly impressive action sequences. But it only gets fun after a long 55 minutes into the film when Bruce finally gets a handle on himself. Until then the film is a bit tedious. But when the super toys roll out the basement of the Wayne corporate office building, the thrills are non-stop. Morgan Freeman plays a wonderful cameo as purveyor of cool technical gadgets, including one helluva Batmobile. Unfortunately, many of the bons mots of the film are lost to poor enunciation on Bale's part. While Caine, Neeson, Oldman, Freeman, Holmes and just about everyone else in the film speaks clearly, Bale lets the words sort of fall out of his mostly open mouth. Only after he dons the slick iconic body armor of Batman does Bale close his mouth and enunciate. Hard to believe the oral transformation was part of the movie's dramatization, but one can only hope. While most of the dialogue is workman-like, spare, and to the point, it becomes almost ludicrous when the characters presume to say something "deep." Most notable are when Neeson, early on, delivers his melodramatic utterances, and, toward the end when Holmes proffers the truly incomprehensible gibberish about the Batman person who she loved and might someday see again. On a more positive note, Holmes put in a genuinely adult dramatic performance, which suggests a successful transition from TV darling to serious big screen actress.


                
Director Christopher Nolan pulls out all the stops as he embarks on solidifying Batman lore with his retelling of how one Bruce Wayne became the capped crusader Batman. Nolan dazzles in many scenes and is always rock solid, never resorting to cheap humor or unnecessary special effects. This Batman is a dark tale that explains why Batman is the person he is, why he became the person he was to be, and what lies ahead. Christian Bales does a credible job in the lead. He is surrounded by first-rate performers lending their experience and acting savvy: Michael Caine as Alfred(very, very good), Morgan Freeman as Luscious(very, very good), Gary Oldman as policeman Gordon(very good) and villains Liam Neeson(very good), the ever impressive Tom Wilkinson(excellent), and Cillian Murphy(very good). Rutger Hauer is also along as is Katie Holmes(big deal huh?) I really enjoyed this film and was impressed with its cohesiveness and strong script. The script, the direction, the acting, the sets, and the special effects all blend together and make a fine film and probably the definitive Batman film to date. I know many people will compare this to the two Burton films - both good films in their own way. But this Batman is not that Batman. There are no one-liners here and there mixed in with an occasional over-blown scene. This film is a very serious take on a very serious man that has devoted his life to stopping crime in Gotham.


                
I wasn't extremely thrilled with Return of the Sith, and so I went to see this film hoping to get a little more for my dollar since the trailer made it look pretty decent. I've got to say, it was pretty slick. Gone is the ridiculous plot and corny humor of the past installments. This movie has a more serious storyline than its predecessors, explaining the origin and training of the Dark Knight to-be and then delivering butt-kicking goodness. High points are the nearly believable explanations of Wayne's acquisition of technology (suit, gear, ride), the edgy cinematography with abrupt, mid-conversation scene changes, and excellent supporting acting by Neeson, Cain, Oldman, and Murphy. I'd say the low points are the rushed nature of Batman's coming of age, but I guess that's understandable given the necessity for Batman vs. Gotham time the already long duration of over 2 hours. And sorry, but I'm not going to say anything nice for Ms. Holmes because I never was a big fan of hers and I'm already sick of the media fiasco over her and Tom Cruise. Anyway, if you want a Batman movie that isn't as over the top as the last ones and is as believable as possible, this is the movie for you. I wouldn't be surprised if it ends up being the top critically acclaimed action flick of the year.


                
To start... I am not a comic book reader and thus will not be making any comment on the history or development of Batman based on the comics. I am purely a fan of the character based off the Tim Burton Films and the old Adam West series that I enjoyed as a child, and the animated series.As the title suggests this is only the beginning. As I am sure Warner Bros. is expecting this to be a hit the movie, it establishes the back-story of the Dark Knight in great detail. I enjoyed the film immensely. If I had to find fault with the movie it would be that I felt the editing was a bit muddled during some of the action sequences, thus making it harder for the viewer to follow the events. I thought the casting was well done and that each of actors talents and personalities fit the character each was portraying.Perfect popcorn eating summer flick.....


                
I walked into the Theatre B showing of Batman Begins hoping for an entertaining show to keep me occupied for the evening. What I received was a superb action/thriller with a good deal of depth and fascinating characters. Unlike most previous movies, Batman Begins avoided odd fight scenes in which the Bat armor restricted movement and instead went with stealth and ambush tactics. This technique was true to the batman character and also more exciting than the old fashioned back to back brawling style. The movie's second villain, Scare Crow/Dr. Crane effectively frightened the audience with his intimidating intelligence and freakishly terrifying illusions. Overall, the cast made a commendable performance and Christian Bale's batman surpasses even Keaton's. Cillian Murphy was perfectly casted for his part as the eerily beautiful doctor who dons the horrifying potato sack mask to literally scare his victims into insanity. Also, learning of the Wane legacy for the first time was very interesting. The only part in which the movie lacks is the films evil mastermind character. The mythology behind him was interesting, but his ultimate death sequence lacked the theatrical elements that had become a trademark of the Batman series since the Tim Burton movies.
Just returned from my very first press screening (thanks to my movie-geek brother having a football tournament today *g*) - and I've got to say, there's something to be said for seeing a movie without commercials and noisy teenagers<U+0085> Especially when it's as atmospheric as Batman Begins, Christopher Nolan's vision of how the Dark Knight came into being.I must admit right away that I'm not a real Batman fan - I've seen the Burton/Keaton movies and remember enjoying the old TV show, but that's pretty much it. But I was definitely impressed by this movie and enjoyed every minute of it. Christian Bale makes a beautifully tortured Bruce Wayne and his journey towards becoming Batman rang true. Most of the other characters were also perfectly cast <U+0096> especially Michael Caine as Alfred brings humanity (and humour) to an otherwise pretty dark movie.The only things that can be criticized, in my opinion, are the moments when the movie takes itself too seriously and falls for some clichés, which admittedly are hard to avoid with a well-known topic like this. Also, I wasn't too impressed by Katie Holmes as the obligatory (and way too young-looking) childhood sweetheart/damsel in distress. But that might just be me and shouldn't stop anyone from watching this.Batman Begins sheds some interesting perspectives on Batman's past, especially by introducing some of the familiar faces and names in a manner that didn't feel contrived but improved the story (other than in a certain space saga, one might be tempted to say). Awesome popcorn cinema, with a realistic and yet fantastic feel that draws the viewer right into the dark alleys of Gotham City<U+0085>


                
I would say I did like the movie in general, enjoyed it. What really impressed me thought, was actually the script. I though the script was really well written. Nolan keeps me interested and focused on the movie. Christian Bale was good, but he was too angry and cold, I believe he is a better actor than that. I absolutely loved Morgan Freeman, I think that man never fails.The idea of how justice is subjective, was very intriguing. For some reason I was drawn to the idea of destroying a place that was so overwhelmed with corruption to rebuild it. Even though its too dramatic it felt too real to me as well. It reminded me with Emperor Nero's burning of Rome to rebuild the city.I loved how the movie wasn't just about some action moves, but had many life teaching lessons, especially the first part, before he heads back to Gotham City. The first part of the movie was probably my favorite part. There were lots of good scenes and even more good quotes.I loved that little hint of the joker at the end, though I miss him through out the movie.I was chatting with a friend who said, for some reason he doesn't remember the movie that much, maybe the editing wasn't that good. I think it was OK not very impressive. Visual effects were really good though part of why the movie was quite interesting.Unfortunately Nolan always bore me right before the end of the movie, at some point the action is just taking way too much time and I wan to get to the end of things. Also the soundtracks were good, served the movie well, but didn't feel memorable to me. For me the best one was the movie beginning one, Vespertilio by Hans Zimmer (all soundtracks were of his composition)Overall it is an enjoyable movie, not one of the best I have seen though. Not very sure if it should be on the top250 list.its-lalas-land.blogspot.com
Hit director, Christopher Nolan, brings us another action packed picture filled with special effects. Amazing actors enhance the action within the frames as feelings never felt before are released as you are pulled into the action. All the film needs now is an audience to surround with wonder.The Storyline twists and confuses but also captures and enchants as you follow the life of Bruce Wayne (Christian Bale) and how the tragic death of his parents, affects his opinion on Gotham City. He realises though his experiences how he can make this town a better place. Until his only friend becomes his only enemy, and he feels like the whole world is against him.Gotham City is like no other; with crime ridden streets and dark alleyways, (put there with an intention) it's the perfect setting for Batman's home town. Underground caves surround the grounds of Wayne Towers (Bruce's Fathers business) so secret plans can be laid down to save the city. In these chamber-like rooms with miles a space scientific projects have been stored- never to see the light of day again. Or will they? Michael Cane plays a naturally calm and convincing Alfred. The butler, who serves the Wayne family, adds humour with witty one-liners and a down to earth character, which brings the whole picture into reality. His soft nature is what keeps Bruce from doing what he shouldn't.Christian Bale is extremely talented actor with the skill to comfortably present his character to the audience. Watch his change in character when he is in different situations. This is how the secret of his identity is kept.Heart pacing music creates an astonishing atmosphere to match the high detail and quick moving scenes. Blink and you're bound to miss something! Emotions run riot as you follow with your ears, the intense mood changes and roller coaster story. The clever changes in music tell you what's going to happen before you see it. There is a surprise round every street corner, so be careful you go.Using crystal clear camera tricks and long fast shots, Batman begins is shown in all its glory. Nolan has cleverly followed all the flight, agility and sweeping actions the creature's movement and has captured it on a screen. Quick cuts emphasis the speed of the film and how the story happens in such a small section of history.Overall the techniques used in the film bring it to life and generates a feeling that you are really there, in the one and only Gotham City. Actors' maximise the other features to bring the feature up to and outstanding quality. So much is packed into 134 minutes; every second is worth the attention. You'll be crazy to miss the film of year and probably the film of the decade!


                
This movie lot of fun. You should definitely see it if you don't mind canon changes (again, after all, this is DC we're talking about), and/or if you like Christian Bale, Liam Neeson, Gary Oldman or Morgan Freeman. All fabulous in this.--spoilers past this point-- I love Gary Oldman. He made this movie worth watching for me. Every time he was on screen, I squeed. And you could tell he was having fun, too. Particularly when he got to use the Batmobile. ;D And they showed his family! I wanna see Babs! (But I'm more than willing to wait.) Things that worked: the training sequences, particularly the final training fight between Christian and Liam, which was excellently choreographed. The idea that Wayne Enterprises was being run by a board, because his father was a doctor in canon, so it was a nice nod to why there was a corporation. Where the bat-toys came from! OMG, Morgan Freeman as Lucius Fox. And he was excellent. "Mister Wayne...Don't think of me as an idiot." :D The slow development of Bruce Wayne, depressed and guilty millionaire's son to Batman was just about perfect. Also, Ra's Al Ghul's part in the story was perfect. I had my doubts when I saw that the person playing him wasn't well-known, but trust me...he's PERFECT. Also, I loved that they used Crane/Scarecrow in this very first story. And that for once, the did multiple villains *right*. It ends up setting up everything to come. The final scene with Gordon and Batman on the rooftop (another great line... "I couldn't find a mob boss"), and his clue for this Arkham criminal Batman's going to have to capture (no, I won't say which. It's obvious when you see the clue, but it's a biggie.) were excellent. Gives me hope for good movies in the future.The bad: I felt rather beat over the head with the "Fear" mallet, specifically at the beginning. And they didn't follow through on it nearly enough. They were obviously having too much fun with the car-chases, blowing things up, and other action scenes. Oh, and I don't hate Katie Holmes, but does she have any other acting style? I swear she was just being Joey from Dawson's Creek. Not what I wanted to see. I would much have preferred to see Talia (Ra's daughter) as a love interest. Seeing as how she really didn't do much for the plot, and their "romance" was nonexistent. Michael Cane was nice, but felt mostly unused. I would have liked something more for him to do than snark sweetly at still-evolving Bruce.What I would like from the next one? More thought, less action, more plot. One villain (Joker or Two-face would be nice, but not necessary). And a true love interest...who doesn't find out/figure out who Batman is, or even get taken to his cave, k?
The most well made and mature of all the Batman capers. Probably the first time a comic hero has not been presented like a seemingly inane and kiddish character. Christian is arguably the best "Batman" on screen, way ahead of his contemporaries like Michael Keaton or George Clooney. It came as a pleasant surprise to see this six footer enacting the role of this superhero with stupendous control and grace and did not let his fans down in any way whatsoever.Batman has always been a rather mature superhero adored by kids and adults alike and this one time his gray character was brought to the forefront as well.


                
At first, when i heard that there is going to be a new Batman film, i thought it would just be another cheap attempt to make some $$$. And so the days past, and i started to be more interested in the story(especially with Chris Nolan as the director). One by one, great actors started to sign on for the film(Christian Bale, Liam Neeson, Micheal Cane, Gary Oldmen, Morgan Freeman) and i was all over it. My friends thought it would be really bad and even the great cast and promising trailer didn't really interest them. And then finally i saw the film..... and i was amazed! Chris Nolan has created something other than the Tim Burton Batman we saw in the 80's(and i'm not even going to mention Schumacher's "2 flops in a row" Batman). He has made Batman the way he is, dark, anti-social and filled with revenge. Batman Forever and Batman & Robin were flops because the films were too much concentrated on the villains. Batman Begins, however, was centered on Bruce Wayne becoming Batman and defeating his fears. This film is truly the best Batman film ever made, and possibly the best film of this year.


                
It took a bit of courage to do that ! Somehow we should all thank Schumacher. Hadn't the franchise gone through the total nonsense we had to suffer, nobody would have dared going back to the beginning of the series to recreate this character that had been *stolen* by Burton. For someone like me who's been very frustrated by every batman movies so far <U+0096> yes, including Burton's ones (I think he's partly responsible of the crap that followed his movies), there were great expectations for this new one. Unfortunately, they're not all fulfilled, but the movie is the closest yet to what should have been done in the first place.First : the great sense of realism. They succeeded where Daredevil the movie failed (while somehow showing the way) : they made it believable. You go through every step of what made Bruce Wayne becomes Batman, psychologically and physically.For that purpose, Christian Bale is the best Batman so far because he's able to deliver in both areas : he's able to express the intensity of the character, all his doubts, his strength and when as batman, he becomes the scary character batman is supposed to be. And physically, he looks able, the hard work he went through is visible, although he does look like a rich kid who had a comfortable life. Bale has also a third dimension: charisma control. As one could detect with movies like Shaft, Swing Kids and many others, Bale is able to disappear in his character, make it insignificant or very impressive, a bit like a younger DeNiro could. This especially suits the fake Wayne character, the facade he uses to hide his true personality. The way Bale goes to one character to the other is impressive.The whole cast is great.Micheal Caine could almost steal the show from Christian Bale, had he been given more screen time, with his impeccable phrasing and voice and gesture. Brilliant and moving.The Same could be said for Wilkinson acting, except that he's playing a much less sympathetic character. It's almost too bad his character wasn't more important. Good work !Rutger Hauer is excellent too though his character in the story looks a bit like a reason to have Hauer in the movie, and not the contrary.Morgan Freeman looks like he's on a routine, playing the character he has most often played lately. Well he's great but you already saw this performance many times...Liam Neeson put his Qi-Gon Jin attitude on again but with more depths, citing ambiguous statements ; a much darker and more interesting Qi-Gon Jin. Good.Cilian Murphy was a revelation to me, I didn't know him too well, and he was brilliantly creepy in this movie ! When I saw the pictures of the Scarecrow, before I saw the movie, I thought he didn't look serious... But in the movie, he's a VERY serious villain !Gary Oldman does a very good job at playing a simple yet most honest cop, lost amongst corrupt colleagues. This vision of Gordon is smart as it explains how such an honest cop could have survived in city controlled by the mob. Gordon is less than unimpressive, therefore nobody's scared of his honest attitude. But when Batman gives him his support, he gradually takes control over the situation and gain more assurance.That's probably what was missed with the character played by the charming Katie Holmes. Her character isn't well written or well used. She looks very young, lacking experience. Her display of strong will to serve justice doesn't feel like a serious disposition but more like a little girl trying to look mature or to please daddy. Something doesn't work here. The tension that could have existed because of her in Bruce Wayne's character seems to have been wasted too. Yet she has good moments in the movie, especially in the early parts of it. The other disappointing thing in the movie are the fighting sequences. We see Bruce Wayne training hard, and Bale is definitely able to provide some moves... Yet we never see Batman in a fight, we have to guess. I'm not talking of scenes like in the docks which are meant to show Batman's stealth skill. But the final duel in the train was quite a let-down.Actually, the last third of the movie started flirting with the crappy side of Hollywood movies.There's a big plan being revealed, the kind any superhero wouldn't mind facing, the unavoidable "he gets to save the world" pattern, but which gets us a bit away from the realism of the first two thirds.From there, it kinda looks like a draft: everything goes fast, and while the story makes some sense throughout, a lot of small scenes feel inconsistent or botched. The whole idea of people roaming in the streets, scared by their own fears has been wasted, IMHO. Probably because this would have required more screen time to be unfold properly. Also I don't think the villain behind the conspiracy makes an impressive evil guy.Conclusion : The film is only flawed by very few badly written characters (Rachel Dawes and Ra's Al-Ghul) and the too little time devoted to the big evil plan. The first two thirds of the movie and the last five minutes were the most exciting to me! The script doesn't take the easy way with the revenge theme. Bruce Wayne's pain is never resolved, there's no relief and that's what the character is about.What's interesting with Super-heroes is when you're told their stories in a way that makes you believe in them. I'm very glad when a director like Nolan is able to achieve just that I hope they'll do another Daredevil movie inspired by the seriousness of this batman movie. "Batman Begins" is closer to Frank Miller's Daredevil, than the Daredevil movie was.


                
Now, I'm no Batman expert, but I do know that the tale of him is supposed to be dark and serious. And if I'm correct, this movie certainly succeeded at emulating that feel. Sure, it isn't Star Wars Episode III, and the first Batman movies were certainly more fun (Batman Returns is still my favorite), although this movie probably was the first to accurately translate Batman to the big screen. Living up to my expectations from the trailers, I certainly recommend it to Batman fans.All in all, I give it a B. The movie ain't no Spider-man, but it was certainly no Hulk either (half exciting, half boring as hell). Christian Bale is definitely the Batman.


                
I don't like to comment on giant blockbusters because their humongous fan base usually doesn't appreciate criticism of any kind. Oh well, my rant here contains more 'remarks' than actual criticism, so I'm going to spill my guts anyway. Although a very good film (and definitely a vast improvement over those dreadful Joel Schumacher films<U+0085>) there's something essential missing in Christopher Nolan's reprising of the Batman-franchise: comic-book darkness! Whether intended or not, "Batman Begins" doesn't seem to take place in an imaginary world where good battles evil but in a real-life drama setting where every individual has to fight for survival<U+0085> Basically not a bad idea at all, but it's not exactly the ideal setting to have a man flying around, wearing a bat-suit. Bruce Wayne ought to be a superhero but instead he's an emotionally and physically vulnerable man with phobias and no sense of morbid humor. Also, the gimmicks and designs are a lot less exhilarating than they should be. For example: the Bat-mobile here is nothing but a car-tuned Hum-V and Gotham City looks an awful lot like an (even more) pauperized version of New York. Yes, the script is very solid and the cast is terrific<U+0085>but by no means this "new" Batman can live up to the unequaled and blackly ingenious Tim Burton movies that launched the hype about 15 years ago. The film's opening (featuring a young Bruce Wayne on a meditation tour in Tibet) is long and complex but very interesting and a rewarding intro to the new Batman myth. When the story is then transferred to Gotham city, the movie becomes more action-packed and the class-A cast receives the opportunity to show off their talents. I particularly liked Gary Oldman in the (for him) awkward role of honest cop, Tom Wilkinson as the mighty underworld gangster and Rutger Hauer as the greedy and corrupt business manager. I personally found Michael Caine to be unfunny and sophomoric in his role of Alfred the butler and it was sad to see the role of Scarecrow played by a bizarre young nerd.


                
Batman Begins (2005)I saw this for a second time last night as kind of homework before seeing "Dark Knight Rises" and it is a marvel of movie-making, for sure. It's also filled with crazily exaggerated legends and it gives depth to many characters who have become as important to Batman as the evil enemies he faces. It has a few sections that are expository that slowed it down, but not for long, and some of the action scenes are astonishing technical feats.This is the first in what has turned out to be a trilogy, and it begins at the beginning, much like movies have done for Spiderman and Superman. Besides being far-fetched (the ninja fighters training our wandering orphan in some mountain retreat are the same ones who sacked Rome, etc.), it at first creates a different kind of movie, less about fighting evil than developing the skills and psychology to be superhuman. And those blue poppies they inhale--well, they comes into play later, too. So Bruce Wayne gets initiated, returns to Gotham, and slowly gets his equipment compiled, much of it stuff concocted by the wily and reassuring Mr. Fox, played by Morgan Freeman. The butler, played by Michael Caine, is in on the secret duality of our man from the start, and helps him in both practical and moral-boosting ways. It's all exciting and yet warm at the same time. You really wish there was such a Batman, with friends. Where the movie thins out, even as the action gets increasingly over the top, is even the slightest logic to the plot. You really have to just say, okay, this is a comic book world, and there really might be a plot to destroy Gotham simply because it's reached its peak of civilization. And there really might be a little machine with enough microwave power to vaporize the entire water system of the city. Just go with it.Certainly we have no trouble believing Batman can come and go like magic, glide with beautiful memory fabric wings, and shoot his rescue rope (like Spiderman) into faraway nooks. We all want to do this, and Christopher Nolan, the director, makes it dramatic like few others have. As many have written, this is the second best adventure hero movie ever. That might be true--there are a few others in line in my book--but it is probably easier to agree that the second in the trilogy, "The Dark Knight," is better than them all. But this led to that, and it's a great movie for this type. I mean, there are different kinds of movies that might leave you moved and even changed afterwards. Those are great movies. This one is a great movie experience, pure unapologetic entertainment. With lots of human moments and enough depth you can even watch it twice. I just did, and it worked.


                
Once again, director Chris Nolan has produced another stunning addition to the film industry. Having never really been a fan of comic-book films, i was reluctant to watch any of the batman films, however i must admit i was drawn in rather easily to the "Dark Knight" franchise. Perhaps viewing the sequel before this instalment is not the best approach, however i was so surprised by the breath-taking quality of "Dark Kinght" that viewing the prequel seemed the only sensible option. With stunning camera-work and highly effective lighting, the production team have created an environment scourged by crime and corruption, and successfully highlight the "evasive" nature of the batman to a superb standard, adding a subtle humour to the script which draws a dry smile to almost any face. Christian Bale is sterling in the title role, providing both the hard-man attitude to drive the justice-seeker of batman, but also the charming and sociable everyday man he appears to be on an average day. In recruiting such actors as Morgan Freeman and Liam Neeson to support the main man, Nolan has ensured that every role is carried through by top class acting, with both believable and easily likable characters. The film takes a while to get going as the first scenes seem irrelevant until the story develops, and the 'Eastern' nature of these scenes may put some people off the viewing, but staying to watch the whole movie is definitely recommended A great story, fantastic acting and stunning special-effects, Batman Begins is a perfect tribute to the Dark Knight franchise and a fitting exploration of the origins of the man behind the mask


                
On the surface, there's nothing really wrong with "Batman Begins" that replacing a sorely miscast Katie Holmes wouldn't cure (perhaps she's in the cast because they felt they had to have someone American there besides the excellent Morgan Freeman). It's very dark, very thoughtful and ideally cast almost from top to toe, with Christian Bale making a fine Bruce Wayne and Batman, Michael Caine giving the movie some genuine warmth as Alfred (and pretty much stealing the movie, along with Freeman's Lucius Fox), and it never treats the audience as anything less than adults.But what keeps me from exulting over this as much as many others is director Christopher Nolan's approach; his desire to keep it real - most reflected in the new Batmobile; goodbye stylish long gas-guzzler, hello compact all-terrain vehicle which, frankly, is quite ugly - makes "Batman Begins" ultimately sacrifice excitement in favour of grittiness, and the movie pays for it in the third act. The first two-thirds are enough to make it better than all the other live-action Batman movies except Tim Burton's first effort, for sure - but the exploration into Bruce's psyche and what made him become the Caped Crusader, complete with training at the hands of a Ramirez-meets-Obi-wan Kenobi type played by Liam Neeson, comes at the expense of the villains (notably a terrific Cillian Murphy).While there's very creepy imagery, and the decision of Nolan and primary screenwriter David S. Goyer to not allow the villains to upstage the hero is a wise one, there's such a thing as space - "Spider-Man 2" proved that you can develop the bad guys without sacrificing the hero, and that really needed to be done here. That, plus some very non-thrilling action moments, means that you're admiring the proceedings without getting truly pumped up. (And the less said about the disappointing score by Hans Zimmer and James Newton Howard, the better.) This is still very much worth seeing, but the hands-off, clinical approach means the 1992 animated series is still the Dark Knight to beat.


                
