Finally, after the previous 2 outings of the caped crusader, the Batman franchise is back on track. Having been a big comic collector over the years and a long time fan of the Dark Knight, I was especially disappointed by 'Forever' and 'Batman and Robin'. To me, these film lost the essence of what drives Bruce Wayne to do what he does and turned Batman into more of a pop star than misunderstood hero.Thankfully though, Nolan has gone back to the roots of the character, portraying a confused and angry Bruce Wayne, who ultimately rises to become Gotham's greatest champion. Don't expect to see loads of shots of Batman in this film though. It is the story of Wayne and focuses mainly on his years of training and preparation for becoming Batman. You are almost teased throughout the first half of the movie, waiting to see the excellent Christian Bale in the costume, as it keeps holding back to keep you in anticipation. When Batman does finally turn up on screen, it is well worth the wait. In my opinion, Bale was born for this role and for the first time when watching a Batman film, I enjoyed the scenes of Wayne being Wayne as much as Wayne being Batman.One of the strongest features of the film, is the way that it manges to suck you in believe that a 'Batman' could be a reality one day. The technology is current, with no use of silly OTT weapons and gadgets, again making the film work by today's standards. Plus, we are not allowed to forget that Batman is still just a man under the costume and there are times when he gets a bit of a kicking and shows that he can be vulnerable too, something we sometimes forget when watching a superhero flick. Gone too, are the silly villains!!! Jack Nicholson was the perfect Joker but from there it went downhill. Thankfully, in this movie the bad guys are actually fairly 'normal' and manage to be menacing at the same time.Which finally brings me to the cast. I always had high expectations for this film when the cast was announced. Let's face it, what a line up! Christian Bale, Michael Caine, Morgan Freeman, Gary Oldman, Liam Neeson, Katy Holmes, Ken Watanabe and Tom Wilkinson are not to be sniffed at. Even an old favourite of mine makes an appearance: Rutger Hauer! Awesome. Actors of this calibre would never have gotten involved in this project if they didn't have faith in Christoper Nolan's talents and thankfully they took the leap...For the comic book fans out there, waiting to see this movie, let me assure you that you won't be upset. Imagine the darkness of the 'A Death In The Family' and the 'Year One' story lines. I have never met a fan of Batman who didn't love these books. Well, this is the kind of Batman you can expect from Bale: Dark, brooding and tortured by his past, yet the hero we have come to love. For those of you who are not comic fans, then just look forward to seeing how Batman should be. This film is a credit to Bob Kane's original vision and a testament to all the talented artists and writers who keep the legend of the Dark Knight alive in the comic books today....Thank you Mr. Nolan and thank you Mr. Bale. In fact thanks to everyone who worked on this film. Batman finally Begins from here....


                
I've just come back from a preview screening of Batman Begins. I went in with low expectations, despite the excellence of Christopher Nolan's previous efforts. Talk about having your expectations confounded! This film grips like wet rope from the start. I won't give away any of the story; suffice to say it mixes and matches its sources freely, tossing in a dash of Frank Miller, a bit of Alan Moore and a pinch of Bob Kane to great effect. What's impressive is that despite the weight of the franchise, Nolan has managed to work so many of his trademarks into a mainstream movie. The story does not progress in linear fashion for the first half, and there are some truly spectacular hallucination scenes. Parents thinking of taking their young kids along, think twice. When we left, a terrified 8-year-old boy was being comforted by his parents. Some of what's up there on screen really is the stuff of nightmares.Of the cast of Brits chosen to bring this American tale to the masses, Christian Bale convinces in his dual role, while Michael Caine as Alfred comes up with the humour just when the film is in danger of taking itself too seriously. Gary Oldman and Tom Wilkinson provide able support, as does Morgan Freeman. Most refreshing of all is the way that Nolan and co have come up with a way of bringing comics to the screen that does justice to the often adult source material in a way that, say, Daredevil, tried and failed to do (although the director's cut is better). If the Dark Knight doesn't return after this, there's no justice.


                
Batman Begins was a massive breath of fresh air when it came out in 2005. Coming 8 years after Warner Brothers jumped the bat, as it were, with Joel Schumacher's childish mess, "Batman and Robin", Christopher Nolan's Batman Begins brought a maturity and seriousness to The Caped Crusader that had been absent since Tim Burton left the world of Gotham. While Batman Begins might not boast the visual prowess or rich villains of Burton's two Batman movies, it fleshed out the character of Bruce Wayne in a way no movie has since.Batman Begins is an origin story straight through, detailing Bruce Wayne's (Christian Bale) emergence from tragically scarred child to a symbol of heroism and darkness. After training with Ra's al Ghul and the League of Shadows, Bruce Wayne returns to Gotham in perfect mental and physical shape. What Nolan and screenwriter David Goyer do perfectly here, is inject Bruce Wayne with an emotion never before seen in a Batman movie. You can feel the pain and grief Wayne is experiencing and you can see why he decides to become a living symbol of good. The first full origin story for Batman on film, Batman Begins is very much told from Bruce's point of view. Earlier Batman movies often focused more heavily on developing the villains, leaving Bruce Wayne in the shadows. The approach that keeps Batman a dark, mysterious figure is a valiant one, and it makes sense. However, context rarely hurts, and Batman Begins provides the character with heaps of context. You can clearly understand the emotions and motivations of the man behind the mask. The origin is also utterly believable. You can see why Bruce Wayne dresses like a bat, why he needs a cape, how he gets a super-car and super-gadgets, and why he hides in a cave. Does it strip Batman of his mythic status? Yes, a bit. Luckily, unlike Nolan's two follow-ups, Begins doesn't get too carried away with realism, retaining a comic book style that its successor would forget.While it does take a while for Bruce Wayne to fully become the bat, it is worth it. Once Bruce Wayne finally dons the cape and cowl, there are a few jaw-dropping action scenes including a brilliant batmobile chase scene and a thrilling climax on Gotham's elevated trains. The atmosphere and feeling of Gotham City is nearly perfect in it's own way. It does not have the Gothic beauty of Tim Burton's Batman universe, but it's blend of comic book dinginess and contemporary sleekness makes Gotham a terrifically realized cityscape. The city feels like what a comic book world would be like if it actually existed. Batman himself is a dark, brooding, wonderfully realized character in his own right and he shares the screen with an ensemble of great actors. Michael Caine as Alfred, Morgan Freeman as Lucius Fox, and Gary Oldman as Commissioner Gordon are standouts in an ensemble cast that is playing the comic book material straight as an arrow. Cillian Murphy as the Scarecrow is an excellent but criminally underused baddie, but on the whole, the supporting cast elevates the material.Batman Begins is still as fresh today as it was more than a decade ago. The origin of Batman is engaging, engrossing, and emotional. The story provides a context to the Bruce Wayne character that elevates the movie beyond its fun comic book plot. The origin is a satisfying and believable one, and once Batman finally enters the scene, the action is unmatched. Batman Begins is a strong, confident summer superhero blockbuster with more maturity and emotional truth than most dramas. I hesitate to call it the definitive interpretation of Batman (Batman 1989 takes that title), but Batman Begins is the best of Christopher Nolan's Batman movies, a film that balances gritty realism, human drama, and thrilling comic book fun.85/100
This film is by far the best superhero film to date with maybe the exception of V For Vendetta. It is a fantastic reinvention of the genre none the less. Christian Bale is absolutely brilliant in this he owns Batman in this film he shows how Bruce Wayne became Batman and shows the emotions behind his crusade. He makes Bruce Wayne the main character not Batman. This realism is what makes the film so revolutionary it is by far the most realistic superhero film I have ever seen. Batman doesn't defy the laws of physics, Gotham isn't an over blown fantasy it looks as it could really exist in the states and the villains aren't fake people there real criminals. The cast is brilliant and its not dominated by American's with the exception of Holmes and Freeman. The main cast, the major characters are all British/Irish brilliant actors none the less. The writing in this tale is also masterful as it is heavily influenced by Frank Miller and other Batman comics. This is a film you need to see however you can.
What we see in this movie is the "dark & gritty" (TM) Batman, which was introduced by Frank Miller in 1986 in the comics mini-series Dark Knight Returns, which was an alternate future version of Batman. But Miller also gave the "real" comics Batman the dark & gritty treatment in the seminal Batman: Year One story, which is perhaps the greatest Batman story ever created (also because of the effective artwork of the excellent David Mazzuchelli), and which chronicles, among other things, Bruce Wayne's initial (pre-Batman) martial arts training in a remote mountain region. In the comics, a creative force as strong as Frank Miller was bound to yield massive imitation by less original comics creators - and so the early 1990s saw the Batman character getting consistently and increasingly dark & gritty, to the extent that the entire Batman universe was based on that darkness and grit.So the question is, does this work in a movie? Well, in my opinion it didn't even work in the comics, so, no, for this and other reasons I don't think it works in the movie, either. I always preferred the pre-Miller Batman, whose comics were driven by the stories and not simply by mood and style.Batman Begins is not a bad movie. It has many good things. The story has lots of great ideas. Most of the changes to the Bat-mythos were thoughtful and effective. I even loved how the Batmobile had to jump over a moat every time it left and entered the Bat-Cave.Unfortunately, the movie is atrociously directed. Everything is much, MUCH too dark, and considering how bad-looking the terribly cut fight scenes are, the fast-moving action and scatter-shot dialog are particularly grating. Most characters beside Bale's and Neeson's don't have enough to do, or get no significant characterization. Oldman's Gordon is wildly underplayed, and I could never separate Michael Caine from Michael Caine, which I needed to do if I were to find him convincing as Alfred. I think the structure and editing of the movie was terrible, and the decision to make a comic-book movie so dark that you could hardly see what was going on, was a monumentally bad one. It was a decision made, no doubt, to emphasize the medium of the movie over that of the comic, and it made the director attempt to create some kind of art movie - and apparently many people feel he succeeded. I didn't.And I thought the special effects were another big problem. There were too many of them. Why did the plot need a hallucinogenic drug, so faces could twist and horses could breathe fire? Because, I'm certain, the movie-makers felt they had to deliver the special effects spectacular that they thought superhero movie audiences have come to expect. A commercial decision, thus, to blow some dough on unnecessary SPX, just because the audience probably would think it was a cheap and unimportant movie if it didn't have any. So, no, I was not impressed at all; rather the opposite.And unfortunately I have to make one more serious complaint. Ra's Al Ghul was very cool and very well played and everything, but his scheme was ridiculous in the extreme. Through centuries and even millennia his "league of shadows" (the actual size of which is never shown) would destroy civilizations (oh, or just cities) at the height of their decadence, like God striking down Sodom and Gomorrah. And now they'd decided that Gotham City should be destroyed? I'm sorry, but I find it ridiculous on at least three levels. First, wouldn't they target more than a single city? What use will it be to destroy one city? But, of course, this would depend on their man-power, which we are never made privy to. Maybe they're just, like, twelve guys. It certainly looks that way. Second, Ra's had been planning to destroy Gotham for, like, twenty years or more?! So, basically, he's been focusing all his resources on just Gotham for at least two or three decades, while events in the rest of the world has had no bearing on the situation? That's preposterous. And third, where's the sense in going in to help exacerbate the decadence and crime and corruption before delivering the death-stroke? They are totally becoming the very thing they would destroy. And sure, they're the bad guys and all, but shouldn't their scheme have SOME modicum of logical coherence? Apparently not. So anyway, not a great, successful movie as far as I'm concerned, but the typical commercial fluff with a hurried narrative and a holey rusted plot, Batman.6 out of 10.


                
I never thought Christian Bale could displace Michael Keaton as the best batman, but, sorry Michael, the deed is done.Batman fans should find no surprise in the darkness of this tale depicting the early life of Bruce Wayne, his transformation into The Batman, and one of his most harrowing adventures. I avoided reading reviews before seeing this. As a lifelong comics fan, I felt this film deserved an open mind from me. After seeing one of the trailers, I became convinced that this film was going to be based on Frank Miller's The Dark Knight, a legendary take on the 1930s Batman origin story inked in the 80s by the man who later gave us Sin City. But no, this is a fresh and original Batman film, including the significant elements of the original, but adding its own very carefully thought out embellishments. While it has all of the darkness of The Dark Knight, it has all of the plot elements of the original, and more.The familiar Batman story is told early in the film, but by the time we are allowed to focus on Wayne, he has grown into a young man. Wayne is depicted as a troubled drifter whose traumatic early life has left him seeking understanding in all of the wrong places. Bayle plays the character to the hilt - with his detachment, repressed anger and heavily depressive tendencies sustained throughout the entire film. Susceptible to any guidance that might provide him with a chance to right the wrongs he has seen, he falls under the spell of Ra's Al Ghul high in the Bhutanese Himalayas and becomes an apprentice in the League of Shadows - a secret society of ninjas who purge the world of corruption in a merciless manner. Wayne's martial arts training is where the major story arc begins.This is easily the most serious, intelligent, and adult of the batman films. It is well filmed, relentlessly fast-paced and intelligently scripted. Batman Begins also sports a phenomenal cast. I am aware that a few people felt that Katie Holmes was miscast as Rachel Dawes, but I couldn't agree less. She did a good job as, basically, the only woman in the film. The rest of the cast did not miss a beat either. The very likable Michael Caine makes a great Alfred, though I have to admit I was concerned when I first saw him on screen (having never gotten over some of his weaker efforts).With Sin City and Batman Begins coming out in the same year, it is easy to imagine that - after decades of struggle - the comic media has finally successfully broken into serious commercial films. Let's hope it's here to stay!


                
I don't worry and obsess too much about 'superhero' flicks. I just expect them to suck and take what enjoyment I can from them. So the relatively high quality and watch-ability of "Spider-Man" and "X-Men" was a great surprise to me, since I had fully expected them both to be lame, camp, and stupid. But instead, both flicks were well made films with warmth, dignity and humor, as well as being pleasant tributes to the memories of decades of entertaining stories and the comic book creators who made them."Batman Begins" continues this great tradition. It manages to include almost everything the fans love about the character and his alter ego - the cape, the gadgets, the Bat-Mobile (more of a Bat-Tank, but still), the urban backdrop, the disturbed and disturbing villains. And it does all this while still being a crackerjack movie - the quality of the production, the acting, the soundtrack and the cinematography are Sky high.What's really wonderful about this version of Batman is that there are some major Hollywood actors involved in this, but every one of them treats the material with gravitas and respect. But at the same time, no one chews the scenery or over-does the drama. Neeson and Caine are especially great in this respect. No one can instill dignity and humanity into a potentially silly or goofy scene like Neeson.(Hell, he almost saved 'Episode One' all by himself.) Here, he just punches the humanity and also 'larger than life' quality of the proceedings into the next level. And Micheal Caine is, well, Micheal Caine. He's effortlessly wonderful as Alfred, as good in his way as Micheal Gough was in the previous versions of the franchise.I think it is obvious that while Tim Burton is a wonderful, whacked out visionary (and God Bless him for it), Nolan is in fact a better director for this more naturalistic material.I was very pleased to learn that Christian Bale would be the new "Batman" - after watching him in "American Psycho" and in "Equilibrium", I was pretty sure that he would have just the right qualities for the part - he's built like a brick, and he's got the 1000-yard stare and the 'lights are on, but nobody's home' qualities that the character demands. And man, he is good in this. Micheal Keaton is a wonderful actor, but Bale seems to have been BORN to play Batman.I can't give this a perfect '10', because it's a superhero flick, for crying out loud. I save '10' for stuff like 'Bambi' and 'Deliverance'. But this is really, really, really good.
I loved this movie. Everything was good! There were only a few boring parts. The Batmobile looked dumb, but who cares? This movie was good! I didn't think this movie looked too good when I saw the preview, but I was wrong. This is the best superhero movie since Spider-Man 2. There's action and everything! This is a must-see movie. It's long, but it's not one of those movies where you think "God, this is long! When will it end?" It's long in a good way. If you're a fan of Batman, you'll love this movie. I'm glad it's on the top 250 movies. That's where it needs to be. It's got a good storyline too. I give Batman Begins two thumbs up.


                
Forget all that colorful, candy coated, over-the-top, comic book style trash that poisoned the last two Batman movies. Joel Schumacher should be embarrassed for creating Batman Forever and Batman & Robin which became the ultimate low for the character since his creation in 1939. This new film thankfully has nothing in common with those embarrassments. Batman Begins is a prequel to everything we have seen before. It takes us back to young Bruce Wayne as a boy. The film has a very dark, gritty feel to it. In fact, I found it hearkening back to Tim Burton's unique style found in the original Batman movie with The Joker and Batman Returns with The Penguin and Catwoman. If you liked those then you will love this new one. I think it is even better.Without ruining it for those who haven't seen it the new Batman Begins shows the transformation that took place from young Bruce Wayne to Batman. It truly recaptures what the original story about Batman was meant to be. You witness the initial training, the beginning of the bat-cave, the early gadgets, and of course crime fighting at its finest. All of this is carefully executed to keep your attention and entertain you without overloading you with special effects and other Hollywood tricks. I dare say it may be the best Batman film ever made. Sequels are on the way of course.


                
The movie focuses on Bruce's childhood where he gets his haunting memories from. It shows how he was to become the prince of Gotham, but things do not turn that way. How he wastes some years of his life and then suddenly how he understands the aim in life. The movie certainly satisfies the viewers that how he actually becomes a batman, and from where he acquires his skills and the stuff which is required. Well if this is a beginning of a "james bond like series" then it really is a very good start, otherwise, well it certainly does not cover the whole part of the story. I can say that in comparison to the other "such movies", the movie starts a little slow, but for fans like me, who think the more explanation the better, I can say that is this movie is much better off. Well, to be critical some of the objects in the movie do not conform to the actual comic book story, but for a part like that, I suppose they cannot have a thing like that in real. Other than that, a few details are also messed up, but then depends on how well you have read those comic books. On the whole, I can say for fans who just cannot get enough in just 2 hours out of good movies, this movie (and its sequels) are just extravagant.


                
Since the only comic book I've read in years is Whedon's X-Men I suppose I came to the film as a piece of cinema rather than an adaptation. There are probably hundreds of smaller references in here which I'd never understand and I've no idea what fans of the comics make of this (which perhaps puts me on the other side of the Hitchhiker's-style debate). What I saw though was an extra-ordinary piece of film making which managed keep the spirit of everything which has gone before, whilst keeping its own coherence.It's exciting that the studio would sanction another origin adventure so close to the Tim Burton film. I was never a fan of that -- too stylised for its own good lacking clear characterisation. What's surprising here is that rather than giving what the audience wants, two horns and a cape, we hardly see the dark knight until into the second hour. There is quite a complex flashback structure creating an underpinning of the psychological reasons why Bruce Wayne would want to hang around in caves with bats as friends, while at the same time subtly setting up some important plot information later in the film. If there's a slight problem with the train sequences they reminded me a bit too much of Highlander -- especially all the sword play. Also I defy anyone not to be waiting for Neeson to tell Bale to 'be mindful of the living force'.The development of the iconography of the bat are also handled incredibly well. In this explanation for the wonderful toys, its Bruce using largely existing hardware rather than items he's developed himself -- and also granted some of them are a bit fantastical -- it takes the point of view that its not about the tools, its how they're used, which is a step up from a magical utility belt which can do everything. Over and again, we are reminded that this is just a man -- a highly skilled, well trained man -- but flesh and blood nonetheless. He gets hurt, we see bruises. This adds an extra vulnerability. Unlike previous incarnations Batman isn't somehow a separate character apart from the billionaire playboy, its the conduit through which the playboy saves the world.It is a cameo-fest, a dream for any player of Six Degrees. There is a moment about half an hour into the film as all of the major characters are introduced and they're all played by names actors. It's real kitchen sink casting, an Ocean's Eleven for actors of a certain age, but there are some brilliant choices and it's great in particular to see Gary Oldman not playing the lunatic for a change. Michael Caine's Alfred is also a great creation. Katie Holmes just feels like a better more exciting love interest not just around to be saved but integral to the story. There was also something for the Nu-Who fan, with The Long Game's Christine 'Cathica' Adams playing a secretary. One day to go.What this proves is if you get a Chris Nolan to make a superhero film, you'll get the best example of the genre money can by. He'll take the character seriously, do experimental yet crowd pleasing things with him and make the audience want to see more. Up until now, I thought the cartoon series was the best imagining of the character I'd ever see. This is just as good if not better. Of all the comics adaptations this year I'd be very surprised if any of them are better than this.
I really enjoyed this one. Although I loved Tim Burton's movie, it always felt a little overdone; Gotham didn't feel like a real city, not a place you could imagine people living, and the characters felt a bit too overwrought to be real people.This movie feels much more grounded and realistic. Gotham feels like a real city - let's be honest, it feels like New York. And the characters both good and bad feel like real people.I liked Bruce's development. We never really got an origin story for Batman before in the movies - we knew what happened to make him Batman, but mostly they told us about it and showed flashbacks, we never saw it in any real detail like we do here. Seeing the lasting impact of his parent's death gave you more connection with Bruce, and seeing him develop the Batman concept as a carefully calculated ploy designed to achieve a specific effect made it much more believable than the "I'm depressed, I saw a bat - hey, I'll dress as a bat and fight crime!" of previous movies.More kudos for the development of the toys. Introducing them as prototype weapons which Bruce appropriated was an inspired touch, and showing him actually developing his gear over his first few times out was another touch that made it more grounded and believable. These scenes also introduced some much needed and well played humour from Morgan Freeman (and Michael Caine is also excellent in this regard.) Things started to go a bit over the top with the grand evil scheme to destroy Gotham. The whole plot to spread fear gas around made no sense whatsoever and is riddled with scientific nonsense : why pour the stuff into the water supply for weeks before? Water doesn't sit in pipes in a city for weeks on end, it gets constantly flushed through - most of their chemical would be flushed away! Indeed, since the poisoning of the water stopped a good day or two before the final stage than little if any of it would be left in the pipes at all. Additionally, the microwave "vapourise all the water" weapon made no sense - it boils all the water in the pipes over hundreds if not thousands of yards, but has no effect on people and machinery standing right next to it! I'd rather they had just focused on having Batman fighting a conventional crime boss, as this would have continued the whole "keeping it real" thing.But while annoying, it doesn't come close to wrecking the movie. Batman Begins is by far the best of the Batman movies, and one of the better superhero movies ever made.
Ever since Batman Forever this franchise has gone downhill. But if there was a movie made to resurrect it this was it and boy did it do its job. Everything you like about movies is in here. Great acting, amazing effects, a rich plot, and having a cute Defense Attorny helps too. I don't care what people say, Katie Holmes getting engaged to Tom Cruise didn't have anything to do with the success of this movie. She's just a good actress. Christian Bale is THE Bruce Wayne and always will be (except for Adam West of course). Michael Caine is a great Alfred too. The Scarecrow is the greatest psychological bad guy since Norman Bates. All in all anyone who wants to spend 2 and a half hours enjoying themselves should check out this movie. But for people who aren't fans of the books should wait for the rental.
Batman Begins is starting a new generation of Batman movies. This one if the best and it gave such a great beginning story to what happened to Bruce.Christian Bale gave a very good performance. He is a good Batman and I hope to see him continue with other Batman movies because he has proved himself to be one of the next leading Hollywood men in this time.The supporting cast was excellent too. Michael Caine gave a great performance as always as the Butler. He really brings energy to a movie.Morgan Freeman too is good as always but his part needed to be bigger. He is one of my favorite actors and I thought he was good in this movie too.Kate Holmes. She is another cute and sweet actress that I personally love to see in films. The not so good reviews First Daughter I thought was a good movie. She really has a potential too.Batman Begins is not to be missed. It is a good film and I am waiting for the next one! :)


                
given when this movie came out, I couldn't help but compare it to the Revenge of the Sith as a prequel. it can only point out what a better film this one is.such a tight script, top-level acting (once again I didn't even recognize Oldham until halfway through the film, it was more interesting and important that he was Jim Gordan,) appropriate use of FX, giving real dialog to the female characters... wow. what I didn't love was that it was sometimes difficult to tell, when two fight scenes were interwoven, exactly what was going on where, and when.Batman deserves to have been made without the camp, and finally it has been. Awwww yeah.


                
I enjoyed the movie, and I thinks it is worth of the good rating in IMDb. The plot was good enough and I even liked the first half of the movie. But here and there there were things that just felt wrong, here is a short list from the top of my mind (and from the worst to the least):1. Close combat scenes. It was very hard to understand what was going on, wobbly camera, darkness and fast multi angle cuts adding to the confusion. Almost as bad as in Resident Evil: Apocalypse. Only reason I can think is that Christian Bale didn't wan't to learn to act hand to hand combat. But in most of the battles he is wearing the bat-mask (and fighting masked enemies) so they could have used a stunt double to do the dirty work. Go figure, maybe it's just a close-combat directing fad.2. Microwave-machine that can vaporise water many yards away... ... but vaporises nothing water based (blood, anyone?).3. Undestructible Bat-tank Running through 20 inch concrete wall that is designed to stop vehicles from running through it (being in between of the lanes...). No way something that flimsy could do that, no matter how high-tech it is. Can't say for sure but I think it even went wheels-first to the walls. Some wheels there. And it wasn't even made to break walls, but to jump over rivers.4. Tricycle-Bat-tank There is a reason wheels are usually located in the sides and near the corners of a vehicle, it's called stability. And if it was meant for for rough terrain bridge building, no wonder army was not interested. That thing would topple over at the first sight of a slope.5. Gun in a courthouse Bruce was able to smuggle a gun in to a courthouse in a crime-infested town? I can understand the assassin (bribing and all) but Bruce? Maybe he did some heavy bribing off-screen.6. Grapple-gun Okay, just a minor rant here, it is one of his trademark toys so no way to exclude it from movie no matter how ridiculous it is. Rest of the Bat-suit and accessory was well portrayed (maybe excluding the bat-throwing-stars), even the armor was told not to be bullet proof.
A well made action film, especially of its sort, it constantly tackles below surface ideas, such as justice, fighting crime, fears and corruption, while at the same time the film offers exciting action on the surface. The visual effects are very effective, and the overall visual style suits the project very well. Cillian Murphy is worth noting for an intriguing performance, even if the rest of the cast members only act adequately. The film is somewhat slow to build up, focusing on some of the story elements for too long, but once the film gets going, it is superb. There are certain imperfections that one generally accepts in these types of movie blockbusters. Yes, the on screen romance is dull, but at least here it is not a useless subplot. Yes, some of the characters are inserted just for laughs, and not to add anything to the story. Yes, even some of the necessary characters have pointless moments of comic relief. Yes, the special effects tend to go over-the-top here and there. However, do all these points really matter? If you are expecting a flawless masterpiece then they do, and you will not find such a film here. But, if you just want to see an action film that is a cut above the rest, this is a great example: a film that is engaging both below as well as above the surface.


                
As much as I enjoyed Tim Burton's first two film's I think this new effort will leave audiences rethinking just how good they actually are and will look at Batman Begins as arguably the best of all of them in the genre. The film begins with Bruce Wayne (Christian Bale) who's somewhere in the mountains of Asia in a prison camp until he meets Henri Ducard (Liam Neeson) who takes him under his wing and introduces him to the League of Shadows.*****SPOILER ALERT***** The League of Shadows is run by Ra's Al Ghul (Ken Watanabe) and they teach Bruce sword play and other things pertaining to overcoming one's fears but things go too far when he's asked to kill another person. Bruce is forced into a fight and Ra's is killed but he saves Ducard and then heads back to Gotham City where Alfred (Michael Caine) helps him to continue the family name with Wayne Enterprises. Gotham City has become a hotbed for crime and a syndicate run by Carmine Falcone (Tom Wilkinson) has taken over things which prompts Bruce to try and clean things up but it's not until he meets Lucius Fox (Morgan Freeman) that he gets an idea of how to go about it.Lucius has many things that he's invented over the years (but never used) and it's these items where Bruce constructs the batsuit, finds a prototype of the batmobile, and finds other uses for a cape that he wears. Also adding to Gotham's troubles is Dr. Jonathan Crane (Cillian Murphy) who's alias is The Scarecrow and his forte is to spray others with a hallucinogenic that causes insanity and he works for an unknown crime boss who wants to destroy Gotham's water supply. With all that Bruce comes face to face with Ducard once again and it's he who's behind everything and wants to destroy Gotham City and even with the help from an honest cop named Jim Gordon (Gary Oldman) and his childhood sweetheart Rachel Dawes (Katie Holmes) Bruce may not be able to defeat him.Filmmaker Christopher Nolan (Memento, Insomnia) not only has crafted probably the best Batman film yet but he's re-energized a franchise that was considered dead due to the overly commercial treatment of the material. Nolan has gone to great lengths with the script and story to insure that audiences understand not only how Batman was created by Bruce Wayne but the ramifications of why. This is easily the darkest of the films and Nolan was inspired by "Blade Runner" in terms of how he wanted this to look from the scenes of poverty to the cascading rain that frequents some of the shots. The script allows viewers to see that Wayne not only became Batman to combat crime but to also combat his own personal demons which were the result of a childhood accident and that his parents were not killed by The Joker (that Burton's film showed) but the result of a mugger. The script also shows how Batman's relationship started with future Commissioner Gordon and that Gotham City was infested with crime and mass poverty which was the real reason for the fate of his parents. I also liked the way Nolan didn't try and throw everything into the story and concentrated on just how the caped crusader originated and that the batmobile we see here isn't the real batmobile, instead the vehicle used in this film is just something that he's come across and for now it serves his purpose. My only gripes towards this film come from two things and the first has to do with why Ducard has chosen Gotham for his evil plan which in my estimation was never really made clear (unless something very simple went over my head) and the second thing has to do with the casting of Holmes. The jury's still out on just how good of an actress Holmes is but here she's bland and totally unconvincing as an assistant district attorney and her so-called romance with Wayne seems ridiculously forced. These are minor annoyances and they shouldn't stop anyone from viewing this latest chapter in the Batman films because director Nolan has gotten it right with his sharp and introspective approach and he's restarted this entertaining franchise.
Batman Begins is really the first movie of the franchise. The story predates Batman (the one with sappy Michael Keaton), and explains not only why Bruce Wayne, the rich orphan, became Batman, but also how he turned himself into the Dark Knight. And what a journey - Scaling the snow-capped mountains to seek a master to hone his martial arts, uncovering the amazing gadgets in his late father's company, scaring the hell out of the rogues, meeting Commissioner Gordon for the first time... Batman's methods to strike fear in the hearts of the baddies are finally explored in this fifth installment. Before that, all we know is that Batman is this costumed superhero with incredulous gadgets. Now we know why DC puts him on par with Superman and Wonder Woman. It's not how super or wondrous he is. It's how human yet effective Batman is that makes him such an intriguing superhero. And you have to give Christopher Nolan, the director (who directed one of my fav movie Memento) due credit. Tim Burton was close, but Nolan nailed it right on the head.Some of the best things of Batman Begins: 1. Best Batman - Christian Bale. Better bod than Val Kilmer, better range than Michael Keaton, better everything than clown George Clooney 2. Best Commissioner Gordon - For once, he's crucial to the plot, and he deserved it. 3. Best Bat-chick - Kathy Holmes. Even Tom Cruise is falling head over heels for her. And you'll see why. The not-so-great stuff: 1. The most uncool Batmobile to date - It is the most realistic, I gotta admit, but a vehicle that's called a Tumbler just doesn't cut it for me. 2. Not very impressive villains - like the saying goes: "it is the villains that make the hero", and while Scarecrow and Raa's were interesting characters, they failed to hook me the way The Joker, The Penguin and Catwoman did.Nonetheless, Batman Begins lives up to the hype. The franchise is finally saved. Let the fun begins!


                
Wow... I really wasn't expecting much of that movie, but I was really impressed. Of course, Tim Burton is not behind that one, so it's definitely not an "artistic" movie like Batman I & II, but the cast was great and I thought that the plot was really good. Christian Bale is definitely convincing, and with Morgan Freeman, Michael Caine, Liam Neeson, Cillian Murphy (oh my god, so gorgeous!) and Gary Oldman (funny, I didn't recognize him...) in the same movie, I don't really know who else we could ask for, they're all simply brilliant! The movie is pretty long but time passed really quickly, and I liked the alteration of action, jokes and deeper stuff, like the introspection that is bound to happen. I only rated it as an 8 and not more because there's a point where you have to compare that one to Batman I and II, which were both 10 in my opinion, and this one just misses that artistic touch that only Burton masters... I don't want to say more because every batman fan (I & II at least) should see this one, and I really hope they like it as much as I did!


                
Set in the fictional city of Gotham, Batman Begins tells the story of how Bruce Wayne became what he was destined to be. Jumping between Bruce's child-hood to his adult life, then to present time, this movie shows what influences and experiences affected his decision to become the Dark Knight of Gotham, a story which a lot of people don't know. This movie is for anybody who's ever wondered "Hey, how did this bat guy get to be so good at man to man combat? Or, where did he get all those gadgets and that bat mobile? Or, why did this guy just decide to dress up and fight crime? Or even, why choose a bat?"Now, not being a huge fan of the Batman franchise (especially in the last 10 years) and even knowing that Christopher Nolan was directing, I didn't expect much from this movie. I was thinking to myself "Oh brilliant! Another Batman movie, another weak idea for a comic book movie, another excuse to make a high budget movie jammed with loads of CGI and explosions. How could anybody possible think they would be able to milk anything new and unique out of a franchise that has been squeezed dry by almost every star of Hollywood and still hasn't had any real success?" Very open minded I know, but how could you not be skeptical? However, I was most pleasantly surprised. Unlike your typical comic book movie, Batman Begins avoids the temptation to include those cheesy awkward moments and one liners that make you nauseous. But, this movie was anything but typical; it was the most original and down to earth comic book adaptation in years. The storyline actually made sense and was believable, unlike the other movies, it never leaves you thinking "But why was he<U+0085> or But how can he<U+0085>" The acting was convincing, Christian Bale had just the right persona to give the effect of a man with a lot on his mind and a lot bottled up inside him. Morgan Freeman was his calm, cool, collected (and very smooth) self. Michael Caine did a good job in his type-cast role as Alfred the butler, and Katie Holmes' performance was better than expected. However, the most refreshing and skilled new actor in this movie, in my opinion, was Cillian Murphy in his role of Dr. Jonathan Crane, who seemed to be the wild card of the cast as he was the only actor who has previously only had cameo roles in films <U+0096> but he did an astounding job of his role. I am positive we will be seeing much more of him in the future. The directing was superb; the use of lighting and camera angles really gave Gotham that gloomy and dark feel about it. The moral of the film: We fall down so we can pick ourselves up again seemed completely valid in any context and was completely relevant in the film. But the best part was<U+0085> No nipples on the bat suit! Unlike previous installments in the Batman franchise, this is not a kid's movie. It is darker, deeper and more down to earth than all the rest. But it is welcomed by me and I'm sure the majority of the people in this large, movie loving world.Overall I would give this movie 8 out of 10 stars, because at the end of the day, a superhero movie can only be so good. But it is great cinema and it is wished that skeptics (as I was), may give this film a chance.


                
FILM SYNOPSIS: Traumatically orphaned Harry Potter grows up to be traumatically orphaned Christian Bale, who is forced to endure the horror of his parents' murders when confronted with black flying things (i.e. Dementors or bats). Fear must be overcome while Gary Oldman runs around as the one innocent man from Azkaban - I mean Gotham's police force. Meanwhile, Cillian Murphy is fighting - er, creating? - a rage-inducing (or do I mean fear-inducing) virus/toxin that TURNS ALL OF ENGLAND/GOTHAM INTO ZOMBIES, providing a useful metaphor of socio-political pretensions.Sheesh, the plot plundering is almost incestuous.Seriously, though, I really enjoyed the film, although it doesn't quite live up to my expectations or the glowing reviews. The acting was stellar, and I really believed Bale as Bruce Wayne/Batman.However, the film had a seriously flawed and derivative script, with pretty silly dialogue saved only by the uber-talented people who uttered it. Every other line seemed to be some sort of inane, clichéd psychobabble repeated endlessly ("Why do we fall? So we can learn to pick ourselves up.") If you're really interested in the Jungian idea of individuation and becoming one's fears, I'd highly recommend Le Guin's "A Wizard of Earthsea." The editing also needed major work. Even at 2.5 hours, the film felt rushed. I never felt like I was able to settle down, take a deep breath, look around and enjoy the world Nolan had created for me. The music, overly loud and grating, didn't help much either, since it was so bad and overly-used that it effectively distanced me from the story.Batman Begins isn't as realistic as they say, either. Although, if your definition of "realistic" stops at gritty, depressed darkness, and a healthy knowledge of technology, then I guess this film is realistic. But if you believe realism lies in credible dialogue and character motivations (I never did figure out why Alfred and Lucius Fox so calmly accepted Bruce's 'plan'), then this film falls far short.I will come out on the other side, however, and say that I thought that new Batmobile was pretty sweet, and wasn't disturbed at all by the closely shot action scenes. They seemed pretty exciting to me, and I cringed quite often, especially when Bale crashed into that wall.Bottom Line: Good, but can't approach the genius of X2 and Burton's Batman Returns.Recommendation for WB: DROP GOYER AND HIRE SOMEONE WHO CAN ACTUALLY WRITE ORIGINAL PLOT AND DIALOGUE FOR THE SEQUEL. Goyer's nothing more than a glorified fanboy, and Batman deserves more. And while there doesn't have to be jokes every other line, some more warmth and humanity and WIT would be appreciated. Surprise me with something. Oh, and focus more on Bruce's awesome intelligence.Batman Begins 8/10; Batman 9/10; Batman Returns 10/10; Spider-Man and Spider-Man 2 9/10; X-Men 8/10; X2 10/10; Schumacher's Batman -10/10; The Last Samurai 4/10; Blade 5/10.
This is an outstanding super hero movie. I had a lot of fun, even though I loved the Tim Burton Batman movies, and did not really want to see this movie made. Batman's super powers are not so super, and the treatment of the mental and spiritual nature is more in depth. I liked the tie between the childhood fears and the batman character. It was refreshing that there was no 007-style comic relief. Top performances by Michael Caine and Morgan Freeman. The art direction was solid, but not as great as the Tim Burton films. The movie gets 8 stars because it is a great movie only in its own universe of super hero movies. It does not really tell a universal story--only a story about how a guy becomes a superhero, which of course is make-believe.


                
Christopher Nolan undertook the difficult task of bringing back Gotham's savior and managed to pull it off in style. Nolan's tribute to the 'Caped Crusader' is a clean break from the twentieth century franchise that included Michael Keaton, Val Kilmer and George Clooney donning the mask of the great DC comic detective. The chiseled Christian Bale takes on the mantle of the 'Dark Knight' as Nolan delivers a gritty, edgy and, dare I say it, more realistic Batman than his predecessors, who inadvertently ended up making a parody of the superhero and his exploits. Bale delivers a troubled and dark Bruce Wayne who in is complexity is more credible then the Bruces of the past. As Batman, he fits the mold although his delivery could use some work.Cillian Murphy is far too pretty to play an arch villain like 'The Scare Crow' who, surprisingly, didn't pose much of a threat and would be laughed at if considered a true nemesis. On the other side of the tracks is the world's favourite girl next door, Ms. Holmes, who still looks like she belongs at the creek. Though their efforts are both apparent and commendable, they still come across as children caught up in a game for grownups.Michael Caine brings emotion, humor and charm to the character of Alfred the Butler as is Gary Oldman believable as the helpless but good, Sergeant Gordon. The original Hitchhiker is back too, with Rutger Hauer's convincing portrayal of the ever so sinister Earle who runs Wayne Enterprises until Bruce comes of age.Liam Neeson's performance is the big surprise in this movie of all stars, which also includes Oscar winner Morgan Freeman and Oscar nominee Ken Watanabe from 'The Last Samurai.' The audience can always expect a great performance from Neeson but in this flick he really hits the mark especially with the physical demands of his character. Not to be out done by the other heavy weights, Tom Wilkinson, also an Oscar nominee for 'In the Bedroom, is up to par in his performance as the immoral underworld boss, Carmine Falcone.The action scenes are shadowed by darkness, literally. The audience doesn't get the opportunity to fully appreciate the fights mainly because they take place under limited lighting. On a brighter note, it's enjoyable to see how Bruce Wayne actually transforms into 'The Batman' albeit is at an accelerated pace. With the combination of a worthy Batman, a great cast, a plot that's not totally predictable and a more REAL and gritty feel, 'Batman Begins' is an enjoyable feature that leaves you waiting anxiously for the next installment.


                
I'm a huge Batman Fan...not in an over-driven anal way, but I did want to see how much popcorn I could fit in my not overly large mouth, even if this meant suffocating when I watched (blocked out) the travesty of Batman & Robin and the case of over exposed nipples...Batman Begins is a fantastic film...for everyone...except those under 12! Warning 12a! Blah...Christian Bale is Fantastic and just what the Dark Knight should be Brooding, slightly mental, Dangerous with a sense of humour. The cast in fact is brilliant from Gary Oldman to Rutger Hauer (kudos to Liam Neeson)...and even though Katie Holmes is in the "thankless" role of "woman needed any will do" she too excels (doesn't get in the way).The settings are visually pleasing, from the ice caped mountains to the neon-dark Gotham (nice train) and the music too is effecting and complements the film perfectly.I urge all to see this film it is one of the few "summer movies" that won't induce popcorn-eating contests to pass the time (though they can be fun)My enjoyment of this film didn't even waver when the screen went totally out of focus and everyone sat in our very British manor waiting for someone else to notice.:) This of course is just my humble opinion.


                
