This overrated, short-lived series (a measly two seasons) is about as experimental and unique as a truck driver going to a strip bar. I am not quite sure what they mean by "ground-breaking" and "original" when they fawn all over Lynch and his silly little TV opus. What exactly is their criteria of what is original? Sure, compared to the "Bill Cosby Show" or "Hill Street Blues" it's original. Definitely. Next to "Law & Order" TP spews originality left and right.Fans of TP often say that the show was canceled because too many viewers weren't smart enough, open enough for the show's supposed "weirdness", its alleged wild ingenuity, or whatever. As a fan of weirdness myself, I have to correct that misconception. There is nothing too off-the-wall about TP; it is a merely watchable, rather silly whodunit that goes around in circles, spinning webs in every corner but (or because of it) ultimately going nowhere. The supposed weirdness is always forced; the characters don't behave in a strange way as much as they behave in an IDIOTIC way half the time. There's a difference...Whenever I watch the "weird dream" sequence in "Living In Oblivion" in which the dwarf criticizes the director (Buscemi) for succumbing to the tired old let's-use-a-midget-in-a-dream-scene cliché, I think of Lynch. You want weird? "Eraserhead" is weird - in fact, it's beyond weird, it's basically abstract. You want a unique TV show? Watch "The Prisoner". You want a strange-looking cast? Felini's and Leone's films offer that. TP looks like an overly coiffed TV crime drama in which all the young people look like fashion models. The cast gives TP a plastic look. Kens & Barbies en masse.In fact, one of the producers of TP said that Lynch was looking for "unique faces" for the series. Unique faces? Like Lara Flynn Boyle's? Sheryll Fenn's? Like those effeminate-faced "hunks" straight out of men's catalogs (or gay magazines)? Don't get me wrong; there is nothing wrong with getting an attractive cast, especially with beauties like Fenn (the way Madonna would look if she were 1000 times prettier), but then don't go around saying you're making a "weird show with weird-looking people". And I have never understood Lynch's misguided fascination with Kyle MacLachlan (I should get a medal for bothering to spell his name right). He is not unlikable, but lacks charisma, seeming a little too bland and polished. His character's laughable "eccentricities" were not at all interesting, merely one of Lynch's many attempts to force the weirdness, trying hard to live up to his reputation - him having completely lost his edge by that time. Everything Lynch made post-"Elephant Man" was very much sub-par compared to his first two movies. What followed were often mediocre efforts that relied on Lynch's relatively small but fanatical fan base to keep him in the public eye by interpreting meanings into his badly put-together stories that don't hold any water on closer scrutiny. In other words, Lynch is every intellectual-wannabe's darling. So Laura Palmer was killed by her Dad...? He was obsessed by the devil or some such nonsense. That's the best this "great mind" could come up with... You've got B-movie horror films that end with more originality. Lynch is neither bright nor hard-working enough to come up with a terrific story. What he does have though is his "artist aura", which has turned him into somewhat of a cinema god for people who are easily duped.
I skipped this on its initial run because I was tired of hearing about it all the time, but I never assumed that meant I wouldn't like it if I tried it. When it appeared on streaming for free, I gave it a try, and I watched it up until they revealed who the killer was, but I can't say I ever really got with it. It seemed to be perpetually reveling in its weird coolness or cool weirdness, one of the two. The characters weren't very interesting. The story was confusing. It seemed to be technically well done, and I'm sure it was ground-breaking for its day, but it just didn't grab me.My one shout-out goes to Bob. A couple of his more intense scenes still cross my mind from time to time. I thought he was the best thing about the whole show.


                
Over the years I've heard so many comments about how wonderful Twin Peaks was, so having missed it the first time around I thought I'd give it a go once it appeared on Now TV. I already knew it was supposed to be a bit weird, so the apparent quirkiness of the characters didn't put me off at all.I watched every episode of series one, just about managing to keep up with the disjointed story-line. Then just as I started watching episode two of the second season, I realised that I really couldn't watch any more of this drivel! I was going to search online to find out who the killer was, but I don't care enough to make the effort!! There are people who have given it 10/10 - but I don't get why.


                
We are not in the fairy tale of the naked emperor. We may confess the truth of what we see without being stupid, confess, that this show is in many aspects just incomprehensible and that it is clear that much of it was created out of pure intuition without real concept.Well, obviously many people like such stuff. I don't. I prefer well thought and planed shows. And I also confess that the show is much to serious for my taste and boring...those love and drug stories...There are so many exciting soaps with lot of suspense (Dallas e.g.) but Twin Peaks can't catch my attention. I don't care about those people, except Cooper and Gordon Cole.


                
I was right with David Lynch up until the final episode. The show was amazing. It was the perfect blend of crime, drama, the supernatural, and the surreal. Let me start by saying I did enjoy how Lynch wrapped up the plot line of Agent Cooper. Having him become possessed by Bob was the epitome of a perfect cliff hanger, with the twist of a bittersweet ending. However, I cannot give Lynch too much credit with finishing off the series in that way. While watching the final episode, I kept checking to see how much time was left, and started to become concerned that many of the plot lines were not going to be tied up in a neat little package. And they weren't.For starters, it is safe to assume that both Catherine and Andrew Packard died, along with Audrey Horne, in the bank explosion set by Thomas Eckhardt. But I am not sure that we can assume Ben Horne is dead. Yes, Doctor Hayward acted regrettably grief-stricken in a classic late-80's way, but as we know from earlier in the series, looking dead does not always mean dead i.e. when Hank Jennings shot Leo Johnson in season 1. And speaking of Hayward, having this ridiculous plot twist in the second to last episode of Ben Horne being Donna Hayward's biological father was absolutely unnecessary and contributed literally nothing to the show, except that it took up excessive time in the episodes. We never saw the White Lodge, the shaking hands of Twin Peaks citizens in the penultimate episode was never explained, and more importantly, what happened to Josie? We know that her body only weighed 55 lbs after deceased, and it is safe to assume that Bob trapped her soul in the side table drawer at the Great Northern hotel, but is she stuck there? Who's to say. And what happens to James Hurley?As much as I want to enjoy Twin Peaks, with the extensive thoroughness and thoughtful dialogue David Lynch put into it (up until the last episode), I cannot. I appreciate the surreal turn the plot took using Major Briggs in the second season, but to be honest, the show probably could have ended after we find out that Leland Palmer/Bob killed Laura. The supernatural events were not adequately explained, like why Major Briggs was affected by the Black Lodge, or if it was a government-related scam at all. You were so close David Lynch, but you just couldn't hit the mark.*I have not watched Twin Peaks: Fire Walk with Me yet so I apologize if any of the plot lines I have mentioned above are wrapped up in the movie.
