I watched the entire Twin Peaks series (the pilot and 28 episodes) over a period of 4 days this week, imagine my state of mind. I hadn't seen it since the original broadcasts in 1990-91. I have thought of it often over the years and seeing it now has reaffirmed my initial response of almost 20 years ago; hypnotic fascination during Season One, hopeful interest at the beginning of Season Two, glassy-eyed boredom in the middle episodes of same, and, at the end, frustrated excitement and even anger that we have been deprived of the continuation of the series into at least a third season. The first season of Twin Peaks is generally regarded as splendid, a magical, disturbing and moving recreation of a small community of us flawed and beautiful humans. The second season starts well but then chugs and splutters, the tires go flat in the middle episodes only to be pumped up and set back on the road going full-tilt only to crash into the wall of oblivion, not to be renewed for a third season. It is amazing to me how obviously Lynch and his team dropped the ball after Laura Palmer's murderer was revealed. Once that was done the writers launch into the most sophomoric and tedious bilge about Ben Horne going cuckoo and reliving the Civil War in his office at The Great Northern Hotel, high school pep-rally stuff, and it killed the show dead. This sorry sub-plot was coupled with another one about the most uninteresting character in the series, pouty James Hurley and his Harley. I was tired of his James Dean imitation after episode one, but to be pummeled by two episodes about him and some rich bitch trying to frame him for murder is too much. The poor guy is too stupid for words, as Laura Palmer noted early on in her diary. These 4 middle episodes are pointless and hideously boring and were, I have no doubt, responsible for the loss of a substantial number of the loyal audience at the time. To add insult to injury we are also subjected to a new guest star in the form of the worst actor known to man, Billy Zane. This over-exposed, fatuous vanity-victim is brought in to relieve Audrey Horne of her virginity, then flies off in his private jet, piloted by his perfect self, to fight the ecology war in Brazil or something (burning tons of jet fuel in the process no doubt.) I was bored stiff by these three interminable, adolescent and totally non-Lynch-like sub-plots.Things revive markedly as the writers got their heads together and made the wicked genius Windom Earl the centerpiece of the end of the season. We get to The Dark Lodge in the end. But this was truly The End as the show was canceled. I wanted to see The White Lodge where love triumphs over evil, as it is we are left with evil rampaging through Twin Peaks for eternity. I find that sad.We'll never know how Agent Cooper deals with Bob residing in his head, or if Norma and Big Ed get married or if Ben was conked dead or just cuckoo (again) by Dr Hayward, or whether Audrey and Pete Martell were blown to jell-o in the bank vault or whether Leo's teeth hold out keeping the tarantulas at bay until Sheriff Truman and Andy come to his rescue and take him to the Home. Why did David Lynch allow his 3/4 brilliant creation to dribble away like it did? Where was his commitment? I love his work but I will not forget how he left me in the lurch with the unfinished Twin Peaks, the short-lived prodigy of television, gone down in undeserved television ignominy.What might have been if the commitment had been as strong as the initial vision. You're better'n that Dave. Dammit.
Twin Peaks appeared as a two season television series, initially to soaring audience interest, and then largely ignored except for the art-house cult that like most Lynch productions. Some are excellent, others aren't; halfway into season two the show concludes the main story arc, making the later episodes less resonant, in fact pointless. However, Twin Peaks featured exceptional dialogue, tasteful scenery, beautiful, well written characters and a sense of intrigue and profound suspense, taking place in a quaint, idiosyncratic logging town near Canada, where a senior school girl has been murdered, for unknown reasons.The crime is investigated by Kyle Maclachlan's character Dale Cooper - a clean cut FBI agent surrounded by likely suspects; failed, hateful lovers, corrupt wealth, drug smugglers, small town losers, a wacky psychiatrist and a handful of eccentric, possibly insane people that appear throughout the show, enabling all sorts of symbolism and dramatic experimentation in an otherwise highly conventional genre. And it's funny.The show is something of a revision (or parody) of the standard murder mystery/cop procedural show - these shows are usually overwhelmingly "masculinist", a central character (always male) uncovers clues using pure logic and reasoning, the story peppered with conveniently detailed clues and story pieces, structurally sound but rather cold. Lynch's Twin Peaks turns the convention on its head - the FBI agent receives, and announces clues from dreams, empaths, obscure eastern philosophy and other arcana. In a similar vein, the shows clean cut all-American style masks a subtle satire of the very same American values as well as the consumerist, fussily-produced style of network television. Worth seeing more than once.


                
It is not easy to write a critical commentary to a series that seems to have pleased hundreds of thousands of watchers in almost two decades. However, I will dare presenting a few major flaws in this TV series that should convince the one or other to re-think the obvious completely uncritical appraisal of Lynch/Frost's work.First, the first season is very seductive and addictive. It is well organized, there is actually a dramaturgy recognizable, everybody can see that there is something like a scenario at the base of what has been filmed, the effects are perfectly placed, there is not superficial gore and silliness used in order to catch the attention - in short: it is very well done, and nothing else one would await from the director of such masterpieces like "Eraserhead", "Blue Velvet" or "Mulholland Drive".However, second, towards the end already of the first season, one has the strong idea that the story gets thinner and thinner, the dramaturgy starts to break apart and the hitherto well placed suspense-effects make space for gimmickry and claptrap. Also, suddenly psychic events are happening, alien-like figures (who will be more dominant in the second season) are appearing, the coherence is getting lost, and in order to cover that partially up, the camera switches nervously between the different part-stories happening among the peoples involved.The third season reaches its lowest points in episodes 2.5 and 2.6 (14 and 15, respectively) whose whole sense seem to consist in confusing and prolonging the series as much as possible. Specially, I mention people who are introduced as "Dei Ex Machina", perhaps one should rather say as "Diaboli Ex Machina", since they are needed for one or two episodes, but are completely unmotivated in the whole of the story. Suddenly, we see love-scenes between protagonists which belong to the lowest possible level, obviously solely injected for filling the default frame of 47 minutes per episode. During the second season, one has also the impression that each episode has been written after the former has been filmed, and not at as whole anymore like in the first season. In order not to spoil, I give only one example: In episode 14, Special Agent Cooper suddenly remembers that he was given an envelope by Audrey, he opens it and realizes now, where she is. However, when the story is going on, we realize that this is obviously not so important for Cooper, although he fell in love to Audrey and was trying to find her during several days of his stay in Twin Peaks. Instead of following the trace that he finally found, he meets several different people, and one has the strong suspect that the writer of this episode has just taken a so-called Homeric nap.I could go on mentioning dozens of major violations of absolutely basic features that one learns either in film school or during classes of literature in the first semesters of trimesters. Thus, the question arises: If obviously the authors went out of ideas towards the end of the first season, why did they not stop the whole project as it was, concentrating their spirits to create a good ending after 8 episodes? Artificially prolonging a TV-series is as bad as producing low-level sequels of blockbuster-hits. Sometimes euthanasia is better than revival.


                
The first thing you need to know is the series ending sucks the big one. It is like a slap in the face and a kick in the groin to the viewer. After such a long series, the only way they could surprise was to do something everyone would hate. It would need another season to resolve it. Perhaps that is the problem, they were expecting another season.The series is very addictive. There are scores of characters and sub plots. You really have to stay on your toes to keep track. There are more good-looking young people than you can shake a stick at.Actors spend a rather disproportionate time kissing and kissing and kissing. It gets a bit like soft porn at times. Everyone has an official partner and at least one other on the side.What I really liked was how the characters all were distinct and in their own unique way, crazy. I cared about them all.Ben Horne was tedious, but that was just because he was on screen too much.For some reason the cinematographer had a fetish for coffee, donuts and cherry pie. It comes off like food porn sometimes. It is filled with little quirks like that.Twin Peaks probably should be classed as a comedy. It is like a soap opera. It does not pretend to be realistic. There is a lot of silly, boring, supernatural woo, especially at the very end. It not like your usual murder mystery. There are loose threads dangling all over the place that are never resolved.


                
Due to my age, I remember the time when Twin Peaks appeared and the wow! feelings how it was received... But due to hectic times I had plus limited watching opportunities, I can't remember I watched any episode (moreover, back then, I definitely preferred movies to series). So I decided to find time for it now and watch all episodes in sequence - as it is wise with all series with flashbacks and hints to the past.I liked the beginning and the main characters and performances, particularly FBI Special Agent Dale Cooper by Kyle MacLachlan (although I had difficulties to individuate young females at first due to their similar looks), some mysticism and Lynch's features (not too much, as I am not particularly keen on supernatural solving human issues), but then some scenes and events became protracted, and I decided I would confine myself to the Season 1... But as the its last episodes ended as it did, I had to go on, and, in general, I liked Season 2 more, in spite of more episodes - many solutions were bolder, suspension was not focused in a single line/link, and several events that seemed odd and unnecessary in Season 1 started to make sense. Thus, the 22 episodes passed rather smoothly, and I realized that Twin Peaks has "worn well" (that is why I am perplexed why a remake is planned). The quality is good, outfit does not distract, and surrealistic features had enough technology to be highlighted. I am not sure how I would have rated the work in question in the 1990ies, when there was no Breaking Bad, Wayward Pines, Broadchurch, etc., were idiosyncratic persons and places have a big importance and tensions remain up high as well, but my current rating is 8/10, mainly due to the Season 1 middle and Season 2 ending.


                
Is there anybody who know when season number 2 is out in Europe??? I know that there has been a lot of questioning about this season and who owns the rights and that it maybe wouldn't be released but now I have heard some roomers that say it's out on DVD in the US. Anybody who knows something about this?It feels like i've been waiting for this for ages now and I cant understand why it have to take so long...Is there anybody who can say what the problem about this season have been all about?Hope to hear from someone as soon as possible!


                
Just a bit of letdown compared to what I heard, but maybe I'll watch S02 if I accidentally bump into 18 hours of spare time


                
Although my wife and I favor classic detective series like "The Bridge", we found Twin Peaks to be a decent detective series with a superb cast of eccentric and humorous characters. We really enjoyed it although the ending was a downer. We would like to give it a 7.7, but are forced to give it an 8.0.


                
I've watched this series recently and from my point of view this has not aged well, since some of the special effects to some terrible acting that I don't know what were they thinking, besides that Twin Peaks has a very interesting story that keeps me intrigued, and one of the high lights is that at some points it has some David Lynch-esque moments which are awesome if you're a David Lynch fan.


                
There is a brief scene in series one showing Special Agent Dale Cooper (Kyle MacLachlan) entering a motel reception where we also see a guest, at the reception desk, with a fully gown pet llama; and while Agent Cooper is talking with sheriff Truman (Michael Ontkean), the guest with the llama walks between Cooper and the sheriff and then exits. Cooper hardly blinks an eye; and the character with the llama never reappears. Nobody comments about the llama. It's as though the animal never existed.Only David Lynch could get away with doing that in a serious, dramatic show for prime time TV; only David Lynch has that sort of moxie. And only he and Mark Frost - co-creator of the story - could fill a tediously dense and dull satire with similar outrageous scenes and characters and still get paid by ABC, the TV company which desperately needed to get better ratings at that time. The complex, convoluted plot has already been examined to death by other reviewers; no need for me to go into that detail, except to say viewers do get to know who the murderer is. I doubt even Fiona Banner, for example, would attempt to describe TP in text art; it's actually beyond sensible description, I think. What's more important, instead, is to comment upon the setting - the mise en scène - and the main characters who are all involved, directly or indirectly, with solving the mystery of the death of local beauty queen, Laura Palmer.The setting is well-known small-town America - somewhat reminiscent of, say, Picnic (1955), Written on the Wind (1956), Peyton Place (1957) and a few others; Twin Peaks, though, is 1980ish, but with a patina of the 1950s. Everything shown - houses, autos, trees, buildings, the sky and landscape and the lustrous colors - is just beautiful, magnificent, alluring, appealing, brilliant and definitely good-looking. It's the characters who are ... well, let me just say....Considered objectively, Dale Cooper is arguably a caricature of an FBI agent, almost goofy in his manner of speaking, and his bizarre use of investigatory props e.g. a map of Tibet for one, and throwing stones at a glass bottle for another, both to help determine Laura's killer; the receptionist at the police station is the proverbial dumb, dumber blonde; we meet the inevitable fumbling, bumbling cop who can't do anything right, the wholesome, down-to-earth town sheriff and the gruff but fair local doctor; the whole town seems caught in a 1960s time warp of multiple sexual affairs; with some exceptions, characters are beautiful, clean people - and every bit Bold and Beautiful clones. I'm sure the scenes of couples having extra long kisses in medium to extreme close-up exceed the number of scenes about the actual murder investigation (at least in series one); and, for the cherry on top, all the TVs in Twin Peaks (series one again) show the same daily TV soap opera - and sly parody of the Twin Peaks narrative, I think. And there are sight gags galore if you look closely at props and people used. For example, Sheriff Harry Truman has a framed photo of President Harry Truman on his office wall; and the popular coffee shop in Twin Peaks has an enormous, exterior sign which has just one word: Café. With the final frame of series two, Lynch ensures a captured audience with an exquisite cliff-hanger to keep tongues wagging for years, and years, and....The quality of both series is topnotch; the color photography is brilliantly over-saturated; direction is typical Lynch, as is the deep-bass, twangy, background music supplied by Angelo Badalamenti; the acting by all is generally good, sometimes excellent; the script, however, often borders on the banal or absurd - although it sharpens up in series two. Don't get me wrong: TP is a magnificent achievement by Lynch and Frost because it finally brought their names to mainstream American - and eventually global - TV audiences. Prior to that, Lynch was better known by those who had seen Eraserhead (1977), Dune (1984), Blue Velvet (1986) and Wild at Heart (1990) - basically films for Lynch fans only (and Dune was box-office poison). TP is also magnificent because Lynch was given the opportunity to do whatever he wanted (legally, of course) in the story. If you have seen Lynch movies then you know he subverts viewers' expectations in every one of them. Twin Peaks is no different.On the other hand, and bearing mind that Lynch has been quoted as saying it's the visual experience that matters - the story is secondary - consider this: why would a writer/director develop and produce a prime time TV drama series stuffed with clichéd scenes and stereotypical characters we've all seen in other TV shows, and then throw in bizarre events, actions, dialog etc at random times and for no discernible reason? And in the process, confound critics and viewers alike.... See the series and decide for your self. Just remember Lynch is a unique movie maker, his intelligence beyond question, his movie and music art now world famous. And Twin Peaks is the quintessential, prime-time, dramatic TV show - especially for mainstream America. Give this series eight out of ten for sure. Recommended for all except kiddies. And, hey now, I'm looking forward to series three in 2016 ... perhaps? Hope so.November 4th, 2014


                
So, I have spent last 7 days watching Twin Peaks. First 2 days, I watched 6 to 8 episodes per day, then a bit less and yesterday I watched the last episode.I remember when it aired in the 90's and I was 10 or something. Don't remember if I watched it or just saw some episodes or did not watch it. Though, the soundtrack to the movie was totally familiar to me from 1991 on and the song Falling.Generally, I liked the series very much, but I would end it when the killer of Laura Palmer was revealed. After that, the episodes were kinda not interesting enough and the switch from Laura's killer to the evil presence of Bob was somewhat artificial to me. Last 2,3 episodes and all Miss twin peaks is just dragging ... I love the music in the series. Agent Coop is great throughout the series, as well as Audrey and James ( by the way, what happened to him? That was kinda disappointing that he 'finished' his presence in the series so early and in rather shady manner - going off to LA or something). Donna is good too but her character in last episodes was rather uninspiring ... Agent Denis / Denise - that is Fox Molder is really an interesting add to the series! I wonder if he was shooting X Files when he accepted to be Denise in Twin Peaks.I did not like the fact that - in the end - it was not really about the killing of Laura Palmer but that evil Bob.


                
Back when this show was on air, I was 11 years old, my family was watching it on a regular basis and I was taking a gander from the sidelines and I remember I did not like it. I can not recall exactly why... Maybe it was boring, or scary or from some third reason... All in all, I was kind of watching it and I know what is it about, but I do not remember details any more. Considering its cult status and "resurrection" announced for later this year, I decided to watch both seasons and both movies before third season is released.I just saw pilot episode and I don't understand why would anyone be caught by it. It may be that show in its entirety is great, but pilot does not promise quality entertainment at all. I have complete series, so I will continue watching it for the time being, but if I was watching pilot on TV and if I had to continue with second episode a week later, I would probably completely forget about it in mean time and I would not follow the show. I can not say it is boring or badly done because it is not, but it does not stand out in any way either and it does not encourage curiosity. Average thriller, I would say. I hope it gets better cause I do not wanna waste 33 hours if they are the same level with pilot.6,5/10 (for pilot only)I'm near the end of first season and so far the only thing I like about this show is fabulously excellent music by Angelo Badalamenti. Possibly the best soundtrack I have ever heard.10/10I finished first season and I'm still not hooked. Acting is very good, music is perfect, but story is too much soap-opera like. It is like someone who was used to make soap-operas suddenly decided to make a thriller. And of course, Lynch distinctive visual atmosphere that cause me stomachache. Fortunately, Lynch made this show way before he completely flipped, so it is just slightly irritating, unlike his more recent works that are mostly unwatchable. 7/10As second season progress, more and more I get a feeling that this show was intended to be some kind of subtle parody, but I have no idea what of, because I'm not familiar with television trends of 80's. I was too young then, and now I mostly watch theatrical movies from that era, so television from 80's is almost completely unknown to me. However, the longer I follow this show the more I like it, although I think music has the crucial role in it.7,5/10While first season was mediocre thriller/mystery, second season jumps off to complete madness. I did not watch everything made by Lynch, and I have no intention to do so, but this could easily be his lifework. Basically, this is soap opera, but extremely intelligent, with many layers and unbelievable amount of different genres perfectly combined. To me, absurd/surreal fiction prevails. There is, of course, crime fiction with murder mystery and detective story, that irresistibly reminds me of film noir. Than, there's drama, mystery, horror, romance, black comedy, romance comedy and parody. And there's a chance I even missed something. In one moment I have a feeling that I am watching sitcom and the very next moment I'm sitting at the edge of the chair wanting to turn on all the lights in the apartment. I wonder what would it feel like to watch this on drugs :D8,5/10I was at the very edge of changing my rating to 10/10 when I saw last episode and it was the biggest disappointment in my life, regarding movies and TV series, of course. TP started as mediocre thriller, grew into one of the best shows ever made and instead of reaching its peak in final episode with some grand finale it went to complete disaster. Last episode is just typical Lynch crap. With it he destroyed probably the best work he's ever done. After this I will not watch anything he was involved with. If it was possible to give it 0/10 I would be happy to do it. I hate David Lynch and I want my 30+ hours back. 0/10 for the show finale


                
Season one is easily one of TV's greatest triumphs, and season two starts off promising but ultimately lands short, with an amazing ending to the season at least. Still a must see, I also highly recommend watching "the return" aka "season 3" of the show.


                
I don't like and watch TV shows, "Dekalog" and TP are only exceptions because I am big Lynch fan and cinefile.
First season is great, real ending is 2nd season episode when Leland dies. I recommend everyone to stop watching after that episode (TP real ending) because show from then goes into gibberish nonsense.
Film TP FWWM is great film and explains important events, must see for completing whole TP.
Show cancelations are a horrible thing, especially when it happens to shows that are criminally under-watched. While Twin Peaks thrived in its early days, the show failed to recapture the audience after the main story of Laura Palmer's murder was resolved. Unfortunately, this coincided with David Lynch taking the series deep into his own style of obscurity, and so ended the show altogether. However, the series has gained a cult following and will be revived for a series on Showtime in May, so in honor of its return, I thought I'd review or more or less react to watching the original series' run in 1990-1991. First off, I think it's difficult to even talk about the series if I'm not going to immediately establish just how strange the show is. It's got heart, humor, and intrigue, sure. But mostly, it has the downright "what the hell just happened?" moments that not quite any other show has. With that said, it feels like everything is Lynch's vision with the exception of having the limitations of a network's restrictions (which is part of the reason why a Showtime revival may be all he needs). The next thing you'll notice with Twin Peaks is the massive cast who are all incredibly talented. The show does a nice job of using all of the cast in various ways, but at times it did feel like the show was servicing the network instead of the other way around. In other words, sometimes the story lines of characters felt like they were forced into the show to make sure there was a certain amount of episodes. Nadine dating Mike, James & his run-in with Evelyn, Ben's fascination with the Civil War, and basically everything else that happens relating to the mill. Heck, even David Lynch's loud Gordon Cole character feels completely irrelevant to the story. But the show does know how to turn the heads of its audience. Lynch's vision and unique aesthetic for the show is unmatched. As is Kyle MacLachlan's Agent Dale Cooper. Luckily, the (wtf) cliffhanger and the other loose ends will be addressed next month as Lynch finally gets to resolve the questions and plot lines he left us pondering with. It is my hope that Lynch isn't as beholden to studio needs this time around, but I also hope he keeps the balance between terrifying drama, surrealism, and offbeat comedy.8.5/10
