Twin Peaks started off with enormous popularity, and by the middle of the second season the show began to lose it's fans as it became stranger and stranger. And it is understandable why people stopped viewing. The main question when the show started was "Who killed Laura Palmer?", and after only 17 episodes, the question was answered and the show's plot switched. Characters were also being killed off left and right. This show's progression was too fast for it's own good, and that's what probably led to it's downfall...that and the second season which was a big let down compared to the first.Laura Palmer (Sheryl Lee) is one of the most beloved residents of the small town of Twin Peaks, so it comes as a huge shocker when she is found dead. Special Agent Dale Cooper (Kyle McLaughlan) is called in to town to help with the case, and the possible murderers are many. Also in the town of Twin Peaks, or in the outskirt forests, are many secrets, and supernatural happenings.Season one of Twin Peaks is great. It introduces the characters well, and is the perfect mixture of comedy and drama. This season only touched upon the supernaturals that the series would soon adapt, which may have been a complaint among fans, but season two went overboard. Season two is good, but was just too much. Laura Palmer's killer was revealed mid season, and really that was the end of the show's plot. It tried to be a smooth transition, but it wasn't. Before this point, Laura Palmer was the show's star, and when she was laid to rest along with her murderer (In one of the show's most brilliant episodes), the show lost something. It went off to become too bizarre it was bordering on silly. But still, even with this season, this was an excellent show.As for originality, this show is one of the most original shows ever thought up. It's basically a supernatural soap opera murder mystery that attracts both males and females, and has a huge cast, with each episode playing as an anthology of character observations. Season one was near perfect, season two was near great, and overall this was an excellent series.My rating: *** 1/2 out of ****. 48 mins per episode. TV14
The owls are not what they seem in the world of Twin Peaks. And it's not only the owls - after all this is a David Lynch series. For starters, the idyllic small American town feels like a throwback to the fifties judging by its nostalgic vibe, the themes prevalent in the show, the jazzy music that is in the air (thanks to the great Angelo Badalamenti), and it's all intentionally so. The fifties was a time that tried to re-establish perfect family life and all around community wholesomeness, and yet under the surface conflicts simmered in society's underbelly - like in Twin Peaks where under the appearance of perfection evil rears its ugly head. Everywhere secrets are wrapped in secrets, and one of the wrapped secrets is the body of homecoming queen Laura Palmer...Even if you're aware of this premise it won't prepare you for the incomparable mix of melodrama, horror, camp, surrealism and the supernatural that awaits you in Twin Peaks, as "Twin Peaks" is like no other show. And there's more. Because despite all the darkness and even mythical depth of evil that slowly creeps into the series and adds a bizarre, cryptic turn to the course of events, what dominates the show is its all around quirkiness, the soap opera-like banter, the strange situations and above all an eccentric humorous quality, a far cry from any regular crime series drama. Lynch on the one hand goes all the way to depict the primeval existential fears and the horrid things that dwell, thrive in us and corrupt us, but he uncovers these abysses not primarily through hard facts, but by dream-inspired investigation that link subconscious experiences to brutal criminal realities. On the other hand the dark humor Lynch injects elevates the show to a mesmerizing and fascinating hybrid of two extremes. This all wouldn't work if Lynch couldn't manage to weave a unique spell around the viewer that seduces him into a reality permeated by mythical truths that can be taken as profound and lightweight at the same time.Focal point of course is FBI Agent Dale Cooper whose idiosyncratic methods to find a murderer are based more on intuition than logic, but he's just one of the oddball characters that make "Twin Peaks" a real treat: Meet - among others - e.g. Deputy Andy (Stan Laurel inspired), FBI Regional Bureau Chief Gordon Cole with a hearing problem (Lynch himself), a dwarf, a giant and a shady presence with the common name Bob to name just a few. If you're looking for something you have never seen before and probably will never see again, a crime show between hilarious soap opera and existential profoundness with mythical undertones, then "Twin Peaks" will do the job. Side effect: A possible sudden craving for cherry pie and damn fine coffee. (And an urge to see the controversial movie that was made as a prequel later. Enter at your own risk!)


                
After having watched a few episodes from the first season of 'Twin Peaks' it struck me that this is a series that manages what virtually no other has before it, or since. It has managed to effectively communicate that most appealing aspect of the world; the unknown, know to some of us through random moments of "enlightenment" or a suddenly appearing awareness of the existence of a larger and seemingly unfathomable universe.Those are quite big words for something as mundane as a TV show, and for anything else for that matter. Yet the sense of the mysterious and perhaps "dark" aspects of existence that seems to seep out between the lines of 'Twin Peaks' is certainly evoking feelings of something "big". The attributes of the small town named after its dramatic natural surroundings invites the viewer into a world where secrets are kept, and where information is only available through careful observation and analytical thinking, as well as a keen sensibility to the spiritual, or perhaps emotional aspects of the human psyche.Special Agent Cooper, the man who arrives in 'Twin Peaks' in order to investigate the murder of Laura Palmer seems to possess all of these attributes, enabling him to painstakingly yet elegantly work his way through the layers of understanding and deception before him, and us. In the realistic but often eccentric environment of 'Twin Peaks' we are offered a chance to explore the misty borderland between the human will and the raw natural force of seemingly random events. It is here that Agent Cooper excels, and it is here that I am left helpless as a viewer, trailing Cooper in his efforts with a strong sense of being outside of my mental comfort zone, yet with a growing curiosity and fascination that leaves me no other choice than engulf myself in the story.To conclude, 'Twin Peaks' represents to me something unique in television. This something is, I believe, what hides between the lines, and the beauty of the human brain's limitations when it comes to deciphering that hidden message.


                
I just recently began watching "Twin Peaks" after hearing about it from a friend. I at first thought that it would be some sort of teen drama about high school, the type of show that I am not usually interested in. Upon viewing, I was pleasantly surprised by the plot and the characters in the show. "Twin Peaks," as I now know, has events that are very puzzling and exciting. I feel that the show, overall, is high-caliber, original, and revolutionary. I believe it is these things because it is well-written and it doesn't try to be anything its not. David Lynch and Mark Frost and Harley Peyton and the entire writing team wrote what they wanted to and, for some odd reason, it works in the world of "Twin Peaks.""Twin Peaks" is does an excellent job of transporting the viewer into another world of forests and small town hospitality. It's nice when a TV show is set in a place other than NYC or Los Angeles. The cinematography is beautiful and the music really grows on you. At first I thought: "Do they have another piece of music to play with their sentimental scenes?" But then I realized that the music is quirky and it seems to tie everyone together. Plus, I find myself humming the theme song when the show begins. I like the show because everything is unexpected. To pull the viewer in, they use methods of clever dialog and subtle wit to develop characters and plot. I found myself watching "Twin Peaks" thinking: "Wasn't there a CSI episode like that?" and realizing that "Twin Peaks" came so many years before. I had no idea who killed Laura Palmer. I wasn't even going to venture a guess because I knew that the writers would shock and surprise me. Oh, boy, they sure did! I was sad when they solved the Laura Palmer case in the middle of Season 2. I wish that people had continued to watch after that, because I would've followed it. Once the studio executives began to interfere, the show lost a little bit of magic. The plot lines were decidedly more mainstream, less quirky and bizarre. I wanted them to go back to the weird stuff: the Giant, the Man From Another Place, and BOB. But it was only when Lynch came back to write and direct the last two episodes that it felt like "Twin Peaks." I think a lot of people would agree with me here. However, I am not bashing the other talented writers for the show, only saying that an outline of main plots would have helped. I don't care about James Hurley and his tryst with Evelyn Marsh, or Ben Horne's slip into insanity with his Civil War reenactment (though that was kind of funny). I also didn't need the Little Nicky or Dick Tremayne scenes or the Lana Budding Milford scenes. I did love the Miss Twin Peaks, though! They needed to consolidate just a little bit and cut out the stuff that didn't progress the story. On the other hand, the side plots helped the viewer to be completely unable to expect or predict what was going to happen. After watching the final episode and letting it sink in, I will admit that I am going into withdrawals. I am an admirer of film and television and a writer, so I feel as if I slip into the worlds of these shows and movies only to find myself ripped out of it when it ends.The finale of Season 2 of "Twin Peaks" was indeed interesting. I loved the Annie Blackburn character and I think that Heather Graham is very pretty. I liked that Cooper met someone that was innocent and kind and sheltered, much like himself.Here is how I view some of the events of Episode 29: First, Agent Cooper is a man who, when he falls for someone, he falls hard. The sensation of being in love becomes overwhelming and it is like a drug to him. Unfortunately, his love for Annie (and Caroline, for that matter) makes him blind to the evils around him. Cooper gives up his body to BOB so that he can save Annie's life, proving his overall goodness. Also, Cooper is stuck in the Lodge for 25 years, and hopeful,at the end of those years (or maybe if BOB's spirit is discovered and expelled from Cooper) then he can be free again. BOB, at the final scene, is mocking Cooper's concern for Annie's welfare when he smashes his head against the mirror and says "How's Annie?" I haven't established all of my opinions about this particular episode or about the series in general. Overall, I LOVED "Twin Peaks," but here were things I wished could've been covered: 1.) I want a 3rd season, for crying out loud!!! 2.) Did Ben Horne die? Did the fall make him cold and manipulating again? 3.) Did Audrey, Pete, and Andrew live after the bank's explosion? 4.) Will Agent Cooper escape the Black Lodge? 5.) Is the White Lodge heaven? Why didn't they explore that further? 6.) Is Annie really Annie, or is she stuck in the Black Lodge, too?I wish that they could reboot it with as many of the original actors as they possibly could! It's painful when a show as riveting as this one is lauded for it's originality then taken off the air simply because it gets TOO bizarre or ratings are low! David Lynch, Mark Frost, Kyle Maclaclan, the ENTIRE cast deserve the chance to have this story finished. Hopefully, maybe, there can be a resolution that will introduce the fabulous "Twin Peaks" to my generation, a generation that is being fed utterly cliché garbage.
Twin Peaks is now my favourite show ever. And thats against some tough opposition. Twin Peaks is offbeat, its funny, its has suspense, that ability to scare, great characters and far and above all - its entertaining. The characters are all eccentric, unique and vital to the overall feel of the show, the use of detection skills are out there and there is a dark supernatural element to it. People who know my taste in movies and TV would tell you music is sooooo important. The music is never less than outstanding - there are moments of slapstick and some characters that are there for pure comedy value. Trust me - if you 'get it' this is a wonderful world David Lynch and Mark Frost created. The main story is that of the murder of Laura Palmer. A girl who was loved by everyone in the town, a girl that had a lot of secrets, who had a dark side that eventually led her to her death. Also a character we never meet (until the movie which I haven't seen yet.) By not meeting Laura, and being reminded of her in nearly every episode with photos and a video, her presence is always apparent. It is truly something that despite the fact you never see her - you really feel like you get to know her and sense her loss to the town. Kyle Maclachlan is Agent Cooper - from the first scene a distinct and lovable character that really kicks the show off to a fine start. The rest of the cast are old school Hollywood stars such as Piper Laurie and Russ Tamblyn - supported by up and coming youngsters like Lara Flynn Boyle and Sherylin Fenn. Sadly I don't think any of the cast have ever been as good again. So every character has something - a story. Its almost a soap opera with a dark twist. However there is no getting around it - when the killer is revealed half way through the second season it does lose its way certainly. Some plot threads that arrise are better than others but the magic definitely goes. However for the first one and a half seasons there is not much better. Sadly I also think Twin Peaks has been forgotten by most. People talk of Lost as groundbreaking for its complex plot and twists and codes. Twin Peaks did it first. I've asked several people since i finished watching it if they had seen it. Not one person, but they all said the same thing - 'oh no thats the weird show isn't it that didn't make sense?'oh dear. Stick to x factor then. I am trying to spread the word. It took me too long to find it - don't make the same mistake!
I loved Twin Peaks.David Lynch has a real eye for talent and location. His vision for the series was brilliant. Really worth a watchMy mind was hard at work trying to figure out what was going on, yet it felt like I wasn't lost either.Each character is unique and has a great story to tell that unfolds through-out.and may I add, That's damn good coffee.The lead. Agent Cooper, by far, shines! His character is brilliant. His quest to finish his case ends like no other.


                
David Lynch is a badass. He gets to go around Hollywood being treated like an elite while making insane films that don't make much sense. He freely admitted during a recent lecture I attended that he came up with the plot for "Mulholland Drive" in under an hour. He does exactly what he wants, when he wants, how he wants. And that is to be admired.But there is a certain self destructiveness to it all. Case and point, season 2 of Twin Peaks. After the phenomenal success of the first season's 8 episode run, Lynch's murder mystery in a small town opus was re-upped for 22 more episodes. Everyone was happy with the critically lauded show that pulled in massive ratings. But when Lynch was given more free reign, things only got weirder.We found out who killed Laura Palmer and why. The solution was vastly more fulfilling than I'm sure Lost will ever be, but all the same, without Laura's ghost haunting the town, things took a turn for the weird. Many people didn't like it. The midget whose dialogue was recorded in reverse became more prominent and the character quirks that once made the show pop seemed to overtake the characters. The show had always been satirical, but any naturalism faded away and everything went absolutely crazy.Needless to say, ratings dropped off and the show was canceled. Adding insult to injury, the last few episodes were thrown together on one night to burn them off more quickly. (Ala, the late, great, Arrested Development.) But those who stopped watching after the big reveal missed the point of the show completely. Every scene was a mystery that built to a conclusion that led to greater mysteries that didn't have to be solved because the point was that things don't always make sense. In one early episode, we are confronted with the bizarre image of a close up of a man's hands drenched in oil slowly opening a door. The image is odd, compelling, humorous and possibly a bit dangerous since we cannot immediately identify the liquid. We pull back, and back until we finally see the hands belong to the town's sheriff, Harry S. Truman. We still don't know where he is until he trips over 2 long poles and his wife screams at him for breaking her "invention." (She was trying to make silent curtain openers, which she does with the help of a few drops of oil).* This scene is a mystery all unto itself as are most scenes in the series. From the moose head that keeps appearing on tables, to the evil scheming of the high school kids who aren't as clean cut as they appear, the whole builds and builds until your brain begins to make connections on things that might otherwise not seem logical.Lynch works in the ephemeral, the either. Those blurry spots in your peripheral vision as you fall asleep. And Twin Peaks taken as a whole expounds on this better than most anything he has ever done.For more reviews please visit www.collider.com


                
.A MasterpieceStory: Twin Peaks tells the story of FBI Special Agent Dale Cooper and his investigation into the murder of a popular young local girl Laura Palmer. The programme portrays small-town America via an imaginary tight-knit community of unsophisticates.The gradual unraveling of the tale necessarily exposes each Twin Peaks inhabitant to unwelcome scrutiny from Agent Cooper and men from the Sheriff's Department. As with much of Lynch's other work (such as Blue Velvet), Twin Peaks explores the relationship between the veneer of respectability and the seedier layer of life beneath it. Like all Lynch's previous and subsequent work, there exists a strong moral seriousness that informs the totality of the production.The series was set in 1989, with each episode--barring occasional exceptions--representing a single day in the chronology.My opinion about TP:Twin Peaks is my favorite TV show of all time (considdering Band of brothers as a mini series). Twin peaks has got amazing Characters, dialogues, Storyline, and Soundtrack. Twin Peaks is particularly memorable for Kyle MacLachlan's performance as Special Agent Dale Cooper, who uttered one of the more popular lines in the series which became a catch phrase: "Damn fine cup of coffee." His performance is one of the best in the series but also of all TV shows. He is so convincing as one of the kindest, honest en Best human beings on this planet that every man has got to admit he wanna be like him (I now do drink Black coffee to start with :-).Like i said The soundtrack is amazing... especially "Falling" (opening theme)I have to say that after finding Laura palmers killer (in episode 9 from season 2) the series, Transforms from being amazingly good to just good. after ep9 the story continues with cooper staying in Twinpeaks and the question who is BOB and where is he coming from ?all and all: Twin peaks is the greatest television show ever created and beats: 24, X-files, Lost, Miami Vice, CSI and all other good TV shows.Twinpeaks .... 9.6/10


                
To be honest, I wasn't too impressed with this show when it debuted in 1990. My lack of enthusiasm had nothing to do with the story, or characters, or dialog, or the soundtrack, or the creepy ambiance. No, these elements were satisfyingly bizarre. What disappointed me was its appearance. It just didn't look all that distinctive or unusual to me, especially compared to the amazing worlds Lynch had created previously - Elephant Man, Dune, Blue Velvet and of course, his early masterpiece, Eraserhead. This show, at first, just looked too much like regular TV. The scenes in the police station, the hospital, the school, Laura Palmer's house, and so on could all just as well have appeared in any other drama series of the day. Specifically, I found that the lighting and camera framing were rather conventional, not especially original. However, in due time we were treated to the sublime spectacle of the Black Lodge, where the oddly familiar and the absurdly alien unite into an hypnotically macabre tableaux of fantastic weirdness. It's possible that David intentionally downplayed the visual weirdness of the "everyday" scenes so as to heighten the effect of the "dream" scenes. And by keeping much of the look of the show relatively mainstream he was in effect commenting on the absurdly superficial quality of most TV, or so I assume.Once I got over this initial grumble - which lasted maybe two or three episodes - I was a hooked. You see, I had left art school the year before, so my head was already brimming with equally sinister, primal fantasies. In fact, I had gone to the same art academy in Philadelphia that David Lynch had attended at the end of the sixties. We were blood brothers. Well, more like he was my freakish uncle.I had much of that same Philly inspired oddness coursing through my veins, as did my house mates. As art students, we were members of a fairly extreme, very peculiar sect of society. Modern artists had always prided themselves on flaunting the peculiarities of their personalities, and this condition only became even more pronounced and emphatic throughout the increasingly ironic 1980s. Mark, who owned the house we lived in, was a transplanted Kentucky Blue Blood Queen with a dramatic flair for unleashing his own brand of Raging Diva-dom at the most ridiculous moments. He lived to spring his Grand Queerness on unsuspecting "breeders". Also in that house was a "sweet" little girl, probably at least 38 years old, from upscale Connecticut, who spoke with the thickest, most syrupy, back woods Georgia drawl at random moments. "Ah sayed Ah would pruhfuh you-awwwl would nawt eat Mah budduh." (Translation: Don't eat my butter!) And Jim was a scowling mute gargoyle of a figure, who spoke maybe 10 words a day, but was a gifted colorist and sharp eyed social critic. It was extreme, back in those strange Philly days, and "Twin Peaks" nestled right into my routine.The paradox of the show's fate is that it could have been half as bizarre, half as cryptic, and still would have been the most compelling hour of TV fiction ever, and then probably would have stayed on the air for another 5 years. Its self involved, self conscious demeanor soon grated on the delicate sensibilities of the mighty masses. Some of the later episodes of the second season are somewhat uneven, seem to meander a bit, maybe not up to the creepy high standards of the first season's 7 episodes. But even these "lesser" installments never fail to surprise and amuse. Lucky for us, it was never "diluted" to satisfy the insipid tastes of the marching morons, and we have it in its uncut 100% purity to marvel at today. Occasionally, I still do that backward sounding, slowed down Black Lodge dream talk with other old "Peakers." Don't you?


                
All good TV shows share this feeling. Twilight Zone, Star Trek, and Twin Peaks. An otherworldly sense of place. I've heard someone say about vacations before 'When you go on vacation you fill up jars that you can open later in your regular life when times get tough'.I think this is a good description of Twin Peaks, the show and characters really stick with you. Despite some of the intense content in the show its a place that really sticks with you. When you stop and think about the show its something you feel connected to it almost like you were personally a part of it. I give the show a 9 and not a 10 for a few reasons. First the revealing of the killer was way too soon. This was forced upon Lynch by the TV execs and you can feel it. The show is meandering along and bam suddenly everything is revealed. It felt out of sync and rushed. That ties in with the other mistake. If Lynch had laid the groundwork of the town for an episode or so and developed some of the sidestories first and made the Laura Palmer murder a large part of it instead of the main focus. There wouldn't have been such a huge letdown when the killer was revealed. You can literally feel the breath go out of the show after the killer was revealed.Which is a shame because at the time things are very interesting. The black lodge is waiting to be developed. There's all kinds of intrigue and side stories going on. However a large body of the audience had decided the show was only about the death of Laura Palmer and left the show after it was revealed.So the show only lasted a while after the reveal.The show is vintage Lynch, it mixes his hidden wisdom and explanations of the spiritual world with pure Americana. Some of it is very intense and shocking still. This fact makes many Twin Peak devotees turning on the feature film 'Fire Walk with Me' strange. It seems like many people watching Twin Peaks only did so for the sedate and kitschy scenes. With no interest in the deeper, darker, meanings and actions revolving around the main story. Oh well cant please everyone all the time.
David Lynch took a murder mystery, mixed it with parts soap opera and his own twisted vision and produced one of the most memorable television series in recent TV history. Lynch's unconventional ways of telling a story are modified just enough to allow the series to reach a broad audience, but he still infuses the work with enough perverse touches to keep the fans happy. The crystalline cinematography give the series a dreamy creepiness and haunting, ethereal quality. He examines the dark underbelly lurking just under the surface of a seemingly normal American town. Twin Peaks features some of the most striking images and enigmatic dialogue TV show of the nineties. Into this fray comes Kyle MacLachlan in his career-making role of Special Agent Dale Cooper, who attempts to find the identity of Laura's killer. Largely eschewing traditional crime detection techniques, Cooper employs startling new approaches such as analysing his own dreams and throwing rocks at glass bottles while thinking of a suspect's name, and strongly suspects that the murder may have something to do with the famous dancing dwarf. Kyle MacLachlan is the linchpin of the cast, providing an oasis of normalcy in the vast ocean of freakishness around him. The show featured an amazing cast that includes Sheryl Lee in the double role of the murdered Laura Palmer and her "twin" cousin Maddy, plus Lara Flynn Boyle, Madchen Amick, Peggy Lipton, Piper Laurie and Joan Chen. "Who Killed Laura Palmer?" was the question to ask the Monday after the pilot was aired. Twin Peaks was a precursor to some of the more cult-ish series which would appear in the 1990s, including the X-Files. Too bad it lasted only 29 episodes....


                
Well what can I say?Twin Peaks is simply one of the greatest and most interesting TV shows ever created. However, it was also with its weird and supernatural themes ahead of it's time, and this was sadly was one of the reasons why it never did as good as it deserved. The story begins as a simple murder case in the relatively small town of Twin Peaks. A popular young girl named Laura Palmer is found dead. Soon, another girl is reported missing, but she has however managed to escape the grim fate that Laura suffered, and barely alive she is spotted wandering along a railroad track. Because the young girl crossed a state border, the FBI is called in, and soon a agent named Dale Cooper arrives. Together, he and the local sheriff Harry Truman, and his men Hawk and Andy, starts to investigate the murder of Laura. It doesn't take long before they realize that something more sinister has taken place, and that Laura was not the perfect and innocent girl she appeared to be. In the background, 2 of Laura's closest friends, Donna and James also tries to learn more about the fate of their friend. As the story unfolds, many other citizens, each with their own goals and problems, all gets involved in the dramas and mysteries of Twin Peaks.Twin Peaks has it all. Drama, mystery, horror and romance. I guess you can compare it to a soap opera, mainly because of the many subplots and interactions between almost all of the regular characters in the series. Especially the characters are wonderful. I cannot think of another individual that is as likeable as Agent Cooper. And I cannot think of a better actor to play him than Kyle MacLachlan; he is simply awesome. Basically, all the actors fit their roles perfectly, and they all manage to add depth to their characters; as well as make them interesting. David Lynch and Mark Frost made Twin Peaks in a way, so that every character has an importance and place in the puzzle, but also in a way so that you never know where in the puzzle the character fits. The Twin Peaks mood is simply indescribable, it's so unique! The jazzy and ambient music of Angelo Badalamenti certainly helps create this mood. And of course the weird Lynch elements, that you either love or hate. Twin Peaks was strongest in its first season, no doubt about that. In the second season, the general audience was "scared" away with the increasing use of weird elements, and alot of the time the questions only lead to more questions, and never answers. Basically, when the audience had gotten the answer to "Who killed Laura Palmer?", the question that had kept them interested, they no longer felt a reason to watch it. Another slightly annoying aspect of the second season, was that the subplots strayed too far away from the mainplot, something which was very frustrating, especially when everyone would rather like the story to go on. Nonetheless, it's still Twin Peaks and it's still great. However, something which I really disappointed me was the way the series ended. The final episode (which was extended) was a masterpiece, and the final scene left me both stunned and horrified (I advise you NOT to read any spoilers concerning this scene, just watch it). However, I feel like the final episode fails to answer alot the questions, especially concerning the subplots, and once again...it just gives out even more questions! Like, what happened to Audrey, Andrew and Pete? And what about Dr. Hayward and Ben Horne (and his connection with Donna)? It's a real shame that Twin Peaks didn't get the time to end properly. On a final note, I recommend that you watch "Twin Peaks: Fire Walk With Me", only after watching the series. Although it's alot more brutal and cynic than the series, it still manages to fill in some of the gaps that the series left.
First of all I want to note the incredible atmosphere in the series. Watching the show, it feels like I'm in this little town. As if I know every good citizen with their own history. This gorgeous music, camerawork, charisma of actors and entourage - makes you plunge, though I am on another continent and in another country (Russia). The series of 90-ies, I think what can surprise and interest for me? BUT I was wrong. David Lynch and the team did the best they could at the time.In the series there is a bit of humor. At first it seems ridiculous and for 2019 strange and perhaps somewhere erroneous repetition of the joke, but this is normal for those years of the release of the show. Sometimes even ridiculous jokes convey and give the opportunity to feel the events. So I think it is not a bad series, but it a necessary part.Good story. Actions occur slowly where it is necessary and when it is necessary very quickly. No boring.P.S. I love agent Cooper. An awesome actor and hero of this series. Charismatic, smart, something attractive to me man. Thanks to him, I began to savor coffee and cook eggs with bacon! + respect Sherilyn Fenn, Lara Flynn Boyle, Michael Ontkean.


                
Pete Martell finds popular homecoming queen Laura Palmer dead, naked, and wrapped in plastic on the shores of a lake near Twin Peaks, Washington. Later, Ronette Pulaski is found dazed walking along the railroad tracks. FBI Special Agent Dale Cooper arrives to help Sheriff Harry S. Truman investigate. The local lumber mill is closing down. Along with strange discoveries and various odd local characters, Laura Palmer is discovered to be leading a shocking double life.This David Lynch series sells itself as a murder mystery but it's much more than that. It hooks you in with the mystery and then he brings a cavalcade of quirky characters and crazy concepts. There is the unforgettable music, no matter how hard one tries to forget it. It is expansive in its story telling. It is one of the first TV shows to be cinematic in nature. It is unabashedly crazy. It was really water-cooler worthy during the pre-internet era. Like most viewers, Lynch's craziness got the better of me by the second season. Nevertheless, I stuck with it all the way to the end. There is no doubt that this was an important development in TV production and there are many limited series today that owe their cinematic style to this show. Although, I don't think any TV show has ever fully reached this level of Lynchian outlandishness.


                
Have not seen Twin Peaks since the original airing so decided to binge watch it. It is definitely better the second time around! Police Squad on diazepam! The scene with the llama, Agent Cooper and Sheriff Truman is priceless! Amazing how 20 years will make something that was considered way out there look old school by today's standards. How many writers, producers, directors, etc... have taken something from David Lynch? Quite a few by my estimation. I had also forgotten how many visual and verbal references to Bend there were in this over-the-top, brilliant, short-lived soap opera. Wonder if they intend to continue this in the new series...maybe even do some filming here?


                
VERY MINOR SPOILERS AHEAD "Twin Peaks" is a very, VERY strange show. Despite inspiring many popular series today, and setting the stage for new and experimental shows, and being one of the first to successfully use serialization, I'd say that there has never truly been anything like it since. And I don't just think it's strange because of the terrifying, surreal moments that David Lynch concocts in season one and much of the first 9 episodes of season 2, but it's also weird because of the many moments in between. Sometimes it was very cheesy and melodramatic, like a soap opera, sometimes it was quirky and sitcom-like, sometimes it was very dark and serious, depressing even, and sometimes it was unbelievably surreal and terrifying. You never really knew what to expect from the show, and the same was true with the town itself. What at first seemed so innocent, so innocent in fact, that a police officer cries every time he sees a dead body, turns out to be far more sinister than we could ever imagine. The same goes with the show itself. The cheesy soap opera and quirky sitcom moments held under them deep, seriously dark secrets. Hell, Bob himself is a personification of this idea. He hides in your next door neighbor, and what may seem like a friendly guy, could have so much evil and suffering beneath him, such as Laura herself. When you watch the news, the people talking about the murderer always say "he seemed like such a nice guy". Twin Peaks expands on that idea. P.S. Okay, yes the show got really, REALLY bad for like 10 episodes after a certain mystery is solved, but the show's dark and surreal finale pretty much redeems all of that.
I bought twin peaks "FIRE WALK WITH ME" earlier this year i couldn't follow it straight off so i went to the video store and began renting the series at my local video store  episode by episode because i knew that the show had something that i just had to see i have grown to ABSOLUTLY LOVE the series...it just has everything anyone could ever want to see..anyone who loves a roller coaster of thrills and chills would just absolutely love TWIN PEAKS ...ITS A MUST SEE MILLION STAR:}


                
This groundbreaking pilot took America but surprise. First airing in 1990 the pilot changed television forever. In fact it made Television Cool. The pilot starts off with a man discovering a body "Wrapped in plastic". When the Sheriff arrives we discover the victim is Laura Palmer. She is the high school Homecoming Queen who had secrets that ultimately may have caused her to be killed. The question is "Who Killed Laura Palmer"?Now David Lynch said later that "Her Death Was Never To Be Solved". However after the ratings freefall ABC made the show solve the mystery. Now the creators of the show saw how this show was marketed. After 14 episodes spanning 2 Television seasons the mystery was solved but the show then went into a tailspin. Regardless of what fans tell you the shows 2nd season was not as good as the first season. Even before the mystery was solved "The Show was at a standstill". However this review is about the pilot and it's a great one. Robbed of Emmy Awards the pilot today has not been matched by any other show that has been made since! This is well worth watching. Even the 2nd season is upto they mystery is solved. IS THIS IS A MUST SEE "YES"


                
This is the best ever made. Although some of the subplots in 2 season is a bit annoying, but that doesn't matter, because David Lynch saves it all with the ending. Kyle MacLachlan is brilliant as agent Dale Cooper. This is the best thing ever made for the TV


                
Twin Peaks is a bona fide classic TV series, steered by the master David Lynch. It's full of pathos, humour, wonder, horror, romance, terror and charm. It's setting is timeless in its quality. It exudes old times, more innocent times, dragged into the present by encroaching horror. It's the kind of place you wouldn't mind living in, save for the demons and dark spirits that tear the place asunder.The cast is fantastic, and the role of characters unique and wonderful. There's Cooper, the by-the-book genius FBI investigator sent to the town to investigate the murder of a young woman. He is immediately a text book hero with his personable demeanour, open mindedness, non-judgemental personality and boyish charm. He and the town sheriff enjoy a bromance, and through them we're introduced to the host of unforgettable characters that inhabit the town.These characters have all sorts of ranges, from the relatable everyday type of folk we all know like Major Briggs, Ed and Norma or Doctor Heyward, likable and harmless eccentrics such as Doc Jacoby, Andy, Lucy and Pete, dark worrisome scoundrels like Leo, Ben Horne and Catherine, crazy as a box of frogs types like The Log Lady, Nadine or Windom Earle. And of course there's the greatest character in a TV show ever, Leland Palmer. Ray Wise is just unbelievable here, giving the performance of a lifetime. The show never really recovered from his exit early in the second season.Mixed in with all these superlative characters are some of the oddest ever committed to popular culture. A giant no less, The Little Man From Another Place and the terrifying and unnerving Bob.Twin Peaks won't be for everyone. It's like Lynch decided to throw everything from American culture he could get his hands on, toss it in a blender and film the results. One minute it's like watching a southern soap opera and the next it's like being thrown into a surreal nightmare that leaves you breathless and bewildered. But if you're captivated by Twin Peaks it will stay with you forever, it is totally unique even to this day and nothing out there is remotely like it. Sadly it dips in quality after its big reveal early in season 2, but there's still enough to keep you entertained until the second season wraps up, and the final episode is just utterly remarkable, one of the greatest episodes of a TV show in history.It's returning for a third season in 2017, and I can't wait to see all these characters again, it will be like meeting old friends.
