OK last night I thought I would catch up on my Science Fiction TV viewing, and I watched a double bill of Utopia on Channel 4.So Utopia is a Science Fiction TV series that speculates that the world is over-populated, food production is failing, so 'The Government' or 'The Powers that Be' decide to sterilize the entire population. And they set about doing this by faking a Russian Flu epidemic and then placing the sterilization drug into the flu jab... etc etcThis is Science Fiction by people who think they are too cool for Science Fiction, and in my opinion are have not taken the time to really understand Science Fiction.You know that the team behind Utopia think themselves are too cool for Science Fiction when they cast one of the hero's Ian, Nathan Stewart- Jarrett as an IT professional who not only hates his job, but thinks computers are boring. This is the TV equivalent of kicking sand into the face of your friend. Fact: most Science Fictions fans make their lives and livings from computers, very few of them think computers are boring. You know the team, behind this series do not really understand Science Fiction because while there are snippets of information on this world wide food and over population problem, there is no effort to really explain this in any detail. It was like the story tellers were just too bored to try and flesh out what was the Science behind this Fiction. What Utopia is, is a Tarantino inspired violence fest. I would not even mind that except that the murderer Arby played by Neil Maskell does not seem to be affected by the killings he perpetrated. He is neither angry, nor sad, not even curious. OK I am sure some people will come up with a clever explanation for a killer suppressing his feelings etc. Actually what I watched on TV last night was some truly gruesome gratuitous violence, very little of which was explained, and no-body seemed to either care about or be punished for.Despite its name Utopia, and its Science Fiction billing, this is not Science Fiction. Its not even very entertaining. I was watching on watch-again so about forty minutes in I started to fast forward, to see if anything changed. It didn't. It was sixty minutes of my life I will never get back. But that's just my opinion.
