I got interested in 'Utopia' when I read that David Fincher was going to direct an American version of this British show for HBO. While it certainly will be interesting to see what Fincher will come up with, I'm having a hard time imagining he could improve upon the original: it's absolutely perfect. The visual style of the show, the amazing, crazy soundtrack (which fits the crazy conspiracy story so well), the fantastic characters and the wonderful cast and the pitch-black humour – I could go on and on. It all comes together to create one of the most unique and most original TV shows I've seen in a long time. The only thing I know that would be kind of comparable among the current shows is the equally fantastic 'Orphan Black' – but 'Utopia' is even crazier (and a LOT more violent), has much weirder characters and makes for a more cinematic experience due to its stylish, Technicolor drenched photography. The only downside to this show is that the finale of the second season sets the stage for a third season, which, sadly, won't happen (for reasons I do not comprehend, the show got cancelled). But nearly all the loose ends are tied up, and the two existing seasons of 'Utopia' make for a fantastic watch. Highly recommended: 9 stars out of 10.Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/


                
Utopia was certainly something I wasn't expecting to see coming from TV anywhere, and sadly the series is already finished. Just two seasons, but yet when it's all over, everything feels complete so you won't be somehow left out when the final episode ends. Still, it leaves one thinking, salivating. Take a splash of Donnie Darko, a pinch of Contagion, a dash of Trainspotting and you've almost scratched the surface of Utopia. The music is bold and the cinematography slow, meandering, beautiful and yet shocking at times. This is not for the kids by any means. The story is convincing almost to a fault. Thorough, meticulous character development that draws one into the story so fast its hard to have time to register disbelief. I'm a critical person, but the use of historical events, and references spattered throughout was completely believable, plausible and leaves almost wondering if this was somehow planted by an agent of MI5 on the run. It was shot just like the story reads. Slow, bold and brilliant ... then suddenly, Bam it's right in your face, screaming, shocking so fast you don't have time to hide your eyes, or realize what just happened. It leaves you wondering, hoping from one moment to the next, from one episode to the next. Every character has their own motivation, their own issues and their own demons to overcome. It takes a very familiar world-ending scenario and relates it seamlessly down to a small family of people. The action will leave you cold. The Silence of the Lambs cold. Put that all together with an amazing performance by a strong female lead and I really wanted to give this a 10 out of 10. You don't have to be a conspiracy nut, or a sellout you just need to watch this alone, or with your SO at night, in the dark. You don't have to talk about it, or dwell on the societal issues it presents to enjoy Utopia, but you might need a strong stomach and a desire to be blown away by something really pretty amazing. In ten years, this will still be as fresh as the day it aired ... I will probably be reminded of Utopia every time I eat raisins, or collect a unique rock I find, and yes, it will put a nice associated smile on my face every time.


                
Be surprised. This seem to sneak in, it was not heavily advertised and it was only by accident I flicked it on. It gripped me and had me counting the days for the next ep. There was surprise after surprise and at no time was I ever sure what was going to happen next and then the end twist within twists I was gobsmacked.The series hits so many other buttons, the performances are great, the weird colour scheme, the sound track and the comic book styled characters which all add together into the most original piece of tele I have seen in years. Although I see that this is series 1 I would be satisfied if they left it stand alone. But with Black Mirror and this it is good to see C4 is back in the fringes.


                
Wow? Where did this come from? Talk about "a hot kiss at the end of a wet fist" kinda show. Utopia hits you smack in the eyes but you can't stop watching. You'll find yourself saying "oh no they won't do that" a lot and {BAMM} they keep doing it anyway. You won't believe how they get you to laugh at things you wouldn't while watching normal TV shows. Most of the gore is less graphic and more left to your imagination kinda stuff. They know what's left to one's imagination is scariest of all. Whomever did the castings didn't miss a beat and the settings are as hypnotic as the dialog. There are quite a few times when you find your butt cheeks biting your seat but most times they're grasping air 'cuz your sitting on the edge of it. (Let's see if there are any clichés I missed? Nope, I think I made my point) Now for the "Think X meets Y part" Think Soap meets Dark Shadows Twin Peaks meets Bob Newhart, Six Feet Under .....Scooby Doo, Lost.....Road Warrior, Shameless (US)......Rubicon (what ever happened to that show?) Now if this all sounds reasonable to you but you didn't quite understand what I said...That's why this is my new favorite show. It hurts so good.


                
What to say about this show? I read some good reviews without spoilers and so I was looking forward to find it out for myself if it was that good. And yes it certainly was. It's actually one of my favorite British series. The story is one of the better stories I watched in a long time. It's futuristic but inevitable if you think about it. I won't say anything about it because I don't like spoilers. Just find out for yourself. There is a reasonable amount of gory parts but it's never really graphic. It's more that you have to imagine about it. The actors are all really good, especially the killer in his flamboyant suit. It also contains my favorite scene ever shown on TV, that's how much I loved it. It's the opening scene in the last episode of the last season. It's just brilliant, can't get enough of that scene. What I also like about British series is that they are short, only a couple seasons. That's how it's supposed to be, you tell a good story and then you end it. Not like some American series where they try to milk the story as much as possible, and so ruin a perfect little story sometimes.


                
I agree in most points with other reviews but I just had to add that show's visuals are simply stunning. Like in best documentaries where every frame is a beautiful photo on itself. So many different views, vantage points, colors and contrasts. I was totally surprised and delighted by it. I was also delighted to have a conclusion in only six episodes - nowadays we are almost expecting a show to drag it's heels through at least 10 episodes with many distractions of 'drama' and 'character development'. In fact, it was almost too short. I was enjoying visuals so much that end did come little to soon. I really hope there will be another season. Cast is perfect - I wouldn't change anything at all. I have to say that every time I discover another British series I'm reminded how dull and cliché-like is most of the American production.


                
Utopia will ravage your senses. The visuals are stunning, with camera work that bleeds from every scene with dynamics reminiscent of a graphic novel. The soundtrack is less a soundtrack, and more of a medium for an aural injection of dopamine and adrenaline. Combining the two in lustfully artistic confluence, Utopia induces a sensory overload that deceptively functions as an aesthetic sleight of hand to the real act; Utopia's plot.Narrative tropes aside, the story line encapsulates contemporary paranoia in a microcosmic collage of espionage and epidemics, resonating tremors of real world concerns. As a snapshot of current society, Utopia dexterously mitigates the mediagenic compulsion to sensationalize, by employing a sublime cast and writing crew. From apathy and sociopathic detachment, to metaphysical dread and even humor, the show is a vivid mosaic of psychological dissonance and societal decay. Utopia is tailor-made for the cynical. Strangely enough, as a misanthropic cynic, I found myself entertaining delusionary hope for the human race. By the end, I had painted myself into a corner of morbid optimism, which is an absolute testament to strength of Utopia's narrative. The lack of a third season is veritably tragic, but follows in the pattern of sublime shows that meet an untimely demise. (Carnivale anyone ?)The introspect induced by Utopia is shattering. The implications suggested by Utopia are devastating. The future painted by Utopia is bleak.Utopia will ravage your being.Right until the next day. And then you'll go on with your life and perpetuate our predicament with continued ignorance; because hey, it's just entertainment right ?


                
Utopia's bleak tone is sharp, unrepenting and well crafted, a real nugget for a Channel 4 mini-series. It has a unique visual style with slightly over saturated colours and Kubrick-esq dead-on middle of the frame one-point perspective shots, all which add to its unsettling nature.The plot unpeels throughout the six episodes, in true 'Lost' style more and more is revealed each time building on what has gone before. The story revolves around a graphic novel, some dodgy Russians, a secret organisation, some flu outbreak and a mad scientist to boot.The casting is superb, each character has depth, backstory and usually some hidden agenda to keep you guessing. Arby (Neil Maskell) is brilliant, despite the role he plays there is something darkly comical and somewhat sad about him, he treads that fine line and just makes it work.This is quite simply one of the best things I've watched in a long time, probably since the end of Lost season 5, oh and maybe Sherlock.


                
I've always been a fan of Channel 4 drama - in particular dark drama, which is something that they specialise in. Another thing I'm a fan of is futuristic films. Utopia (un-?)lovingly blends the two in a horrific, traumatic, almost post-apocalyptic vision of our own world where Big Brother is everywhere (no - not the reality show!) and we are all slaves to the bigger machinery of political, and industrial Machiavellianism that form most of our modern day conspiracy theories. It's one of those series that lodges in a dark corner of your mind, and sort of sits there - gnawing away. You may find yourself trying to answer the questions it raises. This is the sign of a truly good drama - one that causes you to think about it even once the episode has finished. Utopia does just that. Except for Charlie Brooker's Black Mirror, I cannot think of another truly memorable TV series like this. If you haven't seen it, watch it now! Now!


                
First of, I made an account at IMDb solely so that I could submit this review.Utopia is exceptional. It is a masterpiece. It gets 10\10 from me.I won't explain what Utopia is about because I don't want to give any possible hint of what is to come, so I'll describe it by comparing it to other things.Buy the DVD or download the show and your life will get.... stranger. Its rather unsettling how Utopia gets under your skin.There are a few television shows that share some similarity to Utopia.For example, if you enjoyed Fringe, the X-Files, then you'll be quite at home with Utopia's paranoid wanderings.So then you cross the weirdness of Fringe and the paranoia of the X-Files with the violence of Kill Bill and the action\suspense of the Jason Bourne series.Now cross that already bizarre hybrid with a series of scientific TED Talks given by Joesph Mengale, yes, the Nazi who chopped countless pairs of twins to pieces for the greater good.I'm not sure which is more bizarre. That description or that incredibly, it works.However Utopia is much, much darker than any of those. It is the darkest TV series I have ever seen. It also as others have said, feels very real.A note of warning. When I said Utopia was dark, I was not joking. If you suffer from excessive anxiety or you're squeamish, then do not watch Utopia. Because this TV show is nothing like you've ever seen before, it will affect you. You will be thinking about the themes in it long after you've watched it.The violence in Utopia isn't actually that strong at all, most of it occurs off the screen. But the intense atmosphere of paranoia which accompanies it makes it brutally real.On the other hand since the governments of the world have apparently taken a leaf out of Utopia's manuscript lately with regard to surveillance, Utopia could well seem prophetic in a few years time. This really is a TV series for 21st century of flying killer robots and universal surveillance.The Sopranos changed the way I thought about television. I thought television was for lightweights until I watched The Sopranos. It was like thinking books were mostly about erotica and then coming across Shakespeare and entering a world full of subtle complexities on a bunch of levels.Utopia is nothing like The Sopranos. But the way it'll change how you view television is very similar.Just one last thing. There is an American show called "Person of Interest" or something like that which has similar themes. Watch this instead.In a word: this is intense.


                
UTOPIA. Thrilling. Suspenseful. Unsettling. Tense.Probably the best show ever made (and I've watched lots of great tv shows such as Sopranos, Breaking Bad, The Wire etc.) Not only is it stunning visually, but thought provoking too. It's extremely dark, violent, but has some comedic moments as well. The sountrack is so weird yet amazing and fits perfectly with the show. It's been over a year since I've watched Utopia but there's not a day that goes by when I don't think about it. It hurts me knowing that people have not experienced this masterpiece. The show lasted only 2 seasons after being cancelled and although it ended on a cliffhanger, most of the show's story and character arcs were wrapped up which is fine. With only 6 episodes in each season, there's no filler and the plot always keeps moving forward.If I could recommend one show, it would be UTOPIA.


                
Until now, for me the BBC's The Edge of Darkness (1985) and State of Play (2003) were by far the best in the genre. This Channel 4 drama series easily sits alongside them.Leaving aside the excellent writing, direction and acting, the series' visuals are simply stunning. Every shot seemed to be crafted with precision and a beautiful, minimalist sensibility. The strong colours give a heightened sense of unreality - almost like a graphic novel.It grips from first few (very gory minutes) and does not let up. It tricks you into thinking one thing is going to happen and then something different does.Do not hesitate to watch it.


                
The best part of this series is the beautiful visuals, every scene is a work of art. The location, framing, contrast, and saturation, all perfect. I can't remember if I've ever seen anything on par with Utopia in respect to visuals.The score is unusually quirky and somehow fits the series perfectly.The plot is believable and draws you in. I found my mind racing after each episode desiring answers to questions left unanswered.I will be purposefully vague with this comment as to not create any spoilers but if you watch season one you'll understand what I'm talking about. I'm glad they stood by their product and didn't water it down even after the tragic events that happened in the US a month earlier. The scene was appropriate and necessary to the plot and I don't see another way it could have been done. Props to them for standing their ground, something that wouldn't have been done in the US.Here's to several more seasons."Where is Jessica Hyde?"


                
I'm so glad I got to catch this cracker of a series. It surrounds the hunt for a cult manuscript called, "Utopia," which depicts events both past and future, and alludes to a Machiavellian plot with Worldwide implications. A group of 'comic book nerds,' get thrust together by events surrounding various people searching for Utopia. The 'baddies,' are a group called The Network, which has high links to the government and which is commanded by the shadowy if somewhat misnomered, "Mr. Rabbit."The 'plot' is revealed in episode 5 and it is as shocking as it is thought provoking. You will find yourself having debates as to its merits with friends and family. I'll say no more about it, but it is brilliant!The tone of the series is bleak and there is a constant feeling of menace, isolation and paranoia. It is almost uncomfortable to watch but for the way the plot is revealed in a steady flow. The characters are wonderfully portrayed and utterly believable. In fact, it is a credit to Neil Maskell's portrayal of 'Arby,' that you actually start to sympathise with him because he does some of the worst things you will ever see on screen.Very quickly you are trying to figure out who to trust. Everyone seems to have an angle or agenda and you are kept guessing until the end.Check out the accompanying website for the series, but not if you have paranoid tendencies. It's frightening.You need Utopia in your life.
As an American who prides himself on watching the very highest quality television programs both domestically and from abroad, "Utopia" has quickly found a well deserved position on my current list of top ten television shows, alongside "Breaking Bad", "Game of Thrones", "Doctor Who", "Sherlock", "The Walking Dead", "Sons of Anarchy", "Misfits", "The Killing" and "Mad Men").SPOILERS-SPOILERS-SPOILERS-SPOILERS------SERIOUS SPOILERS BELOW!!!!! PLEASE DO NOT CONTINUE READING IF YOU HAVEN'T ALREADY SEEN THE ENTIRE FIRST SERIES OF "UTOPIA"While the acting, writing, directing, cinematography, editing and scoring are all excellent, I find myself drawn to the darker aspects of the series. Neil Maskell is, simply put, an astonishing actor, demonstrated in his profoundly moving ability to make "Arby" into a sympathetic character. I would personally love it if the show would be daring enough to portray Arby as one of the (anti?)heroes in series 2. After all, If what we've seen thus far is to be believed, then Arby is learning, developing a conscience, and still an exceedingly formidable opponent to anyone in his way. I, for one, would think that he wouldn't take kindly to the news that his sister has been abducted. I would love to see the team have to work alongside Arby, against a newer, adapting version of the Network (of course Wilson is with them now). This brings me to the second extremely dark aspect of the show... why would Wilson be working for the Network? What about his father? or even his eye? Ummm, maybe because they're right. I think their methods are deplorable and even horrific, but I'm sorry... that, in and of itself, does not necessarily mean that their long-term agenda is wrong. Do the ends justify the means? Sorry, I'm a pragmatist so yes, sometimes the ends do justify the means. While "Utopia" may be a fiction, the truth is ...global over-population, fuel and/or energy depletion and our collective inherent inability or unwillingness to meet the needs of the starving in a truly lasting and meaningful manner are all issues that will eventually have to be dealt with ...one way or another. The final aspect of darkness that impressed me with this show is the fact that they were brave enough to do "that scene". I hate to admit this as an American, but it is true that an American television show would most likely have cut the scene out entirely, particularly after the tragedy at Sandyhook. I commend "Utopia" for being brave enough to stand by the integrity of the story. I say this not because I enjoy violence, but because it was the major turning point/catalyst in Arby's pathway back toward humanity. I say this also because it was the single most courageous, powerful and profound moment in all of series 1 ...and I say this because looking at that scared little child hiding his eyes, well ...let's just say that Arby wasn't the only one brushing away a tear.Thank you Utopia for making me happy, sad, curious, angry, astonished and more ...but most of all, thank you for making me think. That happens so rarely with television programs these days.PS - BRING BACK "THE FADES" FOR SERIES 2 AND 3
I've only watched 2 out of 6 episodes so far, but I'm compelled to write a glowing review about this series. Never has the pilot of any series drawn me in as quickly and as deeply as Utopia's has. The transitional style from scene to scene is quite unlike any of those you're used to seeing in mainstream dramas -- oftentimes they are a little abrupt and even a little disjointed, but it works, and given how dark the story is, it is all done by design. Also, the choice of soundtracks may seem a little oddball but it is honestly BRILLIANT.I love how the plot and the script progresses at a slow enough pace that doesn't completely fob off viewers. I've watched one too many thrillers that drag out the mystery and suspense for way too long, eventually resulting in an uninterested and frustrated audience. It's amazing how the plot reveals bits of vital information that help you connect the dots and make you go, "Oh, so that's what it is!" Then, a few seconds later, you realize that you still don't see the big picture... and you are intrigued!A fair warning to those who are too easily unsettled and squeamish: violence and brutality are some of the key themes in this series, but if you ask me, squirming through all those scenes are completely worth it. This series isn't like anything you've seen before, so describing its details without giving too much away is quite difficult. All I can say is that if you enjoy the really dark stuff and are looking to be shocked, this is the show for you, but hey, don't take my word for it, watch it and find out for yourself.WARNING: It's dangerously addictive and you WILL get sucked into the intrigue.


                
Some decent TV for a change.....and it would have to come from Channel 4. It has been some time since I saw TV as gripping as this. Forget Game of Thrones, World Without End, Call the Midwife, Dancing on the Edge, Downton, endless reality tosh, and sensationalist soap.They are kids stuff for an ever increasing infantile audience. This is Telly for adults. Drama concerned with the present and future rather than finding impotent refuge in the past. Surreal, beautiful, intriguing, scary and above all, relevant. Do yourself a favour and watch this when it is repeated. It shows most TV up for what it is: Childish, meaningless candy floss.


                
This show continues the great chain of channel 4 dramas for the last decade, whom we rely on as the biggest source for quality British television. Utopia starts off brilliantly with a fast paced storyline that hooks you from the opening scene. The action is some of the most exciting on British television in recent years, the show becomes a tad slower in the middle of the series but builds character development which really helps to create a bigger impact when the plot comes full circle. This government conspiracy thriller is a must watch and it has a superb ending. The ending also leaves hope for another season which this show truly deserves.


                
Talk about SMASHING you in the face with an anvil, RIGHT from the get go! What a TV series, how absolutely brilliant is the script and the characters are just cast so well.It feels as though you are watching a real life documentary that is a heaving train wreck of destruction, destruction of lives, society, power...amazing, an iron fist in a velvet glove if you will! How the writers have so carefully shown us how easy it is to have your life unravel before your eyes and the pain, suffering, anguish and sheer stubbornness for the lead characters to try and hold on the main stream life is a palpable.Just do yourself a favour and watch this! I hope there is a season 2!
What a great new show! I was drawn to this new series after seeing a bright yellow banner image for the show with the word's 'Utopia'. I was interested already and the 8.8/10 rating here re-affirmed my decision to give it a go.The show is very...satisfying. From a visual standpoint the show is awesomely unique. For starters each episode is shot with an aspect ratio of 2.35:1, wider than 1080p (16:9) resolution. This gives the show a larger than life feel because you see more of the backdrop and it takes less focus off the characters as individuals since the shot is wider and more of the cast is shown than otherwise would be on narrower view (like 16:9). Each scene has a lot of vivid colours as well, and the show itself is high in contrast. The clothing/accessories of each character helps to support this theme by wearing items that are in pastel/neon/bright colours.The plot of the show is matches the video quality in that there is a good mix of drama, violence, action, and character building. I would describe the first season as a mix of several movies: Donnie Darko, Hackers, The Matrix, No Country For Old MenWithout giving away any spoilers each of the main characters are fairly likable and have a good dynamic with one another. The show does not shy away from violence and they do it in bold, somewhat twisted ways. It's refreshing to have come across a show like this one, where each episode feels more like a mini movie rather than a regular TV episode. Give it a watch! See for yourself.


                
IMDb recommended this to me after I watched Black Mirror (which you should probably watch too if you haven't already), and I was not disappointed. I ended up watching both seasons in two days, and regretted nothing. In short:+ Soundtrack (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I742k9jmgq0)+ Cinematography (some of the best I've seen ever)+ Acting (Pretty good overall)+ Writing (Incredible standard, loads of twists and turns without making the plot overly complex)Some people may find it a bit graphic (expect a lot of blood and swearing. If that ain't your thing, you're probably not going to like this very much (which is a shame)).Utopia is available for free/legal streaming on 4oD (possibly UK only, not sure) Also, I hear its being remade in the US after season 3 got cancelled (so please don't screw it up).
OK, let's everyone agree that it is the 21st century and the standards by which TV used to be judged don't really apply any more. OK, agreed. Now to learn how to appreciate so-called Hi Impact Programming we are going to compare and contrast this controversial series (which almost started a riot in England) with the American TV series named, appropriately, American Horror Story. Both are serials, that is they start a story and continue it. Both eschew conventional morality for a strange kind of anything-goes scripting, in which the audience never knows what is coming around the corner. And both are well cast, with the actors doing the best they can with what they have. But there the similarity ends. AHS, which is an object of reverence in the US and has won many awards, is dark, dirty, unrelenting, and, some might say, just plain mean. In AHS, the trick of surprising the audience is constantly used to depress the viewer and debase the characters. In Utopia, you see a different direction entirely. While both shows deal with evil, UTOPIA presents the story in bright bold colours, characters who never shy from expressing their humanity, and offers a narrative which suggests that tomorrow may indeed be a brighter day. None of this exists in AHS, awards and accolades notwithstanding, and while both offer a degree of gratuitous violence, AHS constantly congratulates itself for so doing, while UTOPIA never loses sight of the fact there may be a rainbow at the end of the storm. UTOPIA is, and was, one of the most engaging series ever produced. It is, and was, brilliant. American Horror Story is like watching the same traffic accident over and over until ultimately you realize that -- the real horror -- you LIKE watching traffic accidents.


                
I find myself writing this review 2 years after I watched Utopia, in part to relive this magical piece of television, but also to confirm its presence on screen. After 30 minutes, the viewer is thrown head first in to frightful frenzy of events that are rooted right from the very top of our society. One of the many wonders of Utopia is that it keeps its fast pace but at the same time is patient in everything but story line; creating this real but fake environment, both utopian and and dystopian in equal measure. The array of colours, the oddity of the characters and the squeamish, hostile yet fantastic soundtrack only add to the eeriness of both seasons. This is something I would wholly recommend and one that doesn't require reviewing first - I stumbled upon this on 4oD and couldn't stop. The only shame is that Series 3 didn't go ahead...


                
This engaging, provocative, ultra violent, black comedy is billed as sci-fi mystery drama. It's certainly all three. It is also a grand satire of the comic book/graphic novel.Regular comic books I recall were action-packed, over-the-top plots, with almost indestructible heroes, the worst kind of bad guys and seemingly insurmountable odds for the heroes to overcome. This Utopia follows that schema to a capital T, which rhymes with P which stands for ... Paranoia, that sociopolitical cancer now pervading many, if not most nation states on our planet. Creator Kelly and his coven of writers obviously had a merry time concocting and putting together this mysterious Utopia. The series begins with a nod to Hitchcock's MacGuffin and our heroes on a quest: find the unique graphic novel which hides information about an insidious, apocalyptic government conspiracy. Unhappily for the heroes, the worst kind of bad guys are already wreaking murderous havoc across the city/country in their attempt to find that graphic novel first and are killing anybody - even innocent children - who stands in their way. (Note: don't try to keep a tally of the body count - way too many.) For the heroes we have icily frantic Jessica Hyde (O'Shaughnessy), bawdy Becky (Roach), IT analyst Ian (Stewart-Jarrat), ultra-paranoid Wilson squared (Akhtar) and young, grunge-mouthed Grant (Woollford). For the killers, maybe we initially blanch at the sociopathic excess of agro Arby (Maskell) and his sidekick, laid-back Lee (Ready); but, as the bodies pile up, we realize nothing succeeds like excess in this story. Overshadowing the efforts of both groups - Heroes and Killers - are the puppet masters, those maniacal mandarins in secret places who coolly dispatch orders to kill millions as easily as they order hors d'oeuvres or post a parcel. And with the same indolent indifference. Chief among them are Letts (Rhea) and his Assistant (Fox). Lurking in an even more secret place is mad Milner (James) - killer controller extraordinaire. Fumbling and bumbling around, among this mayhem, is Dugdale (Higgins), a very civil servant who often gives a good impression of Manuel of Fawlty Towers (1975) fame. Finally, like a god, the identity of nebulous Mr Rabbit - the Ultimate Uber Meister - remains a constant fear for all concerned.To support the satirical slant, the acting is superbly performed and managed to convey just the right amount of drama, comedy, anger, terror, scientific gobbledygook, horror etc to still make the narrative appear all so possible and plausible. After all, with current and projected technology developments this century, who knows what might happen in twenty or thirty years?Photographed in Cinemascope (aka Anamorphic 2.35:1) - goodness knows why - color saturated to almost make your eyes water - but it looks glorious - and driven by a sound track which is catchy, innovative, and frenetic; but also utterly in step with this episodic, up/downbeat, quasi-comedic and sometimes terrifying narrative which, once you begin: Just. Won't. Let. You. Go.Provided, of course, you like satire. If you don't, then you won't be persuaded at all by the entire premise and what naturally and logically follows. Too bad - because the core message of this series, at the end, is highly personal and pertinent; and is, in fact, already in place at various scientific agencies in different countries. But you get that ironic revelation only in the last few seconds of Series 2....Thoroughly recommended for all adults, young and old. Unequivocally deserves nine out of ten. June 8, 2016.


                
Let me just say this right from the start; Utopia is a masterpiece! Not only is this one of the most intense and twisted shows I've ever seen, it's also absolutely beautiful! The cinematography alone left me in awe and don't even get me started on the soundtrack! This is not your typical TV show. In fact it's a whole lot more than just a TV show. It's an artwork that is being unfolded in front of your very eyes. The cast and their on screen dynamic is especially what makes this series so incredibly good. You have a lovely mismatch of so many different and perhaps a little odd but great characters, that just fit perfectly together. There's also plenty of humour, swearing and loads of "what the hell did I just watch?" moments, that just makes this even more enjoyable. This show is dark. Really dark in fact, and the amount of WTF moments and plot twists are enough to keep you on the edge of your seat throughout the entire series.There's only one major problem with this show: It got cancelled! After just 2 seasons, Channel 4 unfortunately had to pull the plug on this gem of a series, which is such a shame, and while it might remain one of the most underrated TV shows in newer time, you will certainly never find a show quite like this again. So, once and for all; do yourself a favour, and watch this masterpiece!


                
