I finished this series in 2 days and it was brilliant! All the characters are very likable and I especially liked Neil Maskell as this damaged antisocial man who only knows how to kill, he was actually hilarious at times and by the end of the series you grow to love his character even after the atrocities he commits during this series (some of the stuff he does is really bad). Nathan Stewart- Jarrett was also brilliant and I had previously seen him in Misfits (which I also loved). A lot of people I talked too always said he was the weakest character in Misfits but in Utopia he gives a GREAT performance with many emotional scenes that were handled spectacularly. One more actor I would like to mention is Fiona O'Shaughnessy who I personally thought was extremely attractive and a great character in the series playing this psycho girl who is a killing machine. Everyone else was great too but these were my top 3 of the series. The story in Utopia is completely original and I had never seen anything like it, pair that with the bright colors used in the cinematography (the colors obviously being symbolism for "Utopia" as the show is called and is essentially about) and these differences make this show very very unique. The violence in the show is pretty graphic at times (the torture scene in the very first episode was brutal) however there are a couple of death scenes that looked very bad. All of the blood and gun fire special affects have been digitally added and barely any prosthetic effects/blood is used. There are a few scenes where it's so obvious that the blood is digitalised and it really killed the vibe for these scenes taking the intensity away. A notable scene is where Wilson is holding someone at gunpoint in a church and a gun is fired at this person from behind and after doing a frame by frame analysis, no bullet seems to hit the head and a gaping wound seemingly comes out of nowhere, it's hard to explain but when you see this scene you will understand. Not all of the blood and gore is like this and some of it was awesome, however some of it looks really cheap and fake. I would blame the budget these guys had to make the show for the reason to why it was this way but still, I much prefer the prosthetic blood rather than digitally added. Overall this is a great series, I think it has a wide audience of people to enjoy it (however some people may find certain scenes offensive). I give this an 8 out of 10 due to the dodgy special effects in scenes and just overall not really living up to a 9 rating. However this show is definitely "A" grade material and the story and characters are enough to look past some minor flaws. Check it out!
This show is a real treat for the dark suspense lover. The tone is something quiet, eerie, and malicious, which is contrasted by the bright and vivid colors and somewhat surreal cinematography, which is both bold and deep, dark and vibrant. Its a universe filled with sociopaths, secrets, and well, everything is a bit twisted. I don't want to give anything away, but the premise of the show is some fans of a graphic novel meet on a website that draws them together for the first time in a bar, where they are expecting to get a sneak peek of the sequel, when they are sucked into a conspiracy surrounding the writer of the manuscript that endangers their lives and relentlessly pursues them. There's something really Ludlum-esque about it, as well adding some eerie subtle sci fi aspects that make it seem like at some point you might see gas masks and hallucinogens or some trippy mind bending sort of biochemical warfare. It captures a bit of the nuclear scare era aspects of horror films, bringing it into a modern setting with epigenetics and viral warfare. Fair warned, the seasons are very short, but it allows for a lot of fast paced movement and it lacks mindless filler which is nice. And the acting is unsettling, especially from pietre, or "arby", who really sells the role very well with his wide eyed gaze and heavy restrained breathing. He's a very special kind of crazy.


                
