I got interested in 'Utopia' when I read that David Fincher was going to direct an American version of this British show for HBO. While it certainly will be interesting to see what Fincher will come up with, I'm having a hard time imagining he could improve upon the original: it's absolutely perfect. The visual style of the show, the amazing, crazy soundtrack (which fits the crazy conspiracy story so well), the fantastic characters and the wonderful cast and the pitch-black humour – I could go on and on. It all comes together to create one of the most unique and most original TV shows I've seen in a long time. The only thing I know that would be kind of comparable among the current shows is the equally fantastic 'Orphan Black' – but 'Utopia' is even crazier (and a LOT more violent), has much weirder characters and makes for a more cinematic experience due to its stylish, Technicolor drenched photography. The only downside to this show is that the finale of the second season sets the stage for a third season, which, sadly, won't happen (for reasons I do not comprehend, the show got cancelled). But nearly all the loose ends are tied up, and the two existing seasons of 'Utopia' make for a fantastic watch. Highly recommended: 9 stars out of 10.Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/


                
Utopia was certainly something I wasn't expecting to see coming from TV anywhere, and sadly the series is already finished. Just two seasons, but yet when it's all over, everything feels complete so you won't be somehow left out when the final episode ends. Still, it leaves one thinking, salivating. Take a splash of Donnie Darko, a pinch of Contagion, a dash of Trainspotting and you've almost scratched the surface of Utopia. The music is bold and the cinematography slow, meandering, beautiful and yet shocking at times. This is not for the kids by any means. The story is convincing almost to a fault. Thorough, meticulous character development that draws one into the story so fast its hard to have time to register disbelief. I'm a critical person, but the use of historical events, and references spattered throughout was completely believable, plausible and leaves almost wondering if this was somehow planted by an agent of MI5 on the run. It was shot just like the story reads. Slow, bold and brilliant ... then suddenly, Bam it's right in your face, screaming, shocking so fast you don't have time to hide your eyes, or realize what just happened. It leaves you wondering, hoping from one moment to the next, from one episode to the next. Every character has their own motivation, their own issues and their own demons to overcome. It takes a very familiar world-ending scenario and relates it seamlessly down to a small family of people. The action will leave you cold. The Silence of the Lambs cold. Put that all together with an amazing performance by a strong female lead and I really wanted to give this a 10 out of 10. You don't have to be a conspiracy nut, or a sellout you just need to watch this alone, or with your SO at night, in the dark. You don't have to talk about it, or dwell on the societal issues it presents to enjoy Utopia, but you might need a strong stomach and a desire to be blown away by something really pretty amazing. In ten years, this will still be as fresh as the day it aired ... I will probably be reminded of Utopia every time I eat raisins, or collect a unique rock I find, and yes, it will put a nice associated smile on my face every time.


                
What to say about this show? I read some good reviews without spoilers and so I was looking forward to find it out for myself if it was that good. And yes it certainly was. It's actually one of my favorite British series. The story is one of the better stories I watched in a long time. It's futuristic but inevitable if you think about it. I won't say anything about it because I don't like spoilers. Just find out for yourself. There is a reasonable amount of gory parts but it's never really graphic. It's more that you have to imagine about it. The actors are all really good, especially the killer in his flamboyant suit. It also contains my favorite scene ever shown on TV, that's how much I loved it. It's the opening scene in the last episode of the last season. It's just brilliant, can't get enough of that scene. What I also like about British series is that they are short, only a couple seasons. That's how it's supposed to be, you tell a good story and then you end it. Not like some American series where they try to milk the story as much as possible, and so ruin a perfect little story sometimes.


                
Utopia will ravage your senses. The visuals are stunning, with camera work that bleeds from every scene with dynamics reminiscent of a graphic novel. The soundtrack is less a soundtrack, and more of a medium for an aural injection of dopamine and adrenaline. Combining the two in lustfully artistic confluence, Utopia induces a sensory overload that deceptively functions as an aesthetic sleight of hand to the real act; Utopia's plot.Narrative tropes aside, the story line encapsulates contemporary paranoia in a microcosmic collage of espionage and epidemics, resonating tremors of real world concerns. As a snapshot of current society, Utopia dexterously mitigates the mediagenic compulsion to sensationalize, by employing a sublime cast and writing crew. From apathy and sociopathic detachment, to metaphysical dread and even humor, the show is a vivid mosaic of psychological dissonance and societal decay. Utopia is tailor-made for the cynical. Strangely enough, as a misanthropic cynic, I found myself entertaining delusionary hope for the human race. By the end, I had painted myself into a corner of morbid optimism, which is an absolute testament to strength of Utopia's narrative. The lack of a third season is veritably tragic, but follows in the pattern of sublime shows that meet an untimely demise. (Carnivale anyone ?)The introspect induced by Utopia is shattering. The implications suggested by Utopia are devastating. The future painted by Utopia is bleak.Utopia will ravage your being.Right until the next day. And then you'll go on with your life and perpetuate our predicament with continued ignorance; because hey, it's just entertainment right ?


                
Some decent TV for a change.....and it would have to come from Channel 4. It has been some time since I saw TV as gripping as this. Forget Game of Thrones, World Without End, Call the Midwife, Dancing on the Edge, Downton, endless reality tosh, and sensationalist soap.They are kids stuff for an ever increasing infantile audience. This is Telly for adults. Drama concerned with the present and future rather than finding impotent refuge in the past. Surreal, beautiful, intriguing, scary and above all, relevant. Do yourself a favour and watch this when it is repeated. It shows most TV up for what it is: Childish, meaningless candy floss.


                
I find myself writing this review 2 years after I watched Utopia, in part to relive this magical piece of television, but also to confirm its presence on screen. After 30 minutes, the viewer is thrown head first in to frightful frenzy of events that are rooted right from the very top of our society. One of the many wonders of Utopia is that it keeps its fast pace but at the same time is patient in everything but story line; creating this real but fake environment, both utopian and and dystopian in equal measure. The array of colours, the oddity of the characters and the squeamish, hostile yet fantastic soundtrack only add to the eeriness of both seasons. This is something I would wholly recommend and one that doesn't require reviewing first - I stumbled upon this on 4oD and couldn't stop. The only shame is that Series 3 didn't go ahead...


                
This engaging, provocative, ultra violent, black comedy is billed as sci-fi mystery drama. It's certainly all three. It is also a grand satire of the comic book/graphic novel.Regular comic books I recall were action-packed, over-the-top plots, with almost indestructible heroes, the worst kind of bad guys and seemingly insurmountable odds for the heroes to overcome. This Utopia follows that schema to a capital T, which rhymes with P which stands for ... Paranoia, that sociopolitical cancer now pervading many, if not most nation states on our planet. Creator Kelly and his coven of writers obviously had a merry time concocting and putting together this mysterious Utopia. The series begins with a nod to Hitchcock's MacGuffin and our heroes on a quest: find the unique graphic novel which hides information about an insidious, apocalyptic government conspiracy. Unhappily for the heroes, the worst kind of bad guys are already wreaking murderous havoc across the city/country in their attempt to find that graphic novel first and are killing anybody - even innocent children - who stands in their way. (Note: don't try to keep a tally of the body count - way too many.) For the heroes we have icily frantic Jessica Hyde (O'Shaughnessy), bawdy Becky (Roach), IT analyst Ian (Stewart-Jarrat), ultra-paranoid Wilson squared (Akhtar) and young, grunge-mouthed Grant (Woollford). For the killers, maybe we initially blanch at the sociopathic excess of agro Arby (Maskell) and his sidekick, laid-back Lee (Ready); but, as the bodies pile up, we realize nothing succeeds like excess in this story. Overshadowing the efforts of both groups - Heroes and Killers - are the puppet masters, those maniacal mandarins in secret places who coolly dispatch orders to kill millions as easily as they order hors d'oeuvres or post a parcel. And with the same indolent indifference. Chief among them are Letts (Rhea) and his Assistant (Fox). Lurking in an even more secret place is mad Milner (James) - killer controller extraordinaire. Fumbling and bumbling around, among this mayhem, is Dugdale (Higgins), a very civil servant who often gives a good impression of Manuel of Fawlty Towers (1975) fame. Finally, like a god, the identity of nebulous Mr Rabbit - the Ultimate Uber Meister - remains a constant fear for all concerned.To support the satirical slant, the acting is superbly performed and managed to convey just the right amount of drama, comedy, anger, terror, scientific gobbledygook, horror etc to still make the narrative appear all so possible and plausible. After all, with current and projected technology developments this century, who knows what might happen in twenty or thirty years?Photographed in Cinemascope (aka Anamorphic 2.35:1) - goodness knows why - color saturated to almost make your eyes water - but it looks glorious - and driven by a sound track which is catchy, innovative, and frenetic; but also utterly in step with this episodic, up/downbeat, quasi-comedic and sometimes terrifying narrative which, once you begin: Just. Won't. Let. You. Go.Provided, of course, you like satire. If you don't, then you won't be persuaded at all by the entire premise and what naturally and logically follows. Too bad - because the core message of this series, at the end, is highly personal and pertinent; and is, in fact, already in place at various scientific agencies in different countries. But you get that ironic revelation only in the last few seconds of Series 2....Thoroughly recommended for all adults, young and old. Unequivocally deserves nine out of ten. June 8, 2016.


                
Great TV show! After watching the first ten minutes of episode 1, I couldn't do else then watch all six of the episodes, without a single break. I got sucked into the story, because of the absurd way of filming, use of special effects and sounds, and also the great storyline.The only thing that I found a bit of a shame, was that I thought the ending was a bit too open. Although it could be that that is not true at all, but that I missed something important, what made that I didn't understand everything.However, I recommend Utopia to everybody who is looking for an interesting, mysterious and exciting TV show!


                
Utopia is a brilliantly shot conspiracy thriller that will draw you in from the opening scene. The cinematography and music are as good as it gets. The vibrant colors and the framing of shots are second to none. The story is based around a cult graphic novel from the 1980's that was written by an allegedly insane man. The graphic novel supposedly predicted several world disasters and events. Now, a sequel has appeared, but only in its original manuscript. Four fans of the graphic novel come across the manuscript on a forum and find themselves in the midst of a race for the manuscript with a powerful secret agency, leaving a wake of bodies in their trail.
Utopia is a very addictive,brutal,funny and strangely believable drama on Channel 4(uk)!Watched the full 1st series and obviously wanted more,so when the new series came out i was very happy indeed!it has not been a disappointment!same beautiful cinematography same diversity in characters same storyline entertainment, and i bet its not far from the truth!I would recommend this to anyone apart from young children!!!so give it a go, you will not be disappointed!PS loved the first episode of the second series!It explained allot and also parallel-ed real events of the time!genius!Also every little detail has been done to perfection and i cant wait to see what is next!!


                
This is my first review on this site; I have many, many TV series but I have to admit, this one is seriously one of the best. I am such a fan of British TV shows!The story revolved around a number of strangers, meeting online on a forum, discussing about conspiracies and a comic book they all know about. Soon after, things starts to get dirty... well, you gotta watch it to know more! This show, in specific, has made me question if all the viruses are man made. I watched this show in a week and I question everyone as to what they think about the idea of killing people by viruses. Also, I totally loved Alexandra Roach and Paul Higgins' accent. I always smiled when they were on screen. Adeel and Neil were fantastic! Overall, a great piece of director and cinematography. I hope to watch something as good soon!


                
Just finished watching second season of the series Utopia. I have to admit it is one of the most original series I've ever seen. The concept & story is very bold and execution was perfect in the first season. The second season wasn't as brilliant as the first one, but still I liked the series as a whole. Sad, that there won't be any third season, as the season 2 ended in a cliffhanger.Utopia follows a group of people who have in possession a manuscript of a graphic novel. Thus, they are followed and targeted by some organizations who stoop to anything to get it back. The novel contains information that would be responsible for a huge disaster.All the main characters have acted very well. I specially liked the character of Grant & of course Jessica Hyde. The question in the first few episodes is "Who is Jessica Hyde?". The topic which the creators chose is very bold. It must have taken courage to take such a topic. The question would be if you support Utopia or not. Definitely. most would say yes without a doubt.This series is just as different as Black Mirror. First season is terrific, but second season albeit not poor, but just doesn't seem that good. Maybe this is the reason they chose not to review it. Nevertheless, it is still good enough to be viewed once. I give first season a 10 & second season an 8. Fantastic British series, something that shouldn't be missed.


                
I haven't experienced a piece of work this subversive since, well, maybe ever but at least the early 1980s.Just about every government-level conspiracy theory is covered here with absolutely no punches pulled whatsoever - this is seriously hard hitting stuff and not for the weak of mind.Terrific writing and some outstanding acting performances combine with a really "weird" vibe to produce a work so well crafted that it's up there with early Ridley Scott efforts in my opinion.I gather this is being remade for American TV with David Fincher directing the pilot - I would be absolutely astounded if it isn't watered down for airing over there as it's way, way too close to the knuckle re many US, er, "incidents" of the last few decades ...


                
Trying to describe Utopia for a colleague it stuck me how utterly silly the premise of the series sound. A fan-base set around an obscure and conspiracy driven graphic novel realize that the content of the comic might be *gasp* real. This actually ties in well with the overall theme of seemingly easy decisions turning out to be complex and maddeningly hard. The silliness dies (quite literary) in the first few minutes of the first episode. Utopia sports a host of some of the most gruesome psychopaths I've ever seen on screen and they are on a mission they believe in.In less capable hands this would have turned into another "little man vs. big evil corporation" with some shock value but the horror which is really vile and cold is not the main engine of Utopia, the story is. I'm not sure about you, but after a while I begun to wonder whether I was rooting for the wrong team (and so does some of the characters). That is good storytelling. The characters all feel real and they evolve and change with what they experience.Oh and don't forget how it works aesthetically. Some might not like the brash colours and the off-kilter music but it just added another layer to this cake.In conclusion, see it. It's not for the faint of heart but neither are most TV-series these days and this is one of the very best.


                
I think this show was canceled because it was to close to a hidden truth.Wish they would make a season 3.1 was good, 2 was great, I loved the back stories.To be honest the guy in the airport talking to the woman and her child, laid it all out bare in season 2, like the guy who was tied to the chair in the house with everyone in season 1, stating that when he was born there were little over 2 billion people on our planet.


                
Utopia is a british show about a group of people who find a manuscript of a cult graphic novels and discovers the hideous plans of a clandestine organization. Utopia is an underrated and underwatched show that you wished you'd have watched before. With its seemingly disturbing music accompanied by bright and somewhat hallucinating visulas, this show does a good job of pulling you into the story and keeps you at the edge of your seat at all times.
The ending of the second season gave hints for a new season but for some unknown reason, the show got canceled. Although they did manage to tie almost all loose ends. Nonetheless, this show will not leave you disappointed and will almost certainly make you wonder about what's going to happen next. 9/10


                
Great series wished there was 20 more episodes, deserves the rating it got and more.


                
The series blew me away in many ways. First of all there is thi storyline about a graphic novel that holds a secret that is slowely unraveled. It gets you and you can´t stop watching it. The "hero´s" of the series are not the default hero´s but are full of doubt, sometimes have no clue what happens, sometimes "change" sides back and forth. And then there is the typical british humor that can´t be repeated anywhere in this world I guess. Like: 
-A: shocked: "where do you have that gun for?"
-B: "shrugs: To shoot at people (duh-voice)
And hilarious twists like being unable to escape because fear of heights.It is absolutely worth watching


                
I would give this series a "10" rating, but had to say 9 because it ended way too soon. This show, along with the UK series Mad Dogs has made me a big fan of British TV series.Utopia's characters are a combination of everyday people who manage to also be quirky and weird at the same time, and the villains in the show are particularly creative and evil.One other thing that struck me is the cinematography is so much more vibrant; I don't think I've ever seen another movie or series with such intensity of colours. If people consider you to be a little strange, or artsy, or that you have a dark sense of humour...then this show is for you!


                
I recently decided to give Hemlock Grove a go.It's OK. There's an edge to it that many other shows of its kind miss. But it still can't help but be bogged down in the melodrama that makes so many American dramas feel soapy.It also takes so long to tell what is ultimately a simple story that all the mystery and intrigue is sucked out of it.What starts out as quite promising rapidly dissolves into another angsty teenage drama.British drama suffers for many of the same issues. Not that we do angsty melodrama well. We don't. But we do have a gritty, overly real style that leads to yet another depressing examination of the lives we lead.Why can't we have something in the middle.Something that is equal parts authentic, modern and thrilling. A mystery that never falls victim to melodrama but instead has the courage to never compromise and be balls out hardcore.Welcome to Utopia.


                
First of all I'm from Holland and i hate the English language. Not American but just the English. But this show it blew my mind i even didn't mind the English accent.If you like a little bit of scifi and if your open minded please watch this!!! When i was don watching this (1 year ago) and i heard that it was channeled i actualize was sad. Very sad. I head a weird feeling in my stomach.I don't know why? The story telling? The music? The weird story? I really don't know, but it was just great. It also cud be true.If you watch this after reading my review could you please contact me en tell me what you fought? I'd love to hear it from you dad i'm not crazy!!


                
