This is a strange movie because there are some existentialist elements to it, some elements of Carpe Diem, and some elements of the inability of humanity to control his or her environment. I have never seen a movie with this sort of plot before and as such I consider it to be incredibly unique and as such worth watching and considering, if only for a unique plot. Not only is the plot unique, but the main character, Phil (Bill Murry) grows and develops through the film as he tries to come to terms with what is happening to him.Phil is a weather man in a small television station in Pittsburg. He wants something better but all he is doing now is going up to a town which is the home of Groundhog Day, the day when Phil the Groundhog comes out of his home and if he sees his shadow then there will be six more weeks of winter. He hates the town and the day, even though festivities go on all night and all day, all he wants to do is get back to the city and hopefully move up in the world. He cannot get back though as a blizzard has moved in. He returns, goes to sleep and wakes up 6:00 Groundhog Day, and the day repeats itself, and continues to do so. There is no explanation as to why this happens, but one can assume that it is his rather self-serving attitude. He wants to get out of the town, but the town won't let him go.The existentialist element comes up as he is drinking at the bowling alley with some of the town drunks. He says to them, "what would you do if everyday seems to be the same." This is literal where Phil is concerned, but the others see this as life. Groundhog Day is just a break in the monotony of everyday life. Get up, go to work, go home, go to sleep. Nothing changes. When he realises this he basically runs amok. To the guys he is with, this is serious, but Phil is testing the water, and sure enough, when he wakes up the day has started again, and nothing has leaked over from the previous day.At first this is fun, as he takes advantage of all the knowledge that he can accumulate and use against people, but he soon comes to realise how powerless he is where no matter what he does, he just simply cannot get his producer (Addie McDowel) to sleep with him. He knows everything about her, but the way he is, the sleaze, he simply cannot get what he wants from her. The Carpe Diem aspects come along here where he sees that he can seize the day, and he certainly does because he knows everything that happens, and by the end of the film, he can prevent almost all of the disasters from happening (almost all as he is powerless to prevent the death of the town drunk).As he goes through this one day, he soon comes to see how powerless he is. This is seen with his inability to get his producer to bed, and moreso, his inability to die. He tries everything but he always wakes up in the morning. Not only that, he cannot stop an old man from dying. He can save a kid, he can save a man from choking, and he can get a hesitant fiancée to marry her fiancé, but he cannot stop a man from dying of old age. No matter the advantage of knowing everything about everybody and everything that is going to happen in this one day, he is still human and he is powerless to stop death.This is the most humbling aspect of Phil, for he tries everything, but he always finds that by the end of the day this man is dead. He cannot stop it. He calls himself a god, but he knows that he is really a man.How does he get out of it? Well the movie does not really explain how. You know when, and I will not reveal that, but there is no reason why. There is no reason why it starts and no reason why it ends. What does happen is that he starts off as a slime, and ends as the most loving and caring man that anybody could know. The question is, what happens to him when he wakes up the next day? Now that he is out, how long does it take for him to return to his former self. One can see glimpses of his former self beginning to shine through that next day. One thing about Phil, is that he is only human.
A fantastic idea for a movie and the part played by Bill could not have been better cast, his persona and facial expressions are just perfect.the only bad comment i have of this movie would be that the morals of the movie at the ending are so predictable and so Americanized, they should have just left him there day after day just going round in circles would have been awesome or for that fact multiple endings you choose the one you want. The supporting cast just superb with all members putting in excellent performances backing Bill up with just impeccable comedy timing, probably with some help from the director, maybe not. But all in all a very enjoyable light comedy could have been better with some darker humor..


                
Groundhog Day is one of those movies you wish you could remake.  This is not a criticism - it is a complement.  The movie is based on such a powerful thematic idea - that of reliving a day over and over again until you get it right - that it deservers to become the kind of classic story, like A Christmas Carol, that is remade periodically every few years to see what a different cast and director can make of it.For instance, the movie is in the comedy/drama/romance genres, but I felt the comedy should have given way a bit more clearly to drama when the emotional turning point is reached; but the point is that I cared enough about the idea to be interested in thinking about improving its execution. I thought about the movie quite a bit, in fact, and that is exceedingly rare for me.  I think the theme is good enough for doctoral dissertations and certainly Sunday sermons.And I keep finding myself humming "The Pennsylvania Polka".


                
It's interesting how this movie shows the change the hero Phil is going through in this movie. He's living the same day but he's living in different ways and it's interesting to see how he changed from a grumpy guy to a kind and loving man and in the end it wasn't even an act, he really enjoyed being a good man. It's interestingly shows that if you know a lot about someone then it is easier to make them fall in love with you. Maybe worth trying?
Also if other people around you like you and admire it will also make someone really attracted and interested in you.
Also, it is a nice love story and shows that once you get to know someone, it is easy to fall in love with them. At the start of the movie Phil is not interested in that girl really, but once he learns more and more about the girl, he truly starts to feel love for her.
This was my first time seeing this movie and I enjoyed it just as much as I imagine most people did. It was an idea that has been done many times. This movie is one of the original movies with this idea and I think it was executed as well as it could have been. I liked seeing how his outlook on life changed every time he had to repeat the same day over and over again. It was obvious the first couple of days were going to be him trying to figure out what was happening. my favorite parts in this movie were when he had finally realized he could do anything he wanted with no consequences. He punched an annoying friend in the face, he said anything he wanted and he even killed himself....many times. Even though he didn't know exactly why this was happening he used it to his advantage. he used it to pick up girls and every time he would mess up on a date he could easily start the whole date over again because he knew the day would start completely over and nothing he did stuck. He would learn new information about people to impress them and pretend he was someone he was not. He was definitely smart but he did these things because he was bored and wanted to see how much he could get away with. I also enjoyed how relatable it was. I imagine ay person would go through the exact process that Bill Murray went through in this movie. The end was obvious but I still enjoyed watching him grow as a person. He began to do good deeds which he never would have done in the beginning of the movie. He becomes a genuinely good person and that is how he gets out of repeating the exact same day over and over again. Groundhog Day was funny when it wanted to be but serious when it needed to be. It was overall a very well thought out movie and I enjoyed it very much.
A weather man is reluctantly sent to cover a story about a weather forecasting "rat" (as he calls it). This is his fourth year on the story, and he makes no effort to hide his frustration. On awaking the 'following' day he discovers that it's Groundhog Day again, and again, and again. First he uses this to his advantage, then comes the realisation that he is doomed to spend the rest of eternity in the same place, seeing the same people do the same thing Every day. This Movie Is A Classic. One Of My Favourites Of The 90's & I Have Seen This Movie So Much & I Am Still Trying To Find Out How Long He Was In "Groundhog Day"...My Assumption...Maybe 34 Days Because Thats All We See So He Spent A Month In The Same Day I Don't Agree With The Whole "10 Years" Thing. The Song "I Got You Babe" Becomes Annoying With This Movie. If You Want Me To Pick Flaws In This Movie I'm Sorry There Is A 1 000 Word Limit So I Can't. The Character Development Of Phil Is One Of The Best Parts Of This Movie & I Love How In One "Groundhog Day" He Meets That Ned Character Who Annoys The Hell Outta Anyone & Hugs Him & Says "I Have Missed You So Much" The First Time I Saw That I Was Killing Myself Laughing...Then I Woke Up In My Bed & Relived That Day...Just Kidding But I Was Killing Myself Laughing. All In All A Painfully Funny 90's Movie That Should Be Embraced.


                
Groundhog Day has quite the fame of being this unique classic. In that regard, Groundhog Day is a fairly entertaining story about redemption and self-discovery of one's own behavior. It has Bill Murray in a performance that boasts toward both the devilish and the heartfelt and a safely entertaining amount of jokes and gags. Some of its middle, mainly how the character of Bill Murray deals with his condition, feels somewhat unbeliavable, but the movie quickly finds a way to remind you of the charm it carries.Andie MacDowell and Bill Murray portrait two characters whose development and conclusion allude to the various themes of Groundhog Day and, at the end of the day, are the main ingredient in the sucess of the movie's charm.


                
Initially, I wasn't convinced by this film, but as it developed, the situation matured, the characters grew, and I became thoroughly invested. What an intriguing concept this is, and how cleverly it is told. The repeating day formula could easily become hammy, unfunny and tedious, but it is constructed beautifully. The key to this is the absence of long-term temporal reference - we are stuck in the same day as Phil, but without knowing how much we haven't seen. We see relationships at key points, we see plans at their inspiration and at their culmination, and the way we are constantly made to play catchup and fill in the blanks contributes to a sense that we are sharing and matching Phil's relationship with his predicament. A simple premise continually manages to find new avenues to surprise us, without ever feeling as though its movements are purposeless. There is a fantastic sense of direction here, and it makes the film far deeper than initially expected. This film plays with you gently, and charms you into engaging in what appears a mundane setup. Very well done.
the film falls into the monotone. You see many scenes that repeat and this is a bit annoying. All in all the movie is not bad, it's original, but the rest is just decent. I've always liked Bill Murray and even in this movie I did not disappoint, though all the other characters are absolutely out of character. is a classic Christmas movie, though much more beautiful than those other Christmas movies that we are sorry for today.
This is a very unusual modern day comedy because it makes you think. Phil Connors is a weatherman on a regional tv station who thinks he is more important than he really is. He is sent off to do his annual report on groundhog day which is something he hates. What he doesn't know is that he is about to endure the same day over and over again.His mood changes from disbelief to elation that he can do anything he wants with no consequences. Once bored with this his mood darkens to depression and even his suicide attempts fail to get him out of the loop. Is it possible for him to escape ? Bill Murray is excellent as Phil and is ably supported by Andie MacDowell as Rita. A warm and intelligent comedy.


                
Now in 2001 I've just seen Groundhog day for the very first time, on DVD. What a refreshing film. It's very funny in it's repetition and utterly true in it's movements.Perhaps what I enjoyed the most about it was the evolution of Phil (Bill Murray) and the realism of his actions. His responses were predictable on a level. I don't mean that as a criticism but as a positive element. While I didn't always  know what was coming next, I certainly understood on an emotional level. Who wouldn't, after realizing they were living the same day over and over, abuse the power of it. Run from the cops, rob a Brinks truck. But as we progressed, we understood why Phil moved from abuse to improvement. A quality film. 7 out of 10.


                
Phil Connors,a sarcastic weather man disappointed from his boring life the 2nd of February of every year goes to a lost little city in Pennsilvanya to shoot a reportage about an old local tradition "The Groundhog day",where a nice big rat,like Phil calls it,seems able to preview the last of the winter and the came of the spring..but this time something of really strange happens,Phil ,for a joke of the destiny (or who knows what else..)is obliged to live the same day for hundred of times ,so every day ,for his desperation,he's woke up at 6:00 am by the same song at the radio and meets always the same people who obviously don't realize what is going on and can't understand his drama. I think this one the best comedy of the 90s not only for the Brilliant performance of Bill Murray (absolutely perfect in this role)but in particular for the deeper meaning of the story. In fact Phil's life is a disaster he's selfish,presumptuous, cinic and only when he changes his nature,stopping to use this absurd situation for his goals ,things will be better for him and the 2nd of February finally will be the 3rd!.So knowing perfectly the things of the day he's forced to live ever he starts helping people : save a child who's falling form a tree,save a man hit by an heart attack and so on in this way he also conquest the woman of his dreams (Andy McDowell).So this film is  a metaphor.Each of us after all live always the same day (wake at the same time,make the same job,see the same people)without realizing it,maybe we should make like Phil and try to change ,even just a bit,to be better person and to feel better ,is it so difficult ?..


                
I was interested in seeing this film because I was curious what they were going to do with its plot. There is a lot you can do with a plot like this and I was interested to know which directions the movie was going to go in. I was very proud of the angle the movie went in. After watching it, I can safely say that it is one of the best comedies from the past 25-30 years.A weatherman finds himself living the same day, Groundhog Day, over and over again. He is the only one who seems to know that it is happening. After he adjusts to it, he tries different things such as finding a love interest, meeting new people, doing illegal activities, helping out people, and trying to figure out how to stop it from going on.Instances he encounters on that day which keeps on getting repeated include: meeting a friendly former classmate who is trying to sell him insurance, doing a news report on the event of the "Groundhog Day" which he finds to be stupid and pointless, and experiencing a snow blizzard which traps him in a town. He is also very rude to his co-workers: Rita and Larry. He dislikes his job, his colleagues, and himself most of all.However, he learns that in order for the event to stop: he may have to change his normal way of life. Over the course of the days, he discovers his love for Rita and his desire to be with her. He also learns to be more kind to other people and he gets to know and help out people around town that he wouldn't have been introduced to had the events in the film had never have taken place. The event makes him learn to love himself and others. It's a very interesting idea a film could use for representing a change in a characters personality.Another great thing in the film is that it leaves the reason for the day's constant repetition ambiguous. It leaves it up to the viewer to decide why that happened to him. It makes the viewer wonder if there was an entity or something else that was doing this to him in hopes of having him change his life and personality around. I can understand why someone wouldn't like this, but I didn't mind it because it gave the film sort of an alien or other-worldly feel to it. That's not to say that the movie didn't have one to begin with, but the ambiguity increased it.Phil's character development in the movie is very convincing and realistic because we can easily believe that the situation would make him react the way he does. There are dark periods in the film when he endangers his life, does illegal activities, and tries to commit suicide. There are also reckless periods in the film when he tries weird and foolish things he wouldn't normally try. Finally, there are some happy periods in the film when he tries to improve on his life and personality. It makes sense that he would try different things because since he doesn't know anything about the situation: There is no way for him to know how to stop it from happening and whether or not he's supposed to do something. Since he loves Rita, the only way he can impress her is by actually changing instead of faking it. At one point in the movie, Rita says that egocentricity is one of his "defining characteristics". He doesn't stop being egocentric at the end. He just learns to use it in a positive direction.One of the other great things about this film is Bill Murray's terrific acting. I can't think of any actor who would've performed the role better than Bill Murray did. He proved to us that he's not only able to show dramatic depth, but he is also able to combine a comedic and serious side all into the same character. I think that his role here is his best performance yet.The only thing I didn't like about it is that I wished it was funnier. Of course, there were only a couple points in the film when it made me laugh. However, even the jokes that I did laugh at weren't super creative or that well-written. However, this is my only complaint for the film and nothing else really bugged me about it.In conclusion, this could've just been a good movie, but the fantastic choice of turning it into a character study makes it something special. His character development was interesting and convincing and it was handled very well in the movie. The feeling of ambiguity and Bill Murray's incredible acting also helped to carry this movie. Even though it was light on comedy, this is still an amazing comedy film which ranks up there with some of the very best of the genre.


                
Weatherman Phil Connors (Bill Murray) is sent to cover the annual Groundhog Day Event in which a Groundhog is used to predict what kind of weather is to be expected. Phil is generally cynical about this event and vows that this will be the last year that he'll be covering the event. However, after 'covering' the event Phil wakes up at 6 o'clock the next morning (and every morning thereafter) and finds himself living the same day over and over again.On paper, Groundhog Day really shouldn't have worked anywhere near as well as it did. The premise of having a weatherman reliving the same day over and over again could have been a monotonous bore in the wrong hands, but Ramis and co really make the most of the premise meaning that it generally works well on every level.I think what makes this film works so well is that the writers really went to town in an attempt to explore as many possibilities (both good and bad) of living each day exactly the same as the previous one. As a result of living the same day every day Phil inevitably goes through various emotional stages - denial, anger, frustration, depression, acceptance. Each aspect of the story is handled well by Ramis and co and no aspect stays longer than is necessary.The script is good here, but so too are the performances from MacDowell and Murray. Murray has the difficult task of taking his character through each of the various emotional stages and gives a very convincing performance throughout. MacDowell is also good, but she isn't given quite as much to work with. Together though,their chemistry was fantastic and given the journey that they'd shared together I actually found myself believing in their blossoming romance (this is coming from someone who normally gags when they watch anything romantic). Groundhog Day also has a lot of heart to it as well and for this reason it is a very likable film.As well as all of the above and perhaps most importantly the film also remembers to have lots of fun with its imaginative premise - the scene where Phil was driving with the Groundhog was genius. Whilst this film is never laugh out loud funny there were still plenty of amusing moments.Are there any problems here? Well yes, but they are only minor.... The central plot sees Phil living the same day as the last and whilst it is very funny for the most part actually seeing the same scenes being repeated over and over again does get a bit tedious at times - although there are slight variances in each of the repetitions so it's not a major problem. The insurance guy was also really annoying, but he's only in a couple of scenes so again this wasn't a major problem.It's a testament to Ramis and Co as writers that they've managed to create a film about a man living a seemingly monotonous existence and flesh it out to create a charming, funny, imaginative and rather insightful piece of work. Not many films leave me with a smile on my face at the end, but this one did.


                
A weather forecaster goes to a small town to report an annual festival. He hates the job because he reports the festival every year, so he is tired of the festival. At the night he goes to bed, but he wakes up in the morning, the day is yesterday. He has to repeat the same day, groundhog day, again and again. I think his character is very interesting. He is really egocentric and cannot be honest with himself at first. But during the repeated days, he goes through a lot of things and finds what is really important to live. This movie is not just funny comedy but meaningful story which makes me think my way of life. I like this movie and music is also good.


                
Groundhog Day is a perfect movie to watch during a rainy evening, while sitting on a cozy couch, covered with a warm blanket, and with a bag of popcorn in hand. It's a well-structured comedy offering many laughs, with a decent plot, which doesn't necessarily involve a lot of thinking.Phil (Bill Murray), a tired and self-centered weatherman, goes on a trip to Punxsutawney (fancy name I must say), Pennsylvania, in order to cover a story of the infamous Groundhog Day celebrations that take place there every year. Along with him come an irritated cameraman Larry (Chris Elliot) and a pretty newbie producer Rita (Andie MacDowell). It seems like it will be just another one-day excursion, just to inform people about another useless festivities that involve a groundhog predicting the coming of spring. However, due to horrible weather conditions the trio has to settle down in the city for another night. And then the strangest thing happens. Phil wakes up to the same radio announcements; sees exactly the same view outside his window; gets the same greetings from a hotel lady. And soon discovers that Groundhog Day is going to take place all over again, and again, and again<U+0085>So why not take advantage of this bizarre situation? At first, he attempts to live his life to the fullest, letting go of all the greed, selfish desires, and sexual temptations. By spending this one particular day anew he gets to know every single person in this small town, and is able to profit from all the information acquired. He also tries to get closer to Rita but fails miserably. That's phase one.In phase two, Phil realizes (after falling off a cliff in a car) that he became immortal somehow and won't die. So he tries to commit suicide in every possible way and still wakes up at 6 a.m. in the same bed listening to a song by Sonny & Cher. He starts to feel miserable and tired of all the mess that he's in. And then comes phase three. He once again wants to seduce Rita. He gets to know her better day after day, in order to finally be able to sleep with her. However, as convincing as he may be, she still rejects him after all. The ultimate way to make her fall in love with him is through good deeds. After all that time he understands that by being altruistic and helpful towards other people goes a road to a woman's heart.The main quality of the movie is contained in its ability to show mostly the same sequences all over again (well, that's what it's all about), but do it in such a manner that isn't boring or dull. Even though it's the same day, the events, actions, and people that the viewer sees are different or presented in an alternative manner. This is probably one of Bill Murray's funniest roles. I always admired his passion for acting, and in Groundhog Day he is convincing enough to say that he might as well play in joyful comedies, as in respectable dramas. His performance makes the movie much more pleasurable, as we are able to look at the transformation of his character and the gradual changes that he goes through from point A (destroy, burn, steal) to point B (love, care, understand). All in all, I won't say that Groundhog Day is my favorite comedy, but it definitely showed me that even some light-hearted comedies are able to pass a meaningful message to the world, and at the same time, make you laugh at the ridiculousness of their storyline.


                
A film that was perhaps underrated by critics upon its release, Groundhog Day is a classic example of a film that has spread through word of mouth. Bill Murray is perfectly cast as the grumpy weatherman whose egotistical character would rather be in the studio than out on location. Andie MacDowell is equally great as the kind and caring 'environmentally friendly' love interest that contrasts diligently with Murrays bullish persona. The concept is something that almost every person has toyed with at one point or another - what would happen if tomorrow I woke up and re-lived today. With this in mind Groundhog Day manages to investigate this notion with humour, wit and a sense of class that makes it stand out as a great movie that will, I'm sure, endure the very thing it explores - time.
This is one of the best comedies ever made. Bill Murray does a great performance in this one, as the weatherman on a local news station. He travels to Puxatawney in Pennsylvania to bring the news of the Groundhog day. And he hates to do it. And he is glad when he is on his way home at the end of this day, but when they are on the highway, they have to go back because there will be a storm. Phil (Bill Murray) goes back to his bed and breakfast, and the wakes up the next morning with the same song in the radio as the day before. First he thinks it's deja vu, but after waking up again, on Groundhog day, he knows that there is something very very very wrong. He's having his worst day over, and over, and over again. And all the other people don't know, they just living the day. And Phil falls in love with Rita (Andie MacDowell), and he has to win her love everyday over and over again. This is a great comedy, just hilarious scenes, a great Bill Murray and some romance, over, and over, and over again.


                
Now this is another of the typical, all-American eat-the-psychology-raw style of movies. It starts quite engaging with the repetition of the same day, over and over.If you haven't seen it (and abstained from reading the other 5722 comments), there is a TV commentator who has to live through the same day over and over again.Mid-movie, it get's quite interesting: he get's suspicious about the others; plays tricks with them; plays God the all-knowing; plays guardian angel. Plays let's fall in love. That's where the kill-all of US movies comes into play: triple sugar coating. Love with another woman heals all. Just be nice & all. Violins start playing. Snow _is_ already there.Really--great beginning, but pretty wasted.


                
I'm not saying that this movie isn't funny... quite the contrary. But so many claim that it's great, almost a masterpiece... why? It starts out very good, with Bill Murray being his typical, sarcastic, at times deadpan self, and continue being so for a good while... but somewhere, about halfway through the movie, the films pace suddenly slows ridiculously down and we're suddenly not watching a comedy with Murray's sharp wit and excellent delivery, but rather a typical early 90's romantic comedy. Why couldn't this film break that damn barrier? Why does there always have to be romance? I know, I know, us humans have quite an insatiable lust and longing for love, but can't we think of something more original and constructive to put in movies? The film gets better a little later, with Murray doing more fun stuff again... and the plot is now turned around. The first half of the film is Murray doing what he feels like, pleasing himself, the latter half if him serving other people, pleasing others. This works well, and there are some funny moments in both parts(though there are far more in the first). But the whole romance subplot... I don't know, maybe it's because it's Andie MacDowell, the queen(well, one of them... another good example would be Julia Roberts, but she's done more versatile roles) of annoying romantic comedies. Why, oh why must there always romance in movies like this? Hell, the movie could have gotten an 8 from me, or possibly even a perfect 10, if it had kept up the great entertainment of the first half. Some of the movie also seems to drag a bit, since we're basically just watching the same thing over and over again... but with tiny alterations every once in a while. The plot is good, but the romance subplot sucks. The pacing is OK. The acting is somewhat good... but the only actor that impressed me was Bill Murray... and even he was portraying the exact same character that he always does. The characters are well-written... to a extent. The humor is good. All in all, the movie is worth watching and good, but it's by no means great. I recommend it to fans of Bill Murray and *shudder* romantic comedies. 7/10


                
Such a great actor he makes this movie. I really don't think this wouldn't work with anyone else. A solid idea executed perfectly


                
This movie reminds me of Bill Murrays career in the 80s and 90s
Another great performance
Another great performance
Another great performance
Another great performance
Another great performance
Another great performance
Another great performance


                
A good film with a lot of memorable moments but could've been shorter.


                
'GROUNDHOG DAY' Directed by Harold Ramis Starring Bill Murray and Andie MacDowell. Plot Overview: <U+200B>Phil (Bill Murray), a weatherman, is out to cover the annual emergence of the groundhog from its hole. He gets caught in a blizzard that he didn't predict and finds himself trapped in a time warp. He is doomed to relive the same day over and over again until he gets it right.The one thing I knew about this film going into it was the premise. I knew nothing else about it - who the starred in it, who directed it, the names of characters; nothing. Thanks to this lack of knowledge, I thankfully had no expectations either way towards the film. I think that worked towards the film's favour. Let me say this, I do recommend this movie and like it quite a bit but I think I would have been extremely disappointed if I had even the slightest expectations. So if you haven't seen the film, I recommend it just don't go in expecting greatness or mediocrity.Movies like this are, to me, concept movies. They thrive of their unique and interesting concept or gimmick and then use that as a crutch. That is why the concept for this movie is a great one and the reason it has inspired works such as All You Need Is Kill(Edge of Tomorrow). The story surrounding this idea is also pretty decent. We follow our protagonist through possibly decades worth of the same day, with a new focus every once and a while. We see him utilise this gift/curse to learn new skills and try to perfect the day. This is the most interesting part of the film for me. The concept of achieving a perfect day. Reliving a day over and over and over again for eternity until you complete it with no error or flaw is fascinating.Bill Murray is great as Phil and succeeds spectacularly at showing the growth of his character. Andie MacDowel was pretty weak as Rita for me and I didn't buy anything she did or said. I did, however, buy into the romance between the two slowly building over the course of a possibly decade. Even if it did feel slightly manipulative, I did definitely see the connection building over the course of the the film. The cinematography and editing for the film is perfectly passable and looks fine.The movie was pretty funny and it's on the upper half of comedies that I've seen. The dramatic moments also work pretty well and are effectively utilised for full emotional impact. If I had one main flaw with the film, it is the very boring and uninteresting first 20 minutes. I'll make an estimate and say the film begins to get good around the point he sees the benefits of this gift/curse. Honestly, I will recommend you see this movie just don't expect the second coming of Christ. I'll rate this film 7 Perfect Days out of 10.


                
Its a good comedic situation, and explores even the human condition through repetition.But after seeing it without my nostalgia glasses... I realized, I'm not too fond of the message of the film.SPOILER!!!!!!!!!!! Don't read unless you've seen the movie.The ending has a hazy meaning / message. That Phil had to manipulate this woman to fall in love with him? I mean he had to also become the most amazing human being that ever existed... I would even say that makes her a bit shallow as well! I still enjoy it, but I'm just bothered by the ending now .If you've never seen it before though, it is DEFINITELY worth the watch!
