The eye-popping visual effects, are the highlight of this tale of a theme park gone mad.  The public's endless fascination with dinosaurs made this a top money-maker; but aside from it's visual effects, the film is a seemingly endless yawn-fest.  Character development is so basic, that, except for their ages, you'd have a hard time telling the kids from the adults. Everyone, except the dinosaurs are void of personality.  When the creatures aren't on the screen, you're subjected to a screenplay that features dull, one-dimensional characters spouting boring dialog.  Steven Spielberg seems to have lost his ability to direct a film, that grips an audience with its storytelling (Duel, Jaws, Close Encounters).  If you want to see a film with a good story, great characters and interesting dialog, stay away from "Jurassic Park".  If special effects are your thing, then by all means, watch and enjoy.


                
Ironically the people who made this film assumed the revolutionary CGI would serve as an attraction in and of itself (much like the dinosaurs exhibited in the park), and that the audience wouldn't care about the moronic plot, horribly bad dialogue, or total lack of logic.I somewhat enjoyed this film as a child, but I saw it again yesterday, and frankly I stopped watching at about half the film's length. It was insufferable.Apparently the moral of the story is that you can't control a zoo filled with dinosaurs. You can control a regular zoo filed with dangerous animals, but for some reason dinosaurs are tricky. What?! And just think about the premise of the film for a second: the man discovers a way to recreate DINOSAURS and his master plan is to charge tickets to a zoo where a handful of tourists can ride on a couple of jeeps around the island? That's the plan? How long would that park last? Within 24 hours the USA or some other government would invade the island, close it down, and hijack the entire staff along with the animals.And what's with the security measures? An electric fence a dinosaur could tear apart in a second? Well, what if power goes down? You geniuses can clone a dinosaur, but you've never heard of power shortages? Of course, then come the moronic characters and those obnoxious children. Can anyone even stand children in movies any more? I can't.At the end of the day, it's a fairly entertaining film - during the action bits, but the characters, the dialogue, and the plot are just terrible.
Box office grosses of this terrible movie make all the box office grosses of Titanic extremely deserving. That's right and how in the hell did this abomination of a movie get a better rating than Titanic on this site. The reason for my strange praise for Titanic is because at least Titanic had a story at the foreground and special effects were used to support the story. The opposite is happening in this movie where the special effects take the front seat and in fact is the only purpose of this movie. Everything in this movie is horrible except for the special effects. If you want Spielberg at his best then watch Saving Private Ryan or Minority Report. 1 out of 10.


                
I see that the majority of the comments here rate Jurassic Park as a "masterpiece" or something of similar dignity. I would like to express a somewhat different view: Jurassic Park is a really bad movie. In fact, it is one of the few I have rated a "1" on this website. The only things not easily predictable in the simple-minded plot are the holes in it. All characters are acting stupid. Sure, the dinos look good, but that is not enough to lift it from the bottom of the bottom.If you enjoy laughing at inconsistent plots, this one is a good choice for a video evening. Otherwise it is not.


                
Who has ever dreamt of making a movie which the action would take place during our era with dinosaurs in the main roles. Steven Spielberg must have had the idea by thinking: "it would get a huge commercial success...". He aimed straight. Indeed, a few months after the launch of the movie in 1993, the movie beat the record of the box-office takings so far hold by E.T. by the same Spielberg. But this commercial triumph is especially due to a great marketing campaign organized around the movie. Like "Batman", "Jurassic Park" ranks among the movies that made a dramatic commercial way, mainly due to a strategic marketing campaign but which the movie, in itself, is devoid of interest.The movie, actually, is worth seeing for its dramatic special effects (thanks to them, the movie won three Oscars in Hollywood in 1994). They can only encourage admiration and take the breathe away. Spielberg only intervened the most famous species of dinosaurs such as the tyrannosaurus and I think it's a pity that you don't see many other species. For example, you don't see the pterodactyl. Besides, you could say that dinosaurs were the sole attraction of the movie for an important number of spectators and it's why the movie attracted masses of people in theaters when the movie was released.But if you take away this quality, the movie appears devoid of interest. The scantiness and the lack of inspiration of the screenplay are something that you feel. The screenplay follows an outline quite predictable: it starts with the explanations concerning the creation of the park and especially the dinosaurs ( well done, nevertheless to he scriptwriters who could show cleverness concerning the artificial birth of the dinosaurs. Then, the movie goes on with the visit and the discovery (inconclusive as dinosaurs don't appear) of the park and this is where problems appear (otherwise the movie wouldn't have existed): a storm is breaking, a bad engineer is switching the current off to steal dinosaurs embryos for his personal interests. More serious, dinosaurs are getting away and spreading panic among the visitors....You can also notice that the screenplay contains several silly cues and characters appear colorless. They are overburden by dinosaurs that are real stars of the movie. it also  doesn't succeed in hiding a few unlikelinesses: Tim, one of the two children is victim of a strong electric shock and however Sam Neil manages to save him! Moreover, Tim's sister succeeds in locking a dinosaur up in a room thanks to a code which is however, hard to get. So, children are in the depths of these unlikelinesses and it probably reflects Spielberg' tender look of childhood.At the end, "Jurassic Park" is definitely one of Spielberg's worst movies.


                
This has to be the worst, most manipulative, lowbrow, dreadful film I have ever seen. You cannot be older than 10, or have an IQ higher than the outside temperature on a blizzard-ridden midwinter's day in Antarctica, to appreciate this film. Goldblum is dreadful beyond belief- he can't even chew gum properly, and Neill and his girlfriend, whoever it is that plays her, are badly cast and deliver the disgracefully bad dialogue with cringe-inducing cheesiness. It is obvious from this that Spielberg values money and the distorted kind of fame that making the Blockbuster as an end-in-itself seems to guarantee, above all considerations of art or intelligence. His capitulation here to the lowest common denominator would be irredeemably shameful were it not for the moderate modicum of redemption he gained by making 'Schindler's List'. I imagine, and dearly hope, that Spielberg learnt his lesson from this disgraceful farce, so clearly engineered for people with an eight-year old mentality. Ironic, then, that this revolting tripe carried a PG-13 rating in many countries? Probably not. A lot of people seemed to love Jurassic Puke. Me being elitist? Possibly. A case of mass mental illness? Probably.


                
OK, so maybe 1 out of 10 is a bit harsh but this film bored me to tears.*Possible Spoilers ahead*I remember seeing this in the cinema on it's initial release and damn near falling asleep then so I hired the DVD today, Nov 2014, to see if I was just suffering from the hype back in the day.The dinosaur effects are good, the whole "we can, but should we" moral message is here too.BUT, the opening hour could have been tidied up in 20 to 30 minutes easily and the dinosaurs appear for only about 15 minutes in the last hour.The sick Triceratops was a somewhat pointless touch, the ability to just get out of the tour vehicle and wander around the animals was strange as you couldn't do that in a regular animal park now let alone one filled with resurrected prehistoric creatures.The main stick point for me was the character that the park's owner trusted the least seemed to be in control of all the security with over ride-able fail-safes at the touch of a single button.I will concede that this film has it's fans and Mr. Spielberg is a better film maker than I could ever be, but he just didn't entertain me this time as goods effects do not a good film make.
Hollywood created great dinosaurs in 1933 and for 50 years thereafter. Then along comes Steven Spielberg with his computer-generated monsters that couldn't scare a flea. Add to the mix Spielberg's spineless anti-gun nonsense, where only the "bad guys" fend-off the big-teeth Dino's using (ohmygawsh) guns, and poor Goldblum is stuck using only a baseball bat. The story just keeps getting worse. The whole idea of this dinosaur park "somewhere in Central America" is no match for the mystery of Skull Island in King Kong. Richard Attenborough is just as awful in acting as his character is obnoxious. Just not the formula for a great adventure movie.


                
It's hard to even rate this movie a 1 out of 10. There was just nothing positive that could be said about it. Dinosaurs being brought back to life? I mean come on. It was such a disgraceful plot, my 6 year old nephew didn't even enjoy it and he loves dinosaurs. The acting was dreadful, Jeff Goldblum should be ashamed of his atrocious performance. His role in "Earth Girls are Easy" was better than his role in this movie. Not to mention, the dinosaurs are hardly entertaining or interesting. This movie was obviously the worst movie of the century. I expected more. It's sad how the movie "We're Back" was monumentally better than this.
Annoying characters, useless dialogue, horrible acting.
I wondered why the newer Jurassic park movies were so mediocre but it turns out that each of the movies in this series is mediocre starting from the very first one.Apple doesn't fall far from the tree does it.


                
