I saw this film twice, once at general release and later on video to appease a small child.  The first time I thought it was okay, but after the second view, I realized...NOT!  Spielberg and the rest of the production team have taken an interesting Crichton novel and made a terrible film with many changes, not all for the best.  The special effects and the "island" are great, as is Laura Dern's bottom (to summarize an earlier review), but the rest was just...there.  Too bad, too, because they waste some great actors, notably Sam Neill (who does deliver one of the most convincing lines I've ever seen, as "Karen Davis" notes).  Like "Independence Day", this could have been a great film, but falls far short of expectations, and could have used a better continuity editor.  The sequel is TERRIBLE.  "The Lost World" is a more enjoyable alternative.


                
I will not comment on visual effects. To me, the movie is a story I watch. For that part, I don't care how it was made.The story in Jurassic Park is a textbook of clichés; in fact, there is hardly any scene that wouldn't be one. Not only that, the whole story is very naive and quite predictable.It's evident that the makers of this film, while spending big money for the dinosaurs, were anxious not to threaten them by anything mildly original, witty, thoughtful or real.


                
For me this was like ET. You watch the film and try to forget your expectations, and they your jaw just ends up dropping on how bad it really was.For ET, I was hoping for a bit of the alien wonder one experienced in "Close Encounters", and got a foolish, beer drinking dumb looking alien who can make the stupid kids' bikes fly. YECH. For this film, I was expecting a great science fiction film, especially with the talent involved...and got an unbelievable exercise in bad film-making.Yes, the dinosaurs look good...they're made in a computer, and so what? I enjoyed them, but it wasn't like OMG how did they do that? It was CGI. I guess for 99% of the people out there, at least back then, that was good enough.Much has already been written about the terrible pacing, the bad acting, and the non existent plot, all points which are valid, so I will stick with some plot points/idiotic things--and some items that are unanswered for me...maybe someone out there can share an explanation.1) Why would they test this zoo and all its security on the day that a bunch of the engineers are leaving? Especially with kids there? 2) So there are electric fences to keep the dinosaurs in, but no backup systems in case the electricity fails. Hello, engineering? 3) Time after time characters go past gun cases. Only a few shots of a gun are made, all off screen. Any sane person would have raided those cases and those dinosaurs would be off playing their Jurassic Harps somewhere. But no, no one grabs a gun, no one shoots. The most skilled hunter gets himself killed.4) No one likes a lawyer, but what was with the HILARIOUS scene of the poor guy getting eaten when on the toilet? It was supposed to be funny, and I will admit, I think everyone in the theater howled but me. So maybe that was successful.5) Whole scenes go nowhere. When Ms. Dern finds a big dino defecation, she is examining it and seems to come up with some puzzling findings. I was expecting...I don't know, some deadly virus, something that was killing the dinos, etc. No, we never find out, as the movie has no answers.6) Doesn't every kid know UNIX? The 12 and 10 year olds save the day, because, dontcha know, all kids are computer experts! Ain't that cute.7) Ms. Dern turns in a really bad performance. Note her waxing dreamily with old Dr. Greyhead over melting ice cream (yeah, perfect time to stop and share some nice conversation over a snack, in between dinosaur maulings). Also note: Ms. Derns frozen expression of wonderment when she first sees the dinosaurs (You can almost hear Spielberg off camera..."Big expression Laura, BIG"). Note her next frozen expression, staring like a mannequin at Sam Neill at the end of the movie in the helicopter. Her dopey expression makes one think she might have gas.8) Let's make the bad guy the fat white guy. That way, we can't be labeled racist, misogynist, etc. I swear that when I saw this in the movies and the fat guy was slipping in the mud and generally fumbling about, that they were playing tuba music during. When I saw this scene again the music seemed different. Maybe I just imagined the tuba music because everything else in that scene was insulting to the intelligence.I could go on, but it's late. Suffice it to say, this is a rated 0 movie save for some special effects, which for me barely gets the movie to a three.
How do the scientists know that a T-Rex cannot see them unless they move? The worst part about this movie (aside from the many holes in the plot) is that the scientists know all of the behavior of dinosaurs that no one has ever seen alive.  If this movie were a fish, I'd throw it back.


                
Could have been great.  Should have been great.  Would have been great. Wasn't great.  Spielberg ruins another movie with his predictable, politically-correct, "warm and fuzzy" style.  Read the book, but don't see the movie unless you are only interested in great effects, which are certainly abundant in the film.  In addition to (and more likely *due* to) Spielberg's bad direction, weak performances abound.  The best thing I can think of to say about it is that it is not as bad as the sequel.


                
Jurassic Park doesn't hold up against the test of time. Looking back at the plot you realize there barely is one. The movie establishes a good premise early on, but it doesn't succeed in exploring the possibilities that come along with it. The movie is really just a vehicle for the idea behind it instead of having a plot that succeeds in reaching all opportunities that the premise allows. A great example of a movie that does this is The Truman Show. It was very original from the start and had a plot that helped its premise stretch its legs. Jurassic Park's creators' only objective was to make money off of the world they set up around the movie. Second after that in their mind was to make a good movie. Hey, at least the special effects were good (for the time).


                
Am I the only one in the world who is disturbed by glaring continuity mistakes? And this film has two of the biggest I've ever seen. I've heard Spielberg doesn't care about continuity, and if this film is an example, then it's true. Firstly, on the helicopter trip to the island, old man Hammond is sitting with his back to the front of the helicopter. You can clearly see the water going by outside. And yet he gestures in front of him "and there it is" or whatever he says, but he's pointing in front of himself. No. Wrong. The island should be BEHIND him. Secondly, and this is just stupid. When we first see the T-Rex enclosure, the cars are on the same level as the enclosure. They are clearly looking straight across at it. Later when T-Rex escapes, he/she walks straight across to the cars from the enclosure, so far so good but...When T-Rex knocks the car off the edge of the road...WHAT EDGE OF THE ROAD?! Was there a landslide that wasn't shown? Did one half of the island sink thirty metres? This is ridiculous, and totally unnecessary. A dinosaur attack would be exciting enough, one would imagine, without being knocked off the edge of a cliff (or whatever it is) that doesn't exist. Also, with the exception of Bob Peck, all the actors are really phoning this one in. I mean come on.
This films gets worse every time I see it.  The worst part of it is the fact that the scientists know so much about the dinos, even though they've been gone for so long.  For example, how do the scientists know that if they don't move then the T-Rex can't see them?  How could have they possibly figured that out by looking at bones?  And they tell us that the raptors hunt together and use teamwork to sneak up on people.  How can looking at fossils convey that sort of information?


                
Two hours worth of vintage special effects, the likes have which have never been placed on screen, are corrupted by screenwriters Michael Crichton (who authored the book) and David Koepp's refusal to incorporate anything remotely resembling a plot or characters. Crichton's book, which was tedious but rich with characterizations and scientific plausibility (without being overly technical) gives way to a script in which the characters have no personalities, the scientists have no backgrounds to bring them or their ideas to this point, and the dinosaurs are, for all intents and purposes, just THERE. You can say all you want about how wonderful it was be frightened to death by real-looking dinosaurs (would you really know one if you saw it?), but even "Land of the Lost," a 1970's Sat. morning live-actioner about a man and two children (his own) transported back in time and trying to survive amid free-roaming dinosaurs, had more of a plot than this garbage. And for all the hype about visuals, I, for one, would like to think we still go to the movies to be drawn into another world and other lives, not just an amusement park. Look for a few good one-liners out of Jeff Goldblum as chaos-theorist Ian Malcolm (allegedly based on at least one real-world ecologist), and completely lifeless performances from the otherwise reliable Sam Neill, Samuel L. Jackson and actor-turned-Gandhi-director Richard Attenborough, as well as non-actress Laura Dern. Just as a footnote: The "Jurassic Park" thrill-ride attraction opened at the Universal Studios theme park in Southern California in June 1996. A theme park is exactly where this whole "movie" really belongs.


                
When I was 8 I always was very fond of this movie but when grew up watching the film, I started hating it. It's strange anyone possibly love. It's nothing but an absolute bore. The dinos only made me give 3. Otherwise the plot line & the acting was a bit of crap. The film is boring most of the time, but still my parents loved it & even loves it till date. I hope I'm not the only one to hate it. So true dino lovers don't watch this film-it's really a waste of time. The things that made me love movie at first was- 1.The T-rex's first appearance. 2.The raptors. 3.The climax where the t-rex kills the raptors.But now I'm not satisfied with any special effects of JURASSIC PARK!!!!


                
Once again, Spielberg over-directs a movie. He stretches and tweaks Laura Dern's face like Silly Putty. She shows her "amazed and awed" face, her "jaw-dropping REALLY amazed" face, and her "happy and moved- to-tears face". I've always liked Dern but, in this film, her mug just got under my skin.


                
'Jurassic Park' took over the world with its killer dinosaurs. The film is about a group of people who get caught up in a theme park where the dinosaurs are brought back to life using their DNA. They revolt and kill a lot of people, and that is basically the whole plot of the film. It's a thriller with a lot of dinosaurs and special effects. If you enjoy thrillers and just want to see people getting wiped out by dinosaurs, then this is the film to see. As usual, its plot is really weak, and the characters are pretty two-dimensional. It was huge in its time, but it's a film that I never cared for at all. Don't expect anything other than a typical thriller.


                
What a painfully long, dull cinematic experience this was. I remember looking forward to the ground breaking technology but being horribly disappointed in the plot, the acting and the general feeling of malaise brought on by this box office monster. Fortunately, the person next to me was kind enough to wake me at the end of the film so I didn't sleep through it twice.


                
The first thing that I didn't like about this film was all of the hype. I remember when it was first released in the cinema and everybody on the media just raved about the special effects. Then I read in the Los Angeles Times an add saying "If you have seen it once, it is not enough, see it again." This was simply a blatant way of saying, "give us more money" and at that point I decided that I would not see this movie until it either came on television or somebody else paid for it. When I first saw it, somebody else paid for it and my opinion was that I expected more. When I saw it a second time on television my second opinion was that it was boring.The movie is based on a book by Michael Crichton. As is standard the book is much better and dives into the ethics of creating dinosaurs for profit. The movie touches on the ethics but it is more of a special effects fest with little else. The movie did not hold me the second time around and as such I have decided that this movie is simply not worth seeing again.The ethics of creating dinosaurs is the theme that is explored in the movie. A mosquito with dinosaur blood is found and from the blood the DNA sequence is recreated and thus dinosaurs are able to be cloned. A scientist thus does this and buys an island to place them on. He uses frog DNA to fill in the gaps, which causes a problem. He purposely creates females so that he can control their growth, but frogs have been known to change sex in a single sex environment.The professor is trying to play God by creating the dinosaurs. Not only that but he is trying to control them and even make money from them. The movie goes on to have the system keeping the dinosaurs under control breaking down and allowing them to escape. As such it shows us that no matter how powerful we are, we are never in complete control. Humans can betray us, computers can break down, and unthinking creatures can not be anticipated.The other thing that irked me about the movie was the Veloceraptor. I thought that it was simply too intelligent. These creatures are dinosaurs yet they were opening doors. They opened the movie by saying that the Veloceraptors were intelligent but I my disbelief came into full swing when their intelligence was equated with that of humans, that is they were able to open doors. Cats have been known to do that but that is after years of watching humans do it. The veloceraptor was in a cage and within half an hour of escaping, was able to open doors.Jurassic Park is not a great movie. In fact it is quite dull. When I first saw it, girls were screaming but I didn't find it scary. The second time I fell asleep, constantly. Watch it once and then don't bother.
All right. I must admit that this movie has got some nice special-effects, but that`s also all it has got. Sam Neill and Laura Dern give an OK performance.Conclusion: It works if you are a ten-year-old dino-freak.


                
Maybe in the 90's when I was kid have not seen how silly this movie.Clamsy storyline.
Action is lame, and so typical.
Exploding cars as usual in hollywood movies without reason.
Last minute rescue what is so lame.
Annoying music
This movie is bad. 
But what could I ecoect from Spilberg? One of the most commerce director.Good movie for ppl who like low quality And no brain


                
It was the exact same Jurassic Park I seen when I was 17 except this one came with the annoying glasses. There is no reason for this movie to be 3D. There was nothing special, just the regular movie that you can only see w/ the glasses. I asked my kids if they wanted to leave twice, and we were at a cine/dine. I gave a 3/10 basically because I love Jurassic Park, but I am really annoyed that I paid $53 for my husband and I and our youngest 2 boys (ages 7 & 9). I thought there was much more they could have done with this film. When you think of dinosaurs and 3D together you have a certain expectation. I am simply just constantly thinking... Why did they make this movie come out again in 3D?


                
