I've seen Jurassic Park probably five or six times, and each time I hope I'll like it better than the last, and I never do. A perfectly wonderful book by Michael Crichton is given the 'Spielberg' treatment and aside from the wonderful special effects, betrayed badly.Where to begin? First and foremost, one of Spielberg's worst tendencies is to find annoying personal characteristics endearing. The two children aren't precocious and charming, they're little brats, no matter how hard the director tries to paint them otherwise. The character of John Hammond, in the book, was as I recall a rather devious, unscrupulous man; here, he is portrayed as a cheerful, slightly ditsy, misguided Santa Claus. And Laura Dern manages to almost single-handedly sink this movie. Her perpetual "I don't know whether to laugh or cry" expression is probably the single most irritating element in a film full of them. And everyone smiles WAY too much.Spielberg, for all his supposed genius, also delivers some of the most excruciating action and danger scenes on record. Whenever one of the human characters is in a spot, it is inevitably his or her own stupid fault. They can't lock the door, they won't turn the flashlight off, they're too scared to jump off the fence, they can't run fast enough... every damn scene is like this, to where you want to reach into the screen and slap the hell out of them.Sam Neill comes off best, in what is really a thankless role as the straight man for all this nonsense. But he's dragged down by the same sappy script.Well, what about those special effects, you might ask? Yes, the dinosaurs are spectacular and very believable (much more so than the humans really) and they are the only reason I'm giving this four stars out of ten. In 1993, we were still being blown away by filmmakers constantly upping the ante when it came to mind-blowing effects and sure enough, Jurassic Park was state-of-the-art when it came out. Since then, I daresay people have become more blase about such things as they have become more routine.To be fair, there are some wonderful sequences in Jurassic Park and it's certainly worth seeing at least once. I suppose ultimately that is the most maddening thing about it; it could have been so much better, not just another summer blockbuster, but a truly great motion picture. It's a real shame that it's not.
*** This comment may contain spoilers ***Having watched this film in the cinema at the age of 9, i was mesmerised , like any kid would be, by the amazing, life like dinosaurs that seemed to jump right out at you and scare you witless. Obviously, being so young, I was there for the dinosaurs and had no idea it was based on a novel. Now, i haven't read the novel but my dad (who took me to see the film) had, and when i watched this film again some years later, I was rather disappointed with the banal characters and asked my dad how 'true' to the book the film had actually been. Obviously, Spielberg had adapted the book to fit the big screen and to ensure its box office success, at I think, the expense of the integrity of Chricton's original vision. Upon second viewing i was immediately struck by the lack of enthusiasm shown by the main leads, with the exception of Malcolm, although his characters incessant 'moral complex' was continually annoying, he at least played the part convincingly. Unfortunately, as the movie progresses, one can't help thinking that what started as a promising film, quickly descends into Hollywood 'action' territory, with all notion of plot, suspense, and character development thrown aside in favour of big, brash, in your face style cinema that while entertaining first time round, leaves those who demand a little more from their movies, rather underwhelmed. Its great as a kids/young teens movie, it has action, big dinosaurs, and a nice uncomplicated plot that you already know the ending too (to all intense and purposed). To the critical viewer, the poor, lacklustre acting, (as exhibited throughout by Sam Neil and Laura Dern) makes you wonder why they bothered signing up since their characters aren't forced to challenge any major, significant social issues about cloning and its repurcussion's, just how they are going to survive until the next dinosaur pops up. The plot barely holds up under scrutiny in the film, the 'believability' of the scenario, or the seriousness of the overall implications for cloning, are either undermined or just plain forgotten in favour of allowing our 'heroes' to be exposed to danger as quickly as possible. And last, but not least, the most scathing attack must be levelled at Spielberg's pre-occupation with entertaining, as opposed to challenging, his viewers. He takes a novel (that my father assures me raises relevant and thought provoking debate on a controversial subject, but also displays an understanding of human terror and helplessness in the face of mother nature gone wild)and reduces it to little more than a 'theme park' of a movie with sugary characters who have little or nothing of relevance to say, a plot situated squarely in 'safe', Hollywood, boundaries and (apart from a solid soundtrack) a thoroughly underwhelming cinema experience which, unfortunately, is all too common with directors whose success has gone to their heads. Its a shame that such promising source material has, once again, been pillaged by Hollywood to make big bucks. Watch it once for the effects, but i doubt you'll want to experience it again lest you want to be periodically awoken by loud dinosaur screams as the actors cower away in their shadows.
We knew going into this there would be little to kindle the intellect -- Spielberg is only interested in stories that can be explained in comic book panels...There's not much cinematic originality either, CGI notwithstanding. The primary visual element here is 'the hand' -- Spielberg's mainstay.Everything is told through borrowings from other movies, mainly "King Kong" (from the first remake in '76), "Jaws" (the raptor pen), "Aliens"(the kitchen evasion and the dropped ceiling escape). Heck, even "Crocodile Dundee" makes an appearance.So back to the intellect - Spielberg's in way over his head when he attempts to explicate chaos theory; Crichton's parallel novel is better for this, if that interests you. Essentially, all complex systems must eventually behave unpredictably. The thing is, Spielberg never attempts anything complex, and never lets anything out of the control of the guiding hand...he just tries to purport the illusion of complexity: the flea circus writ large.The entire movie is mirrored by the tour's animated DNA cartoon -- all of the content is meant for the consumption of mental ten year olds.Malcolm is presented with the proper cerebral depth in the novel; Goldblum knows this is a joke, so he plays this as the comic relief. He's the only real fun here.


                
Okay, it's a nice, knowing reference, but the sole one amongst the mire. Jurassic Park was, at least until the advent of Independence Day and Godzilla, a new low in brain-dead popcorn fodder. I really, really cannot stand this film. Appallingly patronising to its audience, it expects nothing from them and offers them nothing in return.WARNING: THE REST OF THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SLIGHT SPOILERSThe cast's roles are built up with the most cursory of characteristics. Witness how Sam Neill's Dr. Grant starts the story not wanting children, yet spends the whole film in their company, thus undergoing a typical "learning process". Plot points are given unsubtly for future reference in the film, such as the attack patterns of the velociraptors. (I wonder, do you think they WILL attack someone like that before the end?) "I'm not a computer nerd, I prefer to be called a hacker" offers Lex after being sneezed over by a Brachiosaurus. Let me guess, would her ability to hack a computer be relevant somewhere in the movie? Let's not even mention the dinos that open doors by the handle.Richard Attenborough is probably the worst performer as Dr. Hammond. He starts the movie with an effeminate Scottish accent, which fluctuates to English, then to Scots, then back to English... was the continuity adviser drunk? Maybe he should have played the part as "Pinkie" from "Brighton Rock". At least it would have been entertaining. "Stick yer perishin' mincers on that T-Rex". Jeff um Gold arr blum, joins joins him in ah clumsy ex uh position, then spends the rest of the film uh lying lying on a uh couch. Actually, despite having nothing to do, Goldblum shows why he earns every cent of his wages by being the only one to give some sort of life to the cut-out he's given.The rigid banality and cynical, transparent manipulation of the film, coupled with its overblown incidental music really starts to grate before long. And while some scenes might be disturbing for small children, its PG certificate, mainstream targets and lowbrow denomination means you know none of the cast will be harmed. Or would a family film really show a ten-year-old boy being electrocuted and then dying? Therefore: no tension. See also: Independence Day, or: if it was real they never would have got that saucer out of the nuclear explosion in time.What everyone always discusses are the dinosaurs, of course. While, for the most part, excellent, they appear for less than - count 'em - 20 minutes of the film's total. This leaves us with 85% of a movie that is stock, run-of-the-mill and predictable. Even the mighty Samuel L. Jackson looks bored in this one*. On reflection, it appears that novelty was fundamental to its success. The sequel, The Lost World, was a better film yet wasn't as popular, critically or commercially.Jurassic Park is a film riddled with "cute" kids, "comedy" fat bloke, feeble one-liners and double takes. There's even "humorous" use of "ironic" juxtaposition, such as the T-Rex bringing down a flyer from When Dinosaurs Ruled The Earth. "Now that is one big pile o'sh*t" says Goldblum at one point. To highlight that quote for the purposes of mockery would be cheap and unkind.* I happened to stumble on my old review in September 2005 and edited it for a few minor typos. How ironic that in the five years since I originally posted this review every single part Sam Jackson has played is one that he's looked thoroughly bored in.


                
Jurassic Park is nothing more than a dinosaur film like so many made in the past,the only difference being the special effects are outstanding.There really is nothing original about this film,the author Michael Crichton does not deserve any credit because there is nothing unique about the story.It's been done a 1000 times before,and done better.The acting is nothing special.The characters are not very interesting,again the main thing that this film has going for it are wonderful special-effects that were never seen before the date of this films release.I gave the film a four because it still is better than anything made nowadays and is at least viewable,mildly entertaining but thats it.


                
After 7 years, the only thing I remember about this movie was the near-cameo appearance of Samuel L. Jackson (pre "Pulp Fiction", no less), as the chain-smoking programmer who derides the nerd who programmed the JP systems (a character The Simpsons crew must have had in mind when creating "Comic Book Guy").  Loved his reaction to the Quicktime movie that nerd-boy had programmed to play if someone unauthorized tried to log in (unprintable here).  I've worked with both "hard-boiled chain-smoking programmer" and "eternally self-important and irritating nerdboy."  Give me a staff of the former any day of the week.Oh yeah, I remember some part where a guy in an outhouse got killed when a dinosaur sat on it.  That was pretty funny.  Other than that... seen one FX dinosaur, seen 'em all.


                
You know what? I recently wondered if I had actually seen Jurassic Park. I vaguely remembered I had done it some years back but couldn't be sure the couple of images in my memory arrived there while watching it or because images of JP have been so ubiquitous since.I decided to watch it and it really felt like I had never seen it... and I understand why: it is so much of a marketing product and so little of a real movie with interesting characters, elaborate plot and timing. Well I watched it anyway and it turned out that I had already seen it since I previously had given it 4 stars on IMDb.I admit I have never seen it on the big screen. Not in 1993, neither when it was reissued in 3D (I seen dead species, but not 3D... like 40% of the people). I never bought the hype because I was never interested in dinosaurs, so that makes me a blank viewer who can tell the true quality of the movie. And quite frankly it is the worst Spielberg movie I have watched (I skipped Always, and couldn't sit through Hook). Actually I don't know where it takes a talented director to shoot this. Maybe in pre-production for the artistic and ground-breaking technical choices. But that is mostly a producing job. The story itself is weak (I haven't read the book but feel it's always a bad idea to let the writer chose what to keep or not i the script) and action feels disjointed as we cut to various places that end up feeling more like the shooting sets they are than like parts of the fantastic island we are shown during the outstanding helicopter trip.Why wasn't I more impressed by the CGI + animatronics? Maybe because I didn't run to watch it back in 1993 and 10 years later this was just commonplace SFX. And again the still pictures from the movie had been so publicised that I knew exactly what to expect.So I will maintain my 4/10 rating because of the technical work in it, but it really is a poor movie. Spielberg did an excellent job with poor SFX in Jaws, here he does an excellent job at getting the right amount and quality of SFX but forgets the job he dreamt of when he had his first Super-8 camera. He even soften the evil Dr Hammond who is mostly like him: he initially has a passion for what he does and wants to do good but gets overwhelmed by the business stakes and the fact that most people around him are sycophants blurting how good he is.


                
This makes me think why Jurassic Park has 8.8 in Metacritic. EVERY JURASSIC PARK movie has BAD writing. The first Jurassic Park is just predictable, has a lot of errors of continuity. The acting is just AWKWARD! The jokes are so terrible that you even don't know that it had. The movie needed a comedian to do the villain, A COMEDIAN! Not even close to the source material that was the novel. JP just made sucess for the special effects lmao. The first half is soooooo boring, and the suspense is soooo inexistent!


                
I first saw this movie in 1993 for one simple reason: DINOSAURS!  15 minutes into the film, I stood with Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill) and Dr Ellie Sattler (Laura Dern), craning my neck upwards to stare in awe at a 40-foot tall Brachiosaurus pulling leaves off the tops of eucalyptus trees.  For it's time, the special effects were astounding, and still are today.  But more important, they did their job, they left me feeling as though i had truly walked among dinosaurs.  I had seen them presented not as bizarre monsters, but simply as animals, as part of nature. I left the theater largely satisfied.Unfortunately, this movie fares much worse upon second viewing.  All the trademark Spielberg cliche's are brought out in full force: shafts of light penetrating smoke and mist; painful sequences of expository dialog, such as Dr. Grant's encounter with an obnoxious kid at a Dinosaur Dig in Montana; long, slow zoom-in shots of dumbstruck actors with astonished looks on their faces; overwrought action scenes in with even the suspense becomes tedious. The dialog is not even entertainingly campy, it's just plain awful.  In 1993 in a dark theater, the thrill of seeing a few minutes of these marvelous dinosaurs roaming the countryside vastly outweighed such annoyances. Chancing upon a viewing in a video store, or renting it for my son, the annoyances become just too distracting.John William's score is, as usual, tremendous.  The signature tune captures the sense of awe and majesty in gazing upon an animal that has not walked the earth for over 100 million years.  Of the cast, Richard Attenborough, Wayne Knight and Sam Jackson are the most satisfying.  I recommend this movie only if, like me, you just really really want to see dinosaurs. (4/10)


                
I suspect that the makers of Jurassic Park inserted a subliminal message into the film like "YOU MUST LOVE THIS MOVIE." or "SHUT YOUR BRAIN OFF!" or "PLOT AND DIALOGUE DONT MATTER!" since so many people seem to be under the illusion that this is a good movie--when it has some of the worst dialogue and annoying characters I have ever had to endure, and a non-existant story structure. Dinosaurs are cloned, but we get little sense of the moral issues surrounding this. We have no sympathy for the dinosaurs, nor do we have discernable villians to hate. Hammond is portrayed as a cruel industrialist one minute(when feeding the raptors), and a Daddy Warbucks the next(the hatching of the raptor). The scientists who did the sinful deeds are in the background, and we are left with a lawyer to hiss at! Some may say the Raptors are the villians, but this insults the Frankenstein mythos(since the raptors were created by humans). If there is any discernable moral to the story it is that Alan Grant goes from hating children to "kinda liking" them--which is amazing when considering the whiny brats he was stuck with.
But I could forgive the moral nihlism of the story if it wasnt for the hackneyed action of the narrative. A few humans running around for two hours, whining and gushing at the big dinos does not for great entertainment make. It lacked the imagination of King Kong, or the spectacle of Harryhausen's Gwangi effects work.


                
I really wanted to like this. It took me nine years before I finally got around to seeing it, and, well, I should have made it 50 more years, give or take a couple decades.Look, I'm not necessarily categorically against movies that are mostly a special effects extravaganza, but this is too damn much. This movie had NO POINT whatsoever. I was lead to believe early on that there would be some sort of "don't mess with Mother Nature" moral to the story. Instead, things went to hell strictly because of human greed, rather than as a direct result of us playing God.Did it have redeeming qualities? Yes, barely. Jeff Goldblum's hilarious character, for one, and a couple of all too rare decent child actors. Normally I would include the "general concept" as a redeeming quality, because I've always been good at filling in the blanks of a bad plot with my imagination, but there is a limit. Sometimes, the plot is so bad that all I can think about is how bad the plot is.Ah, well. Will I go rent JP II and III? Yes. Why? Sheer curiousity about how much further the special effects evolved.


                
Save for the charismatic presence of Sam Neill and Samuel Jackson, the only thing which makes this film worthwhile is the T-Rex and the fabulous legs of Laura Dern. Its a shame too, given that Steven Spielberg (hailed as the greatest American filmmaker ever it seems) had at his disposal revolutionary special effects and a very talented cast. In the end, this could have been a fantastic work, yet has the feel of just propping up a thin "story" to serve as a lean-to for the showcasing of brilliant CGI. As usual, the sound and visuals are incredible, but the scrip is nil. What happened to Spielberg along the route of his career? He gave us "Duel", an interesting project that delt with the issue of road rage when Americans didn't even know what the hell it was, directing an overtly simple storyline to convey the horrors a motorist faces on the highways. How did he accomplish this? He did it through character development. Yes, the real star of "Jaws" was not the shark- but the story, and the actors who brought that story to life- the same with "Close Encounters", the story was engaging amid the FX. Spielberg even made the diesel in "Duel" a living breathing character- too bad its such an unknown element in Jurassic Park.


                
All right, maybe I'm super picky because I used to aspire to be a paleontologist, but has anyone else noticed that almost every dinosaur in this movie is from the cretaceous period.  While I understand that "Cretaceous Park" is not the catchiest of titles, why couldn't they at least use dinosaurs from the Jurassic period if they were going to call it by the title they chose.  In any event, aside from dino details getting on my nerves, the movie wasn't any kind of steaming crap pile or anything.  I think my favorite thing about the movie is the soundtrack.  It has it's funny moments, i.e. (when the guy gets eaten off the toilet, etc.), and it's rather suspenseful moments with the raptors.  Overall, I enjoyed it when I was a kid, (except for little things like the fact that I knew that velociraptors were the size of chickens), but now, having gotten a little older it doesn't quite excite me the way it used to.  It's a decent movie for what it's worth, but nothing too incredibly special.


                
