With Jurassic Park, director Steven Spielberg made a film that became the new yardstick for cinematic special effects back in 1993. In fact, the ground-breaking CGI work used here to bring dinosaurs to life before our eyes is still very impressive over twenty years after its release, so you can only imagine the impact that they had back in the day. Truthfully, the effects work is by far the most impressive thing about this one, as it has a fairly by-the-numbers story-line populated with clichéd characters. A select group of people are invited to an island retreat owned by a millionaire who has been able to recreate living dinosaurs from ancient DNA. It's here that he intends to give an early tour of his planned new resort, Jurassic Park; the trouble is that things go wrong and the dinosaurs go on the rampage.This was adapted from a Michael Crichton novel of the same name. I've read the book and seem to think that the novel and film are at the very least broadly similar. It's the second film from the pen of Crichton based on the very specific sci-fi idea of a futuristic high-tech amusement park going fatally wrong, leaving the humans to battle the dangerous inhabitants of the park; the other film of course was Westworld (1973), where it was deadly androids who filled the same roles as the dinosaurs do here. Both films speculate on questions regarding the dangers of man tampering with science in careless ways. For me Westworld is the better film but I do still enjoy Spielberg's dinosaur blockbuster. The effects work are worth the price of admission alone of course but the story-line and characters, while being extremely standard, do still get us from A to B and allow us to seamlessly experience the deadly wonders on hand in the park. It's a pretty solidly entertaining piece on the whole and one of Spielberg's better out-and-out popcorn movies.


                
JURASSIC PARK was released with a massive publicity campaign and went on to make a massive profit at the box office and unlike the majority of over hyped blockbusters ( Hello Harry Potter ) this movie deserved every cent it made from cinema goers . There`s only two things I can criticise
1 ) I have no idea where John Hammond comes from but it`s not Scotland . Strangely enough Richard Attenborough has a holiday cottage on the Isle Of Bute . If he needed a voice coach to master a Scottish accent all he had to do was ask me 2 ) A big game hunter . Forgive me for asking but hasn`t it been illegal to go around shooting elephants and lions and tigers for many , many years ? Shouldn`t this great white hunter be aged about 80 years old
I* can forgive the above because this is top notch entertainment with absolutely flawless technical aspects and most of it was achieved via CGI . Strange that the computer generated images of this 1993 movie are far better than the effects of latter movies , compare it with all these Stephen Sommer movies to see what I mean . Perhaps it`s also a good idea to compare them with all those old movies whose dinosaur effects are done by sticking a fin on a lizard There is a very one very thoughtful scene amongst all the lizard excitement and that`s the scene where Henry Wu explains the process of how scientists have resurrected dinosuars . It`s a beautifully written , beautifully acted scene that in the context of the story is the greatest success in the history of human science , greater than even going to the moon and back again . It would be very easy - And very careless - for the movie makers to forget what the scientific endeavour involves but here Spielberg reminds both the characters and the audience that even the most blase scientist should feel pride in bringing back a species of animal extinct for many millions of years . It`s this scene that stops JURASSIC PARK being just another FX laden Summer blockbuster and lends credibility to an already exciting story


                
Jurassic Park is an unforgettable cinematic experience that has no equal anywhere. Step back into an age where dinosaurs walked the earth. A truly great film with clever conversation,important themes alongside edge-of-your seat action and a gripping tale. This is the real deal.The classic is always the best....irrespective of how much better the graphics get in newer movies in the series. Spielberg's direction makes all the difference. A phenomenally successful sci-fi adventure thriller is graced by state-of-the-art special effects. The film follows two dinosaur experts -- Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill) and Dr. Ellie Sattler (Laura Dern) -- as they are invited by eccentric millionaire John Hammond (Richard Attenborough) to preview his new amusement park on an island off Costa Rica. FYI, after 25 months,filming was re-located to the Hawaiian island of Kauai and began on August 24,1992 due to Spielberg's concerns on infrastructure and accessibility.By cloning DNA harvested from pre-historic insects, Hammond has been able to create living dinosaurs for his new Jurassic Park, an immense animal preserve housing real brachiosaurs, dilophosaurs, triceratops, velociraptors, and a Tyrannosaur Rex. Accompanied by cynical scientist Ian Malcolm (Jeff Goldblum), who is obsessed with chaos theory, and Hammond's two grandchildren, they are sent on a tour through Hammond's new resort in computer controlled touring cars. But as a tropical storm hits the island, knocking out the power supply, and an unscrupulous employee sabotages the system so that he can smuggle dinosaur embryos out of the park, the dinosaurs start to rage out of control. Grant then has to bring Hammond's grandchildren back to safety as the group is pursued by the gigantic man-eating beasts. Even though it was adapted from a book, this unique story was destined to become an incredible film. Great casting, excellent acting, awesome special effects,superior directing. Steven Spielberg made this story a landmark standard for thriller films to be compared to. The instant classic scenes, such as the first time they see the dinosaurs, the kitchen scene with the raptors, the end scene with the raptors and the T-Rex, the scene with the T-Rex and the kids in the jeep, and of course the unforgettable scene when the T-Rex chases the jeep.
The very concept of dinosaurs coming back to life is so fascinating that "Jurassic Park" had the potential to be one of the best movies ever. At minimum, it should have earned a 10 rating.Unfortunately, director Steven Spielberg and the writers did not spend enough time teaching us <U+0096> perhaps, via the film's children <U+0096> about dinosaurs. Instead, there are too many dumbing-down scenes with dinosaurs relentlessly hunting people and humans doing all sorts of incredible gymnastics to stay alive.On the plus side, the movie has several "wow" moments involving gentle dinosaurs. The special effects are tremendous. When the characters first saw dinosaurs on the island near Costa Rica, I felt as awestruck as they did. Later, we see a dinosaur born in a lab, Laura Dern's character helping a sick dinosaur, a dinosaur eating plants a few feet away from Sam Neill's character and the two children, and dozens of gazelle-like dinosaurs sprinting away from a massive meat-eating predator. These scenes were spectacular.There are also a couple of interesting scenes focusing on the mean carnivorous dinosaurs. But, the meat eaters just don't stop chasing the humans. The action goes on and on and on. The longer these scenes go on, the more "Jurassic" evolves from a fascinating science fiction story into a trite action-adventure.I'm for action-adventure, and liked that the plot included a greedy computer expert played by Newman of "Seinfeld" conspiring to steal dinosaur DNA. Newman's comeuppance was enjoyable, and "Jurassic" was better because his behavior caused the dinosaurs to escape from their habitats and go after innocent people.But, there were many times that I wanted the pace to slow down and listen to the dinosaur experts played by Dern and Neill discuss the various species of dinosaurs. I also wanted to see more scenes with different species interacting with each other, more everyday scenes of dinosaurs doing whatever dinosaurs do, and even more scenes of the people interacting with the gentle dinosaurs.Spielberg, I think, missed a wonderful opportunity to educate the public in an entertaining way. An excellent movie would have balanced education and entertainment, but "Jurassic" took a mid-story turn toward entertainment, and I wasn't particularly entertained.The dinosaurs the movie focused on were more like people obsessed with winning. As far as I know, animals chase their prey, succeed or fail, and then look for other prey. They don't fail, but then spend hours looking for the prey that escaped from them instead of looking for other prey. If dinosaurs are that smart, I would have liked to hear the dinosaur experts discuss what else they could do.Spielberg deserves credit for inserting personal touches in the middle of his action-adventure and developing the Neill character from a child-hater into a child-lover although his quick transformation was a bit implausible. I also liked the comic relief of Jeff Goldblum's character, but the writers needed to explain better why a statistical theorist/philosopher was in the movie in the first place.I also think that the Richard Attenborough character was too much like the Dr. Frankenstein character. Here, was a brilliant entrepreneur who spent years pursuing his dream of re-creating life. Then, as soon as his experiment goes awry, he <U+0096> like Frankenstein <U+0096> wants to abandon his dream. The ending would have been better if viewers were left thinking about whether dinosaurs coming back to life was a good or bad thing instead of watching a black-and-white anti-dinosaur position.I cast an 8 for "Jurassic Park" when I initially voted on it, but the more I think and write about it, the more I conclude it deserves a 7 instead because it really missed an opportunity to be great.ZWrite
"There is no unauthorised breeding in Jurassic Park." - Dr. Woo "Jurassic Park" has been compared to "Jaws" ("Jaws" was actually a rip-off of "Creature From The Black Lagoon", down to the stealing of the "duh duh duh" soundtrack and several scenes, shot for shot) but thematically it's actually the opposite. Michael Crichton's "Jurassic Park" is based upon an earlier film which he wrote called "Westworld", in which an amusement park's stable of robots escaped their planned systems of control and murdered all the park's visitors.While "Westworld" dealt with cybernetics, "Jurassic Park" takes genetic engineering and develops it within the context of 2 contrasting world views. Crichton takes the classical scientific notion of a mechanistic universe, in which everything is predictable and subject to physical laws, and plays it off against the newly emerging dynamical systems theory, also known as Chaos theory.In Crichton's book, the mechanistic view comes off as an inadequate strategy of approaching the living world, which is constantly moving, in flux and widely unpredictable. According to Chaos theory, the world is a shifting pattern of processes and vibrations, all interlaced to form a complex mosaic of nature in which figures can't be isolated or removed. The dinosaurs of "Jurassic Park" are genetic reconstructions of species which have already been removed from the global environment. Crichton's book contrasts the mechanistic world of the scientists - their technology, computers, predictions and simulations - with the raw force of nature, wild and ever adapting. His characters keep trying to predict and cater for the beasts, but their computers simply don't have the brainpower to foresee what will happen next. The plot's essentially an update of Shelley's "Frankenstein"; Nature and Science too complex for the arrogant hands of man.Spielberg's film is mostly devoid of all this stuff, and instead plays like a straightforward adventure movie. It's a cross between "Frankenstein" and "King Kong", with several iconic action set pieces and some memorable CGI work sprinkled about.Note that Spielberg ends the film just as Melville ends "Moby Dick", the crash of the T-Rex's tail echoing the crash of the whale as it destroys Ahab's ship. Both the Melville and Crichton stories are a direct contrast to "Jaws", which was a classical dragon slayer story in which our hero slays the monster and emerges triumphant. In "Jurassic Park" it is nature who wins, and the humans are forced to flee the island. In "Jaws", the humans conquer nature, tame it, and claim the beaches for themselves.The dragon slayer myth ("Jaws") is the underlying myth of the mechanistic view of the universe. It spans across folk like Descartes and Francis Bacon, who saw "science" and "man" as "masculinizing" forces who tame a feminized nature with the awesome "laws" of man. "Jurrasic Park", however, is the opposite, and shows what happens when such a mechanistic view of nature serves as the basis for removing a particular species from their environment as though they were mere atoms.Less talked about are the film's weird gender games and visual gags. Perhaps the best (you have to read the books to get this joke) is a moment of foreshadowing which occurs early on, when a nervous Dr. Grant struggles to connect two female seat belt couplings. The park's dinosaurs have similarly been neutered, yet, as Grant later shows by tying two identical seat-belt parts together, nature always finds a way. Significantly, while men wreak and receive havoc, no females are killed in the film. Ellie, the film's female human hero, even jokes about God making man, man making dinosaurs, dinosaurs eating man and women inheriting the earth. While a joke, it signals to the viewer just who actually controls creation in the film. Men and science may have co-opted the process, but women/Nature still remain the ultimate power in creative process. Like "Aliens", you then have an alignment of the beasts, the dinosaurs, with an unhinged Femininity, and a wild, feminine Nature. In this way the film goes on to perpetuate a very 17th century form of sexism and gender bias: Man is lord of the realm of order, control and science, while woman - in her strangeness, her mystery - is mistress of calamity, destruction and the wilderness, the jungle and womb conflated. Unlike "Aliens", though, Spielberg has his Queens survive with roars of triumph. The men leave with their tails between their legs8/10 - Spielberg essentially reduced a complex and interesting techno-thriller into another Indiana Jones movie (Sam Niel even resembles Dr Jones). It's very lightweight, and Spielberg's dinosaur attacks are crass, but the film's also slick and exciting at times.After "Jaws" and "Close Encounters", Spielberg's "popcorn" films got increasingly cartoonish. The fully fleshed characters of his earlier thrillers (Martin Brody, Roy Neary etc) are replaced with cardboard heroes. Spielberg's justification, I suspect, is that he now began making "serious" pictures which he feels better warrant depth and characterisation. Worth multiple viewings.
I'm amazed how badly this film has aged - it's only been six years.  I enjoyed it back in 1993, but on seeing it again last night all manner of uncharitable thoughts kept popping into my head, chief among them the impression that Spielberg, who had lavished so much effort on `Jaws', just wasn't trying.The dinosaur mystique is hard for me to understand.  Sure, they're fantastic beasties, but so are many other extinct animals; and if I had a choice I'd rather pay to see a mammoth, or a giant wombat, or a tiny Eocene horse.  But PART of the dinosaur mystique is bound up with the idea of a lost world. That's what really thrills people about `King Kong'.  The island Spielberg's dinosaurs occupy, by contrast, is prosaic and modern.  No doubt it was a deliberate artistic decision to combine dinosaurs with cars, electric fences, cafés and air vents, but it's hard to find two consecutive shots that don't remind us of the modern world in some way, most of the charm of the creatures is thereby lost.  This is the more inexcusable in a film that throws everything else to the winds - story, character, wit, plausibility - to concentrate on the strangely attractive flavour of dinosaurs.As for the dinosaurs ... Some time before `Jurassic Park' there was the Cambrian explosion, when all manner of special effects techniques proliferated; after `Jurassic Park' all, with the exception of computer animation, became extinct, or virtually extinct.  It's not the film's fault. Most of the dinosaurs on display did NOT originate in the belly of a computer; those that did look neither better nor worse than those that did not.  The computer animation is more than adequate but charmless, with something subtly but deeply wrong - exactly like all subsequent computer animation.  The art hasn't progressed.  `Jurassic Park' is still as good as it gets.So far, so bland: what's intolerable is the preaching.  This was the only thing that irritated me in 1993 and it irritates me more now.  The moral of the story, with which we are repeatedly bludgeoned, is twofold: (a) people who think they don't like children are either mistaken or villains, in either case in need of therapy; and (b) man should not play God - any attempt to develop some biological science will strike us down, because of chaos theory, or quantum mechanics, or some such.  This is all piffle.  But it's not the ridiculous messages that annoys me: it's the fact that I'm being preached to AT ALL, and so clumsily.  (Did you, too, develop a desire to throttle Jeff Goldblum in mid-speech?  I hope so.)  `Jaws' didn't pretend that it was a statement about how we will be struck down by divine anger if we arrogantly disregard nature and go swimming at the beach.


                
This is a terrific movie with an underlying message: things are the way they are for a good reason.  I first saw it in the cinema in 1993 and loved every minute.  Since then I've tried to watch it every time it's come on TV and have three copies on video (the first two got eaten, velociraptor style, by my partner's VCR). I still love the film's unashamed sense of wonder, personified by several characters including the eccentric John Hammond, and its sense of humour (who, having seen this film, could forget Dr. Malcolm?). Take it from me (and doubtless quite a few others), this film is DEFINITELY worth watching.


                
Like most kids back in 1993, I couldn't wait to see Jurassic Park. The fact that I was already interested in Dinosaurs made the film even more of a holy grail. Jurassic Park was the film that dreams were made of for yours truly, and despite my massively over-inflated expectations - the film really DID deliver. I saw it in cinema several times, and, at the time, couldn't ever see anything topping Jurassic Park. Of course, this was just the simple view of a child and, having seen many other films by now, as well as several subsequent viewings of this one; it's clear that this isn't the film that I once thought it was. But don't get me wrong - the fact that I now understand that films do indeed get better than this don't mean that Jurassic Park isn't a brilliantly well sculpted piece of entertainment. The plot is taken from the Michael Crichton book of the same title, and follows a new theme park, where the attractions are Dinosaurs. We follow a group made up of palaeontologists, other experts and the owner's children as they visit the park. Naturally, everything goes wrong and the lot of them are thrust into the world of the dinosaurs! Steven Spielberg can win a million Oscars for Schindler's List, but it doesn't change the fact that entertainment is his forte when it comes to film-making. The debate as to whether or not he's a great director can rage, but he definitely does know how to entertain if nothing else - and he shows that brilliantly with this film. The build up to the main action can be a little dull at times, but you're always on the edge of your seat due to the fact that you know it's not going to be all rosy. The film really comes together in the scene that sees the 'king' of the dinosaurs - the Tyrannosaurus Rex break free from it's cage. This scene is incredibly well directed - so much so that the rest of the movie never comes close to outdoing it. Spielberg tends to cast his movies with likable actors, and he's done that here. This does make the movie easy to like, but the resoundingly 'good' characters are often as flat as something that the T-Rex has stood on, and that doesn't do the movie any favours. I'm a big hater of CGI - except when it's done well, and I've got to say that it largely is here. Some scenes look very fake indeed, but the monster effects give it an old-school monster flick feel, and to be honest I'm glad that not all the dinosaurs look absolutely great. On the whole - this wont impress the people looking for great acting and the like; but Jurassic Park really is a first rate thriller, and if you like your films to be fun - you'll like Jurassic Park.


                
*****Warning, Spoilers*****Jurassic Park, a movie about a theme park, really is a theme park ride in itself. There's no doubt the stars of the film are the dinosaurs, rather than the actors (indeed, by saving Sam Neil and co from the Raptors at the end of the film, the T-Rex is revealed to be the hero of the story), and Steven Spielberg uses all his expertise to showcase the remarkable creations of Stan Winston and ILM. 10 years on, the CG still looks great - obviously a quantum leap over earlier efforts from the likes of the Abyss and Terminator 2, but what's remarkable is how good it looks compared to more recent efforts. The Dinosaurs look completely realistic, lacking the cartoonish quality alot of recent CG has. Clearly a huge amount of care went into making the creatures seem like living, thinking animals. Credit must also go to Stan Winston for his fantastic animatronics - the sick Triceratops in particular is brilliant.While this film lacks the heart of some of his other work, it's clear that few directors can do an action-adventure movie as well as  Spielberg. I wasn't born when Jaws came out, but I can clearly remember my reaction in the cinema when I saw Jurassic Park 10 years ago, and I imagine that audiences in 1975 would have reacted in the same way - pressed back into the seat, heart pounding as, in this case the T-Rex pounds relentlessly after the heroes. Spielberg builds up the tension in these scenes masterfully, with the vibrations on the surface of the glass of water performing the same role as John Williams score in Jaws - letting the audience that something huge and extremely nasty will be appearing imminently. Speaking of John Williams, he of course turns in yet another instantly catchy score, even if its not quite on the same level as Star Wars and Raiders of the Lost Ark.In terms of performances, there's nothing particularly wrong with the film - Sam Neil, Laura Dern and the rest give perfectly creditable performances, but only Jeff Goldblum really rises above the ordinary, in part due to his character having all the best lines ("that is one big pile of Sh*t"). Where the film does fall down is in the inclusion of the awful annoying kids. Timmy in particular is like a prototype for Anakin Skywalker in The Phantom Menace, although admittedly Joseph Mazzello is a way better actor than Jake Lloyd. There was a time when Spielberg, and George Lucas for that matter, made blockbusters that didn't pull their punches, and appealed to millions of kids in doing so. Now it seems family entertainment means cute 8 year old heroes and FBI agents carrying walkie talkies instead of guns. Oh, well.In summary Jurassic Park lacks the soul to be considered an all time great, but is still fantastic popcorn entertainment with some brilliant special effects.Rating - 7/10
A real good sci-fi movie. Surely the best one of the three "Jurassic" series.Despite the astounding special effects this movie has also an interesting story.


                
Based on R1 DVD 122 minWell above average sci-fi action movie. Sam Neill (Dr. Alan Grant) is near perfect for the part of the hands on scientist, Richard Attenborough (John Parker "spared no expense " Hammond)is a delight. The kids are good but one has to wonder why Jeff Goldblum (Dr. Ian Malcolm) bothered to turn up at all.7/10 well worth watching


                
I recently finished reading the novel and I thought that I would watch and review the film to see how the two compared. I think that the film was paced a lot more evenly. It cut out a lot of the novel's clunky exposition and development. The supporting cast were also great from Wayne Knight as the corrupt Denis Nedry to Samuel L. Jackson as Ray Arnold. The film balanced the scientific and action segments. Never at any point did it feel like one dominated the other. I also much preferred the film's presentation of John Hammond. Now only if the dinosaurs had eaten those annoying as hell kids.Read my full review here: http://goo.gl/dM0Llf


                
This film tells the story of John Hammond, an eccentric millionaire, and his dream of creating a theme park with living dinosaurs, recreated from the remains of its former genetic material. But the park becomes out of control due to a sabotage act who will put everyone in danger.This film is one of the most remarkable of Steven Spielberg, helping the director to consolidate his career and reputation in films outside of the sci-fi genre. And there is no doubt that this is an excellent film, with an innovative script which exploits a theme little-seen in the movies of that era: the dinosaurs. Also the pseudo-scientific theories used to give logic to the act of "recreating" these animals are interesting, almost making the audience believe that could be possible in real life. The subject of cloning was controversial at the time and was a bit fashionable because of some investigations that had been made recently in this field. In addition to the skill and talent of Spielberg as director and screenwriter, also have a good cast of actors, headed by Sam Neill, Laura Dern and Jeff Goldblum in the main roles, a group of paleontologists and scholars who visited the theme park before he is officially allowed to open to the public. Richard Attenborough, the extraordinary English actor, also comes in this film, playing the naive and dreamy Mr. Hammond.This film was a huge success in the nineties. I was a child at the time but, like many others of my generation, I lived the magic of the dinosaurs, which became fashionable thanks to this film. Moreover, we still feel a special attraction for these animals, we have never seen or know exactly how they were, but we wanted to know better. For this, and for the suspense that the film provides, this is a movie that deserves to be in our living room.


                
The visual effects really are the star of the show here. The audiences continued fascination with dinosaurs has made this film a hit. Aside from the effects and CGI this film is pretty tired. There is no character development and the adults behave just like the children which seems a little strange. There isn't a lot of personality here and when the Dinosaurs are not on display it tends to be a bit boring with very one dimensional characters. I remember at the time expecting way more from Steven Spielberg and his amazing Directing abilities from his previous films, JAWS and close encounters to name a few. If CGI is your thing and animatronics are fascinating for you then this is your film. If you are looking for a tight little story with great characters, not so much. Overall it's a pretty inoffensive film so watch and enjoy.


                
I would say this is a pretty solid movie.....it's got a little bit of everything... Science fiction, suspense, drama, comedy, romance....it's got it all. Definitely a classic. The computerized graphics on this one is pretty good considering the year it was released. However it might not stand the test of time. As far as the story, It grips you right from the start. And keeps you in suspense the entire movie. Decent acting all the way around...so I can't complain too much there. Don't bother too much with the sequels...they get worse as they go. Definitely not as good as the original.So to sum up...this one's good for the whole family!


                
I won't go on and on about the brilliance of the special effects or how amazing the dinosaurs were, because there's not much disagreement about that. The T-Rex is one of the coolest things you will ever see, and the raptors are absolutely chilling in their intelligence and agility. Your heart will definitely pound if you've never seen it before. It'll probably pound if you have too.I have seen some complaints about the script/characters/acting however, and disagree with them for the most part. There's a truly interesting array of characters in this film. Dr. Alan Grant and Dr. Ellie Sattler, a paleontologist and paleobotanist bring so much heart to this movie. The scene where they see the real live brachiasaurus for the first time after dedicating their lives to digging up fossils and making interpretations about their behavior blows me away every time. Their awe and academic excitement is very touching, and combined with John Williams' perfect score, this scene truly is my favorite.The way Grant is unable to even stand up because of the shock is very endearing. And later on in the movie, after witnessing deaths due to these creatures, the change seen in Grant as he throws away the raptor claw he always kept with him is powerful. His relationship with the two children visiting the park develops in a sweet way as well as he goes from being highly annoyed by their presence to risking his life to protect them when no one else can.In contrast to the paleontologists, Jeff Goldblum gives a great performance as Dr. Ian Malcolm, an arrogant, sarcastic and very amusing mathematician who studies Chaos Theory, and believes from the start that Jurassic Park is doomed to fail. He's highly opinionated, a little on the rude side and a blatant flirt but he brings a lot of life to the film and despite his quirks is the voice of reason.John Hammond, the millionaire responsible for creating Jurassic Park also gives a fascinating performance. For those of you who've read the novel, he is a somewhat more sympathetic character than the money hungry Hammond of the book. He is definitely stubborn and infuriating as he refuses to see the horrible danger of what he's doing, but he is doing it with a kindness and desire to bring joy to people's lives, and displays an eventual humility that makes him likable.
This was a great and classic film which the world will remember. This is truly some of Spielberg's greatest work and I couldn't love it more. Jurassic Park is one of the three movies in the Jurassic Park trilogy. Jurassic Park is about John Hammond a dinosaur enthusiast who constructs a dinosaur theme park with living biological attractions. These are no animatronic animals but dinosaurs that are created to live and breath the air of man. As usual their is a dark side to every fantasy and the dream is threatened when the park systems break down, all hell breaks loose leaving the tourists and workers left for survival. Their are some great scenes with great uses of CGI and animatronic dinosaurs along with some extraordinary performances, cinematography all in this compelling adventure film.


                
Sam Neill, Laura Dern, Jeff Goldblum, Joseph Mazzello, Ariana Richards and Richard Attenborough star in Steven Spielberg's 1993 sci-fi adventure based on the novel. Neill (In the Mouth of Madness) plays scientist, Alan Grant who is asked to come to Jurassic Park, a Science Theme Park for tourists owned by mogul, John Hammond (Attenborough). Dern plays his assistant & girlfriend, Ellie Sattler who accompanies him and they're joined by other scientist, Ian Malcolm (Goldblum) to study the breakthrough of Dinosaur DNA regeneration. After a computer system malfunction, they find themselves fleeing from destructive, meat-eating dinosaurs and try to survive. Mazzello (The River Wild) and Richards play Hammond's grandchildren, Tim and Lex. Samuel L. Jackson (Pulp Fiction) and Wayne Knight (Space Jam) also appear. This is a good flick with a decent cast, neat effects, some thrilling moments & a great score by John Williams as usual. I recommend this.
Thanks to the 3D release I could watch this movie on a big screen again. A good movie should resist the passing of time, as in this case. It's visual effects still work, but the important thing is that the suspense still works.Spielberg's movies are always done by the book, and the fact that in this one he doesn't takes advantage of sentimentalism as shamelessly as usual improves the result. The only flaw (or the most significant) is the hilarious ending with the "heroic" T-Rex's appearance as a deus est machina and the falling flag.The best thing is the treatment of the "villain(s)", also by the book: we are told about the velociraptor since the beginning of the movie and it becomes a threatening presence that doesn't reveal itself until the second half of the movie. As in Jaws, things that we don't see are much more scary.
I remember attending the first screening for Jurassic Park in the 90s and there was much hype about this bigger than life theatrical experience. 20 years later it seems like a time capsule from the 90s. The 3D experience does enhance a few scenes but overall the movie seems a bit dated. Interesting about all these movies in the past that were look into the future missed the entire cell phone craze. Some of the scenes where DNA sequences are manipulated have turned into true modern science. Our expectations are more than was delivered in the special effects but it was nostalgic to catch glimpses of these young stars, especially a very young Samuel Jackson. The movie is about the ultimate theme park composed of Dinosaurs but oh no suddenly something goes wrong. Based on a novel by Michael Crichton and is produced by Kathleen Kennedy and Gerald Molen and directed by Stephen Spielberg. So if you want a trip to the 90s with funky colored glasses then this is the movie for you.


                
When one looks back at the evolution of movies, Jurassic Park has to be on the list. It is not the greatest movie ever made, but it was THE groundbreaking movie on the 1990s on the special effects front. This was the first mass-marketed, studio produced movie to use computer generated creatures, creatures who were seamlessly inserted into a live action movie. Special effects we take for granted now were pioneered by Steven Spielberg and his crew of special effect artists in Jurassic Park. The movie requires fantastic special effects, the story based on the Michael Crichton book by the same name about genetic engineers bringing dinosaurs back to life 65 million years after they died out. The story is pretty much the standard scary creature movie, as the dinosaurs chase people, eat people, scare people, but is still entertaining through the effort of Spielberg. The tension created through the various scenes in the movie and the real-life quality of the dinosaurs. Herky-jerky, fake dinosaurs would not be real-enough for the audiences, diminishing the tension that is created by dinosaurs chasing the characters in the movie. A fun science fiction story is turned into an almost life-like dinosaur chaser movie because of the revolutionary special effects seen in Jurassic Park.


                
"Jurassic Park" is an entertaining and occasionally inspired movie directed by Steven Spielberg, based on the novel by Michael Crichton.To my mind this is a very good popcorn flick, with occasional flashes of inspiration. The CGI work, which still holds up decently today, is stunning and groundbreaking stuff for the early 90's. Spielberg directs with a deft hand, and the action never lets up.If I had any complaint, it would be that the acting (except for Goldblum and Attenborough) is merely average -- in particular, the usual weaknesses involved with child actors applies here. Also, the movie is long on popcorn action and relatively short on brains... the subjects of cloning, ecology and paleontology are lightly and briefly touched upon but that's it (if you want more in this area I'd suggest reading Crichton's book, which is quite good).Overall this movie is worthwhile, and easily one of Spielberg's stronger films. Recommended for rental or purchase, kids will love it.


                
Jurassic Park is really good .
Jurassic Park is so good. This is the best. The dinosaurs is so good realized. I think that the movie is the most amazing that I have never seen in my life. The character play very good. My brother thinks that the film is boring, I disagree. This film is not boring. The action and scene is really fun.
If you like fantastic and action movie, you should watch Jurassic Park. Jurassic Park is not a boring
film. You should watch this film. This is so good.


                
Why the severe disdain for this film? Is it as good as the Spielberg films? No, but it doesn't try to be. Also- look at it from the filmmaker's perspective: You know this film is about dinosaurs chasing people, most of the cast is returning meaning they don't need to chart the backstory or waste time with character development. And this is what JP3 is- a taunt 90 odd minute thrill ride. The Dinos look great, the lush locations always impress and the pacing of the film is so good you'd be hard pressed to find where the time went. This is a good film and if you like the JP series or just love Dinosaurs you should watch Jurassic Park 3.


                
This good (yes, good) film is, well, overrated. Sure, the visuals are great, the dinosaurs are treated as intelligent creatures unlike how most of them were treated in the sequels, but the script, at times, is uneven. There were parts the bored me. Overall, anyone can enjoy it, I just think that the film is slightly overrated


                
