when i saw this movie for the first time i felt very curiosity by seeing those dinosaurs and all. This is perhaps the best movie ever made in Hollywood about historic stone age ,where human beings aren't still evolved on this planet. I got surprised because i thought that how Steven Spielberg got that idea that in this modern world , how can we again recreate dinosaurs which are extinct long back many thousands of years ago. coming to the movie, when i had seen this movie on screen, really i was felt very happy to see those many special effects in this film. really , it was a great job done by director and all technicians who worked for this film. And this movie had also broken many box office records upon release and soon it became the highest grossing film in history at that time.


                
The biggest attraction of this film back in 1993, of course, was the realistic computer graphic animation of the dinosaurs by SGI coupled with the realistic sound effects and the good use of suspense built around them both.After I first saw this movie in the theatre 24 years ago, I laid in bed awake for hours, not from fright, but from the lingering excitement of the entire experience. Up to that time, nothing like it had ever been done on that scale. This is hard to remember when, since then, the Discovery Channel came up with the whole "Walking with ..." series of documentaries on dinosaurs, early man, and creatures before the dinosaur that use the same techniques that this film did, and thus people have become accustomed to this level of realism in animation both on the small and large screen.Thus with the "shock value" of the animation removed, this movie doesn't seem quite as "5-star" as it did during its first run. The dialogue, in particular, seems a bit thin now. One aspect of the movie that still impresses me that doesn't get much mention is the outstanding use of sound and sound effects. For example, when the T-Rex first appears in the movie, it is not just the sight of the thing that terrifies, but its tremendous roar. It is still great action adventure viewing for the entire family.


                
Jurassic Park is one of the greatest movies of all times! When the movie was made, I was 7 years old, and until the present days (2005) I think it is a fascinating film,who deserved more then the 3 Oscars won. I love the special effects, who makes all the dinosaurs looks so real and close to us, humans. Sam Neill is so impeccable as professor Alan and Jeff Goldblum is great too. I can say that I started to be more interested about the dinosaurs after this film,reading about some of them in some books and websites. Other thing very important about this movie, is to think about cloning and the consequences behind of it; I mean,one of the news I read those days, was about some scientists that found the corpse of a mammoth in a good state and already think about cloning it. Looks that we need to pay more attention in Jurassic Park's warnings.
I still remember this movie was among my first Hollywood movies to be seen on television. I always like the sci-fi take (here getting DNA and bringing up lost species, marking area, carnivores-herbivores, violent nature of certain species and so on) in these sorts of movies. The other movie that comes this close to the above description when it comes to my thoughts is Godzilla.I rate it a point less only because I disliked the destruction of park - supporting script, else it deserves full marks for the scientific elements it has got.


                
More classic 90s , Jurassic Park is far superior to Jurassic World, Spielberg direction is great, the cast is very good and the special effects are sensational for the time, the film is a great adventure , full of great moments such as example the T -Rex chasing the car , the acting is good , and the film is full of insufferable characters , the soundtrack is excellent, John Williams is most excellent work, the picture is good , the script has some problems , and the pace is medium , the film improves only there after an hour of film, unfortunately the proceedings of Jurassic Park were weak , taking Jurassic World which is an average movie , I recommend this classic for those who never attended. Note 8,5


                
Before starting, let me ask you: doesn't a premise about a park attraction of genetically recreated dinosaurs on an island which is about to turn deadly sound exciting? For me it surely does and it should for you too. Now let's talk about my opinion on Jurassic Park. To start off with, I find Jurassic Park to be a hearty, thrilling (and compelling), thought-provocative and creative motion picture. Not only that, but I also find that Jurassic Park has a powerful attention for details because the way all the dinosaurs from the movie look, move, behave, react and sound is absolutely credible, life-like and realistic to how the dinosaurs might have been or probably were like in real life. There is no doubt about it. Furthermore, we are being happily given enough scenes featuring the fiercest dinosaurs ever to have ruled the earth: the smart Velociraptors and the mighty and powerful T- Rex. The leading characters from the movie deliver fine acting. The by- polar personalities of paleontologist Alan Grant and botanist Ellie Sattler are interesting, including those of the two kids characters. Moreover, Spielberg delivers an irresistible and strong sense of terror, beautifully sustained awe and a beautiful sense of grace. The movie did not entirely satisfy me however and I hate to say such a thing because of what Jurassic Park is specifically about and by whom it is specifically directed by (but of course I must be an honest critic). The movie's big problem is that it somewhat lacks a dramatic structure and deviates from what happens in the novel the movie is based on. What's more, the T-Rex-chasing-jeep scene had no visceral feel for me whatsoever. I have to say that I'm extremely disappointed about all of this. Now let's conclude my review. Mr. Spielberg, one word for you: thank you very much for the wonderful, if not entirely well handled, ride. My rating for Jurassic Park is 8.1/10


                
Jurassic Park (1993): Dir: Steven Spielberg / Cast: Sam Neill, Laura Dern, Jeff Goldblum, Richard Attenborough, Wayne Knight: Breakthrough film for director Steven Spielberg who brings prehistoric creatures to life in what can only be described as a brilliant technical advancement. The title represents the old and the new where Richard Attenborough establishes a theme park where dinosaurs roam wild thanks to cloning prehistoric D.N.A. He brings in a research team, most of whom will become lunch to creatures unimagined. Inappropriate marketing to families featuring frightening and graphic scenes. Great concept with heart pounding suspense and a triumphant climax. The cast mainly play out characters whom are nothing more than what's on the menu. Sam Neill is strong in his position of protecting two children as well as present narrative insight. Laura Dern plays the second smartest character in her search and rescue attempts as well as struggle with the power. Jeff Goldblum as a mathematician is given funny lines but illogical decisions that land him an injury. Attenborough's theme park owner is a joke and really needs heavy medicine and psychiatry. Wayne Knight plays a villain who makes a failed attempt to steal the DNA. Spielberg created broader characters in Jaws, however this still remains a landmark film that excels in brilliant technical advancement. Score: 8 ½ / 10
Part of me wonders if this movie would've had such an impact on me were I just a bit older back in 1993. At its heart, "Jurassic Park" is really just a monster movie, but it rides high on Spielberg as the master showman; it plays like an amusement park full of impressive effects and plenty of scares. In one scene, he takes the vibe from wonder to dead to horror, and I still appreciate that as a much older adult; same for the CGI, which is used perfectly as a tool (and still holds up for that reason). I can't say whether the science is accurate (though I still think it's cool), but the thrills deliver and the cast is good (letting the smartass Goldblum steal every scene). There's a reason why "Jurassic Park" owned the Summer of '93 and it's right there on the screen. 8/10


                
Jurassic Park takes place during a preview tour, a theme park suffers a major power breakdown that allows its cloned dinosaur exhibits to run amok. A film unlike no other that was brought to us by the mastermind himself, Steven Spielberg was truly a grand experience to truly be reckon with. We are brought into a world of adventure and enlightenment where people are so highly intelligent to think up a possibly solution to bring back highbred dinosaurs for people's amusement. What Spielberg gives us is a plot so original and unique that's it's so ruff to see what's coming next in the scene ahead, we get so much awe-inspiring trills and spills with such distinctive looking dinosaurs that are just the use of animatronics. The vision of a island full of prehistoric creatures is such a imaginative place we have all sensed as a kid, oh come on, just admit it, we've all wanted such a crimson venue with full functioned dinosaurs! Richard Attenborough who gives the genius who created such a location, gives such a performance of man you just can't help but care for and just come to love because he brings such fascinating characteristics to brings you to want to know more about is pure brilliance. Coming from a original plot, it's just so fun to see what to expect from a film with so much excitement and joyous scenery and cringeworthy moments that we want to see our worthy characters see get through. With Dinosaur's all over the place, we as a audience get a sense of accomplishment when our lungful characters surface danger in such indiscriminate situations when being fluctuated in hazardous predicaments and soft and soothing moments when they enjoy the scenery of the island and be glad they're doing well for now. This film wouldn't be itself without such a memorable and remarkable score be the musical genius himself, John Williams, John gave us one of the most memorable and promising scores of a lifetime that's not to hard to forgot in such a rush of a film. We when come to watch such a film now In the 21st century, we never get the urge or realization that not nothing has been modified from the last time we have watched it, everything just looks concrete and different that it just peeks our interest with a certain spark of adventure!


                
This week I've been watching the "Jurassic Park" trilogy in preparation for "Jurassic World" which hits theaters next weekend. I am ashamed to say that I've gone twenty-two years since this movie came out without ever having seen it. I think that likely had to do with the fact that I've just never been that big into dinosaurs, and so the general theme of the film just didn't appeal to me. Having watched it, I can say that I enjoyed it quite a bit.I'm giving the film an 8/10 stars, albeit with thoughts of giving it just a seven. I decided to go with the eight because I think that if I try to be as objective as possible, the film probably deserves that. It's an extremely well made film about the dangers of science run amok. The dinosaurs at times look a bit awkward, but, hey--it was 1993...animation and CGI effects have come a long way since then. Still, the film has aged relatively well. The story is good overall, and the acting is not half bad, though I would say that it has more of a feel of an 80's popcorn movie than a 90's blockbuster hit. Throughout the film I could see shades of "The Goonies" and "E.T." in Spielberg's filmmaking style.That said, my relative disinterest in the whole dinosaur vibe still was a bit of a wall toward getting into the film, which is why I say I toyed with the idea of only seven stars. But this movie is definitely fun and engaging, and I would recommend it to just about anyone. If you've never seen it before, you're sure to find yourself catching a scene or two that immediately screams "classic movie moment", and it's a great movie to just enjoy with the family for an evening of escapism from the real world.


                
Jurassic Park starts off with a glimpse of the danger the dinosaur represents then introduces the characters and the park. The park is first showcased as potential visitors would discover it, they see the dinosaurs, then learn how they're made, before everything start to go awry.The film plays with our fears of the unseen because in a good portion of it we don't actually see the scary dinosaurs being scary. We hear them, we know they are lurking off camera but we don't actually see them. It's such a good build up that when we see "the monsters" it's scary. My heart was racing like the little child I was when I first saw it. The suspense is one of the things that get you, even more than the few jump scares the movie has.Watching Jurassic Park now made me realize how smart the plot is. lt plays on concerns people would have if this park was really about to open. Some characters only have dollar signs in their eyes and others see it as something incredible that can turn deadly, which it does but it doesn't take away from the fact that it could be wonderful.The special effects in this film look as good now as they were when the movie first came out. My guess is that they used a lot of practical effects, animatronics and great camera shots to make us believe that these dinosaurs are real. It thought me that even the most incredible things can be dangerous.Jurassic Park is such a good movie, it was for a long time the closest thing to an horror movie that I could watch. The film is great fun and very much enjoyable now. @wornoutspines


                
One thing about this movie that is obviously a very important part is, like I said, the effects. The effects started the craze of CGI in films for effects that would be impossible to do with practical effects (and fast forward to today where CGI is now been run into the ground and a movie that has an extended use of practical effects seems like a godsend, but I digress.) The thing that this movie also did well was mix a use of both CGI and practical effects. When there was something they could do with practical effects, they used practical effects. But when there was a scene where they couldn't, then they used CGI. The CGI also holds up pretty well today, except for one dinosaur that was really obvious that it was CGI.When talking about Jurassic Park, when people stop talking about the effects and go on to the story, this is where some people find the movie "meh". And, while its not terrible there some aspects of the story nowadays that kinda seem ridiculous. Like the whole mosquito blood DNA<U+0085> thing was introduced, it was pretty ridiculous. But I do like the movie is kind of a battle between nature and the advance of science. But the story does have a few flaws.The acting was also pretty good. Sam Neill was good as the main character, so was Laura Dern. Jeff Goldblum was good, but there were some points where he was really corny. Everyone else was good in the movie to. I feel as if the movie isn't really praised for its story or characters. Its praised for technical achievement in film history. And I really enjoyed it, but some aspects of the story lowered the score down for me personally.Final Score: 8/10


                
First chapter from trilogy that gives exciting , sweeping fun and entertainment provided by giant animals made by means of incredible combination of computer generator -ILM, Industrial Light Magic- and Animatronics models . This original ideal is based on Michael Crichton's novel and writing credits by David Koepp . The picture starts on Isla Nublar, a small island 120 miles off the coast of Costa Rica , a group of construction workers and animal handlers offload a large container, the creature within unseen. During the process, the animal tries to escape, an act which leads to a mass panic , and the death of one of the workers . The island in property the billionaire John Hammond (Richard Attenborough) ; as Jurassic Park's owner brings to various paleontologists (Sam Neill , Laura Dern and Jeff Goldblum) to the island of Costa Rica hoping to convince them for an incredible adventure and where Dinos were allowed mix freely and to breed . There are living dinosaurs and various prehistoric creatures genetically engineered by means of DNA cloned extracted from Jurassic animals found in mosquitoes preserved into amber from cretaceous period . During a preview tour , Nedry (Wayne Knight) disables the security system so that he can make his escape with some stolen embryos , this enables all the dinosaurs to escape their enclosures . Then , the theme park suffers a major power breakdown that allows its cloned dinosaur exhibits to run amok against the paleontologists and the curator's grandsons (Joseph Mazzelo , Ariana Richards) .This is an enjoyable first entry , plenty of spine-tingler thrills , chills , emotion and lots of fun . The Dinosaurs are the real protagonists , they're terrifyingly awesome and almost completely convincing. Simple dialog and plain tale , but the story is very exciting and inventive . In the film appears numerous predator animals and colossal carnivores as Tyrannosaurus Rex , Velociraptors, Behemoths , Spinosaurious , Stegosauruses although most of creatures are large herbivores harmless and feed on vegetables as large dinosaurs , triceratops and Brachiosaurius accompanied by a herd of Parasaurolophus . Humans try desperately to escape of dinosaurs and they are chased through leafy jungle by fanged giant animals , specially by the Tyrannosaurus and of course by attack of the Velociraptors . In fact the prehistoric animals are truly the film stars , they are terrifyingly awful and create abundant and quite potent screams and scares . There're some stirring and exciting scenes dealing a van dangling over a cliff and Tyrannosaurius pushing while the starring are seized in a cord where the actors give vigorous physical performances . The biggest interpretations are by Sam Neill as a nice , resourceful paleontologist , Jeff Goldblum as a likable mathematician and Wayne Knight as greedy man with mean purports . Magnificent especial effects totally convincing are for combination of models in charge of Stan Winston Studio and computer animation from Phil Tippet , Dennis Muren along with Industrial , Light and Magic of George Lucas . As always spectacular music by John Williams and excellent cinematography by Dean Cundey , both of whom are Spielberg's habituals . The motion picture was stunningly directed by Steven Spielberg , plus including his typical touches . Rating : Above average , well worth watching . It's followed by ¨Lost world¨ directed again by Spielberg and Jurassik Park III by Joe Johnston . The film will appeal to teenagers and and growns-up , but no for small kids by violent, realistic and gory attacks by monsters animals.


                
Mainly due to the special effects team who really did bring the dinosaurs back to life, this movie is a good way to spend a couple of hours of your time.Although the cast is very good, they are definitely let down a little by the dialogue (it is sometimes cheesy and Jeff Goldblum's character comes off as pretty stupid most of the time.) Thankfully this takes little away from the fun of the movie and it is at times pretty funny.The story and characters build nicely and the direction is superb (athough a little slow for some), plus this movie uses some of the finest cinematography ever seen (just watch the helicopter approach the island again) magnificent.The saving grace for the cheesy script is this; dinosaurs don't speak and they play the lead roles, even if it does take a while to introduce them in all their CGI splendour.I give it 8/10 a fine effort


                
My friend Chris was one of the first people I know to see this film. He told me it was "scary"."Scary? It's a kids movie," I replied in disbelief, certain that I knew what I was talking about based on the previews I had seen and nothing else. At this point, I hadn't even read the book yet."No way man, it's scary stuff," he assured me."OK, well, I'll be seeing it soon anyway," I told him, thinking that maybe he was too easily frightened or had begun to lose it.My wife and I went within the first week of its release, no one else we knew had seen it aside from Chris. No one else could confirm or deny my expectations. We saw it at the York Theater in Toronto, a fine theater with all the Dolby Digital THX sound that today is far more commonplace. We sat in a packed theater in quite possibly the best seats in the house and prepared ourselves.We couldn't prepare enough.From the first appearance of the menacing T-Rex until the end of the film, I didn't relax for a moment. Not even in the "calm-down-it's-sleepy-time" part of the film. I was literally on the edge of my seat in sheer terror and awe of the film. It is by all definitions of the word, a thriller.It is with regret and a little shame that I confess that in my raving of the film, I may have spoiled it for others by raising their expectations too high, which is mainly why I like to see some films early on. My expectation was that this film was made for children and would probably be entertaining, but instead it floored me completely. I had difficulty with basic motor skills trying to exit the theater, I had been so tense throughout the entire film I could barely walk away.


                
Historically this movie will always be remembered as the first big production using believable SFX and revolutionary CGI. For that alone this movie can already be regarded a classic. But the movie has more to offer. It's typical Spielberg entertainment, meaning that it is good!The story isn't really important, it actually is kind of weak. The movie is all about the dinosaurs and everything around it is of minor importance, at least for me it is. The movie also has a fairly small cast and the dinosaurs the biggest stars of the movie, especially the raptors and the wonderfully looking T-Rex.Let's be fair, the main cast isn't very impressive. Although Sam Neill still pulls of alright, Laura Dern isn't the world greatest actress and Bob Peck seems like a big B actor. The supporting cast is more impressive: Jeff Goldblum, Richard Attenborough, Samuel L. Jackson, Wayne Knight and B.D. Wong all form a wonderful supporting cast.I'm not a big fan of the visual style of the movie. For my taste it is just too bright and colorful at times and some of the sets look like they are made out of plastic, as a matter of fact, I think that they were really made out of plastic! And some of the sets are obviously filmed in a studio. Thank goodness that the dinosaurs don't look like plastic!The movie is tense and exciting but above all entertaining, completely with some typical Spielberg comedy and a John Williams soundtrack.8/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
This is a good movie and should be in the top 250.  Heck it's in my top 10 fav movies.  I thought the acting was superb and the directing was really well done to. The special effects were done superbly they did such a good job at the visual effects for the dinosaurs you couldn't tell when they were animitronic or CG (computer Generated).  If you like dinosaurs then you will like this movieI give it a 9/10


                
Of course they were going to make a movie based one this book, and of course Steven Spielberg, the king of the box office, was going to direct it. It did happen and the result is a spectacular vision of what dinosaurs really might have looked like when they lived on Earth. Of course, with Spielberg at the helm and ILM doing the special effects, everything here looks stunning, even by today's standards. The action sequences are very well-shot and the suspense hangs over us for the better part of the second half of the movie. The biggest flaw here is the human characters. They aren't developed nearly as much as they should be and only the Jeff Goldblum character is interesting at all. Still, we really aren't supposed to get close to these characters, just sit back and watch dinosaurs try to kill them. For film nerds, there is plenty to dissect and critique. For the average movie lover, this is simply a well-made thrill ride.. with dinosaurs.


                
Jurassic Park is set on an island just off the coast of Costa Rica which rich billionaire businessman John Hammond (Richard Attenborough) rents from the Government, within it's lush green jungles Hammond has created a new type of tourist attraction. The whole island has been converted into a giant theme park called Jurassic Park, a theme park where the paying public can take a tour & see real life Dinosaurs including Triceraptops, herds of Galamides, a Brontosaurs, Velociraptors & even a T-Rex that have been brought back from extinction by means of using Dinosaur DNA from blood found in fossilised Mosquitos. However, in an accident a worker has been killed & Hammond's investors get nervous about the safety issues that surround Jurassic Park so in an attempt to reassure them Hammond invites esteemed palaeontologist's Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill) & Ellie Sattler (Laura Dern) along with scientist Dr. Ian Malcolm (Jeff Goldblum) & lawyer Donald Gennaro (Martin Ferrero) to tour the park & hopefully endorse it. Unfortunately things don't go the way Hammond was expecting as a ferocious thunder storm hits the island at the same time treacherous employee Dennis Nerdy (Wayne Knight) shuts down the security fences so he can make his escape after stealing Dinosaur embryos that he plans to sell to a rival company. With the security fences off line the Dinosaurs are free to go wherever they please & the human inhabitants on the island find themselves hunted by the Dinosaurs...Directed by Steven Spielberg Jurassic Park was a monster-sized (sorry) smash hit at the box-office when it came out & held the record until Titanic (1997) came along, it still makes for great viewing even after all these years. The script by Michael Crichton & David Keopp was based on the novel by Crichton of the same name, in fact Jurassic Park the film went into production before the novel even came out. The film is great basically, there are lots of spectacular big budget set pieces that look good even now, there's some stunning special effects that still hold up really well & the Dinosaur human interaction is as good as anything else put on film with the likes of a huge T-Rex chasing a jeep through the jungle looking impressive. The story is reasonably plausible & it doesn't get too bogged down in scientific jargon, the various story threads all come together pretty well although I'd liked to have seen a few more people get eaten. Alive if possible. Most of the character's are likable & even the teenage kids weren't that annoying apart from a scene when Lex (Ariana Richards) can't seem to do something as simple as turn a flashlight off yet later on in the film she manages to operate one of the most sophisticated computers on the planet & use it to reboot the entire theme park electrical system! There is one exception though, I have to say that Laura Dern's scientist irritated me beyond belief, I don't know if it was Dern or the character but I really wish she'd got eaten. Slowly. My only real complaint with Jurassic Park is the pace, once it gets going around the 50 minute mark it's top entertainment all the way to the finish line but until that point I found it rather slow going with lots of very deliberate 'explanations' & exposition scenes that feel forced, it's the sort of dialogue that you know the filmmakers stick in there on purpose to get the audience up to speed like all the talk about how deadly the Velociraptors are & how they hunt. I'm all for build up & character development but I personally don't like long films, I just don't as I begin to loose interest & become bored so I'd have preferred Jurassic Park to have been at least 15 or 20 minutes shorter. This is a small complaint & Jurassic Park is still a thrilling action packed family horror film & I don't care what anyone says it's definitely a horror film & if it had been made by anyone other than family friendly Spielberg that's how everyone would describe it.Director Spielberg films the special effect & action scenes with panache & there are some cool sequences like the T-Rex eating a Goat whole (excellent!, as Tim (Joseph Mazzello) exclaims), attacking the jeeps & the Velocirators at the climax hunting the kids in the kitchen. Everything looks, sounds & feels great with brilliant special effects & CGI. The film has some nice scary moments & a few instances of mild gore & violence so it may not be suitable for very young children.With a supposed budget of about $63,000,000 Jurassic Park is technically excellent & set the standard for just about every special effects film thereafter. Some of the Costa Rican locations look gorgeous although I believe most of it was shot in California. The acting was alright but the real stars here are the Dinosaurs so it doesn't matter that much. This was Richard Attenboroughs first film in 15 years, Samuel L. Jackson has a small role & he would obviously go on to mega stardom, Sam Neill is OK, as already mentioned I thought Dern was awful while Goldblum is as likable as ever & steals every scene he's in.Jurassic Park is a great film, it's as simple & straight forward as that. It has brilliant special effects, cool set pieces, great Dinosaur action & makes for terrific Saturday afternoon type entertainment. What more do you want? I would imagine there aren't to many people on planet Earth who hasn't seen it yet but if your one of the few then what are you waiting for? Two great sequels followed, The Lost World: Jurassic Park (1997) & Jurassic Park III (2001) while Jurassic Park IV (2008) is currently in pre-production according to the IMDb.
Oh man. this movie has so many iconic moments. The moment where the t-Rex is trying to kill the kids in the car will always stick out in my mind. This movie has great characters and a simple story. The direction of the story is executed so well, that you don't care of the minor flaws. The visual effects, over 20 years later still looks better than most stuff today. This is becuase of the anachronistic used in close up shots and cgi used in wide shots or over the head shots. Any time the camera was placed far away from the dinasor was CGI. The two blend well together, givin this sense of disbelief.


                
Title: Jurassic ParkCondensed Storyline: A man has found a way to bring back dinosaurs, and puts them in a park. But things go wrong and our group of scientists have to escape the island filled with dinosaurs Notable Acting: I wasn't sold on the actors, I found most of them boring or unbearable. The child actors annoyed me and made me want the raptors to find them in the kitchen scene. Ellie felt like the typical "hot nerd" character, useless to all extents but smart and attractive to watch. I did like the chemistry between Sam Neill's and Jeff Goldlbum's characters how they were both trying to show themselves as the bigger man and impress Ellie. I liked Samuel L. Jackson's and BD Wong's secondary characters, shame we didn't get to see much more of them. Chances are Bob Peck will only be remember for the "Clever Girl" meme. Noticeable Camera work: Birds eye shot of the group of paleontologists trying to unearth a fossil. Worms eye shot climbing the electric fence. This movie is lacking of creative shots Graphics: The CGI in this movie was breath taking for the time when the movie came out 90s, they were able to blend it with the animatronics amazingly well. Incorrect Science: The names on the embryo freezing chamber are wrong in two sections, Tyrannosaurus Rex and Stegosaurus are misspelled. Raptors did not use their claws to eviscerate, their claws were not strong enough for that, this is why they would go for the throat. There have be experiments about this. Most of the characters address the dinosaurs as "he" when it was clearly stated that they were all female. Timmy shouldn't have gotten hurt by the electric fence as he isn't grounded, so he is basically a bird on a power line at this point. DNA degrades after 521 years un-persevered and 1000 years if frozen, so this whole movie just went down the plot hole. Dr Grant throws a branch at the fence to test if it is live or not, wood is an insulator and throwing it would make it not grounded. None of the heavy hitting dinosaurs in this movie are from the Jurassic era, they are from the Cretaceous era, so the movie shouldn't be called 'Jurassic Park', it should be called 'Cretaceous Park' but there are Brachiosaurus and Dilophosaurus which are both from the Jurassic era. The velociraptors in this movie are incorrect as velociraptors are only knee hight on a 6 foot person, the raptors in this movie are Deinonychus raptors which are generally 5 foot or so in hight. They may have gotten the dinosaur DNA from the blood in the amber, but that doesn't explain how they were able to bring back extinct plants that Dr Sattler was holding. Remember the first time the T-rex was on screen? It made the water shake with it's footsteps, you never see any of that in the final scene where is saves the group from the raptors. It would also make T-rex a failed predator if its prey could hear it miles away. Brachiosaurs are too heavy to stand on one set of legs. Gum Tree leaves are also known as eucalyptus leaves, which are toxic to almost every animal. Reptiles do not and cannot sneeze, that is purely a mammal action. DNA mixing does not work like it did in the movie, frog DNA is a bad choice, so would any amphibian DNA. Why not use avian DNA? Seeing as dinosaurs evolved into birds, it would make sense.Overall Feel: This movie "apparently" inspired a generation of paleontologists. I can see how this would work and any movie which inspires a generation of people to take up a field of science is OK in my book. I have already mentioned how this movie doesn't know all that much about DNA, dinosaurs or paleontology in general, but I must admit that their effects are so good that you forget about all of its faults for the time being. The acting was meh and the camera work was mediocre.
I've seen several depictions of dinosaurs since Jurassic Park. None of them come close.There's a funny story that comes with JP's theater release. When was a kid, I was so freaked out and excited for this movie. I was supposed to fly out to Hawaii for a 2-week long vacation on the day of it's release. Well, to make long story short: I've yet to go to Hawaii.I stayed and saw JP on opening day. It was worth it.The animatronics coupled with the eye-popping CG is still a standard-setter, even compared to more recent movies.The T-Rex is as big and scary as King Kong upon first glance. I had the opportunity to see some of the animatronics behind some of the dinosaurs when I visited Universal Studios. There was a lot of work that went into bringing these creatures to life, and I'm glad this movie still receives the recognition for it's technical brilliance.That aside, The story and characters are great. Jeff Goldblum is a hoot. Sam Neil is one of the most underrated actors of all time. Laura Dern is appropriately casted.There's a scene where the Raptor pen keeper (who has majesticly muscular legs might I add) tells her to 'run as fast as you can' on a hunch that raptors are nearby. Her sheer terror mixed with some fast string-age from John Williams... for some reason this always comes to mind when thinking about this movie. The intensity is enough to make your pulse quicken, especially if you are as sensitive to being as immersed in movies as I.This is a movie for anybody. It's a good reminder that we're very fortunate that dinosaurs are gone - and we are here.Yeah, I'd love to see JP4 be as quality as the first. I'd like to see some animatronic puppetry once-again in film. The dinosaurs and their interactions with humans just seem flat and 2D any other way.Oh yeah, I still have nightmares of being chased by Velociraptors occasionally. I was 8 or 9 when i saw this movie.
I remember this film as enjoyable, but for some reason I did not find it particularly worthy. I decided to take another look.The film is characterized by excellent performances from Laura Dern and Jeff Goldblum.They are not the only ones that stand out. Joseph Mazzello and Ariana Richards as the grandchildren were also very good.The sound effects and the special effects were dazzling. They are worthy of the Oscars they won.Wayne Knight as the porcine son Dennis provided a lot of laughs.The second half of the film was amazing action that you couldn't tear your eyes away from.A great movie.


                
WARNING: MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS"Jurassic Park" has gone down in history as one of the highest grossing films of all time, and another milestone in the career of Steven Spielberg. Some critics have bashed the film, saying that it is nothing more than a special effects orgy riddled with cheesy scenes and cliches.  Although the film is crafted in the fashion of the summer blockbuster, it is impossible to deny that it was an important gain in the field of cinema as a whole. It is an enjoyable film with many suspenseful moments and helped pave the way for the further development of CGI in order to dazzle film audiences.I read the book after seeing the movie (I was about 10 years old at the time), and I couldn't help but feeling how the movie would have been so much cooler if they'd included some other scenes.  These include the aviary scene with the pterodactyls, the whole rafting journey, the raptor nest, and the eventual destruction of the island.  However, it is understandable that many of these scenes were cut out due to time and money constraints.  In most cases, the books hold more gold than the movie versions anyway and edited scenes are sometimes better left to the imagination.  Thus, the lack of consistency with the book has certainly not detracted from my view of this movie as a whole.The obvious strong point of the film is the groundbreaking work in computer effects.  This was the first time that computers were able to realistically portray animals in full sunlight and weather effects in a film.  The most striking aspect of this milestone is that the animals created are enormous.  Dinosaurs have always permeated the imaginations of countless people because of their gargantuan size and the mystery surrounding them.  We have all been reduced to seeing pictures of the dinosaurs as they might have looked millions of years ago, or seeing their fossilized remains in museums.  "Jurassic Park" was able to bring the huge beasts to life, created a strata of terror, gentleness, and above all: sheer size.  The earth shakes under the weight of a 100 ton Brachiasaur coming down on all fours after feeding on a tree and as the Tyrannosaur chases down a jeep.The dinosaurs as character elements are equally amazing.  The Tyrannosaurus Rex is one polarity of terror, melding enormous size with speed and a deafening roar that makes a lion sound like a kitten.  On the other pole are the absolutely terrifying velociraptors.  They are small, but their high intelligence and ability to hunt with precision in a pack make them creatures of nightmares.  The hunting scene in which Lex and Tim are trapped in a kitchen with two raptors is very effective.  Perhaps equally as scary are the dilophasaurs: small dinosaurs that appear playful at first, but become almost demonic, blinding prey with a paralyzing secretion that they spit.  The creators took a few liberties with the dinosaurs (velociraptors are actually smaller and dilophasaurs are 10 feet tall), but these are mere details that won't harm the experience of even a dinosaur nerd like myself.The emphasis stays with the dinosaurs and their ability to awe the audience, as it rightfully should.  There are some very good actors in this movie, which is interesting for a summer blockbuster.  Also, critics should be able to acknowledge that the acting is above average in this film.  To back this up, I point to the sequel "The Lost World".  That movie had talented actors as well such as Julianne Moore, but the writing and acting was very sub par.  Sam Neill plays his part well, portraying a paleontologist who is both excited beyond his wildest imagination, and saddened by the fact that his profession will soon become obsolete.  Laura Dern plays a good counterpart to him, and Jeff Goldblum shines as the eccentric mathematician Ian Malcolm."Jurassic Park" does contain many cliches.  The whole journey of Sam Neill towards becoming a father figure for the two children is somewhat heavy towards the end for example.  Also, the whole scene with the lawyer "getting what he deserves" by being bitten in half after cowering on a toilet is rather ridiculous.  However, the movie is filled with very memorable gags that remind the viewer that this movie was made to entertain. The T Rex nearly bites off the rearview mirror which reads "objects in the mirror are closer than they appear" and at the conclusion of the film, a banner that reads the "when dinosaurs ruled the earth" flutters down amidst his bellowing roar.  It is simple elements like that which provide an amusing feel to the film without having to rely heavily on spoken quips.In conclusion, "Jurassic Park" taught us that things of our imagination could be realistically portrayed on the screen in a way that can both dazzle and scare.  This is a very entertaining movie, and is certainly the best film of what I believe to be a poorly executed and unnecessary series.
Jurassic Park is an adventure film directed by Steven Spielberg and stars Sam Neill, Richard Attenborough and Jeff Goldblum. I tried to watch this film not too long ago but I wanted to watch a film that had the big blockbuster thrills of Jurassic World (the only Jurassic Park film I had seen at the time) and didn't want to go through the slow-burn beginning. But when I became a little older and a little wiser I put in Jurassic Park once again and viewed it with a lot of pleasure. The slow-burn beginning I now appreciate for the scientific ideas it raises to how a dinosaur could be brought back to life-though I do understand that was from the book. The beginning also sets up the characters who are all well realised by actors subtle and realistic performances and the beginning also has moments that are awe-inspiring still today with the timeless music and blend of amazing practical dinosaurs and CG that still makes me believe that I am seeing a real-life dinosaur moving. But even though I do love the beginning I love the rest of the movie ten times more. Every scene after that is memorable scene whether it's a car falling through a tree or velociraptors trying to kill kids in a kitchen or even just innocent scenes with herbivore dinosaurs. Steven Spielberg's direction and unique camera techniques I could go on forever but you already know what he's like. His direction strongly elevates the film to such a higher level than if the film was directed stalely and stiltedly like a very intense kitchen scene that instead of just cutting to close- ups every ten seconds pans for long amounts of time. Now that might sound that it doesn't mean much but it really gets you more invested in the situation. Now I don't want to make too many comparisons between films but what elevates the dinosaur aspect of Jurassic Park from Jurassic World is that Jurassic Park uses practical aesthetics whenever it can which gets you much more into the scene than if it's complete CGI. But just for clarification I thoroughly enjoy Jurassic World as a blockbuster monster thriller but it's clear which film comes up on top. Now as for the cast they have to be well-acted and likable for you to root for them and hope that they don't die. The two children, the brother and sister aren't annoying and stupid but are genuine kids who are terrified but don't just stand there wide-eyed in front of the dinosaur waiting to be pushed out of the way by an adult. They're genuine kids who would certainly be terrified but they get on because just because they are kids in a movie doesn't mean they shouldn't have the basic human instinct of survival. Sam Neill plays a solid, grounded and kind character that tries to protect the kids and while doing that learns something about him, Jeff Goldblum could be deemed the funny guy but he really is just a good character with some very witty dialogue and Richard Attenborough is excellent as the excited Park manager. My only flaws with the film is that I would have liked a tiny bit more of T-Rex action and I could sort of tell a disposable character would die but the T-Rex action bit I think will be fulfilled in the sequel when I get around to watching it and the disposable character death's while predictable had a brutal pay-off. But apart from those nit-picks I was immersed into the situation and looking back on it I don't think that there was one disposable scene. I was in awe at Spielberg's direction, the practical aesthetics and ground-breaking CG that created the dinosaurs and impressed by the really good performances so for that I am going to give Jurassic Park an A


                
