My first epic movie to see on the big screen was Jurassic Park. I was only 8 years old and I had no idea what I was in for when I watched this movie. I was terrified but so enchanted by this world. Steven Spielberg brought back the dinosaur genre, a genre that was only used with caveman movies. Not to mention did it with incredible special effects. I remember seeing this movie for the first time and asked my mom if the dinosaurs were real or if they made giant robots. Those dinosaurs not only looked real but were absolutely terrifying. But what an adventure we took with Jurassic Park, the land where anything could happen with a crazy billionaire and upset employees who pretty much destroy the world for a nickel. One of the most memorable movies of all time that still holds up to this day, Jurassic Park is a film not to be missed.Billionaire John Hammond, has recently created Jurassic Park: a theme park populated with dinosaurs cloned from the DNA extracted from insects preserved in prehistoric amber. After a park worker is attacked by a dinosaur, Hammond's investors, demand that experts visit the park and verify that it is safe. Gennaro invites Dr. Ian Malcolm, a mathematician, while Hammond invites paleontologist Dr. Alan Grant and paleobotanist Dr. Ellie Sattler. They are joined on the island by Hammond's two grandchildren Tim and Lex. Hammond asks Malcolm, Grant, and Sattler what their thoughts are about having recreated dinosaur species. The group sets off to explore the park. The head computer programmer, Dennis Nedry, is secretly in the employ of one of InGen's corporate rivals, and has been paid to steal fertilized dinosaur embryos. During his theft, Nedry deactivates the park's security system, allowing him access to the embryo storage. The group is now parked in front of the T-Rex's cage and now they are fighting for their lives in Jurassic Park.I think one of the most memorable scenes is definitely the raptors chasing the children in the kitchen. What a tense scene that made you hold your breath the whole way through. You have to love Jeff Goldblum in this movie, when he tries to "save" the children from the T-Rex and instead pretty much gets his butt kicked, he gets saved later and as they are chased in the car by the T-Rex the only thing he can say as this giant monster is catching up faster and faster with each footstep, he says "must go faster" so calmly, how funny! But there is a moment that scares me more than the dinosaurs that I'm surprised no one noticed in the editing room, the granddaughter is scared to death screaming at Sam Neill that the lawyer left them and he replies with a dark look "that's not what I'm going to do". I responded that with "I have much darker plans for you", I mean his look was just so creepy! I digress, Jurassic Park is still a very fun movie that is the ultimate adventure. It's timeless and I can't wait to show my kids one day, what a great movie with wonderful effects and a wonderful cast and crew.9/10
What can I say? Jurassic Park is one of the most underrated movies ever. Yes, I did say underrated. True, it is the fourth highest grossing movie ever (for the time being) and was a motion picture bible for eight-year-olds across the country, but it has never been regarded as artistically superior. When, in reality, it is one of the most artistically inventive movies ever. It contains all of Spielberg's magical strokes of genius from fantastic art direction and wonderful camera techniques to astounding technical quality ( which comes from his well known control over technology). The minor flaws of a theme park are masterfully embedded into the art direction, script etc. and the acting is superb. This is one of the only movies I've seen with great acting by children. Spielberg's camera usage ranges from foreshadowing the appearance of dinosaurs with extreme up-angles to exquisitely composed scenes of the dinosaurs' "interaction" with the characters. Aside from technical quality, Jurassic Park bears powerful social messages of human intrusion and destruction of natural environment and the self-revering nature of man. Also, it had an undeniable effect on cinema being one of the first movies to use CGI at such a large scale. However, the most ingenious aspect of the film is the portrayal of the dinosaurs as animals rather than ruthless monsters. At many times throughout the movie, the humans are portrayed as antagonists and the respect and appreciation of the dinosaurs is wonderfully developed. And, best of all, like star wars you can analyze the movie all you want or just sit back and enjoy the ride.


                
What can be said about this movie that hasn't already been said? Who knows. We all know that this has some of the greatest special effects, even today. Also, if there's anything that can match the awesome T-Rex, it's the movie's musical score. I swear, listen to it more than once, and you're bound to see the movie yet again, if for that sole reason. It's that powerful. Oh sure, acting isn't this movie's strong suit, but who looks for acting in a Dinosaur thriller? Who?!Anyway, I think I've made my point. Jurassic Park: One of America's greatest classics. Steven Spielberg created magic with this movie. If you haven't seen it once, you haven't seen it at all.


                
''Life, uh... finds a way.''One of the best & most iconic movie quotes of all times.I don't know what can I say about this movie that hasn't been said. Really...Considering this movie was made in 1993, visual effects are of incredible quality, as you see it better on blu-ray. When it comes to story, it's completely original, nearly flawless. I can't say too much about the acting. I believe acting is not the movie's strongest point. But still, it was enough for that movie. You don't need to be like Marlon Brando in a sci-fi movie about dinosaurs and has great visual & sound effects. The movie is very fun to watch.I also sensed a small message like, ''don't mess with nature''.Best thing about the movie (for me) was the score. Especially the ''Welcome to Jurassic Park'' scene. Of course we're talking about John Williams, the guy who wrote the theme for Star Wars, so that's not a surprise.Highly recommend it.9/10


                
This movie is definitely one to remember. Despite being filmed in the 90s, Jurassic Park continues to be a classic to this day. 
Watching the movie now highlights the contrast between the effects then and the special effects available now. This, along with some acting that is a tad overdone, are the only real critiques I would give this film. 
The child actors were especially hilarious to me-the young boy, Timmy, has moments that really capture a reaction that a child in real life would have ("I threw up." "Well that's ok! That happens sometimes"-Allen-is one of my favorite quotes). 
Another extremely influential aspect of this film is the music that plays over certain intense scenes and the iconic theme music in the opening/closing. The music combined with the diegetic sound of the dinosaur stomping/approaching builds the suspense and creates an intense tension in the audience. 
As a classic worldwide, it's no wonder that this movie provided the basis for generations of movies to follow.


                
From the creative and futurist mind of Michael Crichton comes this incredible and terrifying movie called " Jurassic Park. " Yet it took two exceptional directors, Steven Spielberg and George Lucus, to bring this imaginative story to life. The movie concerns an eccentric Billionaire named John Hammond, ( Richard Attenborough) who decides to buy an island off the coast of Costa Rico and build a huge enclosure for recreated Dinosaurs. When it's finished he invites the foremost authorities to endorse his park which include Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill), a Palo-botanist, Dr. Ellie Sattler (Laura Dern) and Dr. Ian Malcolm (Jeff Goldblum) a Chaos Theorist. The Zoo which Hammond creates for his attractions is a gigantic and impressive enclosure surrounded by electrified fences, automatic controls and computer protected alarms. So safe is the public that Hammond also invites his grand children. (Tim Murphy and Ariana Richards) However, no sooner does the grand opening tour begins, when things begin to malfunction. This sabotage is programed by one of the employees who is set to make a fortune by betraying his employer. The animals getting free is bad enough, but the terrifying ordeal has just begun, when the worst of the dinosaurs, the T-Rex is also set free. Horror gives way to terror when the children are preyed upon in the jungle tour, but they also have to race about in the open park, with all sorts of hungry creatures awaiting them. The movie is filled with frightening and terrifying scenes and only the screams of the audience is left within the walls of the theater. Samuel L. Jackson, BD Wong and Wayne Knight add credibility of this film which because of the Special Effects and enhanced modern CGI make's it a Classic for everyone. Easily recommend to all audiences. ****


                
I remember watching this movie when I was just a elementary school student and wasn't all that entertained with this movie. Except the dinosaur parts since it just didn't meet my prospect of things when it comes to a entertaining movie when I was a kid. But watching it now, I can really appreciate this movie and what it does. In fact it's one of the best dinosaur or some creatures that attack people type of movies I have ever seen. I recently saw this movie in theaters in 3D and it still meets even today's standards when it comes to great movies. Steven Spielberg is a visionary director and he really put everything he had into this movie. The CGI still holds up but what amazes me is how they used animatronic dinosaurs for the dinosaur scenes. This movie came out in 1993 and even the cinematography still hold up. The characters are well grafted into the story and stands out despite the two annoying kids. Even if it does have slightly cliché moments with one of the character predicting all the outcome but most of the people just won't listen to the guy scenarios. But then again this movie came out in 1993. The build up is just fantastic in this movie and although a bit far-fetched the way it's shown makes it believable, like everything in this movie is possible. The plot is about a rich old guy that decides use his money to clone dinosaurs and make a dino theme park but things just doesn't go according to plan. And it really does seem like a real theme park, mainly because of all the small details and effort that is put in the settings and backgrounds. Even the freaking theme song is so darn catchy and memorable. Go watch this movie in theaters now! It's what movie going experience is all about.9/10
I recently had a conversation with a friend about the filmography of the great Steven Spielberg. My friend, who is considerably younger than me, tried to argue Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull (2008) was not the horrifying, stupefying train wreck that it was. While I could probably go into the technical reasons that movie is an abomination, my arguments were limited to a concentrated level of hatred indirectly flung at my friend with reckless abandon. I stopped myself before things got out of hand but I realized one thing; generational bias does matter when it comes to movies and our discussion hit a little too close to home.It matters for many when I say I prefer Jurassic Park (1993) over Jaws (1975). I'm not saying one is a better movie over the other, all I'm saying is I prefer the movie that first capitalized on my obsession with dinosaurs when I was six, over one I saw in high school because I wanted to be a Spielberg completest. I much rather watch the movie I saw peering through holes in my own clammy palms than the movie I tried figuring out "what that guy was in." To put it bluntly, in the imagination of the child I was and the child I still am inside, Jurassic Park is first in my heart.Jurassic Park is still the premier movie I recommend to Spielberg novices. It encompasses everything that artificially created the childhood of those raised in the nineties; a childlike sense of wonder, visionary special effects and a score by John Williams who composed the anthems of at least two generations. Additionally the film showcases the acting abilities of thespian veterans Richard Attenborough and Jeff Goldblum, familiar faces like Laura Dern, Samuel L. Jackson and Wayne Night and strong novice performances by Ariana Richards and Joseph Mazzello.Under the surface of Jurassic Park lies its cautionary tale written by David Koepp and Michael Crichton. A modern retelling of Frankenstein only instead of one misunderstood ogre the characters are faced with a menagerie of primal monsters. That and the movie doesn't mind cranking the scare-meter up to eleven. Those who have seen the movie no doubt will instantly recall the scene with the children versus the velociraptors. It's a scene that would have made anyone in the audience scream lengthily along with Joseph Mazzello's character.Those who know me know I'm not a fan of the theme of science and technology overreaching and causing something horrific. If we were scared of every boogie man that could happen, we would have never left that cave. That's not to say we shouldn't acknowledge the dangers of bringing dinosaurs back from the dead. We should acknowledge that it's a double edged sword for sure. But there's no doubt that finding our limits is what makes humanity great and we shouldn't limit ourselves because Mary Shelley, Michael Crichton or Jerry Falwell tells us to.But if you're looking for deeper meanings in a Spielberg film (other than the phallic appearance of E.T.) you're trailing up the wrong Devil's Monument. Spielberg's main goal is to entertain. Does that make him a less talented or less important director? Does that make him a huckster of the Barnum Bailey variety? I would argue that film can be used as an art form, as a form of entertainment and/or a form of storytelling with many, many overlapping traditions in-between. If a director's intent is to tell a good story which is what Spielberg does, then who am I or anyone else to judge? Movies are the things of dreams and Spielberg doesn't cheat in giving you the goods.A great yarn, a pulse pounding theme park ride, a childhood memory; Jurassic Park is all that and more. It was a movie that intelligently combined the cheap thrills that made Jaws so daring and revolutionary, while smuggling in ethical quandaries about the darker side of scientific discovery. On a related note, those in the know, no doubt have heard about the mammoth they're planning on cloning. Regardless of the hardships experienced by the characters of Jurassic Park, who isn't excited to see something like that?http://www.theyservepopcorninhell.blogspot.com


                
By now there are nearly a thousand (not really a bazillion) reviews for this Steven Spielberg film. So, in the case of mega-hits where there is a strong consensus that the movie is exceptional (and I don't disagree), what more is there to say?! Apart from a few characters who seemed a bit one-dimensional (which is a minor problem in an action film) and the unwritten Spielberg rule that kids cannot die (taking away much of the suspense), the film is amazing. While the CGI isn't quite as beautiful as what we can do today, it STILL looks awesome. With only a few exceptions, the dinosaurs LOOK real! And, the music from John Williams is, as expected, very good. Overall, a highly entertaining film which will no doubt please everyone except for the impossible to please.


                
I don't really like paying for movie tickets just to watch old movies converted into 3D. I can watch the 2D version at home, with no cost. Still, Jurassic Park is one of those movies. No matter, if you watch it in 3D or 2D, your jaw will dropped seeing the realistic lifelike dinosaurs on screen. I had watch this movie over and over again over the years, and it always is a blast to watch. In my opinion, it's one of the best movies of the 1990's. Jurassic Park is the story of a theme park on a tropical island near Costa Rica, populated with cloned dinosaurs that turn amok, and those left on the island, must find a way to escape. Jurassic Park shows the potential danger of technology. Owner John Hammond (Richard Attenborough) spared no expense making this park, but in an attempt to increase efficiency and save money, wants Jurassic Park to be able to operate with a minimal number of staff run by weasel Dennis Nedry (Wayne Knight) and Ray Arnold (Samuel L. Jackson). Therefore, he has the park designed to be operated almost entirely by a huge computer system that automates virtually all of the park's systems and functions. What he doesn't know is that Dennis Nedry, has been paid off by one of InGen's corporate rivals to steal dinosaur embryos. During the theft, Nedry deactivates the park's security system to allow him access to the embryo storage room. Jurassic Park was written by Michael Crichton in 1990, the beginning of the information age, where everything was getting computerizing, but few knew the dangers of it. People are still suffering from computer theft even today. Another danger of technology is how men shouldn't play God by cloning extinct animals. The movie mirrors the lesson teach in Mary Shelley's Frankenstein. Still the science in the film might be far-fetch. The idea of bringing dinosaurs to life after 65 million years is unlikely even with future technology. Soft tissues that contain DNA are nearly impossible to preserve and the chances of extracting enough DNA of a single dinosaur to produce one are slim. Still, it's interesting. If it does happen, you know that chaos will come close in hand. This serves as an example, where technology fails to keep us save, and prove disastrous. Still the movie fails to explain why Hammond didn't use all the staff that he has. They were paid to be there, so when the hurricane comes to the island. Surprising the film footage of the storm was Hurricane Iniki that hit Hawaii where they were filming. So that was really a hurricane that being shown there. Anyways it would make sense to have the staff there to make sure the island is secure, but he send them off the island for something that was a merely a small storm, keeping only two computer guys and a game hunter? What? The movie would be a little bit more interesting if only we, the audience got to see the whole staff in danger as well, like Michael Crichton earlier novel, 'Westworld' that has a similar plot. Instead we only see a small group of dinosaur experts try to escape the island rather than a whole island in chaos. This small group is leaded by paleontologist Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill) and paleobotanist Dr. Ellie Sattler (Laura Dern). Harrison Ford was first ask, but he turned down the role of Dr. Alan Grant as people might mistake the character for Indiana Jones. In my opinion, Sam Neill was perfect for the role. They are joined by Hammond's grandchildren, Lex (Ariana Richards) and Tim Murphy (Joseph Mazzello). The kids are bit annoying as they do idiotic stuff or have stupid dialogue. Most of the movie, I really wanted them to get eaten by a dinosaur. It make sense for all those characters to be in the island, except Dr. Ian Malcolm (Jeff Goldblum), a mathematician that the lawyer brought in. While Jeff Goldblum is given some of the best lines in the film; the reason why his character is there is still a question to me. He doesn't know anything about dinosaurs. Still, I do like his flirting with Chaos Theory. The movie differs from the book in a bit. I'm glad Steven Spielberg took out the Hupia theme from the story. It wasn't needed. Different characters end up dying, while other characters that supposedly died in the book, live in the film version. Surprising the whole character of Tina was written out of the film. The film has amazing visual and special effects by the use of animatronics. The film is noted as one of the first movies to use CGI. Director Steven Spielberg was worried that computer graphics might look like 8 bit type cartoon quality but upon seeing ILM's demo animation of dinosaurs. He decided to shoot nearly all the dinosaur scenes using this method. In my opinion, the stop motion they did film wasn't too bad as well. The early CGI, this film use is surprising is better than a lot of modern day CGI that low budget companies use. Jurassic Park's soundtrack compost by John Williams is truly anthem of our childhood. The music is spectacular. Not a lot of people know this, but while Steven Spielberg work on Schindler's List, he placed post-production in the hands of George Lucas. In many ways, you can see Luca's influence in the film. It was while supervising post-production on this film that George Lucas decided that technology was good enough to begin work on the Star Wars prequels. The movie is a must- see movie, not only if you love dinosaurs, but also if you love Sci-Fiction. Give it a try if you haven't saw it already. An adventure 65 million years in the making is waiting for you.
Growing up, Ray Harryhausen was my movie hero - he specialised in putting on screen things which didn't exist. For the last 35 years his place has been taken by Stephen Spielberg, simply because he makes such very, very good films. And he has been known to put something impossible on screen every now and then, too.To synopsise, a theme park is set up on an island, populated by dinosaurs reconstructed from prehistoric DNA extracted from mosquitoes preserved in amber. During the "test drive" of the park, attended by palaeontologists, things go horribly wrong...Michael Crichton's book, though very enjoyable, is filled to overflowing with technobabble, particularly with regard to the park's computer system. And, if one is brutally honest, it recycles the basic idea of Crichton's own Westworld some 20 years earlier, albeit different theme park, different victims.Spielberg strips away, simplifies, gives us a range of very human humans as potential (and actual!) victims, and a moderate amount of exposition so that we always believe what happens, and then sets off on the first of a number of spectacular set pieces. The story is minimal and almost incidental.The cast are all good. Jeff Goldblum is not always to my taste, but Sam Neill's sincerity and dignity compensates. But this movie is never about the cast, nor the story.The dinosaurs (and their integration into the movie) are nearly flawless - there are one or two points where the gallimimuses don't convince 100% that they belong against that particular background plate. They vary between mechanical/animatronic effects and CGI - and this is quite near that dawn of CGI for photo-realistic characters wholly integrated into movies - and it was impossible to distinguish which shots are physical and which are photographic. If you don't believe how truly remarkable Jurassic Park's dinosaurs were, particularly for their day, try comparing them with any CGI monster from the SciFi channel's specially commissioned movies nearly 20 years later, and see how unconvincing CGI critters can be, and how woefully they can be integrated into backgrounds (or, indeed, NOT integrated!). They stand up as well now as they did when the movie was first released and, given how far CGI has come since then, that is a testament to their quality.If I had a criticism, it would be that the film is rather too leisurely in dealing with the set up - with the benefit of hindsight, the disastrous events of the second half of the film could have started a little earlier. However, this is more than made up for by John Williams' wonderful score.Addition: April 2013 The recent 3D conversion is quite superb: you would never know that the movie was filmed flat.
I personally really like Steven Spielberg, and I like his films, especially Schindlers List, Jaws and ET:The Extra Terrestrial. While a tad too long and has one or two loose ends in the plot, Jurassic Park nevertheless has thrilling action and has sheer evidence of the director's vision and effortless verve at work. John Williams's score is absolutely terrific, definitely one of the more memorable scores in a Steven Spielberg movie, the score for Jaws like Psycho is one of the main reason why I am so scared to go into the sea now. The acting is really not bad at all, Sam Neill and Laura Dern have given better performances but they were good. Jeff Goldblum is terrific, and as Dennis Nedry Wayne Knight is suitably more subdued. Richard Attenborough, a talented actor and a even more talented director also is good as John Hammond, while child star Joseph Mazello, who surprised me in Shadowlands is appealing as Tim. However, the real stars are the dinosaurs, especially the T-Rex, the mix of computer animation and models is inspiring. The cinematography is astounding, the script is good and the direction is lively. I haven't read Michael Crichton's book, but regardless this is a hugely enjoyable film. 9/10 Bethany Cox


                
I was raised on a diet of dinosaur and monster films, and so when Steven Spielberg gave us Jurassic Park in 1993 promising unbelievably lifelike prehistoric reptiles, I was at the head of the queue (metaphorically speaking of course, since I pre-booked my tickets!!). Needless to say, Steve's amazing big screen version of the Michael Crichton bestseller not only delivered on the promises, making the film a deservedly huge box-office success, but it also redefined special effects for years to come.Sam Neill, Laura Dern and Jeff Goldblum play three scientists who are invited to a multi-million dollar theme park featuring cloned dinosaurs, which the owner (good old Dickie Attenborough) hopes the trio of boffins will endorse. However, when one disloyal employee sabotages the park's computer system in order to try and steal valuable embryos for a competitor, the guests get to see the exhibits extremely close-up, and must fight for survival against the mighty T-Rex and a pack of intelligent and voracious Velociraptors.The film's plot is a somewhat stripped-down version of the book, and the narrative suffers occasionally for the lack of detail, but with Spielberg at the helm, the result is still a juggernaut of an action film that provides enough thrills, spills and adventure to make it unmissable for fans of creature features. The director manages to pull off some spectacular shots that are amongst the most memorable of his career (such as the simple yet iconic 'water-ripples' as the T-Rex approaches), and with the industry's top FX wizards at his disposal (including ace animatronics expert Stan Winston), he has made a film that still looks amazing a decade and a half later.The best of the trilogy (although part IV is currently in the pipeline, so we shall have to wait and see what happens with that one), Jurassic Park is an excellent piece of cinematic escapism, and way better than anything Spielberg has given us in recent years (I'm still reeling from the latest Indy film and the debacle that was War of the Worlds).


                
Science has advanced so far, to the point that scientists are able to clone dinosaurs to populate an island. Turning it into a maximum security theme park seemed to be a good idea, but when human mischief and a breakdown of said security occurs, the result is terrifying.One of the unwritten facts in cinema history is that some folk, no matter what he does, will deride Steven Spielberg's achievements in movie making. Be it popcorn bonanza's such as this dinosaur riot, or the serious, emotionally wrought likes of Schindler's List which was released this same year, Spielberg is not a popular name amongst the arty farty set. Thankfully, those people are in the minority because Spielberg and his movies cater for the mass majority of the honest cash paying movie fan, he is by definition a fan himself, to hear him interviewed and chatter away about cinematic greats such as David Lean is as enlightening as it is as entertaining as his best work.Jurassic Park finds Spielberg directing like a child locked in a sweet shop, all the tools available to him are used with gleeful abandon, the result being one of the most enjoyable sci-fi/fantasy/monster/disaster movies of the 90s. Going on to make a lifetime gross, at the time of writing, of $914,691,118 after being made for just $63 million, I think it's safe to say that Jurassic Park is loved by a lots and lots of people. The charges of the actors being secondary are of course warranted, at times stilted and plain, Laura Dern, Sam Neil, and even Richard Attenborough, possibly do their respective career phone ins; but that's OK in a film of this type, besides, elsewhere Jeff Goldblum rises to the challenge as Ian Malcolm, all quirky and sly, Goldblum gets to look cool and gives the picture it's comedic relief.However, we are ultimately here for the terror, the rampaging dinosaurs expertly assembled at ILM are a pure feast for the eyes, with Spielberg brilliantly creating edge of the seat set piece after set piece. Craftily he lulls us into a false sense of security {aided by screenwriter and novel writer Michael Crichton of course}, it's all lovely, vegetable eating dinosaurs and kiddie friendly fodder. But then, oh then, it's hello T-Rex, Raptors and thrills on the edge of your seats, from that point in it's time to strap yourself in for a magical roller-coaster ride. Thank you Steven Spielberg, Hollywood would be a poorer place without your efforts. 9/10


                
What a movie! What a fabulous movie! Steven Spielberg does it once again with "Jurassic Park." He proves that he can do anything and that dinosaurs weren't monsters, they were animals. It may not be accurate to the book, but it's still a masterpiece.In case you don't know what it's about, it's about the idea of genetically enhanced dinosaurs who are engineered to be harmless, and how a group of scientists are invited to see them and judge them on how safe and how real they are. But, something goes wrong...and that's where the action comes in.One thing that I liked was Jeff Goldblum. He was always my favorite actor. I find him to be a natural actor and the way he delivers his lines is great. It's like he's not even sticking to the script, he's just making it up as he goes along. Also, a beautiful score by John Williams. You can't get better than that.


                
One of the very first things we learn during the credits after "Jurassic Park" is that it is based on a novel by Michael Crichton, and that the screenplay was written by Michael Crichton with the help of David Koepp. It's for the best that he decided to pen his first screenplay since 1978's "Coma" when "Jurassic Park" went into development because it's hard to imagine a screenplay based on his dark sci-fi horror novel being successful in the same way this screenplay was. Crichton, writing a screenplay based on his own work, opted to change the tone and much of the plot for this Hollywood production. Rather than the dark sci-fi the novel is, "Jurassic Park" the movie is a fun, relatively light-hearted action adventure, and the decision to change the tone might go down in history as one of the smartest screen writing decisions in history.This is simply an exceptional film. Technically, it is an astounding achievement. As of 2007, fourteen years after "Jurassic Park" was released, its special affects are still excellent compared to many mainstream films. Steven Spielberg did no wrong with this film; you can't really criticize anything about it. The public likes Michael Bay because he blows up a lot of expensive stuff and films the explosions, but if one was to list the flaws in one Michael Bay film they could fill dozens of pages. But really, what's wrong with "Jurassic Park"? The answer is: nothing. You can't fault the gorgeous cinematography, as there are more greatshots in this film than all the summer blockbusters of recent years put together and you certainly can't fault John Williams' classic score. So where does the criticism come from? Some think "Jurassic Park" could've been darker and dealt more with its central theme- don't mess with nature. Some think "Jurassic Park" doesn't build suspense for long enough, and shows the dinosaurs too often. This claims are without basis because "Jurassic Park" never claimed to be a deep film with heavy subtext (there is subtext, but it is dealt with only superficially), nor did it want to be "Jaws" (more like "Indiana Jones" with dinosaurs). One thing that has to be understood is that this is an action adventure. It eliminates the majority of the science and techno-babble from Crichton's novel, condensing it to a few minutes near the start of the film. The cast is memorable, in particular Sam Neill as Alan Grant, who really reminds me of Indiana Jones in a sense. The character is adventurous, smart, and funny and I really can't imagine anyone else playing him quite as well as Sam Neill did. Laura Dern, an exceptional actress who should've won awards for certain performances in certain David Lynch films, is good here as are Jeff Goldblum and Richard Attenborough. The child actors could've been more annoying, which when speaking of child actors in general is a compliment.There are few films in existence as exciting as "Jurassic Park", and there are very, very few, if any at all, summer blockbusters as perfectly-made and memorable as this. If you're looking for intriguing science fiction dealing with intricate themes, this is not the place for it. There is depth to "Jurassic Park", but for meditative science fiction there are certainly better options. Watch this if you want to be entertained, or just to see an example of utterly phenomenal film-making.****/4


                
I love this movie. It's so amazing. It's funny, it's scary at times, it's adventures and I just love the idea of dinosaurs in the present world. The cast do a great job with their characters. I almost feel like this movie is real, it's done that well.On an island, a man has brought back dinosaurs, by using DNA extracted from a mosquito. He plans to open a theme park, where people from around the world can come and enjoy the previously extinct creatures. But Jurassic Park won't happen as easy as he would have hoped. Dinosaurs get loose, people get hurt and die, and no one is safe from the T-Rex or the velosoraptor (don't know how to spell it).Best part of the movie: The car scene with the T-Rex.Worst part of the movie: The girl's scream.Recommended for: EveryoneOverall, I give this movie a 9 out of 10, which in my ratings book is: Amazing.
The focus of Steven Spielberg's ground-breaking thrill-ride Jurassic Park, is a wondrous island theme park off the coast of Costa Rica populated by genetically engineered dinosaurs, masterminded by billionaire visionary John Hammond (a superlative Richard Attenborough), ready for business as soon as a handful of experts can declare it legally and naturally safe for paying customers. Soon we see a group of scientists head to Isla Nublar including paleontologist Alan Grant (Sam Neill), his paleobotanist colleague Ellie Satler (Laura Dern), and mathematician Ian Malcolm (a fast- talking, vintage Jeff Goldblum), a chaos theorist who recognizes that knowledge without discipline equals disaster. Of course he's right, and the park's maiden tour turns into a nightmare for the visitors, who include Hammond's two precocious grandchildren. Compounding this mayhem is the park's systems-control expert, who plots to sell dinosaur DNA to a rival corporation, and must sabotage park security to carry out his scheme. When a tropical storm threatens the island, our unscrupulous employee seizes the opportunity, leaving the billion-dollar attractions to roam free, as all hell breaks loose. What ensues is special-effects nirvana!Jurassic Park is an astonishing success in one sense and one sense only: It is the monster of all monster movies, guaranteed to challenge weak bladders and flutter heartbeats with its astounding full-size live-action mechanics and computer-generated imagery. But more than anything, it is Spielberg's pop culture wizardry that sells Jurassic Park. He retains a child-like glee in making us jump while giving flesh and blood characters the fright of their lives, with every mind-boggling moment of wonder and terror - from the gentle gracefulness of a gigantic Brachiosaurus walking across a green pasture to the horrifying attack of a T-Rex during a rainstorm to the first appearance of the dreaded Velociraptors. Spielberg orchestrates the action with effortless verve and, only the most Scrooge-like viewer will fail to be transfixed by the thrilling action and the sheer scale of the director's vision. T-Rex and his chums are indisputably the stars here but Jurassic Park is still a very character-driven movie, and part of what makes the film so successful is Spielberg's insistence that the dinosaurs may overrun the park, but never the film. Every character has something to do, and they are the focus of every scene with all actors pitching in commendable performances.Jurassic Park exists now as one of the pinnacles of popcorn cinema - a terrific thrill ride that is more than just the sum of its special effects. It may be easy to look at Jurassic Park as of a bygone era, but no rose-colored glasses or nostalgic impulses are needed to remain in astonishment at what Spielberg was able to create. It remains as potent an entertainment as ever - a watershed moment in cinematic history!


                
I remember having a conversation with my cousin, asking him why Jurassic Park intrigued him if his priority when it comes to film is good character development. He said it has good philosophical discussion, and he pointed out the scene he was referring to: the "life finds a way" scene, and I had forgotten this gem within the movie. And recently a friend of mine pointed out that Dr. Grant ties two female ends of seat belts together to strap himself in which is a great metaphor for this motif of the dinosaurs supposedly being all female.These philosophical aspects, including the amazing scene focusing on a debate of whether it is responsible to try to add dinosaurs back into the swing of things altogether, raise the movie up higher than the mere B movie critics believe it to be. But is there anything wrong with the overall fun and excitement of this seemingly simple people? We see dinosaurs on-screen for the first time in a much different way - both with the use of animatronics and digitally. We also have the quirky characters such as Wayne Knight and Jeff Goldblum's characters to add to the fun.The film is pretty aware of itself, making references to King Kong and displaying the dinosaurs as a spectacle to future park-goers, just as the idea of the effects to make the dinosaurs are a spectacle to us as movie-goers. It also draws attention to its potential horror towards little kids with Dr. Grant illustrating the idea of a velociraptor to a cocky kid, and the grandkids that tag along for the park ride that are shown screaming on-screen.What a great, underrated movie by Spielberg.
Jurassic Park is a film that gives a solid perspective of the old moral question of whether or not man should play God when dealing with other species on the planet. We are shown in various examples that man has little understanding of ecosystems (namely extinct ones) and the variables that arise that can completely alter the outcome.The story centralizes around John Hammond's (Richard Allenborough) dream to bring dinosaurs into the modern day, and share the creation with the world by means of an amusement park. Initial problems arise with the park, which causes his company lawyer, Donald Gennaro (Martin Ferrero) to require experts to visit the location and determine it is safe. Between the two, Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill), a paleontologist, Dr. Ellie Satler (Laura Dern), a paleobotanist, and Dr. Ian Malcom (Jeff Goldblum) are brought to investigate the park's various systems. A combination of flawed practices by the geneticists and a greedy programmer, Dennis Nedry (Wayne Knight) creates chaos when the dinosaurs escape into the park.One of the first examples I noticed to show mankind's lack of understanding is when Dr. Satler notices some of the plant life near the visitor's center and identifies it as toxic, even going so far as calling it a life form that will defend itself, violently, if necessary. The plants were chosen simply because of their appearance, with little regard to their actual make-up. This plant variable also appears again when the group is examining a sick Triceratops and Satler is attempting to find the source of the poisoning by examining the dinosaur's droppings.Another example is first shown when Drs. Grant, Malcolm, and Satler are going through the tour of the laboratory and are shown that dinosaur DNA is supplemented with frog DNA to fill in the gaps that are present in the amber samples they have. The dinosaurs are modified to be only female through Dr. Wu's (B.D. Wong) team of geneticists. Later on, it is discovered by Dr. Grant, Lex (Ariana Richards), and Tim (Joseph Mazzello) that the dinosaurs are in fact breeding, shown by the egg shells they find while making their way back to the visitor's center. Grant goes on to explain that some frogs are capable of changing gender in a single-sex environment, thus being able to breed. Since frog DNA was used to complete the dinosaur strands, it is a cause of the dinosaurs being able to reproduce.Human greed also further creates chaos when Nedry creates a complex program to shut down the security and power systems throughout the park so he can steal dinosaur embryos for a rival of Hammond's. With the systems down, the dinosaurs escape their containments and begin to roam freely in the park. A highlight of the unpredictability of the dinosaurs is shown by the Velociraptors effectively hunting the team in various points. The level of intelligence of the raptors is completely underestimated by the humans, as they employed an ambush on Robert Muldoon (Bob Peck), and demonstrated the ability to problem-solve by opening doors and communicating.Overall, it is shown that there is much about nature that man does not know. Exemplified here is an extinct ecosystem that man only knows about from fossil records. Though fossils give much insight into the past, it is not a complete picture. Also, there was a level of excitement on being able to accomplish the revival without looking into other methods that might have proved safer and more secure. The moral question is always present, that even though we have the capability to do a great act, it might not always be wise to actually do it. Especially when dealing with a living creature (plant or animal), as Malcolm stated in the movie, "Life finds a way."
It's interesting to think how this movie is from 1993. You can watch it years later, and it most likely will not feel old to you. The technology in the movie doesn't even seem that old along with the idea of cloning dinosaurs, bringing them back to life. This is also a great movie to watch if you have friends over. I'm sure they've seen it and would love to see it again. It's just a fun, adventure, scary, and happy movie to watch. It's not like a cheesy movie of dinosaurs coexisting with people, but more a movie showing how people figured out how to bring dinosaurs back to life and tried to have an attraction for people at an amusement park known as Jurassic Park. I'll tell you that if there was such a place as Jurassic Park, I'd go if I could as I would think it would be worth it to see dinosaurs in person if the park was secure as it was supposed to be in the movie. The effects they did for the dinosaurs are also really great effects, even in today's standards. The action in this movie will also keep your eyes glued to the screen. So, while this is a great movie it still has its flaws. For one, basically all the areas you see in the movie, except maybe where Dennis Nedry had a brief scene are uncivilized areas, areas most of us probably aren't familiar with. The park was supposed to be on it's own island called, Isla Nublar I forget exactly where it was supposed to be, but obviously it was a park far from civilization as even the people who would want to go to the island would have to do a lot to travel there and as Alan and the others were supposed to be spending a weekend at the park, they don't show things like beds or rooms they could be sleeping in, and it's interesting how the park seemed fully staffed, but almost everyone besides the main characters seem to leave by the time the action starts. Other flaws, well I think the movie had great acting but the actors don't seem like your everyday people. I mean they seem to wear clothes that aren't your everyday clothes, but clothes that work in a dinosaur world. They also don't seem too traumatized after going through some of the most scary experiences you can go through. I mean let's talk about the kids Tim and Lex for example. I feel like none of the kids they've shown in any of the Jurassic Park films seem realistic. But, looking at Tim and Lex, I mean how cool would it be for them to be like the first kids in the world having experiences with dinosaurs being able to see them in person. That doesn't seem like a really big deal for them, they seem mostly there for the tour and we see how Tim mostly seems interested in books especially about dinosaurs, and Lex is interested in computers. But, we don't really hear much about their lives outside of Jurassic Park, I mean obviously they'd have school and stuff which they don't talk about. Also, those two have lots of injuries and go through horrifying experiences and again not really showing signs of trauma or pain and in the next scene they are like telling jokes. The ending scene at Jurassic Park which I won't spoil also seems unrealistic. So, despite these flaws the movie is by all means a great movie, one you can watch over and over again and that never gets old. You could even consider some of the flaws I mentioned, and not that it makes it a bad movie, but questions people like me will have left unanswered. Overall, I give this movie a 9/10. It's a great movie, but some of its flaws keep it from being a 10.


                
I remember first seeing Jurassic Park in the movie theater alongside my family as a young kid. I remember us having very close front row seats probably because we didn't get there early enough and the theater was packed. The movie begins rolling and I'm watching the movie and I'm enjoying it and I'm enjoying myself and it's a really good movie! But then when the scene with the T-Rex comes up, you know, that scene where the T-Rex escapes through the fencing of his no longer electric, electric cage........I got so scared during that scene! I was so frightened that I had to excuse myself out of my front row seat, walk all the way down the aisle, out of the theater into the lobby, acting like I was just leaving to go use the restroom. Yeah, right, I picked the moment smack dab square in the middle of the very best part of the whole movie to just go leave and use the restroom. Who was I fooling? I didn't have to go pee. I was terrified! I probably almost peed my pants! The T-Rex looked so real, and felt so real! It sounded real too! I know though that I at least made it through to the part where the massive T-Rex starts spinning the kids' vehicle with his huge snout, with the kids trapped inside it, but once the T-Rex started stomping their SUV, crushing the kids underneath, all while letting out a spine tingling and ferocious roar.....I was out of there, and in a hurry! I went and hung around in the restroom for a little bit, not really doing much. When I got back to my seat in the theater, it was at the time when the T-Rex is chasing Laura Dern and Jeff Goldblum in their speeding away vehicle, where Goldblum is laying on the back of the jeep, all too injured to move but not too hurt to punch out a few wisecracks, and then the T-Rex explodes out of the trees and is right on their tail! I thought that I might have to go to the restroom again. I sat back down and was able to make it through the rest of the movie just fine, and my dad knew that I had been a little shaken up, so he rest assured me and let me know that it was all okay.I loved Jurassic Park back when I first saw it then and I still love it now today. It's one incredible feature. The whole point of just sharing with you my recollection of when I first saw Jurassic Park on the big screen was that...the dinosaurs looked so dang freagin' real! Way to go, Steven Spielberg! The CGI special effects of Jurassic Park's dinosaurs is truly impressive and groundbreaking stuff. I know Spielberg wasn't planning on using computer graphics on the dinosaurs, fearing that the computers wouldn't be advanced enough to replicate realistic looking reptiles that an audience could believe, but upon further digital exploration, some technicians tinkering around with some software, Spielberg and the technicians had a moment of discovery realizing that they could indeed use computer animations for the dinosaurs, and that the technology was good enough after all! Boy, does it show! That's called fate, my friends. The dinosaurs in Jurassic Park are awesome and incredible! They're a mammoth cinematic achievement on a behemoth scale!Jurassic Park is a great, beloved movie, thanks to Michael Crichton who wrote the novel, Steven Spielberg, and special thanks to the actors, Sam Neill, Laura Dern, Jeff Goldblum, Ariana Richards, Joseph Mazzello, Richard Attenborough, Samuel L. Jackson, Wayne Knight, Bob Peck and Martin Ferrero whom all give better than good performances, great performances. Steven Spielberg did an outstanding job directing. The theme by John Williams is beautiful and inspiring. I love that tune! The Jurassic Park is one of the great sets of any movie. I rate Jurassic Park a 9, I cannot give it an all out 10 because the movie is too mainstream and commercialized, and also, there's that one scene with Laura Dern and the raptors that takes place in the maintenance shed that wasn't quite on par with the rest of the film's scenes. That scene needed a little bit of tinkering. The scene with the stampeding herd of gallimimus is possibly Jurassic Park's best part. The T-Rex scene, too, is just as spectacular. My favorite moment is probably when the characters first see the giant brontosaurus, and the other dinosaurs, and John Williams score is blaring in the background. "They do move in herds." Wow, what an amazing movie Jurassic Park was, and still is! I love Jurassic Park!
A rich entrepreneur has discovered a way to clone dinosaurs and has created a theme park to exhibit them to the world, but before he can do so he must show a mathematician, a lawyer, a botanist, and a paleontologist that the park is safe for the public. When devious forces behind the scenes attempt to steal frozen dinosaur embryos, all hell breaks loose and the question must be asked will anyone survive Jurassic Park??One of Spielberg's finest movies, the CGI for its time was astounding and to the first time viewer, jaw dropping. John Williams once again returns to score another Spielberg film and it not only compliments the film but resonates with the viewer long after its viewing. The story, based on the acclaimed novel by Micheal Crichton is fantastic and comes down to the moral question of science versus nature. The acting is great as is the pacing of the film. I hardly ever mention box office success in my reviews as I feel how much money a film makes has no forbearance on the quality of the film, but it must be mentioned that not only is one of the most successful movies of its time, but one that to this day remains one of the all time cinematic adventures of film. Spawning two sequels and an eventual third to come in the summer of 2015. Jurassic Park to this day still resonates in the collective conscious of the film going society but is now considered a classic.


                
This movie has every known ingredient for a long-running, well-loved, top money-making cinematic success: a deeply developed, lovable cast of characters; a creatively written and very well developed script; sound, believable dialog; totally realistic, imaginative effects; an awe-inspiring soundtrack; superb direction; good, solid, workable CGI creations; wonderful sets which inspire the imagination; and an excellent group of professional, lovable actors.The first time I saw this movie, I was in absolute awe of the dinosaurs. I could not believe how well they were done. I felt like I was right there, in that clearing with Alan Grant and Ellie Sattler, seeing them live, for the first time. I was actually...moved.I must admit that I have not always loved everything Spielberg has directed, but this is definitely one of my all-time favorites. It inspires the imagination, boggles the mind, and teases the child in all of us with the wonderful creation of these magnificent creatures. In this Fiend's opinion, ILM is the very best effects company there is. I admire their founder, and the visual images they create, and these creations were certainly no exception.Plot: InGen has created clones of many species of extinct dinosaurs in an attempt to engineer the world's first dinosaur theme park ergo the movie's title, "Jurassic Park." In order to obtain approval from the investors for the park's opening, Hammond, the CEO, has to solicit the nod from a diverse team of outside experts. Dr. Ellie Sattler (Laura Dern), Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill), Dr. Ian Malcolm (Jeff Goldblum), accompanied by the "blood-sucking" lawyer representing the board of investigators and Hammond's own grandchildren, take the official "tour" of Jurassic Park, but nothing seems to go right."So...eventually you're going to have DINOSAURS on your dinosaur tour? Right? Yes? Hello?" Ian Malcolm."I do HATE that man!" John Hammond.Then, something goes decidedly wrong! Sabotaged by one of his own family, Hammond's security is down, and the electrified fences containing these creations is turned off. Before anyone can get them back online, chaos commences. But the party of experts, Hammond's grandchildren and the lawyer are caught behind enemy lines.The question now, is no longer will they endorse it, but will they survive Jurassic Park? I absolutely LOVE this movie. The close-ups of the details created by ILM on the dinosaurs were absolutely wonderful, believable and outright realistic.As far as adaptations go Michael Crichton wrote the screenplay himself, so regardless of my personal feelings, I accept the story to be as close as was workable to the original literary work, though it felt heavily like a "Westworld" remake...with dinosaurs.It earns a 9.1/10 for actually making it feel real, from...the Fiend :.
'Jurassic Park (1993)' is a landmark achievement, in as many ways as possible. While some of the exclusively digital dinosaurs don't hold up quite as well as the rest - despite having been only relatively recently surpassed (depending on budgetary constraints, of course) by their peers, there are times when the superb CG almost seamlessly blends with possibly the best practical effects I've ever seen to create phenomenally believable, groundbreaking special-effects that truly are, still to this day, some of the best of their kind. Seriously, both the Raptor rigs and, specifically, the to-scale T-Rex are nothing short of breath-taking. They work so well not only due to the flick's fantastic technical prowess but also thanks to its beautiful blending of its core techniques (those created by clay and those by computer), its legitimate reactions from the compelling characters and its uncanny ability to put the audience right in the middle of it all, making you feel genuine wonder, fear, suspense and elation as if you're really sat alongside these long-extinct creatures. It's difficult to stress just how important the characters are in making it all so utterly believable, as well as so utterly captivating. Each of them feel like fleshed-out people, written to perfection by screenwriters who know how to get information across to the audience in a very organic way. It's almost as entertaining watching these people just converse with one another, discussing the morals of bringing extinct creatures back from the dead, as it is seeing them navigate the survival situation in which they are inevitably placed. It is only because we care so much about all the core players that the suspense sequences work so well, that we are kept on the edge of our seat every time a dinosaur lurks around the corner and that we grip our chairs when they leap for their prey. These scenes are some of the best in cinema, perfectly constructed with restraint and splendour. It's also difficult to describe how effecting even the simple moments can be, the moments in which we are asked to sit back and stare at the mere sight of a dinosaur. These should have dampened with time and yet they haven't, still eliciting the awe they did when they first hit the big-screen. They emulate the imagined magic of seeing one of these animals in real life for the first time. Running underneath all of this are some compelling themes that eagerly invite analysis, with the central debate being a tough and intriguing one. The picture is simply one of the most engaging I've ever seen, one that puts an ear-to-ear smile on your face just because it's so utterly amazing. It balances all of its core tenants impeccably, being a proper 'summer blockbuster' that's incredibly intelligent as well, to the point that every second is just supreme entertainment. It can make you lean forward in your seat or well-up with awe and, in general, have a blast from beginning to end. The movie is, without a doubt, a true masterpiece. 9/10


                
