The worst anime I have ever seen, this show is seriously terrible.Granted it did have an interesting opening and idea, enough so to keep me watching for all 25 episodes hoping that things would get interesting. But they didn't. Every fight is just these idiots who, despite rigorous military training, just panic and literally do nothing. They just complain to them self about how everything is hopeless and nothing is changing (tip: if you don't do anything, then of course you won't change anything).The show is so slow, and "battles" which could have been a single episode if they wanted, but more reasonably 2-3 episodes, become 6 episodes.Please watch some actual decent anime before you rate this show.
I am in the minority with it having an 8.9 IMDb rating. Here comes the entire plot synapses *Spoiler alert*: Some weird post apocalyptic walled city with a hodge podge of high tech/low tech gadget wielding humans, zip around fighting slow moving giants that eat humans. They win some but mostly lose, the titans don't have any dialogue or any backstory they are just boring villains. Easy enough to skip though since every episode is just about the same--Titans slowly crush the city and grab people and eat them, while some kids with a Just Cause grappling hooks swipe at them with swords.Now they are making a live action movie!? which is fine I guess since it seems easy enough to cram the entire series plot line into 80mins of movie and not leave anything out.Pretty much going to be Pacific Rim without giant robots and all the monsters look the same, oh and without an ending.
I watched this anime a couple of days ago and i have to say this is an embarrassment to Japanese people. Being Japanese myself i though that I would enjoy it, as I have watched many anime's before this, unfortunately I don't think I will ever watch an anime again after this because it is absolutely rubbish and made me feel sick. This has to be the worst show that has ever been aired on TV.The voice acting is absolutely awful, the animator needs drawing lessons and the writer....... well he needs to learn what a good story is.Many would say that the rating I have given this TV show is a bit to harsh, but believe me this is the most overrated TV show the universe has ever come across, In my opinion this doesn't even deserve 1 star.Seriously, if you've been considering to watch this TV show don't it's bad. P.S. Pikachu and Cubone need to have more screen time, their probably the only good characters in this show.


                
This show is a joke, I ended up hate watching it after 3rd season hoping that it will give you some answers but this while 25 episode season could been shot in 3 episodes. Nothing is happening, one fight takes like 3 episodes and all that ridiculous screaming and chaotic writing is just unbearable. I know the creator of the manga and anime was like 126 years old when he wrote it but his mind thinks in such incoherent way I have no idea why people praising it so much. After 25 episodes we didn't learn anything, even after 2 seasons no one knows why the Titans appeared, and people stupid enough waste their time to watch 10 seasons of this crap will finally get an answer, and I assure you, it will be the most idiotic thing you have ever heard.


                
After watching "Parasyte" and finding it a very good story albeit some glaring weaknesses, I thought I would try another popular Japanese anime TV series. IMDb you have failed so badly with your review system. I don't want to get into much detail but the story went nowhere. Nothing was resolved. Every character was so obnoxiously annoying with horrible dialog that I had no sympathy for anyone. Was this written by adolescents? The steampunk tech was ridiculous. I couldn't have more scorn for the IMDb scoring system after being tricked into watching this steaming pile of waste. I had to FF through most of the dialog it was that bad leaving terribly choreographed action sequences. This will be my last anime I watch based on recommendations from IMDb.


                
My friend recommended this anime, I saw the good ratings, so I thought it will be a fun cartoon to watch. But I don't see any reason why it would be good. The characters are pretty forgettable and annoying, the animation is average at best, and the story is simply dumb. There are very little action sequences, and too much dialogue. This whole show is about some idiotic teenagers who act like crying babies, and screaming irritably all the time. I don't recommend this for everyone, not even for anime fans, there are better anime-s and animation shows out there.


                
It is so insanely boring! Seriously. It is so over-hyped! Actually it's a great concept. I like it... really, but every god d*** episode looks like this: 4 Minutes Repeat + Intro from the last episode. 10 Minutes non animated and absolutely repetitive thoughts and flashbacks and emotional sh** that is actually important... BUT not if you repeat the SAME, exactly the same Quotes over and over and over and over again! Then there are some fight scenes. Which are actually interesting to watch (up to 30sec of the whole 25mins) , then 5 Min's credits. . .It is a torment to watch AoT. After the 10th episode you'll get the idea that this series is written for retarded human beings. Sorry to say so, but I can't understand the IMDb rating at all. The concept is not made for kids, obviously. But still, they tell the Story so slow and so uninteresting repetitively that it seems it's written for a 5 year old kid.Just do yourself a favor and use your time for something more interesting. And if not then please watch AoT, be serious to yourself and give it a IMDb rating that is justifiable and honest.


                
As I watch it, I knew it was good. But as what I always experience with amazing anime, they stop without notice and then disappeared. I already know the trend, but I thought its different for this one. But it seemed that my expectations are all correct. I think that they should produce it more. For sure many viewers are excited to watch it. They always make people hang up in the middle. They should avoid such situation.Its absolutely a waste of time watching. I don't recommend to others they will just feel bad not being able to watch the whole story. It really makes me feel bad to hear and know that they anime is not going to be finished again. I think that they should always continue what they have started. I am truly and absolutely discouraged and frustrated with this kind of thing.


                
I started watching the series and the first few episodes were very engaging. It looked like the characters would eventually develop great depth and the series would turn out to be very original. However to my dismay, after the first 10 episodes it almost seems like the series is being dragged on. The plot moves painfully slow. Its one of those shows which you can skip or watch at 2x speed and still be bored. An episode of 24 minutes has content worth 2 minutes, the rest is filled up by a 4 minute long intro, painfully elaborate and unnecessary conversations between characters, some shrill screaming by the protagonist and some recycled gore. Repeat that x25 and you have your first season. The characters are shallow, the story has no depth and the show is unoriginal and full of cliches. Simply put the show made me feel irritated and frustrated.


                
I want to start out by saying that I, in good conscious cannot give this anime a good rating considering the propaganda behind Attack on Titan. The creator is a known Japanese nationalist, the leftover xenophobic Shogun loyalists from the Axis of Evil. At every turn of the show, from the glorification of military, inferior genetics of another species, subservience to royalty you can see the deeper truths. So I will disregard the animation, the character development and the voice acting (all of which are great) and strip this 8/10 rating for an anime to a 1/10 so less people may watch this show. If you don't care about people who are suffering, or are a far right wing eugenicist otaku this show would be great for you.


                
I started watching this anime because it was so popular and it got so high ratings. I expected it to be good but after watching 15 episodes i was completely disappointed. I want to like it but everytime i end up not liking it.The concept is great. Humans live in fear of giant humanlike monsters called (Titans)The first episode is good, no problem there. But after a couple episodes you get tired of it. The characters are just teenagers that can't do anything. There's no character development. Every episode they give up and stop believing that they can win. Then suddenly they decide they can't give up and have to fight only to end up complaining and talk about how weak they are over again. Armin is the typical nerd that relies on his intelligence instead of fighting. Eren shouts all the time saying he will kill all titans when he has not done anything yet. Mikasa is a overpowered girl who is just there to protect Eren. There's too much dialogue, nothing much happens. If they plan on having more dialogue than action then they could at least make the story interesting.
Some of the Dialogues are unberable, it takes credit for the original story and for the cruelty. But the constant screaming and excessiveness of emotions are worth cringing al least to the point were it feels like a soap opera


                
Probably the worst anime has ever made..... giants.... really? lmao...Don't waste your life watching this piece of garbage that is called Attack on Titans, still can't believe it's showing on Adult Swim.


                
