I've seen all kinds of animes, mostly adult ones because usually they have a better story then kid shows, and I had nothing left to watch so i googled 2013 animes and this one seemed slightly interesting, watched a trailer first and didn't like the trailer, watched the 1st episode and I was hooked, watched the 2nd and i was totally hooked, watched the 3rd and it blew my mind, now I will have to wait every week for an episode daaamn, the first 3 episodes of this anime prove that this anime will be an awesome one, you can foretell that by watching how the first episodes is building up this hype-level of an awesome story which started out sad and is going to become epic and bloody. The concept is unique and I like it. Humans who live inside 50 meters high walls to protect themselves from titans (giants), Eren the main character feels unpleasant about it compared to everybody else because that's not really true freedom for a human to be "livestock" inside walls, waiting to get eaten by titans. One day, and that would be the day they would all remember for eternity, the day when first wall fell and hell broke loose, this is where the story starts. And it just gets better and better! There's a lot of emotional and bloody scenes which usually makes up for a good story. You know those animes that catch your eyes on the first episode, this is one of them.


                
This anime is simply amazing! The way it is animated, the soundtrack, the characters, the story, the thrill and the suspense. All in one action-packed anime. One of the best so far. As it has only 9 episodes as of now ... many critics say that it is way too early to rate an anime. But, according to me, this is pure class. The soundtrack's tempo varies according to the situation and this makes it more exciting. The ending of the episode is something that NO one will look forward to as NO one will want it to end. A must watch for every anime lover and of course the manga is available as well. Although a bit gory, the epicness makes up for it! You know those animes that catch your eye from the first episode, this is one of them.


                
This anime just keeps me on the edge of my seat. Each week I watch and each week I want more. It's intense. The concept and story line are on point and keep you thrilled and wanting more. The only downside is the seven-day waiting for the next episode. Definitely one of the best anime I have seen. I often watch anime for fun and as a means of passing the time away but with this it's different. I can't tear my eyes away for even a second. A masterpiece in the making. I just hope the producers keep this running for longer instead of cutting it short into a 20-something episode thing such as SAO or BTOOOM!.Do yourself a favor and follow it.


                
A well made anime. The feel this show gives is just awesome. I always want more of it and one episode a week is just so not fair. Right now I am on 20th episode and it's really getting better.The show hooked me from the very first episode. How action and emotions connects and make a perfect atmosphere for Titans, monsters who like to eat humans just for fun, and humans, fighting for their existence when stuck inside three walls.How main characters who aren't super powerful yet give a promising touch to the show. And how they show a real management work even when their is anger, fear and blood in the air.Characters are super cool and feel real unlike regular animes. This show is a guarantee of entertainment. Give it a try.


                
Although there are already a few reviews on this series, AOT is so good that I still felt the need to write a review.Attack on Titan is, at the time of this writing, only 8 episodes into the series, yet it already seems to be one of the best anime of 2013. I'm a big fan of SAO and this series is right on par with part 1 of SAO (if you're reading this and Haven't seen Sword Art Online, I would very highly recommend it- definitely one of the best anime I've ever seen.)**Here's a quick note- if you aren't sure whether or not you'll want to watch this, here are some things that could keep you away. There IS gore in AOT, and while it lessens up later, the first few episodes are particularly gruesome compared to shows like Naruto or One Piece. If you're interested but not big on the gore, try watching Psycho Pass. It's a great anime in its own right but it's also not afraid of some blood. If that show has too much Gore for you then you probably won't like AOT. Also, if you get scared easily, these Titans are extremely creepy. Like, Evil-Clown level creepy. In the end, wouldn't recommend for early teens.**Some reviews have given confusing accounts of what Attack on Titan is about (I'm looking at you blackmamba99971) whereas others have given much more concise sums (fanis-gav has a good one) but basically, it's a Medieval-looking time period and humanity lives in the spaces between 3 separate circular walls (Great Wall of China sized walls) one inside of the next. These walls were put up to protect humanity from the Titans, humanoids with no "junk" that go in sizes of 5, 7, 15, and 60 meters (A tall human is 2 meters by the way). No-one knows where the titans came from or how they survive/reproduce or even how they can be killed for awhile. All they know is that Titans eat humans simply because they enjoy it. After "100 years of peace" living within the walls, the Titans break through a part of the Outermost wall where a young boy named Eren lives. To put it shortly, he sees some people killed right in front of him and vows to "wipe out each and every Titan."Now here is where the show really sets itself apart. In most anime, the main character has some secret power or something that allows them to live up to their challenge. Naruto had a ton of chakra, Luffy had the Gum-Gum fruit and Ichigo had an intense Spiritual Pressure. All these MC's have something exceptional about them that makes anything seem possible.This is anything but the case for Eren. When we meet Eren, he's a scrawny little punk that can't even take on others his age, much less an adult or Titan. The idea of Eren taking on a few of the lower level Titans is laughable. Even after a 5 year time-skip where Eren and other kids have become young adults trained to kill Titans with the Recon squad (a unit of the Army that goes outside the walls to fight Titans and has little to no success at this point), they look like as big a threat to Titans as a toddler with a wooden gun. And you see it in every episode too; the feeling that no-one is safe and the desperate plight that the characters are in really permeates the entire show. There's no "Last-Second-Save" like in most other anime, and the twists come every week. You get to know a whole cast of characters but you never know who's safe or not. This adds a gravity, a realness to the show that brings you in and really allows you to connect with these all too fragile, human characters.Besides that, the artwork is fantastic, the soundtrack gets better each episode, the character and plot development is top-notch and there's still a ton of room to grow with where the Titans come from, what Eren's dad injected him with (we still don't know), what's in the basement and how the Colossal Titan keeps appearing. If you can deal with a bit of gore and are looking for a great new show, it's a fantastic piece of work well worth the look.


                
Only 6 episodes in while writing this review, but wow what a start. Firstly the music and voice acting are seriously good, and the art/animation is top notch, very nice indeed. Then regarding the story line - right from the off we get deep into the scenario, the characters, and their fear. The anime does an amazing job of portraying the characters emotions, you really get the sense of how much of a helpless position the humans are in. Quite a lot has happened already in these first 6 episodes, with already some shocks and unexpected events. Really has been an incredible start to this anime, and that is what I have rated it on, though I have extremely high confidence this one will be one that gets better and better.


                
Animation - absolutely incredible, fluid, not blocky, crazy camera angles, and very good character designs and animated facial expressions.Music - reeeeally epic, well-timed, and really epicVoice Acting - almost perfectly done All characters' voices fit and really give them extra definition to each character. Armin and Eren in particular have the most expressive voices that have produced some of the best voice acting performances I've ever seen that really does outshine most other characters in anime.Story - Rich background and story world, incredibly grim, this story is a lot more complicated than the premise introduced in Episode 1.Plot - how the story is presented in the form of an anime definitely keeps you interested for wanting more. If you're not seeing action, you're seeing emotional breakdowns, controversial issues, showcases of characters and character interactions, etc. The pacing of the series is good, there's always something interesting going on or something interesting we as an audience want to know, and there's ALWAYS conflict after conflict, the humans really can't catch a break.Characters - realistic, emotional, and some really interesting, basically just imagine a normal person like yourself in the shoes of the cadets.


                
I have to give this anime a 10 our of 10! Ever since the first 2 episodes, which was in my opinion one of the best hook-on I have seen, it was very intense and conveyed fear to the viewers very well. Some people complain that it has gotten slow or was boring in some episodes, but I don't think they fully grasp how important each episode is. First I think ever since the first 2 episodes, it made people raise their standards and expected more and more action every time. The show does an amazing job on building character and storytelling in general. I doesn't have to have action all the time just for it to be good. This anime is top-notch! The money and time they invested in this Manga adaption was well done! Excellent! Animation is beautiful! Whatever the effect they use for the Tian's animation is also nice. My next obsession is the soundtracks! I am so glad Hiroyuki Sawano helped worked on it. He is a highly valued music composer that is remarkable at making one of the most epic soundtracks, such as Gundam UC: Unicorn. The Manga's content was a lot more gory, but they adapted it and censored it in a way that did not ruin the story. Voice over is also excellent! Expresses feelings and other emotions strongly and effectively.


                
The best part of the series is coming in april 2019, all of the entire show is not compare to what is coming now, nobody is ready for that.


                
Attack on Titan is a must see show for anyone whether they enjoy anime or not. The writing in this show is incredible, you must watch it to believe it. The story is dark but beautiful, and the animation is the best anime has to offer. The show has an amazingly good pace, with a blend of gut wrenching tense action scenes and heartfelt character moments. The characters in this show are so unique and distinct, every character feels real and three dimensional, despite their occasional silly anime style banter (which is entertaining in its own right). The soundtrack is also amongst the best any television show has produced, and it expresses the tones of the show and makes every scene even better. 'Vogel im Kafig' is a musical masterpiece, and i recommend you give it a listen even if you haven't seen the show. The show's twists and turns are on another level, and the reveals are built so well that every plottwist will leave your jaw on the floor. This show is truly a masterpiece, and you should see it regardless of whether you enjoy anime or not.


                
This is undoubtedly the best anime ever. The best part of the anime is that there are no loop holes. Everything makes sense in the end. Another amazing thing about the anime is that there are no annoying characters who ruin the fun of the anime. Every character is good in his own way. As a reader of the manga, I can guarantee that the ending is EPIC! This anime constantly improves reaching it's Pinnacle at it's ending. This deserves number one and I'm sure the ratings will improve.


                
I have seen a lot of animes and all kinds of shows and I must say, that the first 6-8 episodes of Attack on Titan, are in my opinion, the pinnacle of anime series so far. The plot, the characters, the animation, the soundtrack...are all top notch. Special mention for the first opening: epic is the word for it. Try and watch the first 5 episodes and you won't be disappointed.


                
Perfect from every prospective story,music, sound track, art and animation. This is not an ordinary anime it's a masterpiece.


                
I've seen many anime's mostly adult ones because kid ones are mostly funny ( not ) and not voilent or serious. But this anime is special because it's not voilent all the time and it's serious. It's the best anime I've seen in my life. The characters are so cool that I've even got posters of them like Levi Erwin eren as a titan the female titan the beast titan the colosul titan and the armour titan.So from me I say you should give it a chance and at least watch the first 10 episodes.
"Attack on Titan" is PHENOMENAL!!! There are MULTIPLE reasons why I LOVE "Attack on Titan"!!!
**THE REASONS BELOW AREN'T ORDERED BY RANK!!!**1) Storyline - I REALLY like how Isayama creates a DEEP suspense within certain situations to get the readers hyped up about what will happen next and/or why the events happened in the series.2) Diversity - In most manga and anime, we only see Japanese people with unnatural hair color( like the characters from series such as "Naruto", "Bleach", "My Hero Academia", and so on). However, "Attack on Titan" is FAR UNIQUE because Isayama ACTUALLY included black people and Middle Easterns!!!3) Character Appearances/Traits - Isayama included a four-year timeskip in "Attack on Titan" and DRASTICALLY CHANGED some of the characters' appearances, ESPECIALLY Eren Yeager's. I personally LOVE Eren Yeager's character( development) because I can relate to Eren in certain ways and how his appearance changed THE MOST out of the other characters( from "Attack on Titan")!!! Eren Yeager grew his hair longer and grew some facial hair after the four-year timeskip, but he later shaved off his facial hair and tied his hair back when he returned to Paradis from Marley. (I SERIOUSLY DIDN'T EXPECT THE SHAVING AND HAIR-TYING TO HAPPEN!!!!) Other characters that received a DRASTIC change also includes Mikasa, Sasha, and Armin.4) Additional Reason(s) - I also think that "Attack on Titan" has the most beautiful artworks and animations out of the other manga/anime that I've read/seen so far!!!
One of the best animes out there!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!


                
One of the best anime u must watch before u die. Best Story ,best characters and best actions.<U+2764><U+2764><U+2764><U+2764>


                
This show is almost absolute perfection. I was completely immersed into the show from episode one. In fact I stayed up for hours when I first started it and was not able to stop watching. On season three now and I can't wait to see where this show takes us.


                
Gorgeous. This word can fully describe everything what I think of Attack on Titan. Gorgeous plot, gorgeous characters, gorgeous dark fantasy world, gorgeous art style&spec effects, gorgeous music, gorgeous structure of the show, GOD – IT'S ABSOLUTELY GORGEOUS!!! There is no other anime like this, that could be so GORGEOUS IN EVERY WAY! It just doesn't have any flaws at all! The way WIT studio has shown this anime is so brilliant, unique and groundbreaking that I have no other choice than to say: "This is an Everest of anime industry"... , and I swear on my soul – it's true.To say that I did not expect something like that from a newbie studio (which WIT really was back than) means not to say anything at all. Their first project<U+0085> and such a success. That can only be recognized as a work of genius, and in this case genius is a whole studio. Most of all I can praise the producer – Jouji Wada, the director – Tetsurou Araki and the composer – Hiroyuki Sawano. The magic that appeared on the screen immediately dragging me to the fantasy world; the flawless music consuming me like a black hole and bringing me to new dimension of overflowing joy; the endless feeling of agony, pain and hopelessness but still not surrendering, not backing down and to the very last breath struggling emotion – the enjoyment is indescribable. Everything that our heroes 've been through and each and every emotion they've felt – I felt as well: when they were happily crying seeing each other alive – I was happily crying with them; when they were angry or frustrated – I felt the same; when they where dying on the battlefield or sacrificing themselves to save their sworn brothers – I was dying there as well. The creators 've managed to show every single detailed emotion on the faces of main, and secondary characters as well, and 've made you to walk through this path along with them "from the cradle to the grave".The story line is thought-out, unique and figuratively does imply to our real world in many aspects of life such as social differentiations and human animal nature. Beautifully done job by Isayama Hajime takes you to new horizons of dark horror fantasy and allows you to feel its greatness on your own skin. The art style is colorful and detailed, and in addition to high level 3d animation and dynamic effects puts some kind of enchantment on you and makes you 5-year old kid that still believes in miracles. Special attention must be paid to the soundtrack. Hiroyuki Sawano has done an unbelievable job by composing an epic music, that makes your blood boil and your heartbeat frequency increase. The openings and endings are also something more than just mind blowing. Characters are versatile and do reveal full spectrum of emotions as you see them suffering, dying, suffocating from the bottomless feelings they go through but still sacrificing their lives to reach the greater goal – TO BE FREE!The degree of pleasure that I received from watching this anime is 150%. Something such incredible in every way, where each of its components suit more than perfectly and draw a picture of unknown beauty can be seen only once in a decade and I am very happy that I did not miss to see it. Rating it 10/10 I call it an impeccable creation of the mastermind and best out of the best from what I've seen so far.


                
This anime grabbed me in the first episode and it didn´t release me to the end. I´ve seen all the episodes several times but it still can make me feel like for the first time.
It has gripping story, fantastic music and really good animation.
Someone can tell that animated serials are for children so if you have one of these people in your friendlist, tell them about this anime.
It´s full of blood, gore, cutted extremities and death so they will probably change their mind.
The serial stars Yûki Kaji (Eren Yeager), Marina Inoue (Armin Arlert), Yui Ishikawa (Mikasa Ackermann) and many other good voice actors and actress.
In the story main characters and other people live in the town surrounded by tall walls. The walls protect people from some kind of creepy humanoid monsters called titan. And those titans really like to kill and eat humans so there are much violent too.
But you can´t look at this anime only in bad way. It´s also about friendship, loyalty and many strong feeling made between people in hard situations. It´s about the will of life, political intrigues, freedom and amazing fights against human eating creatures.
This anime is great work and nobody can change MY mind.


                
Comparing this anime to the other animes is just waste of time. If you need an epic adventure, you must not lose this. You will face a new challenge in every episode and you will get surprised by watching final episodes.
One of the greatest feature that it has is this serie don't obey any formula that always good side will succeed at last. You should watch this to understand how is it possible to not expect the final. You wait for something good in every second of every episodes but you feel pain and sorrow with the characters at the same time. You would find out every thing that you achieve, cost you something and maybe it isn't worth it. So if you want to experience a unique course for understanding the cruel side of life you can't miss this


                
I can't put into words just how amazingly awesome this show is. It is without doubt the best action anime of all time due to its intense fight scenes, mix of slight romance, comedy, ridiculously EPIC moments and best of all, no stupid fanservice. If you're looking for an anime that keeps you on the edge of your toilet the whole way through, this is the one. The shocking scenes at the start of the first episode hook you straight away, and although the next few episodes may be a bit slow to build up, the suspense in later parts are somewhat unbearable. At the end, you'll be DYING for another season and hopefully it'll be coming soon. Humans have been nearly all wiped out by huge man-like creatures called Titans, which are naked, senseless and eat humans for fun (but lack genitals) and the last few surviving have built three walls to protect themselves from being killed. Eren Yeager and his family, along with his adoptive sister Mikasa (who, by the way is the greatest female badass of all time) and his best friend, Armin live in the outer wall and dream of going outside to explore the world. Eren wants to join the Survey Corps, the elite soldiers that fight the Titans face to face. Everything changes however, when the wall that surrounds them is breached, and havoc ensues.I must say, each and every character in the show has a unique personality that draws them to you straight away. Eren is the general ('I'm gonna kill them all!!!') character but with a hidden surprise, Mikasa is just super-cool and Armin is a genius. Along with the quirky characters of their brigade, like the potato girl, you are never bored of the main people. Captain Levi is also just on another level of badass. Like Roronoa Zoro level or Spike Spiegel.The action, as I've said already is so awesome, it gives you those spine chills. The animation is superb, clear and really crisp. Even the gore is much, but not too much to make you feel sick, except I did feel a bit queasy after seeing Eren push a massive wood splinter further into his chest (not suicide, for a reason don't worry). I found the fight scene with Mikasa and Levi against the Female Titan one of the most thrilling scenes of any show ever, (especially when Levi does his spinning blade attack, similar to Zoro's Yasha Garasu.)Another point that some action animes leave out, is the effort put into the music. Unlike Gurenn Lagann, the music is varied constantly, the soundtrack is reeallly long and each song is absolutely amazing and the feels and epicness are strong. The opening theme for the first half of the 25 episodes just fills you with POWER!!! and the ending theme does the same kind of thing, just more subtly. However, the second opening theme sucks real bad. Like real bad. That's the only bad thing I can say. Other than that, the show is flawless. If you haven't watched it, watch it now. It's legendary in my eyes, and sure to become a classic.
Okay, if you want to see a series of the utmost strangeness this is it. A town or village is wrapped up like a cocoon behind a fifty meter wall made of strong cement and concrete. Outside of these walls are individuals who walk around naked one quarter of the height of these walls. What ever they are, they look humanoid, but with an appetite for human flesh. For the past 100 years, the walls have kept the village safe until one fateful day the secretive Titans as they are called appeared to break down the wall so that the walking demons could have their fill. And these titans are higher than the wall itself. Now a boy named Eren, vowed revenge against them for having his mother eaten by one of the demons in front of him while on the run with his friend Mikasa and Hanne. This horrible dream for which the people themselves feared had come true, a reality that not all walls can hold back an enemy no matter the size. Even water drops over a hundred years can break a wall. Now outside of the walls, Eren must become part of the military with very limited weapons to help their cause. But more often than not, the soldiers themselves cannot find out where or when these titans arrived to cause so much despair and terror. This series is not for the feint of heart, it contains a good amount of gore as well as horror scenes which will curl your hair. I have to say this is one for the books, I have seen all sorts of horror but this series looks very, very interesting. I would have to say anyone over eighteen can watch it. Under that age will give kids nightmares. One of the most original series to date. Highly recommended to those who like this genre.
The internet community is so stupid nowadays, people keep hating on anything that goes mainstream without even giving it a try before. This anime managed to revive this dead art of anime that has been publishing rotten immature sexualized garbage for 7-8 years or so, and these trolls that probably didn't even watch it keep down-voting it because they call older animes better, wth... What are you even trying to do, keep anime in the horrid state it was before this piece came out? After seeing the votes breakdown, I even suspect some multi-accounter repeatdly voting 1's on it (very low average from the US only, coming from a high percentage of 1's...) and an incredibly high percentage of 1's from the 'top 1000 voters'! (???). Seriously pin those trolls and ban them from voting here.Well anyways, With the official themes of DARK FANTASY, TRAGEDY, and DYSTOPIA, This anime is not your average DBZ/Naruto/Bleach, this one is perfectly well done, written in such a manner that makes it deserve competing around with the best western live action series, be it an anime or not. Such a perfect balance of elements that make this series a masterpiece (I've watched it several times already, read the manga, analyzed it bit by bit, and it seriously is far more appealing than most of the old series you glorify just because they're old and they marked your childhood/adolescence), and as such it deserves a perfect score. It is one of the only series I can keep watching again and again finding new meanings in every detail every time I watch it, as it throws hidden messages everywhere making reference to real world issues as well as teasing possible plot twists / reveals that makes your brain burn out trying to guess what will happen next, and when you get that reveal it only opens up more mystery. It also has such a crude way of portraying deaths, being merciless with its characters but always in a realistic way, since real deaths in a lost warfare like this will really be fast and furious, and AoT makes sure to make that clear. This series is a perfect mixture between GoT and Lost, with an additional godlike OST, visuals, and action sequences, and season 1 was just a tip of the iceberg in terms of the story and character development. But I guess we will have to wait some years so these idiots drop their skepticism and watch it without being blinded by their hipster instincts / frustrated non-mainstream anime fanboyism.


                
This anime literally takes my breath away every time something epic happens... Just watch it...If you watched the preview of Shingeki no Kyojin in my earlier post then you already have a pretty good picture of what episode 1 is like.The humans were becoming content with living within the walls, only for disaster to strike.An extremely huge titan (around 60 meters tall) seemed to fall from the sky, before proceeding to break the outer-most wall (which is called Wall Maria) (who names walls? Seriously?) and create a hole in it for the smaller titans to pass through (I say 'small', but these titans are giant-size beings, around 10 meters tall maybe).Eren (the protagonist) and Mikasa (Eren's adopted sister) then watched in horror as their mother, who they couldn't save, was cruelly eaten by a titan.
