I am not much of an Anime buff, sure I watched my fair share when I was a teenager but most Animes simply do not grab as much as I would like. There is of course Akira and Ninja scroll and stuff like that people in general should watch at least once in their life. The only Anime TV show that I watched from the beginning was Fist of the North Star. A real classic in my opinion.Seems like I found another show that I consider already a classic in the making. I am proud to say after watching 3 Episodes of |Attack on Titan| I am blown away. The show is nicely paced, the whole plot is so simple, yet strong and the whole concept of having the human race, that consist of mostly German people or so it seems, locked up behind walls is really, really compelling.The art is superb and a joy to watch. From the Bavarian town over to the great painted landscapes, character design etc. It is all top notch in my opinion.Stuff like the charging Armored Titan is even for an old timer like just to cool to pass up. What a great scene that was. I cannot wait for the next episode.


                
This is fantastic on many levels, the story, art, and atmosphere. The basic premise of mindless giants that eat people sounds ho hum on paper but watching it gives a much different feeling. As an audience we don't know a whole lot more than the characters so the emotional impact of twists and turns mirrors the character development. And believe me, there are twists and turns you probably won't expect. No one is safe in this world and it is a brutal world. The requisite young pair of kids is there as the focal point for the series and there are other typical anime trappings I've noticed, based on my limited exposure to the genre, but you will immediately forget about those if they bother you because the story is so darn riveting. Violent. Bloody without being gratuitous in the gore department, the horror comes from unpredictability and the feeling we are seeing what it is like to be ants in a human world. Highly recommended for adults. Don't dare expose this to sensitive children, it will absolutely freak them out in a bad way. As far as I can tell this series also is staying very close to the Manga. This is one of those series that people don't mind paying a streaming subscription just to get. However, you can watch for free if you get Crunchy Roll.


                
from the best series i ever watched.An incredible story that you can"t imagine and it will keep your brain follow them until the last movement and you will be shocked at the end and to wait for the second part and the enthusiasm in the episodes gets us restless for watching it.Although it's fantastic since you can't foresee what will happen and that's why you have to watched it.It's a series that you can't skip like Death note and the insistence will let you watched it in one day or two maximum.I hope you will enjoy the movie and i can not stand for the second season and i wish you will give him this attention and to have a big priority although it very hard to think about any events that will happen.So it's an exciting action and exciting series. Thank you!


                
This show is on another level of story telling. The original manga is amazing and the adaptation is breath taking. The story is fairly simple to follow and is filled with constant plot twists which make the story all the more interesting while entwining unique developments of depth and detail to the setting and characters.The characters lack a bit of development, but who needs development here? The show isn't about psychology. It's an Action Thriller and it does it's job extremely well. The main characters all have strong foundations for their motives and relationships are well established in the series. Lines are drawn and boundaries are crossed in this series.It's an excellent feat of story telling. What makes this show click though is it's rare ability to entangle the viewer in the universe of the characters. When I watched the show for the first time, the first thing that struck me was the painfully realistic approach at which the creators involve us in the story. It's a clean style of story telling that's simple to follow. It isn't a mystery show. It's a thriller like I stated.I also have to give credit to the visuals and music. The animation is absolutely stunning in Attack on Titan and the music just enhances the glory and epic vibe of the show. I'm serious, some of the moments made my balls drop.


                
I have a hard time understanding how this anime can have such a low rating. I think a lot of people haven't watched enough episodes or just judged it because of the trailer. I have read the manga for about two years and it is one of the best reads I've ever had. This is not your regular shounen, happy-go lucky, good guy going out kicking bad guys asses. This series is BRUTAL. It will keep you thrilled, sometimes flat out scared and entertained for the entire ride.When you start to like characters, they will most likely be killed off. When you start thinking everything is going well, all hell will break loose. The characters are well-made and you actually like them. Not to mention it has one of the most interesting plots I've ever come across.Well, without spoiling too much, I will just say that anyone that likes Berserk, Claymore and animes/mangas alike will most likely enjoy this one. I've only seen four episodes so far (the ones that have been released) and the anime stays very true to the manga.Not to mention the animation, the music and the voice acting... Pitch perfect in my opinion. The fights are very well made, the titans look as frightening as they should, the over-all animation is extremely well- made, specifically the 3D Maneuver Gear... Pure eye-candy. The dialogue (even if cheesy at times, I'm pointing at you Eren) is still one of the better.I can still not completely state anything about the series since we don't know how it's going to turn out in the future episodes, but my hopes are very high right now.
Attack on Titan is not your everyday anime. People die in this show and the good guys are always at a disadvantage. There are no superpowers or magic stuff. It's an all out brutal war about tiny humans versus the Titans, huge humanoid and seemingly brainless creatures.The humans however, do have a fighting chance. Using grappling hook and steam powered jets, they zip and fly through the air like Spiderman on drugs. During these sequences you can't help but marvel at the beautiful animation. In fact, the entire show is so goddamn beautiful. The visuals are full of lush, warm colors with detailed backgrounds. They change to fit the mood of the scene, but never stray into dull, monotonous grays. This is all supported by a gripping, truly memorable and larger than life orchestral soundtrack which is the stuff of legends.The story about a young boy who is out for revenge on the Titans for killing a relative together with his foster sister and childhood friend isn't anything special in the beginning. But plenty of mysteries start developing right away and the show does an excellent job about keeping the viewer guessing.The world is beautifully realized and everything is well thought out. Mankind has built 3 enormous circular walls to protect itself from the Titans. Social struggles are in full effect when the rich are living in the luxury of the inner circles, while the poor fight for their lives at the edges of the outer rings. When the army leaves for an expedition on horses, the formation and system of communication they use is explained in every little detail that matters. There is nothing in this series that feels out of place, because everything is so consistent. Always sticking closely to the rules the author of the original manga created.The top notch visuals, mysteries and legendary soundtrack pull you in, but it's the various plot twists and turns that keep you guessing. Just when you think the show is turning cliché, it turns 180 degrees and truly SHOCKS you as a viewer. Certain events in episode 5 and 21 in particular, had me staring at my screen in disbelief. The violence is brutal, but never over the top and it's always used to good effect.This show is truly one of the most intense watching experiences I have ever seen in my life. Even when characters are just talking. Or giving speeches. Or doing just ABSOLUTELY mundane stuff like putting on their uniforms...you can always feel the suspense thanks to brilliant harmony of soundtrack, camera perspective and all kinds of neat visual touches. No to mention the strong voice actors.By now you must be asking: are there any negatives then? And of course, there are. The number one is the pacing, that can sometimes be seen as out of whack. Episodes 3 and 12 in particular, could be cut or shortened considerably for a better viewer experience since so little actually happens.The characters are likable, but for the most part do not develop a whole lot in this part of the overall story (this being Season One). I did not mind it a lot, because the world and it's mysteries take center stage either way. The characters that do get development are also pretty good and get lot's of screen time.In conclusion, I can only call this a masterpiece. The emotions are intensely conveyed, the world is believable and full of mysteries, the story has many twists and turns, the character remain absolutely human in their struggles and the soundtrack and visuals are both hauntingly beautiful.I would recommend everyone, regardless if you like anime or not, to watch the first episode. I will guarantee you, you WILL be hooked.


                
I had my doubt about this show for awhile even after it was widely talked about after release. See, I never liked much anime. But after a YouTube clip caught my attention I decided to check it out. The very first episode inticed me and i found myself immediately wanting to watch the 2nd, then the 3rd, and you get my point. The script is well written along with the plot. It builds up great to make your eyes be wide open expecting dramatic story created through chaos and the human desperation for survival. The only thing the prevents me from putting down a 10/10 is that the English Dub is not the original and I have to look for the episodes of my language. Besides that, however, the show itself is absolutely and extremely hooking. <f0><U+009F><U+0091><U+008D>


                
Attack on titan is a great anime,, because that have a big and beautiful world for All Of People
This is one of the best post apocalyptic actions story I have every seen the visuals, the scores, the music , direction is superb. One thing I wanna say that this anime is brutal,people die in this anime like flys and and no one is safe even main characters,The sense of hopelessness is enormous and Humanity is maybe in brink of extinction but this doesn't stop arin and his friend to try there best.
So when the actions is going done it's brutal,real,emotional,heart breaking but extremely Entertaining!!
The only thing bad about this anime is it's little bit predictable..


                
Definitely a MUST watch, unless gore isn't your cup of teaI'll give the animation a 9.8. There are times where it's a bit shaky, but not too bad. The voice acting gets a 9.8 (for dub) because there are times where the actors' delivery aren't the best. Not terrible, just not as good. Story deserves a 10 since it's very intriguing and complex, especially in season three. And characters get a 10 because they're all amazing. And music gets a 10 because all tracks were great. If I were to rate accuracy, I would give it a 9.5. It does leave some things out from the manga, but all changes were approved by Hajime Isayama (the mangaka), so it doesn't even matter.Overall, a 9.9 (excellent)


                
when the creative filmmaker of rest of the world were busy making gold out of same plot for post apocalyptic story-line, Hajime Isayama took the storytelling to next level. when giant humanoid beings take over the world and humanity is at mare extinction, the only hope of survival is Giant Walls made by humans for their protection. when survival is protection and hope is just a metaphor.When fear and cowardliness is wild spread, Eren Yeager, his adopted sister Mikasa Ackerman and childhood friend Armin Arlert, who join the military to fight the Titans after their home town is invaded and Eren's mother is eaten. The best things about the anime is that it keep you at the edge of the seat while the story progresses, keeping the Titan's identity and origin unknown with spellbinding action.One of the things that kept the constant titan hunt fresh was the character roaster. Though you'll mainly play as Eren, Armin, Mikasa, or Levi, there is a point where the campaign allows you to play missions as one of 10 characters, and each has their own combat style that matches their personality.The fact that first five episodes are pretty straight and focus on character building and mainly history, then it takes a mind twisting turn. And perhaps we can't easily determine that at what time phrase the event is taking place.


                
My plan for this summer was to watch as many anime series as possible, and the few I had watched before 'Attack on Titan' had not lived up to my expectations; this made my standards for this anime extremely high. Yet I thoroughly enjoyed watching it! From the get-go I was already hooked on the storyline, and began to enjoy various different characters, their backstories, and the relationships between them. I typically sleep early yet I found myself watching episode after episode after episode. It was highly engaging and there was never a dull moment. I loved season one and two and can't wait for season three. I highly recommend this anime.


                
Just decided to see this anime after falling in love with the first anime i've ever seen "death note" wich encoureged me to see more well this one has showed me the greatness of anime starting with the blowing mind story and its originallity and going the characters who give the opportunity to live every feeling and every battle with them ending with the amazing and great soundtrack and music that's more and more original , it's a lot to see and to enjoy espicially the first season waiting for the third one !


                
If you like to watch anime and you haven't seen Attack on Titan, you should! Such a beautiful story with great fighting scenes. If you are new to anime, Attack on Titan is a perfect anime to start with. It sure is worth your time.


                
When you cast away all the flavor and skin, at it's core it's a story about heroes which fight the bad guys, odds always stacked against them. That being said, the setting is very gripping, clever, and subtly hints at relevant and serious themes. Characters are lovable but don't feel like they get much development beyond the setup values they are assigned at the start. Yet still, I cared very much about them and my stomach was twisting as I was watching what was going to happen to them next. Which pretty much sums it up. Even if, at times, it doesn't offer much in term of complexity when you try to dissect it and analyze it, it is thrilling to experience. It's the best distraction I afforded myself this year.Some Pros:Great setting. Nice visuals, even if at times a bit too bloody, with a very attractive combat style, great music which follows it well and promises quite some nerd-chills. The way titans are colored, their facial expressions just make them exceptionally creepy, as if they walked down from a weird modern art piece. They only add more to the special atmosphere of the show.Some Cons: Untimely internal monologues which can eat up nearly whole episodes. The very short episodes, not even 20 minutes of original material per, create inappropriately small chunks for how slowly the story progresses at times. I watched it all at once, but I can imagine it being a bit frustrating to endure through so many cliffhangers. Combat feels like it is driven by personal "anime awesomeness" skill rather than teamwork or some other clever aspect a tad more often than I'd like. It feel like there was a missed opportunity here to avoid falling into that mold.Overall, it's a elegant take on action packed anime. I personally recommend it. You should be bought by episodes 4~5. Oh, and I recommend watching it with the Japanese audio if you don't mind reading subtitles, the English dub isn't so great as actors they picked don't match their characters very well.


                
Attack on Titan is absolutely incredible and is not to be missed. I love everything this show is doing so far. It's characters, while not terribly original or complex, are cool and I want them to win, the animation is brilliant, particularly during the battle scenes, and each episode ends with me wanting more. There is more than just those things that make the show worth watching though. The show deals with death and hopelessness very well. When people die, you feel the weight of it. At times, certain situations really do feel utterly hopeless, which makes it all the more satisfying when they win. Oh and you can't write a review of this show without mentioning the kick ass theme songs. Both set the mood of the show while sounding awesome at the same time. I do love the song that plays with the first half of the show, but surprisingly, I actually like the second more. This is the only time I've ever felt that way about a show's theme song. As of writing this, Attack on Titan is my favorite anime TV show and I am dying to see the second season. Bring me more! 9.5/10


                
The most hyped up anime of last year. And it definitely lives up to the hype. The premise of the anime is that huge humanoid creatures called Titans almost drove humanity to the brink of extinction several 100 years ago. The only way humanity was able to survive was to build huge walls and live inside them. Very interesting stuff, and the story builds up nicely too. Since humanity is mostly in the dark about the titans, we as a viewer are subjected to the same treatment and slow reveals of new info as the plot about them as the plot moves forward is always exciting and shocking. The atmosphere is very grim and desperate. Sadness, hopelessness, loss etc is always looming overhead, perfect for this type of premise.This anime has an extremely EPIC!! feel to it. The soundtrack, the speeches, the motivational talk, and of course the action, all have the highest level of epicness applied to them. In fact, the word 'Epic' falls short to describing it. And this is the strength of the anime. Underneath all this epic layer, you will find a large set of interesting characters, subplots and conflicts, all of which are far from being the best but are good enough. The protagonist is a good mix of shonen ingredients with nothing in excessive quantity. Its the EPIC layer over it which amplifies everything and even the simple stuff becomes awesome. The animation quality is superb, one of the best I have seen so far in an anime. The environment, huge fights and fast movements of the characters using there gears is beautifully imagined and rendered. So pretty!! The action was OH SO SATISFYING. I can't express how awesome it was, extremely adrenaline fueled and impactful.Soundtrack, like I mentioned earlier, is epic. Loud orchestral pieces like the ones you gear in end of the world type videos really amplify the on screen action.On the downsides, it sometimes abruptly shifted tones, which was somewhat distracting. Also, some of the later episodes had slower pacing, which normally wouldn't have been a bother but seeing how explosive the earlier episodes were contrasted the later slower ones. Overall, an amazing EPIC anime. One of the best I have seen. I haven't this much fun/enjoyment watching an anime since Fate/Zero (Another epic anime). If you still haven't watched this anime, stop everything and watch it asap, if nothing else you'll at least enjoy the epicness. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!! 9.5/10


                
A lot of people are giving low ratings to AoT due to "boring and slow" storytelling. Here's the thing: this show doesn't give you instant gratification, which I actually like. It's gritty, dark, creepy, odd and unapologetically violent. It's not like all the other anime that shoves a bunch of mindless and story-less action in your face and then calls it a day. It's a slow burn, it's an unraveling mystery. Why is the history about the outside world illegal? Why doesn't anyone really know what's outside those walls? Why do most of the people know next to nothing about the only real threat to their existence? These are the questions that slowly get answered as the characters themselves finally learn about their own past and history. We are in the dark, just like them, figuring out who these mysterious people behind the walls truly are, and who these massive titans are to them and their survival/demise. It is a big story (if you've read the Manga, you know what I mean) and we are only scratching the surface in the first season. I really like the story, soon it's going to take on a WWII aspect, which really begins to show that human being are the true monsters in this saga. As far as ratings go, I knocked a star off because English Dub isn't my favorite, even though dubbing is so much better than it use to be. And the dubbing here really stays true to the Japanese version which is nice. Some of the English voices aren't what I was hoping for, however we all seem to get in our head how a character sounds to us personally, and sometimes it's hard to correlate that to what's on screen. Other than that, I love it.
Anime. The new found years of this age are built on hype, overselling, or hit-and-miss events. As much as was built up for this anime, I can whole heartedly say, it met how much it was said out to be. My opinion does contain some bias, but like all, pros and cons are present. The main con for this, was developing characters, but at the same time it built around that, and crushed walls like this with ease. A captivating story line, a brilliant and beautiful execution. Eagerly, the plot, characters, and writing had me hooked. It divulges and jumps into a part of humanity many shun, but exposes it like a bleeding wound. It barely disappointed me, but pulled at my heartstrings. I sum this anime into a morality setting. In the darkest black, presides the greatest of all light.


                
Anime left the label of low budget syndicated animation--the era of Thundercats--ages ago. It is a visual media art form.For visual media enthusiasts curious about anime, Attack on Titan is a superb example of the field, and as good a starting point as any for serious explorations.The most arresting facet of this gem of Japanese animation is the depiction of sunlight. The drawn and colored sunlight is glorious, almost a character in the story unto itself.And what a worthy story the sunlight joins, a coming-of-age hero's call of a tale that Joseph Campbell would recognize instantly. The dialogue is rendered in Japanese. The version released to NetFlix mid-2015 has Englisg subtitles. These are unobtrusive and seem to be translated in a natural idiom. The rhythm of the dialogue and the spatial placement of the characters amidst their built environment easily tips to the influence of Kurosawa. Like so many of the achievements, the artisanal films and series, in the anime oeuvre, Attack on Titan is a labor of love. The product of a group of artists. Watch it for days on end, or for just a hour or so, and let the sunlight find you.


                
Attack on Titan is a shonon anime where humanity has been almost wiped out by titans, which look like giant deformed humans with no genitals or digestive organs, who require no food, and seem to only want to kill all humans, simply for the sake of killing them. Humanity has survived by building three giant circular walls around them. The story follows Eren Jaeger, Mikasa Ackerman and (although less important) Armin Arlet, who become soldiers after the outter wall is breached suddenly by a giant 60m titan (they usually don't go higher then 15m) who kicks the gate open, and a armoured titan, who destroys the safety gate, causing the outter ring to be lost. It appears the anime's only confirmed season will cross the first three arcs, also known as the Beginning arc, the defence of the Trost District and the Female Titan arc. The anime is a nearly direct adaption (as of episode 22) with almost every scene being exactly the same as the manga, or they will show minor additions which all add to the story.The art and animation of Attack on Titan is incredible, with extremely good animation for the fight scenes, and unique ultra thick outlines on characters. However as the series has progressed, the signs of budget issues HAS been obvious, although it is usually done in ways that impact very little to the overall quality of the show. The show also heavily relies on CGI. This works well in some points, such as the town and forest fight scenes, but looks awful at other points, such as the horses extremely poor animation. The writing of the story is average, but not great. Characters while realistic, are not explored much. Ironically, right after they are likely to finish the anime, multiple characters get major character development, but that sadly wont happen (unless we get a second season). All the characters are interesting and likable in some way, except for the main character Eren, who seems perpetually angry with no character development at all (this is true so far in the manga as well). Most characters get 'some' character development, but not much. While the writing is average, it is made up for by the incredible atmosphere of the anime, something the manga lacked. They did an incredible job conveying a sense of hopelessness and despair. It is helped by the fact that the anime does not mind killing off characters, although there has been a select group of characters who are always immortal; strange they don't get much air time. (Until ironically, as with most things, right after the anime is likely to finish)The music is, to put it bluntly, the best I have ever seen. It is the most fitting and powerful soundtrack I have ever seen, of any time of media, whether it be TV show, movie, anime, radio show or video game. The openings are simply magnificent, the closings are not as good, but they only seem bad mostly because the openings are so good. Voice acting is great all round, not much to say about that. Finally, if you saw the opening and thought "This is going to be a great action focused anime!" you are dead wrong. There is very little air time spent on fight scenes. Much of it is talking, which really helps the atmosphere, but will leave action loving anime watchers disappointed. This is not like Naruto, where there is a lot of talking, but still a good amount of fighting. This is where you can go 4-6 episodes without any combat at all. This is not due to filler, and due to following the manga nearly word for word. If you want an anime that does an incredible job at conveying atmosphere with lots of talking and drama, you will enjoy this great anime immensely. If you want an anime is lots of great fight scenes; as good as they are, there simply is not enough for you to enjoy this anime.


                
Attack on Titan grips you from its first episode and continues to surprise you as it moves on. It has a large roster of characters who are developed throughout the entire series, but the focus are the three friends; Eren, Armin and Mikasa. The story follows their journey fighting in the last resistance against the nightmarish creatures called Titans who have literally devoured the majority of mankind and pushed them to extinction. Attack on Titan gets really epic at certain moments. Couple that with the best soundtrack I've heard in an anime, and this series gets the adrenaline pumping. The action sequences are lengthy and well made, mixing traditional 2D animation with 3D CGI. Overall animation is solid throughout, and really beautiful at times.My only complain is that at certain times the pace of the story comes to a crawl. But its well made up for later on, so its nothing serious by any means. This is an easy recommendation to anyone remotely interested in anime's but I strongly suggest this to one's who are NOT into anime. If this series doesn't appeal you, then no anime will.


                
Really when i saw this anime, i thought the story was about just fight a titan to survive , or maybe just patrol the city to titan's approaching, but i was wrong, wrong and wrong.


                
I avoided this one for quite some time because of how ridiculous the premise looked in theory. Giant sized brainless monsters eating humans alive, it sounded just another variation of some type of zombie apocalypse, but man was I wrong. After hearing its name again and again, I finally decided to give it a try and it's amazing. The show is brilliant and extremely addictive and no, it's not just about giant brainless monsters eating humans, that's just the base premise of the show upon which a very intriguing and crafty knitted story is told in an even craftier way. One of the best shows I have watched without a doubt. Couldn't give it 10 because sometimes the characters in this show come across as stupid or unbelievable (too much attempt to show them as beings with fallible or erroneous character) because of their actions but nonetheless, it is made up for by the storyline, the twists and turns, and the brilliant action sequences. It is worth many watches.


                
This is the biggest anime series to debut in 2013 in more ways than one! Set in a past where what is left of humanity is forced to live within three protective walls while giants known as Titans roam outside eating anybody they catch. Those inside the walls have grown complacent, taking their safety for granted<U+0085> then one day a giant Titan appears and smashes the outer wall. The others flood in and start killing the fleeing people within.One who gets away is series protagonist Eren Yeager although he sees his mother being devoured and promises that one day he will kill all of the Titans. To that end he enrols in the military along with his adoptive sister Mikasa Ackerman and his best friend Armin Arlert. When they are about to graduate from their training class another giant Titan appears and it looks as though another wall is going to fall. In the ensuing battle many people are killed and shockingly Eren is eaten by a Titan! Something strange then happens; another giant Titan appears but instead of fighting humanity it starts killing other Titans<U+0085> it turns out this giant is Eren! Somehow he has the power to transform into a Titan; some people think he could be used to save humanity but others think he is a danger that must be destroyed.It wasn't long into the season that it became apparent this was going to be the most high profile series of the year. No time was wasting in over-explaining what was going on and we were quickly thrown in to the brutal action. Given that this is a shonen rather than seinen series I was a little surprised at just how brutal it was. There are numerous bloody deaths right from the start which will probably earn it a 15 certificate when it gets its UK DVD release. The way we are thrown into the action got me gripped quickly and each week I looked forward to seeing how the story would develop. The action is animated in a way that gives the impression of constant movement, especially when the characters are swinging between buildings or trees with their steam powered 'maneuver gear'. This makes it exciting. The fairly large cast of characters are worth caring about which gives an emotional hit when ones are killed. If there is a flaw it is that Eren is rather annoying in many of the early episode; constantly angry but achieving little<U+0085> thankfully his character matures somewhat once the real action starts. As the final episode approached it was clear that there would either be a rushed ending or another series<U+0085> the conclusion pointed to the latter which should please the vast majority of fans; I know I'm looking forward to seeing more of this exciting series.These comments are based on watching the series in Japanese with English subtitles.
