At the moment this show has a score of 9.3 which is completely unrealistic and an insult to your intelligence. Be warned this show is made only for 12 year old comic book fans. If you don't care about comic books or have reached puberty STAY AWAY!!!Im not a comic book kind of guy or a fan of superheroes in general but the amazing score got my attention so i started watching. With a score of 9.3 it must be nothing short of amazing, right? Boy was i wrong... The problem with stuff like this is that the fanboys all give it perfect scores, just because it is marvel or whatever. A near perfect score means it must be near perfect but this is clearly not in any shape or form no matter how much you wish it to be.This show is lame, ridiculous, dull and cliché.To be fair i only watched the first episode but it was so excruciatingly dull and uninteresting that it felt like a chore to watch this for 50 minutes. I was actually glad when it was over. Can't think of a single thing that made this worth my time. From start to finish it felt like a bunch of recycled generic scenes from other movies and TV shows. Absolutely nothing original. It was cliché after cliché non stop. Really basic stuff like the lame crime syndicate, the mandatory rooftop scene with the super hero overlooking (overhearing) the city and a nerd boy that transforms into a superhero at night. Speaking of the nerd boy: he really has no superhero credibility at all. I wasn't convinced for a second. It all seems more like a bad joke.The acting is also not very convincing. The 2 main lawyer characters are really annoying. Non stop (supposedly) smart-cocky-funny remarks that feel really forced and are not funny at all. It has a real B- acting feel to it.And for the love of god can someone please explain to me what is so realistic about this show. All i see is a blind guy that beats up everyone. Does that sound very realistic to you? Maybe in America, land of endless opportunity but in the rest of the world this is called bullshit.(Gave it a score of 1 to compensate for all the fanboys but in reality i would say around a 5 or 6 is better suited)


                
When I was slightly younger, I had many of the publications of DC and Marvel, but this awful TV series does not manage to capture ANY aspect of what I fondly remember as a mysterious and almost magical alternate reality.I have unfortunately watched a few episodes of this, and there is so much wrong with Daredevil it is hard to be constructive. The plots are vague, the violence is too much, the 'fights' almost identical in each episode, silly (and over-prolonged/time-wasting) male-female 'interactions', I could go on and on.Foggy's character/script are clichéd, and really, why is he there? The mumbling (low voice/high voice) dialogue of Fisk, (and some other characters) does not make Daredevil dark and moody, just insulting to watch.Do the 'creators' of Daredevil only have teenagers in mind when making this garbage? Note that all the good reviews are from the teenage demographic, (probably), and appear to have no taste or the tiniest idea of how TV programs should be made.Who are the scriptwriters? Where were they educated? Why are they so lazy and uncreative? Will they ever get a proper job? Truly an insulting attempt at entertainment. I wish I had never seen it. Sorry for the negativity, I guess I just feel dismayed when being treated like a moron.


                
I imagine this 9.2 rating will drop considerably in time. Do to how much of an effort it is to stay interested throughout each episode. There is too much pointless dull dialogue between action scenes. I literally play on my phone for about 20 minutes at a time while sort of paying attention to this show and I still haven't fallen behind. About the budget. Most of this show is filmed in small rooms with few actors. It's true, offices, bedrooms,interrogation rooms, bars, confession boxes. You name it if it's small and can't fit a lot of people they will film in it. So yeah this show feels claustrophobic. Plus if there is an outside scene it's short and boring. Oh and dark. This show loves to bore you with dark small rooms with 2 or 3 actors and their tiring dialogue. Now the action there isn't enough of it. One action scene at the beginning one at the end and 50 minutes of boredom in the middle to have you asking yourself why are you still watching.Even the music is boring.Why is this good.
The unrealistic plot lines are near maddening. I can suspend disbelieve long enough to accept a blind man beating up countless bad guys but the story writing and amateur acting skills of the main characters is unforgivable.Seeing the overall rating of 9.0 for this show clearly personifies the how our society is so rapidly circling the proverbial drain. I'm saddened by the mobs of simpletons that make up this once great Country.How do some of these morons get some shows so right and so many shows so wrong. It's akin to monkeys throwing their feces at a ratings chart.


                
'Cause you gotta be smokin' something, for this God-awful show to get a rating above 1! Jeez! Talk about deja-@#$%-ing-vu! It's friggin' "Fury Road" all over again! Once more, I hear people ranting and raving about how "Awesome" this is, and once more, I'm left scratching my head! Either the whole world has lost it's mind, or I've caught the affliction that Stan Marsh had in that one particular episode of "South Park". For reasons that I cannot fathom, The Daredevil movie from 2003, has become the most hated, and ridiculed comic book movie of the last ten years. Why? Because Ben Affleck and Jennifer Garner were in it? Because it had humor? Because it had a Black man playing The Kingpin? Talk all the trash you want on it, you still have to give credit where it's due. At least Daredevil had a deep, moving, and compelling story. A story that wasn't a typical, paint-by-numbers, playing it safe, story that plagues A LOT of the current comic book movies today. I've liked some of the comic book movies of the last few years, but out of all the comic book films from 2002 to 2015, I've only LOVED 5 of them. In case you're wondering, here they are: #1 Daredevil. #2. Spider-Man. #3. Spider-Man 2. #4 Captain America: The First Avenger. #5 Captain America: The Winter Soldier. All the rest (in my opinion) are just cheap entertainment. Is the netflix Daredevil just cheap entertainment? Well, yes. However, that's not the only reason I didn't like it. I didn't like this show for the same reason I didn't like the TV show Gotham, or the fantastic four films, The Blade films, the X-Men films, and The "Amazing" Spider-man films: It doesn't feel like a comic book! There's a reason why comics aren't realistic: They'd be boring! When I read a comic, or a book, or sit down and watch a movie, I wanna escape to a place where the impossible is possible, and good always triumphs over evil. When I'm about to watch something based on a comic book, I expect the same thing. No more, no less! To me, this show just feels like a Law & Order rip-off (and a bad one at that!) with a costumed crime-fighter thrown in, just for the sake of it. If you like this series BECAUSE of the crime-drama feel to it, fine. To each their own. If this series turned you into a Daredevil fan, great. But If you haven't already, I strongly suggest you pick up a Daredevil comic before you watch the next season. (Preferably some of Frank Miller's issues) That is, if you really wanna understand the core of the character of Matt Murdock/Daredevil. Because this show does NOT and will NOT give you that! As for me, If I need a Daredevil fix, I'll crack open one of my graphic novels, or go back and watch the 2003 film, and view it as I always have for so many years: An underrated, misunderstood, gem of a film. Which I'll always hold close to my heart.


                
I have seen all the episodes in hope,that it would be getting better. Nothing is good on this show. It's too long with everything. Fighting, talking en crying. You hope its a lot of fun with an other superhero of Marvel, but all the Marvel shows have heroes, whom are crying all the time. Maybe it's to show how human the characters are, but it's not the way it should be. Make them man again and not a couple of crybaby's. All in all an other waste of time and money. According to the rules of this site I have to wright more about this terrible show. So some other remarks. I just wanted to be entertained. That's the whole target of making movies or TV shows. I know a lot of people like this show. I think, they can make the same show in 25 minutes and make it more attractive for everybody. No more long dialog s or fights.
Nothing to watch here. A young boy is involved in an accident, gets super powers and beats up bad people. The story is filled is clichés, the writing is terrible, there is no storyline or anything. People appear at I am not even sure why some of the characters exist. The only thing that interested me was that while all super heroes wear their mask in such a way that their eyes are exposed, daredevil wears his mask the other way around, exposing his chin but that novelty wears off quite quickly and then there is nothing else of interest in the series. The people rating it highly are either fake accounts or daredevil fans. This series is made for a 12 year old although the violence is not age appropriate. If adults are actually viewing this series and liking this, I despair at mankind. No wonder the top 1% are getting richer!


                
Awful, terrible and misguided creation. Every thing in this could have been done better. I stopped watching this after 4th episode of Season 1. The dialog were all predictable and sloppy. The only good thing about this series is the action sequences. Maybe the entire budget was spent on that.IMDb should have some kind of mechanism to avoid these kind of misleading ratings. Maybe 4000 of 5000 voters were children. Categorize ratings based on age too.The entire show is a cliché. It is not worth watching, even if you run out of things to do.


                
All of the dialogue seems to come straight from daytime television.. literally all of it is so over dramatic and cliché.. who writes this crap.. the whole show people are explaining the stupidest details like it's so important.. rule number one with writing.. show the story don't tell it!! fire the writers and maybe this show could be good. I have to wonder if the over dramatic bad writing leads to the overacting or if it's the other way around.. I'm guessing it's just two wrongs don't make a right kind of situation


                
I have been a huge fan of Season 1 & 2. It would have been way better if Daredevil was kept as a superhero this season made him look very ORDINARY.
Too much drama, rustic twists and sobby background stories killed the original thrill of the series.


                
I never liked netflix creation in the past, but this one is one of the worst.this show isn't cataloged as science fiction, but this is one of the most ridiculous science fiction I have ever saw.a blinded man the fight like Bruce Lee, jump out of windows like spider man, move like batman,has ears of superman and and can kill room full of armed man(guns,m16) using his bare hands.he can also see a inanimate objects(like a fence) with is hears only.I mean I liked watching batman,spider man,superman... , simply because you believe for 90 minutes that there is a man that can fly like spider or like bird, that is the concept of scfi. In this show you just get the filling that something is missing credibility, you simply don't "dragged" into it. Another thing that disturbing is the extreme violent, this show tries to get some points by showing awful violent scenes,like: behead man head with a door car, or creating knifes from human ribs or smash head with bowling Ball...I definitely recommend to skip this one.


                
Season one of this series was pretty good,season 2,well they made it a complete garbage.I am a big comic book fan but this series is nothing compared to the comics version of Daredevil.Getting 8.8 ratings for this series is really absurd since season 2 completely ruined the whole series.Episodes of season 2 were pretty boring as well,as they were 50 minutes long,felt like really hard work watching the complete episode. I've heard how people say how awesome this show is (especially season 2),but those people are just Marvel fanboys, I don't know how this series kept it's rating of 8.8 after that awful season 2,but I can assure you it doesn't deserve good ratings.


                
I wanted to watch this show after a lot of hype from media and friends. I began the show a few weeks ago. The pilot was very mediocre but I still wanted to give the show a chance. I finished the first season and decided to not continue it because the show only manages to get worse. Just like every other superhero show/movie Daredevil has the clichéd plot of some vigilante saving the world from a bad guy. The villain of the show 'Wilson Fisk' is such a stale character and has very poor dialogues. The plot is so bad and the acting is only worse. Anyone who is above the age of 11 are incapable of enjoying this utter drivel, if they do they really have a poor taste and I feel sorry for them. Netflix should really stop making shows like these.Stay away from this show and all other superhero stuff as far as possible.
Nothing in this show at all. Watching like amateur's attempting the big leagues, falling flat. Doesn't perform within expectation, revelling in its stupidity.Dialogue is awful, acting is awful, action is awful.What are people cheering here? Uncoordinated fight sequences, clumsy fumbling, often ending in paint, BAM SPLAT EXPLODE. The hallway fight in episode 2. This is the worse sequence I have ever seen out of any action ever. The rest of the time, he throws guns, but doesn't fire them. Those firing any guns cannot shoot quicker then he detaches the clip, or thrown guns back at them. Enemies literally fly around without any connection made to them. When contact is shown, it looks like a slap, no power, force, or weight. Shown as wrong to any mixed arts adopted. Excluding certain pommelling where no opponents are within the camera angle, lacking any poise presented. There have been some holds, grapples sometimes seen better. Although he was trained as a boxer.When do Japanese, they aren't Yakuza, although mysteriously they act like a triad sect. Work with Russian Bratva, but these really cannot be called that, those dipshits. Work for an American kingpin? There is also an accountant an old man, I really don't know what he adds to that party except further stupidity. The kingpin however is a Sontaran, he should be driving the limo, not getting out of one, he also a lisp because he is called Fisk. Must be comic'al. These international syndicates meet up together, at the same time, giving out group hugs, because they don't know how to Facebook.Most of the rest of the story is about everybody's love affairs drifting into larger portions of air time. FISK's emotional make humorously coming from a Sontaran. The PA and the attorney, a pair of geeks. The superhero and the doc, don't blink try too focus.Many errors contradicting basic common sense. Anton knows where Fisk's restaurant is, but Vlad doesn't. How does a blind person with recent facial scarring upon the left side of their face win acquittals for murder through GBH? Fisk's top boy recovering the gun himself, he needed the camera time. The Daredevil dropping certain criminals at the police station others he conveniently forgets to do so.This show is like watching splatter horror, absolutely ghoulish. Avoid. I watched maybe 4 episodes, cannot continue. It doesn't get better only worse. Sure this series may or not, be darker then some others within this genre. Although at least they put together a better story, coordinate fight scenes, have better actors.
1- they don't show us his power.
2- the drama is made for teenagers and it's stupid 
3- the only good thing about this show is the fight scenes lol skip most of the talking scenes


                
I love season one for its well polished and insightful script, outstanding and in depth character development of Wilson Fisk among with almost all the other characters such as the emotional, tough Russian brothers, shrewd businessman Leland, mysterious Chinese old lady Gao, trustworthy reporter Ben Urich. Scenes are also well cast with little redundant. Need to mention, I really appreciate the subtlety in the acting of Matt and Nelson.However, when I just started to watch the second season, it feels wrong. I persuaded myself it will get better because the first season is just so amazing! With the strong acting of The Punisher, the season two barely make it trough by its first four episodes. It just crash hard onto the ground after this. The appearance of Electra flush every and all good elaborate foreshadowing into a stupid toilet sewer. Old man stick, Nobu, the past story of Murdock all fell into a shitty, low level popcorn movie. As for now, I don't think anything can bring back the third season to a worthy show, because plot wise, they have already dug a enormous hole that only can be fill with garbage in the third season. That why I give the awful rating. Thank you all very much for the season two imbecile developers and greedy Hollywood big shots. Congratulations to you all for successfully trashed a masterpiece.
This show is terrible. Daredevil is a crap 4th tier hero at best. Frank Miller took it over to show what a genius he is. It took a herculean effort from him to make Daredevil interesting.Daredevil literally gets half his stomach ripped open and a few stitches later is out fighting some super strong retarded guy, who is a savant that makes Kevlar suits for the kingpin.The Kingpin himself is autistic or at least has Asperger's Syndrome. Two episodes are spent with him waiting for his girlfriend in the hospital. It's quite clear that this super crime lord is a virgin and probably only got to second base, outside the shirt, with his new cougar girlfriend.Why does Hell's Kitchen look like it's in the 70s? This is supposed to be contemporary, after Avengers 1. Hell's Kitchen doesn't have poor Puerto Rican ladies living in slum projects. Can't Captain America or Spiderman come in and take out these people? They need some blind guy, who gets the crapped kicked out of him by ninjas? I'm really interested to see if Foggy and the plain looking female get together. That would really make the show interesting. The whole Moonlighting, Cheers sort of will they? won't they?I'm not sure what show the rest of you people watched, but I can't wait to not watch this dreck next season. For those who have not seen this, do yourself a favor and watch reruns of 'I Love Lucy'.
Season 1 and 2 we're just fine but season 3 was complete dogsht... Looks like everything from Marvel is bad except the Punisher


                
This is my second summary, the first one was blocked for no reason at all.Season One 2015: of Daredevil was great 8 out of 10. Season Two 2016: Garbage. This series was totally ruined by the producers by adding a "daredevil woman" on episode 5 to 13. Ruined.Now, we all know when Charlie Cox is in trouble, his new girlfriend that jumps and hops around like a grasshopper will rescue him. No thank you. Garbage. We won't watch anymore episodes.I personally do not know if this review (summary) will be uploaded because it seems this IMDb site is now judging what you write. It warned me that I was 'shouting' - sorry sirs, I do not shout. Go to Russia...
I am a big fan of comics bieng marvel or DC, and this years the comic fans are blessed with movies and series that blows our minds. I say here that marvel outstanding job in box office deserve appreciation but in TV series they still have much yo learn!, actually I watched daredevil the movie " Ben afflic" although it wasn't a success it was way much better than this awful series , marvel rised the bar in movies and dc rised it in series. Daredevil, bad acting , bad script, bowring, wast of time, very very bad acting again, and remember marvel we always love to know the origins of our heroes and there always be a valid reason why they should be our protectors or instead of bieng a hero they will be no much than a villain.
The first season was tolerable with some improvements as it went along. The 2nd season, however, has deteriorated with dialog and plot lines obviously inspired by Aaron Spelling. Completely unwatchable. For example, the law firm's receptionist, conducts one on one interviews with clients on trial for murder, she picks the lock and enters someone'e home and she butts in an discusses cases with the District Attorney directly. Further, Matt (as his attorney self) puts his client on the stand to testify on his own behalf in a murder trial and when the client is reluctant to answer some questions, Matt asks the Judge to "treat him as a hostile witness." Not likely to say the least. But moreover, when the Judge inexplicably grants this inane request, Matt then turns to to the jury and delivers monologue on the need for heroes in this town - without asking even one more question. He then proclaims that he is finished with the witness and sits down basking in congratulations all around on such a fine job. When a show's own internal logic becomes so childish, immature and unbelievable that is disrupts the viewer's ability to buy into the created world, the show fails. And this one fails miserably.
The first scene was terrible, why didn't Coppola cut an hour off the Conversation and just have Gene Hackman lay on the floor and yell these tapes are spinning my life out of control, because that would have been a bad choice as a director. The second scene holy #$%^ the last time I saw crying that forced and faked was at a talent show for non actors seriously not a joke. Why they had to have him cry just shows that Americans are &^%%$ies and cry babies they can't relate to morality or heroism but crying about how hard they have it now your speaking English. Then the guy they picked to play dare devil looks like Robins little brother I can't believe this guy could defend his sandwich from a fly, which explains why the human traffickers he fought were smaller then the Asian women they kidnapped? Then the girl, did they want to make it seem like a high school girl worked high up in some corporation, well that's one accomplishment. She begins the annoying screaming that keeps popping back up every-time they fast forward through an interesting scene and I'm supposed to just lay back and go oh screaming and sounds of pain now I'm invested. So if this is the tone for this series I'm out, basically this is a bad show that utilizes propaganda trickery, takes unbelievable characters the same way fox and msnbc do during election time for politicians, and pulls your emotional puppet strings for a I'm crying so it must be good right vote. No it's not good, because making people cry is the easiest thing a film maker of today can do to an audience. Making believable characters only a good actor can do that to which this show has none. To be fair it really isn't these actors fault that they were brought up in a weak generation of cowards and effeminate men and so have no experience or real reference to play the part of someone who had a hard life. Basically if they got one of the Princes from England and told them to play a poor person in the hood you would have an American film down pat. Unrealistic because the actors can not be something they are not, hero's, tough guys, or the slightest bit believable. What happened to this country go back and watch Rumble Fish and ask yourself how come not one single actor today could play a regular average tough American, because those days are gone, now is the era of slobbering wimps who need hero's to cry so they have something to relate to. Who ever directed Brimstone (Peter Horton?) should have been employed to do this show now that was a good comic book T.V. series and Pete didn't cry once and off'ed the bad guys by shooting them in the face, no wonder they canceled it. Again did not like show because the acting and directing are terrible.
I have never watched something so slow, boring. ridiculous and full of meaningless philosophy and cliches as the season 3 of Daredevil was. If the shows ratings don't plummet after this monstrosity, we'll know for sure that we live in a world of idiots.Season 1 and 2 were fine. But season 3 is almost unwatchable. I gave it up many times but decided to follow through because I thought maybe something exciting will come up now and then two episodes later, maybe now. This made me watch the season its in entirety in multiple attempts.Acting is good but cliches are unbearable and one thing that American TV and movies love doing is, humanzing the villians, giving their stories spin, showing them as people with mental issues and 'troubled pasts' - as long as you have that background, it is OK to kill people. Daredevil is full of that too.


                
Full disclosure: the ONLY reason I started watching this series was for Vincent D'onofrio (undoubtedly one of the greatest characters actors of our time). But not even the brilliance (or likely brilliance) of D'onofrio can make me sit through this drivel past S1 episode 5.Everything is bad. Everything. Acting? Dreadful. Dialogue? Banal. Plotlines? Grossly unoriginal. Even worse is that lack of explanation about exactly how the main character developed his skills. He can kick the ass of multiple assailants totally blind with no reasonable tools to achieve this. Oh and he can smell a man's cologne from 3 storeys away?! Really?! Oh and FYI, a person's heartbeat speeding up does not automatically mean they're lying. Sorry Vincent. I love your work so very very much but even you can''t make me suffer through this anymore
I liked the comics and the Ben Affleck movie, they had some violence as any other superheroes fiction, and I started to see the fist episodes but I couldn't handle it because its violence, there are horrible goring scenes, too much for me. This kind of explicit brutality has never been seen in a Marvel based movie. The director should have omitted these long and awful sequences because they doesn't add nothing to the plot. They have tried to make the people really hate the bad guys of the movie to justify the evil tortures that the "superheroe" makes to them. I definitely don't like these gore trend. There are much better ways of storytelling than this.


                
