I have enjoyed all of the marvel and DC based shows.....until now. I thought the Ben Afleck Daredevil was bad but this is just painful. I cant help but wonder if the good reviews are for arrow or the flash and left here by mistake , its just bad. I started this after I finished the new episodes of agents of shield , flash , gotham , and the arrow , after the others I had great hopes for Daredevil but after 2 episodes I almost wish I was blind.........and deaf. This show might be good some day as rifftrax or mst3k fodder if mst3k comes back but as a stand alone show it does not cut it. If I can not an alternative I may be forced to actually start reading books.


                
This review contains spoilers.I like the core idea of Daredevil. To take a character from a comic book and flesh it out in a television series is a sound concept. I'm not sure if Daredevil was the right character to have his own series. I only managed to get as far as episode three, yet I feel as if I know as much as I need to about him. I couldn't bare to sit through another. I found it to be tedious, predicable and clichéd. The worst offence being the back story. During interludes in the plot, there are flashbacks to Matt Murdock's childhood. These flashbacks begin with the accident that caused Murdock to lose his sight. The primary focus with these moments is his relationship with his father. There is very little original here. His father was a boxer, the type that has been in so many movies and TV shows before. The guy that takes a lot of punishment yet stays standing until the end. This plot devise is repeatedly used is because it's an allegory for the human experience. No matter what life throws at you, you have to keep fighting. I just wish Daredevil had done something new with it. It felt like I was watching Franco Zeffirelli's The Champ.As for the present day plot, Daredevil is a morality story. Matt Murdock is a lawyer, so his dual personalities are in conflict with each other. His profession requires him to work within the rules of law, yet he breaks these rules at night when he wears the Daredevil costume. He becomes a vigilante, a self appointed judge, jury and concussion causer.Daredevil just doesn't work for me. In Episode one there is a reference to The Avengers. Daredevil and The Avengers are supposed to exist in the same world, despite being totally different. The Avengers has a fantastical story, while Daredevil attempts to be deeply grounded in reality. For me it felt like I was watching Damages, with the occasional hand to hand combat scene thrown in.


                
Good fighting sequence at times. Other that that, poor story, dragged out dialogues, one of worst villains. And the plot - my 8 year old can come up with better than this. Yet so highly reviewed. One has to wonder why. Being a fan and purely following a hero is understandable. But no fan can succumb to this depth and compromise with seeing their favorite comic character in such a "struggling to stretch an episode series". Sometimes lagging and rushed at other times. The flow in this one is so ridiculous. Daredevil!!! please come and stop this madness!!!Season 1 was enough torture. No season 2 please.


                
I cant quite get it, Why the high ratings to so many mediocre series of late. This series is of the classic example of said mediocre series that has high ratings, 8.9 to be specific.The key ingredients to make a good series/movie was completely messed up in this series.Let us start first with acting. Over 90% of the cast sucked at acting, with the two lead supporting actors begin th worst of the bunch. The guy playing Foggy seems just plain onset and when he gives off any emotion, it gets even bad. The one playing Karen also doesn't belong here, she needs to be in one of those teen drama series which would suit her better. Then there is Fisk, what an atrocious voice he had, i mean why cant they let him speak normally. He sounded lame whenever he spoke. The one and only actor who was doing well was the one called Leland (when he came and freed us of the boring and shitty acting), yet they tried to kill him and leave some one like Karen's actor on. What stupid directing.Then there is the crappy plot. The series lacks any form of direction, you don't exactly know where its call leading up to. Today is this another time that, then it goes back same way again, what a bore.Its silly to waste anymore of my holiday time on this crap. My advice, don't be like me and let the ratings fool you. You are better of not wasting your time on this crap. If you want something more interesting, you can always turn to (((Gotham))).


                
Characters - I'm not going to get into the Daredevil character itself, or probability of blind person seeing better than anyone - he's a superhero, so we should just get along with it, but character development is really shallow in general. It seems like writer is an alien, who lived among humans for a few years and now he's trying to explain the motivation and reasoning behind mayor choices people make - like fighting crime by getting your ass kicked because your dad was a really good guy who got his ass kicked a lot, for example. Most of the characters are one dimensional: Daredevil is tortured, the nurse is nurturing, his best friend is funny and so on. Kingpin,the shows main antagonist, is an exception - being the only character with clear motives and consistent behavior, and more sides to him than all other characters put together, seems realistic and relatable, so you end up cheering for the bad guy.Plot line - is, basically, non-existent - there are so many plot holes I don't know where to start. Every episode is like this: Daredevil gets beaten up, nothing happens, someone else gets beaten up by Daredevil, nothing happens. Dialogues - badly written, filled with clichés. Again, it seems that the writer doesn't get out much, or speak with any real people, ever.In conclusion - I would give it a 4, but it's rating is already too high. It is really, really boring - I can't stress that enough.
I like daredevil but the show is boring asf. Sometimes there are moments where there is like 5 minutes of him just breathing.


                
I was in love with the idea, however somewhat disappointing that I was gonna have to see another unoriginal superhero series. Hopefully when people see how this was butchered they might call for original ideas and some actually new content. I simply cannot get past the terrible acting in this series. Elden Henson (Foggy Nelson) himself takes six points away from the possible ten I could have given this series if it were cast correctly. Netflix has already set the standard of its shows with House of Cards, in which the casting was done perfectly. All actors perform well and fit their roles. How they could flip flop like this disappoints me. This could have truly been a great series. Now, non-salvageable.


                
i started skipping scenes by episode four....then got a bit interested in episode 7 and 8 and back to skipping again till the very end! God. What is IMDb rating coming to where it makes no sense to have such repetitive brainless fisticuffs in darkness being getting a rating above 5.0?? Trying to explain the sad life of the people who give this 7.0 8.0 or 9.0 is not my job, but it just gives me a feel for the low expectations they have of these series. People say OOOh marvel..aahhhh marvel,,then it must be good, ...some just live on personal feelings for the first season and just seeing people from the first series being resurrected would make them feel good enough to mark this useless second season higher than it should be marked. Pathetic. Only consolation is i may have saved an hour of my life by skipping the obvious silly dialogue. It was refreshing to see that girl's thick legs in a skirt when the season started, but soon overacting ruined it all for me. .....


                
Heard some people praising the new Daredevil series which existence I didn't even know about. My first priority was to check out how neatly it be deserving the praise. Not very neatly I would say.The series starts of with a b glass drama writing executed with acting about as good as in Interstellar, talked over with a dialog directly from The Interview and filled with characters as lame and forced as they have in True Detective. The dialog is so cheesy it made my speakers turn into.. well, cheese. But not just any kind of cheesy. Creamy, soft cheese. Sticky cheese. The kinda cheese you will suffocate into if you don't chew it well before swallowing. The characters are worse than in True Detective. "I am a badass, btw, I don't sleep." This time we have guy who "Btw, I am blind." In the movie, it never bothered me that 'lameness' got a new meaning when seeing-while-being- blind was considered a superpower, but oh jigglyss how hard it hits me now. In your face. And even harder since there is hardly anything else going on. One can suffer from the stupidity the whole run time as paying closer attention won't pay out. I guess I should have predicted that this superhero series was aimed for teenagers who don't know better, but oh well, at least now I know.
Daredevil is yet another excruciatingly dull, formulaic outing from the Marvel stable. After the awful Agents of Shield and its dismal spin off Agent Carter I had hoped we had seen the last of this cheesy comic book franchise. Sadly that was not to be the case. I should have known better but I took a look at Daredevil. Really there is not a lot to say. Classic US stick about a guy with "traditional" read "conservative" values turned vigilante with a hero complex. Like almost all of its counterparts, its driven by melodramatic, often corny, exposition. Forget about meaningful character development or interesting story lines, they are conspicuous by their absence. All in all if you are not selective in your viewing and like lots of guns, fighting and mindless noise, this might appeal to you. If, on the other hand you like interesting, engaging series I'd give this one a pass. Two out of ten from me.


                
Is it just me that did not like season 3 or what! I am not the type of person who reads comics all the time but I am a truly superhero fan. I love superhero movies mostly Marvel and Spider-man and Daredevil are my top favorite characters. I watched the previous seasons of Daredevil and they were ok. Leaving out iron fist, Jessica Jones and Luke cage that were awful! I was very looking forward for season 3 because i was expecting something more. I was waiting to see DAREDEVIL the red suit superhero with all the acrobatic moves and the high rise slinging but instead this ended up in an ordinary hand to hand combat movie. It was like watching a spider-man movie without any wall crawling or web slinging! Got so bored with the kingpin moaning all the time about how much he loves Vanessa bla bla...... ok you love her we got the point! To say it all I watched up to episode 4 but then I got so tired of waiting to see daredevil in his red suit that I simply jumped to see the last episode. To my surprise the only person wearing the suit was bullseye and Matt was still wearing the ordinary black clothes and some rope around his fists. The last fight was so lame that it was like seeing 3 frustrated guys fight over an issue nothing more.
In my opinion Ben Affleck's Daredevil with all the negative reviews was much more loyal to the character the suit was great and and at least we saw some Daredevil abilities. Conclusion, I am definitely not look forward for the next season and if it gets cancelled I am surely not going to miss it.
I guess I'm the odd man out, but for me this show just isn't fun. I started reading Daredevil when I was a kid in the eighties, was a few years too late for the Frank Miller stuff on the racks, but bought it all up in reprints. I even liked the old Bill Everett and Wally Wood stuff. I didn't have high expectation for the show or anything. I'll watch any comicbooky show. I like the Arrow, Flash and Gotham and all that stuff. They could all be a little better (the Flash is the best of the bunch) but I take them for what they are. However this show is just boring, and it doesn't really resemble the comic. Think of it either as a crime show that's been dumbed down with comic book elements, or a comic book show that's been muted by lame CSI type network TV tropes. I'm surprised so many people like it. It seems like the kind of compromised show that comic book fans would have been really annoyed by years ago. I'm five episodes in and Matt Murdock is still running around with a t-shirt wrapped around the top of his head for a mask. I think I read that he'll have his costume by the last episode, but why wait? Is that going to make it more plausible that he's dressed like a devil? Like I said, the show isn't any fun.


                
8.8 out of 10? Are you smegging kidding me? This is one of the worst TV series I've ever watched. What makes it so bad and unbearable, you might ask? Pointless fistfights alternate with pointless dialog. And they drag on for hours and hours. Seriously, I thought the obsession with fistfights went out with the first Star trek series and I was convinced with the latest ventures of Batman, Iron Man, Jessica Jones, to name just a few, the super hero Genre had been redefined to some degree. You know, put some humour and self irony into it. Something you won't find in Dare Devil, no matter how hard you look. Also, from very early on I wondered, why is he blind, like he doesn't seem to have any restrictions from his blindness, so there is no point for him to be blind in the first place. Sure, his hearing has been enhanced so they go for the compulsory heartbeat in every smegging episode, but otherwise fail to explain how exactly Daredevil compensates for his lost eyesight.


                
After a decent first season, and an awesome second one, this show has plummeted to the very bottom. Season 3 is as much a chore to suffer through as the new Jessica Jones season. Even Vincent's usual fantastic performance can't save this.
The characters have reached a new pathetic low, and are in fierce competition with each other for greatest guilt or being the biggest screw-up.
Matt's visions, pointless flashbacks and the "mother" plot point does nothing but take up time apart from adding even more self pity and guilt.
Fingers crossed the show is cancelled after this.


                
The concept of "show don't tell" just flies over the show runners heads. As a long time comic fan and a fan of the character, this is disappointing. There are entire episodes that go nowhere (they feel like filler like in an anime but not as fun?)Scenes are mostly flat and the fight scenes are lazy, badly choreographed, and slow. The basic plot is simple and is not as interesting as it could be. The majority of the writers and directors of this season (3) have 10 credits to their name TOTAL!!! They are obviously not comic fans and have not read much the source material.Changing certain elements of the characters in order to adapt them to the small screen is understandable but making the entire season boring and slow is not. Do you guys want to make money or not? Make a good and entertaining show.There are many scenes that revolve around characters telling some sad sob story that leads to a fake "oouuh" moment where the audience is supposed see the scenes as nuanced material but its just junk. Along with Jessica Jones season two, Luke Cage season two and all of Iron Fist its an absolute disappointment and will get cancelled soon. Good luck idiots! (To the writters and directors)


                
I probably would have enjoyed this as a 10 year old boy, or at least the grizzly action which, admittedly, is rather well done.
The drawn out dialogues would have bored me senseless. As an adult, I initially found the slow pace and lengthy dialogues unusually intriguing for the comic book genre. But these quickly began to seem out of place when set against the sheer stupidity and improbability of the repetitive plot.The quality of the acting ranges from average (the main protagonists) to downright bad. 
Notable bad are the two useless sidekicks Foggy and Karen. Their existence in this series, other than for a bit of infantile comic relief, is a mystery to me.
By episode 6 , in fact, I felt embarrassed and slightly nauseous every time they made an appearance.In fact, it was episode 6, the lengthy saga of the immortal Russian, that signalled the end for us. If you're curious, watch it and see for yourself. But be armed with a massive dose of 'suspension of disbelief'.Why only 2 stars? Well I might have given it a 3 or 4, but I wanted to compensate for the ridiculously exaggerated current rating of 8.7.I seriously question the sanity, or integrity of those who've give this drivel 10/10 stars ....... unless, of course, they're all 10 year old boys who enjoy lengthy meaningless dialogues!


                
First off, I can't believe I watched the whole thing (well, just the first season)! But, I needed closure (and to see his silly costume). Good lord, the writing in this thing sucks. The acting sucks. The whole thing is a terrible cliche. I'm going to go read Frank Miller's Daredevil stuff & wash the bad taste out. And I kept hearing how much people loved it. I know better than to listen to hype; this wasn't even fun and bad. Just bad. Bad, bad, bad. Yecch. Barf. Wince.
I can't believe I ate the whole thing! Haha!


                
I found this series quite boring. I honestly prefer Iron fist


                
