Between the IMDb and Netflix ratings you'd think Daredevil was the greatest show in the history of television. The positives are that Charlie Cox seems to play the part of Matt Murdock very well and it's fun seeing Deborah Ann Woll in something post-True Blood. The action sequences are tame yet enjoyable and ultimately more realistic because this isn't Thor or Ironman... it's a blind guy that can fight. Thank you Marvel for not making this completely ridiculous. That being said. Every episode feels like it's 10 to 15 minutes too long and this first season should have been 10 episodes - MAX. I can't count how many pointless and boring conversations have taken place that add nothing to the story. Fisk's henchmen/allies (Owlsley, Madame Gao, Wesley) are possibly the least interesting characters I've ever seen. Foggy is poorly acted and comes across as annoying rather than endearing. The whole production just seems stagnant overall. All of these strikes add up and I literally struggled to get through this first season. I wanted to love this show because I support Netflix and am glad they are coming up with original programming, but unfortunately it's just not very good.


                
I don't know, I watched the first show and I liked the idea. I thought it was cool. Well the idea in itself is cool but there were somethings in that series that I simply did not enjoy. Like the over use of some extremely dramatic song on a scene that is of almost no importance. It just felt to fake over all. Especially when you bring all the religion into it. I don't mean to sound like some asshole here. But really, religion is just not something that is going to grasp you a big audience these days. Well at least not in Europe.This series had a fine story, overly dramatic acting, sometimes borderline bad acting. Well bad acting at times, over dramatized scenarios. Some of the character interactions are weird. I don't know, it just didn't fit well with me.My sincere review, please don't hate me for it.


                
I really like Season 1, Season 2 was good, Watched Season 3 constantly clicking fast forward? It reminded me of the early seasons of Star Trek Enterprise where they lost in every conflict, but were "morally superior." Losing every battle to the bad guy loses viewership.We like superheroes because they protect the weak and serve the bad guys their comeuppance. 12 episodes of heroes getting their butt kicked, living in fear, and unable to protect the masses/friends from evil is not interesting. The win in the final episode is wishy-washy. It doesn't feel like they defeated evil and will now protect the world. Of course they'll be a new evil, but It feels like all those lives that were destroyed this time were "meh", and the same bad guys and probably a woman, will come back to do the same evil over again. As much I want D'Onofrio to work, we've had enough of Fisk.That said, except for the abundance of breathy/whisper conversation scenes, there's so much character to like. Especially Joanne Whalley and Peter McRobbie who lifted the bar.Not sure if there's a 4th season in the works. If there is, please give us heroes who have some wins before the 13th episode, which we already know is theirs by default.
It's the same old story,one guy beats up lords of the mafia and wealthy and rich evil dudes,it's already getting same old same old.I have watched all episodes and doesn't go far from the Ben Afleck movie,expect this is with one idea better,other then that is as poor written as the other one.It's like a Chuck Norris movie except this guy gets punched several times,the dialogs,the plot,the action you can see it before it happens,and with the flashbacks and everything is the same bullshit that happens in Arow.All things said,the movie is nice to follow but don't expect great things,will disappoint many times,i have given a 4,if they improve it this can be great like Flash.
Frankly, I was hyped as hell for this series. Couldn't wait to see it, and I had high hopes that it would be great. Bud sadly I was left disappointed at the end of the first season.I had no problem for the dark look of the series, and the flashback sequences blended in nicely with the story. But it does not make up for the errors in the script, that many times main and supporting characters act out of their characters.The best thing of the show was the introduction and the development of the "evil" characters in the series. It does a great job at this. A so great job that you will like the bad guys more then the pathetic main character and the even more pathetic and idiotic sidekicks.So the worst part is when you see the character that you can identify with the most, in it's downfall. And I'm talking about the main villain, not the self righteous vigilante who will play with your nerves in the end. The final conclusion is, that it's worth to watch if you don't have anything better to do. And don't expect to be hyped for season two, you won't.


                
This is a drama show. By episode 6 I was ready to stop it. Not enough action. Predictable boring plot with no twists and no suspense. Too much talking and everybody feeling sorry for themselves. Nobody should have to wait to the end of the season for things to pick up. Dont watch this season for action.


                
This series is so painfully slow! Hitchcock once said: "Drama is life with the dull bits cut out." I think someone got it the wrong way around here. There is a scene, lasting almost six minutes into the episode that consists of a woman coming home, having a drink, having a shower, going to bed, having a dream, waking up, getting dressed and going to work!!! Padding anybody. We see a similar and lengthy scene of Wilson - if I talk really slowly we can drag this out to a full season - Fisk getting up and, dressed and eating breakfast. Yeah, riveting stuff guys!! As for our "Action Hero" This is a guy who, apparently, has been training in Martial Arts and honing his "powers" since he was a child. yet somehow manages to drag out every fight into an interminably boring, darkly orange lit nightmare in which, most of the time, he gets his butt kicked almost to death by nearly every crook he comes across. But that's okay because, though it's never mentioned, he has the recuperative powers of Wolverine. The character - should that be cartoon character - of Foggy is the most annoying moron one could meet. He is there to carry more script padding as hardly anything he ever says contributes in any way to what little story there is. As a two hour movie sans all the padding, this could have been OK. But trying to stretch that to 13 hours - of which Daredevil appears for probably less than an hour - has left us with a tediously monotonous pile of garbage that everybody thinks is great. But as we know, popularity rarely equates to quality. The number of people using the internet while watching television is on the rise, with a new study showing that 40 per cent of 18-24 year old's browse social networking sites while watching TV. Consequently, program makers are producing many shows that can be viewed this way without any loss to enjoyment. Daredevil is a perfect example. Just look up for the loud bits!! :)


                
Daredevil got his ass kicked waaay to many times in this show. I know its a origins series and DD is just starting his vigilante job but come on!! Like anybody else I enjoy heroes that after struggling or being defeated by an enemy they become stronger,wiser and learn more about themselves and their special powers and when they fight the enemy again they kick ass, but that's not what DD like to do. Even with his brand new (almost bullet proof) red suit and experience fighting the bad guy Fisk he got his ass kicked yet again by Fisk. DD knows how to do fancy flip kicks but it seems that he missed the lesson about dodging the opponent's attacks!! He won fights in unconvincing ways. He won because it was written in the script. Even Fisk's tailor was kicking his ass!!!I was not impressed by any of the action sequences. Actually I found most of the fighting sequences pretty darn dull. No creativity in them. He was fighting like any normal non-blind guy with fighting experience. Boring!!! According to marvel-wikia http://marvel.wikia.com/Matthew_Murdock_%28Earth-616%29:"A side effect of his sense of touch is Murdock's ability to manipulate his muscles and internal organs. The sense of touch is not just external, but internal too (central nervous system), thereby giving him the ability to have total body control, increasing his strength and reflexes to peak human levels, increasing his agility to enhanced human levels and also giving him the ability to totally numb himself to pain"and"Murdock's balance centers give him equilibrium on par or above Spider-Man"and"Murdock is well educated in the functioning of the human body as well as martial arts techniques that target pressure points enabling him to paralyze limbs of an individual's body or the entire body altogether"It could have been so cool to see DD using these abilities during his fights!!What kept me watching this show till the end was the bad guys. Fisk and his group where very interesting to watch but on the other hand I hated DD's friends specially the annoying Foggy!! I don't know if it was the actor of the script but I hated Foggy the whole season.The show is filled with too many pointless repetitive conversations between characters. Specially between Foggy and Karen and between Ben Urich and Karen. By the way Ben Urich purpose in the show was to die at the end. If u pay attention he did not do anything important in the show beside talking and talking and talking with Karen and then dying.I'm looking forward for season 2 and The Punisher kicking DD ass.
When I watch movies and to shows, I love to have it be unpredictable. I always love stuff where people don't make it seem like there is a good side or there is a bad side, more like people doing what they believe and no one person is correct. Game of Thrones is a great example of this.First season loved it to bits, let us not only personalise with the main character and Wilson Fisk who both are trying to make the city a better place in their own way. So much diversity of what could happen and things caught me by surprise sometimes, fight scenes were realistic and made them epic, although killing Nobu and escaping Fisk was not ideal because there was no way that should have been possible but still loved it.Now, moving on to season 2. From their first encounter with ninjas and seeing Nobu, I knew the main characters were going to line up, Punisher,Stick Daredevil and Elektra were going to heroically beat them at the end and one of them was going to die because that's the cliché way that most shows do it. But since the first season was so unpredictable, I thought something cool would happen.Somehow 10 highly trained ninjas can't take down Daredevil who are basically invisible to them because he can't hear their heartbeat but the Punisher can take him down. Instead of a more logical ending which I suspected would happen and Elektra would be controlling all the Hand's ninjas and tell them to kill Nobu and leave her alone, they do a terrible looking fight scene. This predictability ruins the whole point of having tense music, cliff hangers, jump scares and of course, the biased fight scene. All the best bits of an action show is wasted because I know exactly what's going to happen.I really don't care who dies in this because everyone is fictional and I know that so I don't get personal with them so dragging out the main character dying for a few episodes but another person dies and nobody cares about them because they are not the main character annoys me so much.This show has turned to become exactly like the Arrow, and that's why I stopped liking it now. It will now do illogical and unnecessary things and have the Daredevil come on top just because it can and ruin the show.
Well, have you seen Kung Fury?-If yes, you 'll know what i mean... Daredevil, it's like a film from the '80s which it reincarnate into a 2015 TV-Series. It has all the clichés it needs to have! And that's as cool & smooth as it can get! The Only thing missing from the series is a touch of Victoria's Secret Supermodels... Mad Max tried it and look at the result! Then and only then, Daredevil will worth its weight in gold, or a 10/10, for us to be pragmatic.-If no, give Kung Fury a go and then watch Daredevil closely...Daredevil brought me back to my child-age and i thank it for just that!


                
Let me start by saying - I watched the first season of the Punisher first. It was a very good series and done very well. As a family we sat down and watched Daredevil so that we could see more Punisher. The first season of Daredevil was alright. the second season was good. The third season is terrible. We are constantly asking ourselves why we keep watching.
I first thought perhaps the writers all left to go to the Punisher series. The plot and story as so predicable and basic it is laughable. Foggy figures out what Fisk is up to. WOW! Really, that was the big plot climax. In all fairness, there are some interesting scenes, but nothing that you did not see coming.
What is most painful is the inconsistencies in Daredevil's abilities. He is basically a non-super hero. The bad guys are tougher than him. If we go back to first season it takes him forever to fight one guy who was going to kill Karen. Then the next fight he takes on 4 guys way easier. IT is so painful to watch. In the second season he takes on dozens of Ninja's who can slow their heart rate. However, in third season he gets his butt kicked by a crazy FBI agent, Dex. Dex even falls from a church balcony which would shatter his bones and he walks away. He is just a crazy guy.
Their is some good stuff, but if you are a Marvel fan, you may not like wasting hours of our life watching this bunk. You won't get the time back.
Watching the first and second season is probably enough if you are a Punisher fan.Wilson Fisk is by far a more interesting character than Daredevil. There are many times watching this that you want to punch out Daredevil yourself, which anyone could easily do. He is a wimp. A loser. A waste of time. I find myself hoping the Punisher would show up and take care of business because Daredevil sure can't.Dex is by far a way better Daredevil with better fighting skills and ability to throw objects than DUMAS Murdoch. Oh the humanity.I really don't see how anyone could give this garbage a 10. To each his own.Can't wait to get this painful experience over so we can start S2 Punisher.
Story line is decent but i rate high for season 1. Dialogue are over written and bit annoying.Fight scenes are really good.Deborah Ann Woll need to work on acting skills, she need to dial down her hipper active. With less jumpy she could convince the role.Elden Henson: why he always make his face like he is going to take a big dump. very annoying face and acting.Episode: 3 after fight at the end when Frank Castle was unconscious why DareDevil did had over Frank to police. did Frank escaped.. Things didn't added up there.
Last episode of this season is as gimmicky as the WWE actions. They built great characters like Ray Nadeem,Dex,Fisk, just to destroy them at the end??!!!I can compare this season to any blatant season of The Iron Fist. The conclusion of the story clearly doesn't do justification to the previous seasons of Daredevil.
1)A pitcher is stronger than the main superhero,
2)All those hustles just make a deal at the end,which could've easily been made by a telephonic conversation.Dozens of things have gone wrong in this season which are hard to neglect..I think this is the dead-end of this series as well.
Not much daredevil. Someone lost plot... Literally.. Clue was in the name boys and girls.


                
Trust me, if you like first 3 Eps and don't fall asleep then only go ahead. I couldn't go ahead of ep5 it bored the hell out of me. So far I only liked punisher, rest all marvel series are boring.


                
I'm not a comic nerd but quite enjoy marvel movies let it be MCU or any Marvel movie.
After watching the reviews I thought it would be great and let's give it a try. Watch season 1 just for the sake to complete it. Pacing is so slow.. I always fall asleep while watching this show. I prefer Gotham over this show, atleast I never fell asleep while watching Gotham.
The villan is poor. The writing is meh..
Action is good. But that's it. I'm done with this one. Punisher is the only marvel show that I liked so far on Netflix.


                
