Pros:Violent at times. Not for kids really Not too cheesy Charlie Cox isn't so bad as daredevilCons:Slow, scattered story Low on suspense Repetitive action (fights scenes are all the same) Some poor acting here and there (Fisk, Foggy) Kinda cheesyThe show is meh.. boring at times.. kinda replays the same scenes over and over. Hopefully the writing in season 2 gets better. Overall it is worth watching.. its not great.. its not bad.. but falls a little short on being really good.


                
Daredevil turned out to be a big surprise for me, or rather the rating did, when I was done with the first season. I watched the whole season in disbelief knowing that the series was rated just shy of 9 out of 10, intrigued by what it is that people find so amazing about this show. Unfortunately, reading through the first couple of pages of reviews did not give me the answer; they are all shallow and hardly critical.Don't get me wrong, I'm not trying to say that Daredevil is a complete garbage. Keeping that in mind, I'll start with the positives. I was beginning to feel tired of the superhero movies with all the fancy sci-fi stuff, a lot of shooting and big explosions, so Daredevil was a welcome change in this aspect. Its dark mood and gritty look at the life in Hell's Kitchen was what pulled me in.The highlight of the show are the remarkable choreography and the wonderful cinematography of the fight scenes. You finally get to see whole sequences of impressive fighting, in contrast to the fight scenes that are prevalent in most movies these days - having a cut twice a second and being zoomed in so much that it's actually left for your imagination to conceive what is going on. But that amazement also wears off, and the action scenes become repetitive and inevitably boring. We also see the hero failing and getting beaten up badly, which makes him more real and relatable.On another note, I appreciate there were no gratuitous sex scenes, which are also painfully common in all genres of movies nowadays. But then the male-female relationships were really laughable. And to conclude the list of things I liked about the series, the episode intro was well done and I liked the theme music, otherwise there was nothing memorable about the soundtrack.Now let me get to what I think is wrong with the series. I'm not going to say the story is unoriginal because I know it's hard to come up with something new and compelling at the same time, plus the majority of the storyline was probably determined by the comic book it was based on anyway. The plot really is uninteresting though. It reminded me of countless crime movies that I had seen before, there was lack of suspense, and it was overall highly predictable.Moreover, the story flows incredibly slowly. It picks up the pace and becomes somewhat thrilling in about two thirds of the season. By then you might get tired of the lame antagonist though, who elicits no fear nor respect. That's perhaps because we aren't given the background on how he actually became the kingpin and what exactly it is he does (besides selling a few buildings for drug business purposes and thus evicting their inhabitants). He merely keeps claiming that it is his dream to do something good for the city, which the public applauds for some reason, although we never learn what the dream is.I couldn't help but think of Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson every time I saw Matt Murdock and Foggy Nelson, only they had a much worse chemistry between them. In fact, there were no likable characters there who I'd actually care for (I know this is somewhat subjective), except for maybe Claire, who only appeared in three or four episodes. I couldn't even bring myself to root for the hero - I'm not sure whether it was due to bad acting or poor scripting/direction. Either way, most of the characters were extremely dull and their development was almost non-existent.As for the hero, it took me some time to get over the incredibility of what he could do despite being blind. His merely enhanced senses and hard training would hardly suffice; he would need at least some kind of sonar to perform parkour and fighting as he does. Nevertheless, it's a superhero show, so I swallowed that down. However, it gets really irritating when the hero has no problem hearing voices on police radios in their cars halfway across the city (yeah, among all the other noise that his enhanced hearing would inevitably yield), but doesn't hear the sirens of the police cars just around the corner closing in on him, and seems surprised a moment later when there are a dozen cops aiming their guns at him after beating up a man. Oh, and did I mention that the hero always appears just in time to save the day?One last thing before I wrap it up, I have nothing against graphic realism, but there is some really gratuitous violence in this series, such as a guy having his head smashed with a car door for 25 seconds until it was separated from the rest of his body... Seriously?I guess I watched the season to the end hoping for a thrilling and unexpected ending that would at least partially justify the high rating of the series. Well, that was foolish of me. It makes me sad that shows like this get all the popularity while others, such as Jessica Jones (which I think was a significantly more suspenseful, consistent and thought-provoking noir series from the Marvel universe with an extraordinary villain), have an uncertain future.


                
I'm really happy with how this series has continued to improve throughout . Season 1 starts a little slow, I have to say, and it was a bit of a challenge to keep watching at times during the slow bits. But the acting was very good, and especially the villain in Season 1, Wilson Fisk who is played by Vincent D'Onofrio, was brilliant. This actor has so much power, charisma and presence that he made the villain the best it could be. Season 2 really improves thanks to the introduction of Jon Bernthal as The Punisher. I love the Marvel universe with it's darker approach to the superheroes, much more gritty and real than the other colourful stuff, and much more an adult type of superhero action. Worth a try


                
The season 1 was absolutely amazing. Loved it from beginning to the end. The season 2, not so much. If it wasn't for the punisher who was awesome and bad ass, I would've hated that season.What killed it for me was all the drama between Nelson and Murdock, Page and Murdock. It was too much. It shouldn't be called Daredevil at that point, but Nelson and Murdock : The arguments.The fighting scene weren't as good and intense in season 2. Daredevil seemed weaker or I don't know. Only Punisher brought me back the excitement of what the fights were in the first season.The final fight was really sad. The whole hand army was only about 15 ninjas.Also, in the first season, they were making us believe that Daredevil was seeing everything as if the world was on fire, but now, if he doesn't hear an heartbeat, he doesn't see anything at all. Non sense, as if the sound was not reflecting on their skin or clothes. If I move, I can hear my clothe moving and Daredevil wouldn't? They really worked more on the first season.Season 1 was a solid 9 for me, but with season 2, I can give more than a 7 overall.
A show difficult to not like but with unforgivable and long-running flaws. The illusion of character development, at least for the central trio, becomes obvious with time. Supporting characters are really what keep the series going since the central characters are largely cast in stone, secondary characters practically live in their own universe because they're given the freedom to come & go. If I had to guess, the creator was desperate to stick to canon but what does that matter if the leash on your main man shows.I'd count the whole 'killing is bad' arc as a spoiler if it weren't so obvious that Daredevil couldn't stomach stomping on a spider. Multiple times in the series the revolutionary idea of killing badguys becomes an issue and each time it becomes more tired than the last. They even have the nerve to bring it back at the end of season three. It's as if the Pope himself wrote the show, constantly mulling over the same idea that killing someone is irredeemable even though plenty of the Daredevil's friends have killed many someones.
All the elements in this series are great.Cinematography, acting, cast, music, directing. I wish they had built up Wilson Fisk's personality better. It starts very strong with the art scene.But it goes downward from there. Compare his character with Falcone in Gotham. He is calmness is menacing. He walks behind a man in his dinner table and shoots him behind the head while everyone else is watching.We are used to see important men surrounded by body guards and guns. Fisk is accompanied by a soft spoken man only who at times looks either bored or disapproval of his boss. It is especially disappointing that Vincent D'Onofrio's acting has not been put to it's full potential.


                
My review is based on both seasons combined. I liked the first season a lot and would rate it a solid 8 of 10. It is the second season that brought the score down for me. That I would give a 6 out of 10. The reason; there was far to many times where I felt I was forcing myself to watch. The thing is Fisk was so much more interesting a bad guy in the first season. Really, I didn't know what to make of the new charterers/bad guys. They felt generic and most of time had bad dialogue. Hopefully they will make them more likable in the future seasons. So to me a 7 still means that most of the time I enjoyed the show. Even adding in the less than enjoyable second season.


                
Summary: I'd say that people who have never heard of DD or read any comics would still be able to watch, and potentially enjoy, this programme. Series 1 is compelling viewing, series 2 is all build-up and no pay-off. There isn't a great plot so we're left to only care about the characters, who are inconsistently written sans DD himself.As I say above the series is very much character-driven instead of story-driven, the emotional stakes for the City of New York are practically non-existent and the villain's end-games are never fully realised. With this being the case then, a quick summary of each character:*SPOILER WARNING*Daredevil/Matt Murdoch - Charlie Cox is excellent in the role and hits it pitch perfectly, there is none of the martyrdom we see from Bruce Wayne or Clark Kent in Murdoch and none of the confused "one- step-behind-the-villain" buggery that you see in most other superheroes when he's Daredevil. It's worrying however that the blind man running around the city in pyjamas is the most sane and relatable character in the series.Foggy Nelson (lawyer, Matt's business partner) - comic relief and poor at it to boot. Later in S1 starts behaving like a wife going through menstruation and projecting husbandry onto Matt (his partner in their law-firm). It's so hokey and unbelievable that a criminal lawyer, as Foggy is, could be that naive about the issues that cause contention.Karen Page (burdensome legal assistant) - someone that desperately needs institutionalising. The character goes through personal tumult and trauma early in Series 1 and uses this as a nice jumping board for descending into fits of either euphoria or hysteria depending on how intensely Foggy or Matt (whom her romantic interest flits between) eyeball her. Alternates between wanting to bang Nelson or Murdoch and treating the two like they are her parents on the verge of divorce. Really poorly written, an emotional wreck in each episode and given far too much screen time.Ben Urich (Internet-hating journo) - a Nolan-esque character that's so world-weary and depressing you think he might just sigh out his inner organs. He's believable though and plenty brave, he fits in nicely with how they've painted the city.Wilson Fisk/Kingpin (antagonist) - big, bald bastard with constant "does my end justify my means?" doggerel flowing out of him. He's a good character and a good actor plays him but it's just too INTENSE and silly, a man with emotions this out of control could never rise to the position he occupies. Plus we never get any context about how powerful he is in comparison to the other crime-lords in NY. Half the time seems furious, half the time seems terrified, all the time seems sad and a little bit bored.Claire (token Marvel sassy woman/nurse) - the worst character by a country mile. DD saves a room full of kids from torture and death and gets them to the hospital for her to treat in secret, she thanks him and comments that he saved lives tonight. Later DD is on the roof of the hospital advising Claire that he needs to keep watch as the kids captors will try to steal them back, Claire then gives him a lengthy and naive lecture about the City not needing him and Matt being a martyr/having a messiah complex and when he refuses to "Come downstairs and join the rest of the humans" she leaves him where he is shaking her head as she goes. In the very next scene the hospital is besieged by the child-swiping ninja's and her friend gets butchered because DD couldn't get to her in time, she then very nearly gets killed herself...I mean seriously? SERIOUSLY? Worst of all, she doesn't even repent afterwards and the audience gets no closure because she doesn't acknowledge her own foolishness and Matt's heroism - quite the opposite in fact.Frank Castle/The Punisher - Bernthal is perfect for the role, just awesome. A physical specimen of sublime ferocity with a demeanour of pure, unstoppable retribution-driven rage. His character's biggest problem? We are shown time and again how cartoonishly depraved the criminal denizens of this New York City are and yet we are expected to have questions about the morality of Castle's actions because he kills those whom he knows have wronged others. He's the harsh antidote to all of the cringey, naive friends of Matt's that think the impossibly corrupt legal system still has all the answers and that it's not up to vigilante's to save people's lives. "Nah Matt, let that little girl get butchered in front of her family, we need you to come out for a beer tonight." - I wish I was joking.Elektra Natchios - member of the 1%, not as pretty as others seem to think, psychotic, manipulative, completely selfish and utterly without redeeming qualities. Does what she does because she likes it and not necessarily because it does good for the world...terrible that she and Punisher co-exist in the same series, they're only slight variants of each other.Overall it is compelling viewing, but binge-watching it will leave you more than a little confused about why each character behaves the way they do - stupidly. As it's already on Netflix and as such free, I would recommend it.


                
My view of the show is tainted by the fact that I was expecting an Anti-hero, a real one. I've gotten a little tired of the 'I can't kill but I'll beat bad guys into coma's' spiel and I wanted an Anti-hero that accepted his grey morality and didn't feel the need to explain himself to anyone.Daredevil isn't as gritty or as dark as I wanted, It didn't take me into a deep place that so many have, most notably, Watchmen. But it is good. I liked the story but I wanted a masterpiece.I'm interested to see how the protagonist develops and where they're going to take him, Whether he ever gets the stones to kill or whether he just has to play the 'good' guy.I haven't read the comics and the movie didn't leave much of an impression but I'm hopeful for this show. It has the potential to be great, It just needs a writer that's willing to dig deep and isn't afraid of the dark.


                
There are tons of 10s and 1s, but no fair reviews really. Is Daredevil worth seeing? If you're into comic book movies and shows, love action than yes, do watch.There are certainly issues with Daredevil: People praise Charlie Cox who plays Daredevil, but no one seems to notice how awful his attempt at an American accent is at times. Is he from New York, Boston, the South? Hard to tell because he's clearly fighting to not sound British. A few times he even sounded Australian, which was actually funny.The fights are great. However, if you watch them closely it's very obvious that the actors are worried about getting hurt and not really making contact. We need a phrase for these Christopher Nolen watanabe filmmakers, too dark. By that I mean, the picture is literally too dark. I can't see anything. I had to brighten my computer almost all the way just to see what was going on during some scenes, particularly the fight scenes. To me, the score at the beginning of the show could be a million times better. It's plain, so plain I mistook it for the intro song to Hemlock Grove, which is actually different. Way too much screen time is focused on the character Karen Page. Yes, she's neat and interesting, but the show isn't about her. Subplots are one thing, but most episodes center around her. Bright side is the acting's good and the show's really fun. The above is easy to look past.


                
Season 1 review: Summary: Worth watching, even if for the action fight scenes alone. I look forward to season 2. But the boring plot & slow pace hurt it.Action: I love watching on screen martial arts fight scenes. Nothing's more satisfying than watching a cool fight. I can happily say that these fight scenes were pretty good. The couple of continuous non-stop camera shots were the big highlights.Violence: There are a few extreme moments. Can reach cringe-worthy levels at times. If you don't like gory scenes, look away. I personally am not bothered by these scenes, but people who don't like it should be warned.Plot: Unfortunately, the season 1 plot was boring. The bad guys' big plot was some scheme involving taking control of some New York City real estate, about as bland a topic as it gets. At some point I began to tune-out all the excessive plot details of what fake real estate company the villains were illegally moving their money into or whatever they were up to, because whatever they were up to just wasn't very interesting. You can argue that the real plot was the Fisk rising up and taking control of the New York criminal underworld, but then why even bother the audience with all the boring little details about fake real estate deals and so on? I can only hope the season 2 plot gets better.Pacing: I have another major complaint and that's that the show slowed to a snail's pace too many times. Too many scenes were just people standing around, with serious faces, just talking talking talking talking and talking. The countless Foggy & Karen scenes, in particular, got a bit excruciating at times. For example, one of the early episodes wasted half its run-time on just Foggy & Karen getting drunk at the bar, and then walking through town drunk, and then looking for Matt drunk, and then knocking on Matt's apartment door drunk to find that he wasn't home. It doesn't help that the plot unravels slowly; so for at least the first half of the season, we usually have no idea what a lot of the long talking scenes were even about. The scenes with the bad guys all standing around vaguely discussing their plans were particularly guilty of not letting the viewer have any clue what they were even discussing. I found myself frequently wondering: When are they just going to get on with the next action scene already?Best character: The character of Fisk is very interesting. I'm the most familiar with Fisk from the 90s Spider-Man animated series, where he was a well spoken genius. The Fisk in this show, however, was nothing like that. In this version, he has an almost child-like personality, complete with temper tantrums and a poor ability at dealing with other people, which was weird, but different. Even though he's clearly the bad guy, the show manages to get us to kinda root for him. Also, the actor definitely looks the part, which is a big plus for Marvel fans like me who are already familiar with the character, but I just wish they gave him his classic white suit-look.Worst character: Foggy Nelson gets pretty obnoxious in this. Here's where the much derided (perhaps overly so) Daredevil (2003) movie actually did it so much better. The movie's Foggy was funny and likable. This show's version is an annoying loser who makes dumb comments all the time and reacts to everything in the wrong way. The show clearly does not want the viewers to like him, so why does he get to take up so much screen time? I dare you to watch this show without wanting to slap this guy for being so annoying.


                
After the first two seasons I waited for the third.For me the third season was predictable most of the time which isn't the reason I watched the first two seasons


                
The show has a different atmosphere, darker and more intense than most of the superhero shows. While "Supergirl", "Smallville", "Flash" and such reminds me of teenage shows from 90's, Daredevil and Jessica Jones are more serious and more movie-like. What I like the most is that the show is based on a good story and not only on superpowers and special effects.7,5/10I just finished the second season and although show now has a faster pace and it's more interesting, it lacks persuasiveness. Electra and Punisher are a welcome refreshment, but still, I cannot give it more than strong 7.7/10
What is all the hype about? I'm shocked that this show made it to 8.7! The first season has one good episode about Fisk's past which was excellent but the rest of the episodes are corny and the characters are so annoying, especially Foggy's nickname ("Foggy bear"). If you thought this was good, Gotham the TV show will knock your socks off! Danny
Cannon understands good quality acting and knows how to avoid clichés!


                
I like Charlie Cox as Matt Murdock, Vincent D'Onofrio is awesome as King Pin and the height of Season 2 was the introduction of Jon Berenthal as The Punisher (who steals the entire second season). But, like all the marvel shows, the pacing and editing could be better. There is a lot of filler and this should be addressed. Other than that, this is one of Marvel's better shows.


                
It all began amazing, the first season was absolutely stunning. The perfect balance between tension, unusual characters and dark atmosphere. The first Season of Marvel's Daredevil is nothing for fans of childish superhero junk like AVENGERS or THOR. This one is rude and dark, violent and unique.The second season kills it all. With Daredevil wearing his laughable suit and many new boring characters, the series is going to burn up. Half of the time we must see Daredevil running, Daredevil fighting, Daredevil creeping. A story is not existing anymore, this is damn mediocre and extremely disappointing!
In almost every way I love this elaboration of the Daredevil story, but it seems pointlessly and entirely unnecessarily violent and bloody. I've watched 3 hour war movies in which thousands of characters die that show less stage blood on-screen than this series seems to relish showing in a single episode.I realize some violence and blood is necessary to convince viewers that most of these people, even Murdock himself, are not nice people, but for me, the quarts of dripping stage blood adds nothing to the story and generate a level of physical revulsion that I have to force myself to get past before I can watch the next episode.In the end I suspect I will not be able to continue enjoying the story of this dark hero, because the producers have decided to continue adding pools of blood and 15 seconds of additional violence to virtually every fight scene.Maybe it's just me, but I don't think so.


                
First the bad:I am not sure why, but I feel the acting is poor in this series. Which is incredible to say because good actors are in the show. Vincent D'norfio who is an excellent actor falls flat in this series. His take on Fisk has a forced Shakespearian quality as he delivers his lines with not much realism. I also blame the writing and character development. Again with Fisk; it's like I am watching two different characters. Many episodes depict Fisk as a caring nice guy who only wants his city to thrive. Yet in seldom episodes we see how much of a maniac he is. The problem is that there is seemingly no correlation between these two dynamics, so his character overall isn't believable. Foggy Nelson is meant to be the comic relief and this also falls flat, with jokes not being well made, or the I mind is off and the joke falls flat. The girl who is introduced in the first episode has really just been reduced to a character that pouts and criesa lot. I can't tell if it's the writing, the acting, or maybe an overbearing director or producer. But something is prevent pretty good actor delivering believable lines.Now the Good:Charlie Cox is excluded from this poor acting critique. His monologues are well done, believable, and carries the emotional weight they should. particularly when he is giving a monologue about justice. Here is where the series shines. With a couple of episodes in the first season such as episode 8 I get a sense that I am watching The Wire ( which is what I believe the makers of the series are striving for), a crime drama.Scott Glen is also very good although he doesn't carry much screen time. The blood and gore was surprising and appreciated. The fighting is well done although always done in the dark so it's hard as hell to see what's going on. What you can make out looks good though. One particular scene is a single continuous fight scene about 1-2 minutes long, very impressive. So in conclusion, if you're a fan of the comic book series you should watch this show because it may have been the best attempt at Daredevil that we have seen as of yet. However if there is to be a season two like I read that there is going to be where they will introduce Bull's-eye and Elektra they need to fix the writing on the show in such a way that the actors can illustrate having some gravity. Otherwise this will be a short lived franchise.


                
When I watched episode 1; I was disappointed and amazed how bad the pilot was it was a mess, the characters were awful and I wanted to give a daredevil beating to that Foggy character ....he was so corny and irritating However, I decided to watch the next few episodes to see if the show could redeem itself........ and I have to say the show is getting better, after watching up to episode 5 it has got significantly better. The fight scenes are entertaining and the story line is starting to captivate - and what makes the show is Vincent D'Onofrio's character Kingpin..... truly menacing What also surprised me is, this is not for younger audiences and has a certain dark violent under tune (and I'm talking out side of the obvious fight scenes)I hope that the show makes it to season 2 and continues to improve and keeps the dark element of the show which sets apart from the Ben Affleck film version


                
This show is well scripted, well cast and very detailed. While I have no qualms about praising those aspects of the production there is at least one area in which I feel the show is lacking. Daredevil is not just a hero he is a superhero. After watching both seasons I am still unimpressed with the visual depiction of his powers. The underworld is well represented here. The gun violence is quite visceral and graphic in nature. The characters are interesting. Conversely, the action scenes are adequate albeit a little too dark for my tastes and the total lack of special effects strips the screenplay of any sense of wonder. Say what you will about Affleck's version but one thing that it absolutely nailed was the visual aspect of the character. DD's radar sense is brilliantly brought to life in the 2003 film and is sorely missed here as are some of the high wire sequences that take place above Hell's kitchen. Cox's devil doesn't climb, swing or tumble nearly enough for me and is merely a modern day version of Kato of Green Hornet fame. BTW, his suit is inferior to Affleck's also. This show is too much of a crime drama ala Steven Seagal and could use more flair to show how Daredevil is a hero who has a unique perspective of our world. In other words I like the show for it's drama but wish it had some of the Visual appeal of the feature film. With better SFX it would be a 10/10. My rating is 7/10. Take away Colin Firth as Bullseye and the movie is also 7/10.


                
Karen should be lulled off! She's over emotional and the actress who plays her is too over the top and both are bringing the series down! Glad kingpin returned in season 3 and saved the show from the crappy season 2 love schlock


                
I know. 7 is a lot less than what literally everyone else has given this movie. But there a major reason for that, which is also a root problem with all of marvel movies and tv series these days - the fact that as the villains become more and more intriguing and interesting, the heroes become just as boring and plain.You can see it best in daredevil season 3. I agree whole heartedly that Wilson fisk and particularly dex were amazing characters. The way their characters have been built, their personalities brought forth, it's just some of the best stuff to watch. But equally as bad (or maybe not equally as bad but far worse than it should have been) is the character daredevil. Almost throughout the movie he's portrayed as a brooding teenager who can't get above his head and think before he leaps. There's a serious gap in mental ability to the point that daredevil seems to throw pointless tantrums and make unnecessarily emotional (and stupid) decisions. Add that to the already annoying tantrums of Karen page and it just seems the so called heroes are deliberately being stupid. Foggy alone turns out to be the smart guy on the good side and a lot more mature also.Now I am two episodes away from the end, and I am pretty sure it's gonna blow me away. But somehow I am pretty certain at the end, I will be liking the villains more than the heroes..... and that's a problem.


                
The first season is fascinating. Great story, great characters, great acting. Matt's character is complex and inspiring, while his antagonist, Wilson Fisk, is beyond brilliant.The downsides are:1) the acting of the Karen Paige character, whom takes up a big chunk of space in the show and adds absolutely nothing.2) the extensive side-stories, all meaningless story-lines that add nothing to the main story.3) the fights ... beyond ridiculous!!!! One doesn't need to be a martial artist to understand that the back-flips are retarded.The second season is mediocre at best. Just a bunch of ninja fights within the plot of a Blue Sky thing which is of overpowering importance yet barely explained at all.


                
There are some things I love about this one and some I sort of despise (six episodes in). I love that they are true to the source material, as was Spider-Man (though to an overly sentimentalized fault), and create a multidimensional character with many different sides: trauma, honor, courage, vulnerability, failure, triumph. And yet, perhaps a big selfishly, what I want is something more like Christopher Nolan's Batman, or Thomas Jane in The Punisher, something more anti-hero, like Walter White, slowly coming into his own as a brutal exacter of psychopathic vigilantism. Is that so wrong? But so far Daredevil maintains he does not kill anyone, and hasn't yet. Will he? I'm not saying he should be Tony Soprano, but so far there's just a bit too much of a PG-13 feel to it. Also, he's kind of a ninny in the way of super-powers. If all he has is super-senses, then he just needs to be more bad-ass to compensate, at least killing his opponents (props though, to those graphic disfigurations). I was also a bit alarmed at the intense and graphic way they portrayed the suffering of the child Daredevil, though it did build some necessary character development (Like Bruce Banner in Ang Lee's Hulk, he's a pretty messed up dude). As necessary as it is to showcase the villains super- evilness, I still don't like to see children as the focus for their particular depravity, but this is more likely my hang up, as a Family Therapist. I do realize the difficulty inherent in finding something new for the villains to base their evil on. I am also hoping Wilson's character will "become" the Kingpin soon. Something bad of course needs to happen to him first, like it did for Jigsaw in Punisher 2 (having his face ripped to shreds in a swirling mass of broken glass), or Harvey "two faced" Dent in The Dark Knight. And so I am in, especially because the acting and character development is suburb, especially Wilson's. Vincent D. plays the socially awkward psychopath perfectly, kind of like a blend between his Gomer Pyle from Full Metal Jackoff and Steve Busemi's character in Con-Air. Is it time for another Daredevil archenemy to emerge?: Dr. Doom, Electro, Angar the Screamer. As a side-note, can anyone tell me why the producers, writers etc. don't just copy what we all know to be true? All fight sequences performed like Matt Damon in the Bourne series, all character development slowly by degrees becoming more complex, more paradoxical, more "always on the brink of the abyss," as in Breaking Bad, the interconnected existentialism and spirituality of Battlestar Gallactica. Come on, man, just give us what we want, what works.
Just because the show poops out after a few episodes doesn't mean I'm not watching the whole series. Matt Murdoch is particularly charming and compelling as a blind man with extraordinary senses otherwise. His sometime friend Claire is first-rate. Seeing Scott Glenn show up a "Stick" is a real hoot, and clearly there are intelligent surprises in store--if you're patient. Meanwhile, the minute Vincent D'Onofrio finally showed his face, I can't help seeing Annoying Orange on the screen. This problem I am hoping to exorcise by writing this review and trying to append a relevant image from YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t3vksVYHjJU
