Really great show. Season 1 and season 3 are just awesome. Season 2 was Aait. Highly recommend. You might end up watching a full season in about two days but that means you may not be able to get sh** done.


                
Cruising the Netflix options one evening, my husband asked if there was any interest in watching "Daredevil". I was only mildly interested at best, but my husband wanted to try it, so off we went on our "Daredevil" adventure. After the first episode, we were surprised and impressed that a comic book action series could be so compelling and interesting. Actors with whom we were unacquainted drew us in completely. Not only was the script well written, the actors crawled into their characters so completely, we found ourselves thoroughly enjoying every episode. Season Three is pretty dark, and we were looking forward to the good guys finally getting their way, and then I heard the show wasn't going to be renewed. We were so disappointed in the decision. The season thus rapped up quickly, but with loose ends and much bitter disappointment. Honestly, we are dumbfounded. I guess we don't know what it takes if great scripts and great acting aren't enough.


                
I thought after a disappointing season 2 that it was possible there wouldn't be a season 3. I can highly recommend season three. I binged all 13 episodes in two days. Matt is struggling with himself after surviving the building collapse at the end of the Defenders. Just like in season 1, Matt is "suitless". Back in season 1, much of the season built up to Matt putting on the actual Daredevil suit. In season 3, the villain "Bullseye" wears his suit while Matt keeps the suit buried. Matt prefers a boxing technique of wrapping ropes around his hands to inflict more damage. Matt seems like he prefers getting beat up (without his suit's protection) and taking the abuse this season as part of finding himself.I thought the basement church set was awesome. Matt was surrounded by statue angels and the dark basement. I loved the addition of Sister Maggie.I can't give this season 10 stars though. I mainly have a problem with Matt getting beat up so easily. He was perhaps the best fighter in the world defeating "The Hand" and defeating the powerful skilled ninjas. It was difficult for me to accept he was getting beat up so easily. However, early in the season he was still recovering, so I do understand that part. He did show more skills during the final fight scenes with being able to deflect Bullseye's attempts. Perhaps because of his inner conflicts, he wasn't able to harness all of his true fighting skills. He had flashes of brilliance, but he should have been more dominant, even without the suit.Perhaps Daredevil will get a new suit for season 4. I always thought the suit looked a little baggy anyway.
I have watched the entire series three times before writing this review, and it still impresses me each time. The overall quality of the writing, the great majority of the pacing, the vast majority of the acting, and the style of the action all blend together to create an epic that makes you forget how relatively small-scale it is compared to the other Marvel heroes, and leaves you drooling for more.The first truly street-level hero to enter the scene of the Marvel Cinematic Universe, Daredevil, even before he embraces this identity, shows his remarkable talent, but still has great vulnerability that makes the stakes seem all the higher and the path to victory all the more difficult to traverse. Admittedly the amount of punishment he endures is often too great for even a comic book property's usual suspension of disbelief but at least an attempt to explain it away is given, even if insufficient.The supporting cast, with one notable exception, is phenomenal. Rosario Dawson's nurse character, Deborah Ann Woll's driven mystery woman, and Elden Hensen's goofy but serious when the situation calls for it sidekick all blew me away with their performances, Hensen's in particular earning a special mention. Vondie Curtis-Hall's grizzled reporter also made waves that helped tie the story together more than I realized the first two viewings, and it is truly regrettable we won't be seeing more of him in future seasons, outside of possible flashbacks. The one weak link in this otherwise sterling list is Vincent D'Onofrio as antagonist Wilson Fisk. Now, I can't blame him entirely, much of his dialogue was simply weak, but what did bother me a lot about him was his delivery. I don't know if he had to gain a lot of weight for the role or if he was already that size but I believe it contributed to his breathing and vocalization which were terribly distracting. It made it hard to take him seriously, and when you're a villain that needs to be feared and respected, that is a fatal flaw. I would say roughly 80% of his time on-screen had this issue, there were occasions where it was either not noticeable or at least tolerable.The structure of the series is such that it welcomes newcomers and long-time fans alike, and brings every little story arc to a conclusion, not always in a completely clean or satisfactory way, but they don't allow it to interrupt the continuing flow, and the ultimate conclusion of the season truly gave a sense of the finishing stroke on a masterpiece. One of the best mêlée fights in the MCU so far, whether superhuman powers were involved or not, gives us so much more to look forward to in the coming seasons after showing us what they are capable of. The gradual pace with which Matt Murdock evolves to the peak of his crime-fighting career made it all the more satisfying to see him finally don his signature horned garb in the finale, and his use of the sticks and staff are as visually impressive as one could imagine, though I would hope we'll see him able to use a grappling hook mechanism soon. Seeing him keeping pace with cars while on foot and scaling fire escapes feels a little too far-fetched so something more believable would be welcomed in future seasons.Aside from those few nitpicks that can't really degrade the overall enjoyment or quality, the overall series is spectacular and gives me great hope that the other planned programs will be similarly well-done and makes me very eager to see what season 2 will have in store. You'll probably hardly feel like the many hours it takes to get through the series have actually passed, so it is rather easy to get through in one or two days (great way to spend a quiet weekend) and well worth the effort if you are looking for something 'super' to tide you over between releases of blockbuster films.
I will rate it 8/10!! although i really liked the second and the third season i was not a big fan of the first one.the villain is smart and his plans are even smarter.the actors are great and overall daredevil is surely one of the best superhero series out there!!!


                
1st season was average to above average due to very slow pace and too long conversation . A superhero stuff cant be so slow like some drama. Lots of time is wasted in inner dilemma of Mathew Murdock where he is confused whether what he is doing is good or bad being a catholic guy. Yeah they wanted the human aspect of a superhero but that turned out to be boring. Even the conversations between Vanessa and Wilson Fisk revealing the character and intent of Wilson Fisk bored to death . But it surely has very good action sequences and some equally strong thrilling and emotional moments which acts as savior and keep it an above average watch. Wilson Fisk character could be really threatening but the animal inside him is let free for very few sequences . Scenes between Mathew Murdock, Foggy and Karen are very good . So are the ones between Mathew and Claire.Maybe someone who has acult for daredevil can enjoy this season but i being the one who started with this and not the comics book found it average to above average and rate it 7/102nd season i didnt have much hopes where i thought i will end it and wont move to next season. But it starts with a bang- daredevil fighting robbers and then someone killing cartels . The entry of Punisher as a kick ass hero who wanna wipe out gangs and Electra who is non apologetic killer gave the season a big big boost. Second season differs from 1st in one aspect and that is the reason this season comes out triumphant - Fast pace . There are two things going on simultaneously one about Frank castle(The Punisher) and other about an ancient Japanese organization- Hand, and both have lots of mystery and action involved that keeps us on our toes , add to it the turmoil in personal life of Mathew Murdock(Daredevil) with respect to his best friend Foggy and love- Karen. Even there is mystery involved in presence and actions of Stick( Daredevil's master) and Electra. It gives us everything one expects from a superhero stuff - little drama and romance , full of action thrill and mystery. Now iam waiting for 3rd season , hope its like second season not 1st . would rate second season ... 9/10


                
Just finished watching Season 2, something I had been waiting for a while. I must say that Season 2 was a lot better that the first season. My main qualm with the first season was the pacing. Some of the episodes felt too slow and the plot wasn't moving as quickly as I wanted to. SO, anyone who didn't enjoy the 1st season should give the 2nd season a shot, your complaints might have been duly noted by the show-runners.The thing that makes the show far more interesting this time is the addition of new characters and it doesn't hold back on the action at all. Some of the new characters are Frank Castle/The Punisher and Elektra Natchios. CHARACTERS: The Punisher is a highly complex individual, out for blood of the people who killed his family. To say the least, he is a complete bad-ass, and almost hands Daredevil's ass to him on a platter. Daredevil and Punisher are both alike in some way, but their ideologies differ a lot. Frank believes that only way to clean New York is to kill all the criminals. Daredevil believes that everyone deserves a second chance, and there is good in everyone. I love the psychological debate that the show touched upon. Needless to say, Jon Bernthal fit the bill perfectly. I'm hoping for a standalone Punisher TV series on Netflix after seeing his spectacular portrayal.Coming to Elektra, she is really fun to watch. Elodie Yung was extremely charismatic in the role, and I can't wait to see her in the future seasons.Matt Murdock is going through his own personal battles in this season. He is struggling to balance his vigilante persona with his personal life. In the process of fighting crime, he distances his best friend Foggy and Karen from his life. Charlie Cox still continues to be brilliant in this role. I'm always pleasantly surprised to see how well he can emote the mannerisms, facial expressions and eye movements of a blind man. ACTION: The action is one of the best parts of the show. This time also we get to see some remarkable action scenes, on-par with the famous hallway fight scene from the second episode of the first season. Action junkies certainly won't be disappointed.VERDICT: This show is bliss for comic book fans. Even if you aren't one, you will enjoy it for the edge of the seat drama and high octane action and amazing performances. Almost every character on the show is interesting. So, check it out!!P.S. I gave season 1 a rating of 8/10 and season 2 deserves a 9/10 in my books. Certainly a great improvement.


                
Here is my take so far on the new series Daredevil. Drama-wise, I find the story good with a lot of things we can relate to and learn from with the turmoil going on these days. Although, like so many other Marvel comics, I still find the rebooting a little bit disturbing, but I guess that adds to what keeps it interesting and worth going through all over again. With regards to the fight scenes, a lot of them are really good; but surprisingly they're not consistent. It's like they had different fight choreographers for every fight scene, or maybe different stunt actors. In one scene, it's like watching Jason Bourne fighting another high level agent; then in another scene, it's like watching a fight in a stage play of Romeo and Juliet with the steps clearly cadenced and danced to. As for the characters, I find it weird that whenever Matt Murdock puts on the mask he seems to be using his eyes more than his other senses. For no reason, he can easily find a woman's soft purse without trying. He just goes to the couch and gets it from behind a pillow. He can walk into a room for the first time and knows exactly how things are laid out inside. I find Ben Affleck's version from the movie more realistic in comparison. Charlie Cox isn't to blame, though. The Director should have seen to it. As for Wilson Fisk, I think he's the softest and lamest Kingpin I've ever seen. The only thing Vincent D'Onofrio contributed to the character is shaving his head, the rest is all script. You still see the same Vincent D'Onofrio as he is on screen in all of his other movies, just acting in another name delivering his lines and with a shaved head this time. As for Foggy Nelson, I think Elden Henson did a noteworthy acting for the role.
The whole season is really well directed in the best possible realistic manner. Hats off to the writer, director, the actors and every artist associated along with the crew. It keeps the viewer engrossed. The direction has been pretty awesome along with the artists. Thanks to the writer who wrote the events in such a manner that they merged into each other reasonably, keeping the viewer interested and not distracted, wonderful writing. The idea of the associated persons also worked of not mentioning the actual comic names such as 'King Pin'. It's just about the last episode that spoils the whole series' interest. The Daredevil avatar of Matt Murdock is out of its realistic point of view in this episode. He is a big show off this time (unlike the other episodes), which is 'really distracting'. The helmet of the costume adds to it. The last fight between Daredevil avatar and Wilson Fisk was also not up to the mark. These facts seriously lowered my interest about the upcoming season for which I previously was excited. It would be really great if the whole DD team could get improvements over these issues. It's then a complete piece of artwork. Previous episodes had me a wonderful experience.
If you start the show, then trust me you can't stop before watching the whole season.


                
Now, I can't really claim to be much of a fan of superheroes in general, but I was recommended that I watched "Daredevil", but was a little bit reluctant given the movie that had Ben Affleck in it.But I decided to give it a go anyway, and must admit that I was so happy and thrilled that I did so, because "Daredevil" really turned out to be an amazing thrill ride of entertainment, action and character development.You quickly take a liking to the various characters in the show, both good and bad, because they are so detailed and nuanced that it feels so very realistic and natural. And it was helped along so nicely by a rather impressive cast whom put on amazing performances. I was especially impressed with Charlie Cox (platying daredevil), Vincent D'Onofrio (playing Wilson Fisk), Elden Henson (plating Foggy Nelson) and also Deborah Ann Woll (playing Karen Page).One thing that didn't sit well with me, was the fact that you had to wait the entire first season before you got to see the suit. A clever way of keeping the viewers glued to the screen or just downright idiocy? I do not know, but I believe it was the former.Granted I have only seen seasons 1 and 2, but I have been so very adequately entertained by it, that I most definitely want to watch season 3 as well.


                
Season 1, one the the best TV series ever for comic books. It's creative, legendary and a copycat of Batman with sprinkles of violence.
Soason 2, comes the over wrote moral questions, mid season episodes were dragging slow and we could shorten mid episodes and get better season.
Season 3, the same as Season 2 with skipable at least 3 episode and will make the season enjoyable


                
There are so many superhero shows out there. But Daredevil is different and better in a few ways.The story remains understandable and simple. A viewer should not have to concentrate too hard to keep up with a TV show. 13 episodes means the story doesn't have to get repetitive and confusing like in Flash and Shield. Quality is better than quantity. 22 episodes is too much for some shows. One villain is more menacing than a new villain each week.The actors are good. Charlie Cox is a likable and understated actor. The hero is vulnerable and not infallible. Vincent d'Onofrio is impressive as the villain of the season. His character is well developed. There may not be a bevy of beauties like "Arrow" but when the story is good it doesn't matter.A few faults. The lighting is too dark in some sequences. Things can move slowly in some parts. At first I thought the fighting is a bit too expert for a blind person even with powers. Some fight scenes are a bit too long.CW and ABC could learn from this show. Quality vs quantity. Looking forward to season 2.


                
The series is cool, good story, but Mr. Charlie Cox need to improve a lot, The Dare Devil ignores the pain should show strength.The Uniform is a joke, please put the original uniform, the current uniform appears Captain America.The ideal uniform should be the red uniform, I confess that would look like the mask opening.The beginning of the series was pretty cool, but it was a bit slurred, with some expendable episodes.Mr. Vincent D'Onofrio perfect in this role, impeccable.It is a very good series, has some flaws as all but repeat the uniform was terrible.Another thing i did not censorship than 18 years, have not seen anything as shocking as well to justify 18 years of censorship.


                
I am not a fan of comic books or films based on them personally, I find them tedious and repetitive, yet I really enjoyed Daredevil. The acting is excellent from nearly everyone and though it didn't change the formula of superhero films significantly it did seem fresh.The acting is stellar, especially from the leads such as Charlie Cox and Vondie-Curtis Hall really making an impact. However Fisk to me seems like a weak villain. I get the whole situation with him being a child due to his traumatic experiences, yet I just can't see how this obese child could run a crime business. Personally I think that Wesley should have been the villain with Fisk as his bitch, but that isn't the case.My other problem is that there are too many episodes were nothing happens. This problem is mainly in the Caron and Ben storyline, every bit of information they get, nothing happens to it because of a complication. Also some scenes with Foggy are a little cringe, and seeing that it's meant to have a dark tone they should tone down the cringe scenes.Apart from this it was very good, and the fact it's a series means that you can have more of a bond with the characters. Like when Ben dies I was nearly shouting at the TV (same when Wesley died, he was great). It was great so I recommend it, though it does have some flaws.
This has got to be the best marvel series ever. Or best superhero series from any franchise period!


                
12 years ago there was a movie called "Daredevil". With amazing villains such as Bullseye and Kingpin, as well as the agile super-heroine Elektra making their live-action debuts, the movie seemed like it could be a hit. Sadly, we all know how that story ended. With both "Daredevil" and the spin-off movie "Elektra" being critical flops it seemed like the Matt Murdock's live-action days were numbered. In fact, Daredevil was all but forgotten about until Marvel and Netflix announced their own string of television series all with connecting universes within the MCU, leading up to "The Defenders" another series that will act as a team up between the shows. The first of these shows to come out was, you guessed it, "Daredevil". This show would decide the fate of the entire connecting universe for these shows. Fans eagerly waited for the show until April 9th, 2015 when the series dropped on Netflix. And it was amazing. With excellent fight scenes as well-choreographed as the church scene in "Kingsman: The Secret Service", cinematography that would make Murdock envious, and a plot as down to Earth as "The Dark Knight" without getting too intense all the time, "Daredevil" truly is the best comic book show on television today. Every episode is a thrill and every fight scene is breath taking. "Daredevil" doesn't feel the need to spend the entire season setting up the hero's origin, trusting that those watching the show know what they are getting into. With an amazing story and even better acting, there is no reason not to watch this show. The only bad part of this show is the fact that we have to wait a whole year for season two. 8/10 would watch again says IGN.
First off I'd like to say that Season 1 was very good and showed potential for what could be done with the character and show, then season 2 executed this near perfectly and was just amazing. So I am a fan of the show hugely but season 3 has been just a little disappointing, I don't know if others will agree with me or not but I just felt that the story started off relatively strong and seemingly quite clever, although the early scenes with overly broody Matt were drawn out too long and they really went overboard on the Christian philosophy (not being anti-religious but seriously no one on the show offers any atheist reasoning, like everyone just accepts Matts weird fixation that god is really involved in all this), anyway kingpin was given a credible and empowering story ark with his manipulated escape from prison that at first was believable but during episode 9, they just lose all sense of reality (which normally is what makes daredevil unique and enjoyable) and reveal this cheap shock attempt that kingpin has corrupted the whole FBI (which is basically the US government so quite a task) this is just laughable and feels like I'm watching a show written by an 8 year old, sorry (I'm British btw so I'm not saying this because of blind patriotism) but this is one of the best funded criminal combative agencies in the world they're not going to be controlled by some New York mob boss whos already a convicted criminal, it's simply unbelievable and not credible, I mean even the female special agent in charge just murders another official and is like oh yeh Fisk had my kid murdered he keeps tabs on all the FBI agents in the unit for years no ones safe and were all a bunch of incapable and unprofessional losers who I hope doesn't represent the real FBI. Regardless sorry for that rant, it just really bugged me. Also Karen although really important and necessary for the story is unlikable, rude and consistently making poor decisions so just annoying as usual nothing new. Foggy feels useless this season but I guess you either like him or you don't. Also feel like Matt has less screen time than usual but Charlie cox is doing really well as him in my opinion. Sorry to be negative but feel like daredevil might have lost itself a bit.
This show is very... very good!Pros;
Charlie Cox is a phenomenally great lead actor. He truly takes on the idea that Matt Murdock is blind and in acting relies on posture, mannerisms and even other parts of the face; this guy is crazy!Vincent D'Onofrio kills it as Kingpin! He is beyond brutal, he is scheming and yet you fail to hate him. D'Onofrio gives this character true life and you even want him to win at times until you remember that he kills people and always feels his way is right...the supporting cast is always great. Deborah Ann Woll, Elden Henson & Jon Brenthal as Karen Page, Foggy Nelson and Frank Castle respectively really challenge Murdock's perspectives on the world whilst having relevant and compelling plot lines also.The action alone is perfect. It is gritty it is grounded it is intriguing it is creative it takes the breath right out of your lungs like holy s***!Cons;
Wai Ching Ho as Madame Gao is not bad in any way; she is just as strong as other actors I previously mentioned! However, her plot in Season 2 gets boring and she herself is quite forgettable.Season 2's pacing never really worked unfortunately and brought the show down slightly.Whilst It did pick up straight after Episode 1, Season 3 started a little slow and dragged again in what I deem the unnecessary Episode 10.Verdict;
Whilst Season 2 dragged slightly with a forgettable villain, Seasons 1 & 3 were glorious with incredibly strong actors lifting the show to grand heights!


                
I just love it! Everything about it. I guess it is my favorite Marvel character. He has the qualities we all look for in a "hero", and the script is not cheesy not very cliché. Yes there are many different similar stories, but in my opinion Daredevil stands out. It's a shame it will be cut.


                
Is there any scene with Karen where she isn't crying? Just one? Please!


                
This is honestly the best thing since slice bread. This show has finally in my opinion given Netflix made shows a good rep. I was skeptical when I first heard of this but it was way, way beyond expectations and definitely raised the bar. If you don't have Netflix. Get it for this, even if it's the only thing you want to watch. It's well worth it and well worth any amount of time needed to watch it. I will be looking for season 2 and plan to binge on it the day it's released. If you're looking at this wondering if you should watch the show. Don't think. Just watch. I've been in that situation before watching this and someone did the same for me. This show captures your attention and won't let go until the last episodes over. You won't regret seeing this. This has everything a good t.v. Show should have and yet so much more.
Season 1 of daredevil is some of the best superhero TV that I have ever seen. It's a dark action drama with a just a sprinkle of comedy in the form of foggy. Im a big fan of dark shows and movies but usually the superhero TV shows like flash and the arrow are more on the action or comedy side. Daredevil is a bad ass sticking it to the bad guys left and right and has a great villain in Wilson Fisk with great performances from all the actors. Season 2 changed some things that I'm not a fan of. Foggy has some lame lines and instead of being an awesome superhero they made daredevil go out of his way to prevent really hurting people that have killed others. Lame. Now I'm only 3 episodes in on season 2 but I already don't like it as much. Season 1 was a 10/10 and I wanted to watch each episode after the last one. Season 2 not so much.
I'm liking this new DAREDEVIL series. It's decently written. The production values are high. All is well...EXCEPT now and then, when the camera-work is wiggly at the wrong time. That camera wiggling is enough to break audience attention and mess it all up. YES, hand-held camera work saves time/money...but it can also ruin a scene/project. I hope they figure this out soon. I hate camera-ruined scenes.I've said all I want to say about this TV series. Now I'm filling up the space I've been told I must if I want to submit my thoughts about 'DAREDEVIL'. Not cool. Fascistic at least. The rule that one must tender at least 10 lines is bogus/wrong/bad. Users should be able to submit any size review they choose. Beep the fascist controllers.


                
Great show with amazing first and second season.But watching third season and I was incredibly disappointed in their choice of villain
And how easily the villain seemed to be on Daredevil's fighting level, how easily Daredevil is apparently evil, and several rather glaring moments that requires suspension of disbelief.Overall the third season left me rather disappointed, after having watched the incredible season one and two.
