One of the best superhero adaptations ever.#SaveDaredevil


                
Let me start by saying Daredevil season 1 was so great it was the reason I got Netflix.Daredevil season 2 for me was ok,I really liked the punisher but I didn't feel much for the main plot.but wow season 3 ..I would probably get my memory erased to relive this masterpiece again...
Every character which is introduced has a proper backstory.you actually care about each and every persons motives.you get to choose who you like.i love great villians and this show delivers not one but two.Wilson Fisk from season 1 itself was very impressive and season 3 he delivers an exemplary performance,but the person who stole the show was bullseye,his character development was amazing and the action scenes were phenomenal.usually shows have plot holes ,directors don't really care to fill them up but this show had no plot holes.It was really amazing ,they went for a bit unexpected ending which I really liked.usually multiple villains ruin movies and shows but this they did it so well.lol,this is probably how been afflecks Daredevil movie should have been.Must watch :)


                
I have watched 7 episodes thus far and I have to say, I am both surprised and excited by this show. I should say that "Daredevil" with Ben Affleck was my childhood movie - I was 11 years old. I didn't all out hate the movie despite the poor reception, and still don't, but even as a child I recognized it could have been so much better, for a thousand and one reasons. So when I heard Netflix was making a refurbished "Daredevil", I was skeptical at its success but also curious about its angle and possibilities the show could bring. To my surprise, Netflix's Daredevil fulfills that childhood longing of a better "Daredevil" - the show is both thrilling and well designed. The plot is exceedingly engaging and thrilling.The cast is also remarkable - which was an unexpected surprise. I had some doubts about the lead but I can say that I am impressed by Charlie Cox. As a fan of True Blood, it has also been a pleasure to see Deborah Ann Woll. All and all, this show, for its make and platform, is a hit. I am more than confident the remainder of the season will continue to be just as good if not better. I highly recommend for any Comic book, Graphic Novel, and Superhero-Movie fanatic.


                
Blinded as a young boy, Matt Murdock fights injustice by day in "Hell's Kitchen" as a lawyer with his best friend, Foggy Nelson, and a recent acquaintance Karen Page. At night, he combats against the corrupt as a vigilante first known as, "The Man in Black". With the help of his colleagues, Matt Murdock cleans up Hell's Kitchen eventually becoming "DareDevil".Though I am more of a DC fan, Marvel and Netflix's "DareDevil" was the best real life series adaptation of a comic book character I have ever seen. This Marvel/Netflix original series provides us with an incredibly addictive story, and superb acting brought to you by Charlie Cox (Dare Devil), Elden Henson (Foggy Nelson), as well as Deborah Ann Woll (Karen Page). And let's not forget the amazing choreography for every action sequence. Everything about this series was remarkable and a significant improvement to the 2003 "DareDevil"; however, the graphic realism for some scenes is not for the faint of heart, so parental discretion is strongly advised.In the end, this series was both thrilling and mesmerizing! If you weren't a fan of "DareDevil" before, you soon will be.9 Stars!


                
As a comic books fan, I must say he's (Daredevil) one of the most complex characters. I loved it. The characters, story line, fight sequences, scores, production, cinematography, direction, music ,everything was great! Can't wait to see the next season. Season 1 - 8.8 Season 2 - 9.5 Season 3 - 9.3 .Thank you Marvel, Thank you Netflix, simply a perfect show.


                
What can I say? Growing up I was a massive Daredevil fan but in my later years fell from grace on that front. After watching the first episode of Daredevil, though? I'm all in.Acting was great. Was it perfect? No, but that, like this whole review, is an opinion. I thought Charlie Cox was great as Matt Murdock and seeing as I haven't seen Elden Henson since the Mighty Ducks days and The Mighty, he was also really good.The action sequences were tense and I honestly feared for Matt's life in some scenario's, which, as you all know, is damn near impossible when making a superhero movie or television show. I mean, c'mon. Are they ever REALLY in trouble? In this case, it felt like he was.I've heard some people have compared this to the likes of Arrow and I can see that, but is that a bad thing? Don't get me wrong, it definitely differs from Arrow, but the approach to the series is ALMOST in the same vein. Again, NOT a bad thing.All in all, I will be watching the rest of the series and I will be patiently waiting for Season 2. This show is truly a sight to see, unless your Matt Murdock... No? Alright, here's my rating.8.8/10. Superb.


                
Daredevil is the kind of show that, even when taken out of context, is still a great piece of work. Even if Marvel wasn't associated with this at all, Daredevil would still be one of the best crime/vigilante dramas out there. It's just great storytelling elevated by its superhero backdrop, with classic characters like Wilson Fisk and The Punisher butting heads with Matt Murdock through insanely choreographed fight sequences (the best in Marvel history) in the dark, gritty streets of Hell's Kitchen. Daredevil shows the grimier side of Marvel for sure, not quite as disturbing as Jessica Jones, but there's a fair share of graphic imagery. It's never gratuitous, though. The violence is real and raw, and you believe the wounds Daredevil gets in his numerous altercations, painfully so. Every little detail is accounted for, from the functionality of Foggy and Matt's lawyer firm to the martial arts techniques used in the many mind-blowingly impressive fight scenes. It all works so well; the writing is sharp, sometimes slow and brooding but it always pays off, and it's character-driven without delving into soap opera territory like many comic book shows do (though the Elektra storyline comes close). Wilson Fisk is one of the best villains to come out of Marvel live action universe, played to perfection by Vincent D'Onofrio. The acting all around is top-notch. Charlie Cox gives a convincing performance of the blind lawyer vigilante, and Jon Bernthal as the Punisher is superb. You begin to care about every character though, even the antagonists. Frank Castle is a written as a fully fleshed out person - he does what he does for a reason that's very personal to him, and you understand why and you care. Even Foggy and Karen, who I didn't care much for in season 1, grew on me by season 2 and I really came to like some of their arcs. The first four episodes of season 2 might be the best stretch of comic book episodes put to screen, ever. It's unbelievable. Seeing that alone should sell you on the show (but you should most certainly start with season 1). Daredevil is just something you have to experience if you're a comic book fan, or an action fan, or a fan of quality television. It's that good.


                
A show as good as this and Netflix cancels it...Total Bulls#-%.


                
First ,,, again as a second show i watch on Netflix after "bloodline" .. i truly love it ... showing a half season in a day is genius ,, it's like they're telling you "here's a whole season in a couple of days,then tell us what you think ."So daredevil is not a new story for me ,, as an occasional reader of it's comics, watched the movie in 2003 .. so i can easily say this show has gone even beyond my expectation .. and if you've seen the Trailer the show is much more ;)They presented a quick easy to understand introduction .. accident, burned eyes end of story we'll be back in a short flashbacks .. move on to more important story of now .. bravo .. The storyline is flowing perfectly so far, the crime solving, the action, the thrill is shining in abundance ,, the mysterious events seize the right moment to keep you plugged in wanting to know what's gonna happen next.The casting is just spot on,, everyone is so emotionally invested in his character so you end up believing it is his and not to anyone but his.The cinematography, the Visual special effects are perfect thou the soundtrack needs to rise to the occasion because it feels like it didn't hear any but in the final scene..One episode is down four more to go for the rest of the day ;) and i know it's gonna roll in the same rhythm of sensational agitating events ... the action just begun, i'll keep you all updated :).................................................................... ........... Update.............................................................. ............. So the next 3 episodes moved steadily, the story flows perfectly so far no ups or downs, it gets clearer .. the problems in Hell's Kitchen start to appear.. I had some troubles finding much catchy soundtracks in the pilot but it actually grows noticeably as the episodes rolls. In episode 5 the suspense rise to a new level you won't wait a minute to watch the next episode. From episode 6 the story takes a turn to a tighter plot, focused on finding Fisk and his associates, his enemies until he become the center of the series in episode 8 ... In each episode there's a new interesting character emerges on the surface. As for the finale the "Horns" grow, had unexpected fast events leaves you speechless :D In all the episode there is always this shocking surprise they hit you with ,,FYI: The renewal for a second season is still on the bubble...................................................................... .................................................................... ...........................


                
This is a fantastic series, anchored by a great 1st and 3rd season. Had to drop one mark due to the defenders and part of season 2.The best thing about this series are the character interactions. There's always someone who is a mirror of the other person. Daredevil himself has people who want him to be better than he is or in some respects worse. Charlie cox is great in the role and the fight scenes are also amazing and as realistic as a comic book series can be.The supporting cast of Foggy and Karen are great as well. They both help anchor Daredevil in the real world and are flawed in their own unique ways. Other support characters are well thought out as well. The only weak point is one of character arcs on season two which is the only time the show appears ott.The star of the show though is Wilson Fisk. For whatever reasons the marvel films struggle with villains, not here. It's a credit to the show that you want Daredevil to win, but still love Fisk.The stories of themselves mostly have a great arc and there are some truly classic episodes in here. The only warning is if you don't like violence this isn't for you.A great comic book series, but also a great series in general.


                
This show has good acting from multiple characters that do a fantastic job portraying there characters. With great pacing great directing and great action sequences


                
Started watching yesterday afternoon and went all the way through 13 episodes! We didn't want to let go of this story. Can't wait for season 4.


                
I would like to put a 9,5 but there is not the option lol, The plot was excelent, the season 1 was so good, the 2 was good but not like 1, but the third one, was amazing. Needles to say that the cast made their papers perfectly.
They took a comic and brought it to real life, almost like The chirstopher nolans Batman trilogy. I mean, it has irreal things, of course, but it is in a real life context, and i personally loved that (sorry if i couldn't explain very well).
I personally loved the show: the plots, the characters, fights scenes (oh the fight scenes...), music was very good too; everything was, not perfect, but very very well done. I really rocomend this show for both superherores lovers and casual viewers. (excuse my english)


                
A show that can entertain and build a truly solid plot at the same time nowadays is to be commended. With so much TV out there it seems like our odds of getting utter poop is higher. But every so often we get one that has what it takes to stand above the rest and compete with the elite. Daredevil is one of those shows. The plot development from seasons one and two that have now weighed heavily on season three is masterful. And staying true to the comics never hurts ;) I appreciate the attention that has been given to the story and the effort the actors have putt in to bring it to life. Long story short...I am a fan!


                
After delivering a wonderfully crafted show with Agent Carter, Marvel is back with another one, Daredevil. I am not a Daredevil fan, in the sense that I've never read the comic or care much about the character. The Ben Affleck movie - that I kind of like - is the only reason I know about it and what the Daredevil Netflix series did was to give the movie fans a sliver of déjà-vu, meaning I felt I was getting into something familiar, but at the same time they delivered a brand new show.The new feel is brought in by a lot of things, some more subtle than others but they all help to distance the show from the movie. The costume is one of them, obviously different but they did one better, they grounded the vigilante's story and abilities. Daredevil isn't hopping from building to building jumping so high that you wonder how is he still human? This incarnation runs, jumps, basically does parcours, and gets the sh*t beaten out of him. His fight scenes and stunts look plausible, realistic, but boy! Does his cracked ribs and black eyes heal quick. It is subtly explained how he seemingly gets back on his feet after a serious beat down but it sometimes - once actually - feels unrealistic or supernatural like.The familiarity of the show I first mentioned stems from Matthew Murdoch's back story and the people he interacts with but also the sets. They have, in my opinion, very successfully distance themselves from the Daredevil movie but not completely. Some of the sets can easily remind us of the movie. They seem to be inspired by the same thing(s), probably the comics since I never read them I wouldn't know, but the familiarity of stepping into a world we know is there.I also loved that they showed more than just Murdoch's back story but Wilson Fisk's as well. It gave more depth to Fisk's character and also blurred the lines between him and Daredevil without really depicting Fisk as an antihero. He's straight up evil, manipulative, and dark but the smart thing is Fisk really believes that he is doing a good thing for the city. He's the villain of the show for sure but he's the kind you could maybe root for or at least understand, even if the guy does has the emotional stability of a child. What's the saying again? "One man's terrorist is another man's freedom fighter." It looks like it is what they applied to the show by not making Wilson Fisk a one note character. They've first built him up Harry Potter style as the He-who-must-not-be-named to give him some street cred, a menacing persona. Then layered his persona with emotions to make him relatable to finally show us how dark he can be, how far he will go. Daredevil was so smartly tied to the MCU by subtly mentioning the heroes (The Avengers) and the destruction of New York City in the very first episode and more bluntly in others but the show somehow stand on its own. Tying such a dark show into the MCU feels weird because it means this is happening in Tony Stark's or Spiderman's backyard but I guess they can't be everywhere. It almost seems like Iron man, Spidey and the other are in the big leagues and Daredevil is in the minor league, on the come up, for now.The Daredevil show is dark, bloody, and addictive, I watched the whole season in two days, that's how captivating it is. The show is definitely an origin story, not just Murdoch's and as origin stories goes this is the best Marvel has produced. It seems that Marvel has learn from their mistakes - Agent of S.H.I.E.L.D. - and got right again with this one. @wornoutspines


                
As a huge fan of Daredevil's comic books the least I was expecting from this TV Series was a good story-telling and not a predictable story. The show delivered much more than what I was waiting. A huge credit to Netflix, which proves again the power and ability to make another thrilling TV Series. Different from many of other super heroes TV shows, Daredevil has a darker and realistic tone which fits very well to the characteristic of the character. While you're watching Daredevil you can notice influences of many important phases of character in the comics, but the one who stands out is Frank Miller's Daredevil, which is known as the best phase of all of Daredevil. Other entertaining aspect , if you are a fan of Daredevil's comics, is the number of easter eggs and characters that appear in the show, which are also known by their appearances in the comics, but in the TV Series, they aren't or haven't become yet what they supposed to be.The fight scenes were awesome, they are made in such may which you feel sorry for what Matt Murdock(Charlie Cox) is suffering. They are very well choreographed and with such bloody and raw scenes, surely it's one of the most biggest hits of the series. Both the creation and the development of the characters is done in an incredible way, making such interesting and provoking characters. The chemistry between the leading trio, Matt, Foggy Nelson(Elden Henson) and Karen Page(Deborah Ann Woll) is great, the actors made an outstanding job in creating such likable characters. Regarding to the antagonism of Matt Murdock and Wilson Fisk(Vincent D'Onofrio), both wanting a better future for the city. The actions each one is prepared to do to make this future to happen causes the line between good and evil disappear. Bringing to the series a very realistic air. I really enjoyed the series and can't expect for what they will bring of new to the Season 2.


                
I am hooked! After the Ben Affleck Daredevil (2003) movie disappointment, this show is truly refreshing and brings back the fate that comic book heroes can come to life in a good, convincing way. This show is better than I expected. Realistic enough, good actors, Charlie Cox is perfect for the lead role, Elden Henson is cute and funny, it was nice watching Deborah Ann Woll after True Blood, as a normal person and not a vampire and Vincent D'Onofrio after Law and Order. Great sound and sound design and a smart use of surround sound where it's needed and not just to use it for no reason. Smart little tweaks which impacts the visuals greatly. Netflix have done it again, I hope to see more of their adaptations to Marvel's heroes. In short, watch it, you'll like it.


                
I have just seen the pilot yet, and I am absolutely impressed. Charlie Cox is a wonderful actor, and he seems to have prepared for his role really well.Stunt Choreography was a bit raw in my opinion, but I think that's what adds to the dark feeling.There is room for humor with Charlie's law partner - Foggy and I liked to see Marvel giving it a slight touch of their lighter side.It seems to have a well planned story arc, and I am so glad it is not a procedural type superhero shows. We have had enough of that.All in all 9 on 10. Will binge watch over the next 2 days!


                
I'm not a big fan of marvel films as I find them very generic and un-interesting, but I love this show.
The action scenes in this series put every single marvel movie to shame! They are reason enough to watch this show. Luckily it also has great characters and story.
If Marvel made there movies more like this I would actually go to the cinema to watch them because I wouldn't leave disappointed.


                
Season 1 (9*) Good Drama and character development and thrilling ride.
Season 2 (8*) Great action, Punisher and Electra story line + comic adaption.
Season 3 (9*) All good elements of S1+ S2 Combined with great villain.
Charile Cox is perfect for the role
Negativity - Predictable at parts.
The show still keeps the quality of Great acting and writing and the show deserves Season 4 <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+008E>.


                
This is one of Marvel's best. I watched Luke Cage and Iron Fist- didn't quite hit the spot like this show did. The combat scenes and rawness of the violence are really cool and refreshing for a superhero series. Definitely recommended, can't wait for the next season!


                
I myself was surprised by how strong of a 1st season Daredevil had, probably the best since Battlestar Galactica's 1st season. It brings to light a character that was ruined by an awful movie and makes us forget about how painful it was.The show is incredibly well done on all fronts. Cox is a fantastic, charismatic Daredevil and Vincent is scary good as Kingpin. The fight scenes, rather gory for Marvel, are probably the best seen since the Dark Knight, and the writing of the show is Emmy-worthy.There are flaws, of course, but it's rare for any show to have a truly flawless first season. I figure by next season, the show will have it figured out.Do yourselves a favor and watch this show, you won't be disappointed
This is best dark piece of TV I've seen in quite a while. To keep it short:Imagine Chris Nolan developed a Marvel flick for television and Drew Goddard adorned it with his sweet and nasty nerdism. You'll get perfect character development - this goes for the vigilante (Charlie Cox is brilliant as Daredevil as well as the blind lawyer) as well as for his opponent (D'Onofrio is outstanding and maybe one of the most well conceived comic villains ever !!!) - and a thrilling superhero origin story.Daredevil would've made the best Marvel movie so far, if this was thought for the big screen.


                
You Know, I started watching this show just 2 weeks ago and I was immediately hooked! The story, the action sequences, the acting, the character development are all on point! You actually care about both the hero and the villains alike, it's like you are reading their stories piece by piece and really connect with them and their motives. But unfortunately, every good thing comes to an end, Netflix had to cancel this brilliant show to be ended in season 3, i'm a man, but I felt heartbroken when I heard this news, all I can say is: goodbye old friend :(


                
Things went a bit wonky with that Elektra business - however series 3 is a stonking return to form. Fleshing out multiple characters on the stage with Fisk retaining the title as one of the best villains brought to the small screen. DareDevil does remain the technically worst super hero in the business with his special abilities never being sensational and getting beaten up being his strongest however the characters and story remain a grip that bit above the competition, bravo, binge watched.


                
