I don't understand why this film is so highly rated. The film has so many plot holes in it I actually lost count. Now before I start this review, I'm not going to say toys talking is a plot hole, the idea of them talking is interesting but it opens up so many other questions that the movie never really explains. Also, don't argue, "it's a kids movie", films need to make sense in order to work whether they're for kids or not. This film is so bad and here is why. Even if you like this film, you have to agree with some of the points I'm making here:Buzz thinks he's a space ranger. If that is the case then why does he allow Andy to play with him? Does he not think why is this giant kid picking me up and throwing me around? Buzz however makes no attempt to communicate with Andy. Surely Buzz would try and talk to him? This doesn't make sense given that Buzz doesn't believe he's a toy. Also when Woody hits a button that release Buzz's helmet and he gasps for air, you're telling me Andy never pushed that button? He's owned the toy for weeks yet hadn't pressed all the buttons? Rubbish.The end scene is one of the worst scenes for me. It's broad daylight and two toys are running down a street. Where are all the pedestrians on the street? How are they able to open the back of the moving van truck? Surely the driver would notice doesn't he check his rear view mirrors, or surely a button or signal would come up revealing that a door was open at the back of his truck? Wow any thief could steal from this useless driver. Also when Woody and Buzz fly down from the sky and land in Andy's car. Andy's car is directly in front of the truck driver, how could he possibly not see this???The most hilarious scene though is when Woody is moving around in the middle of the road and a person in a car honks at him. Woody then ducks in front of the car as it drives over him. 1) Why would you sound your car horn if there was a toy in the road? 2) The driver therefore saw Woody as he sounded his horn. 3) He must have seen Woody moving about and be thrown from the moving van. Does this driver know toys are alive or something? Is it only kids who are unaware? I just don't understand. It's never fully explained. Continuing this point: when the toys all surround Woody and prepare to attack him after he knocks Buzz out the window, we hear Andy from outside shouting. This allows them to return into position. What if he hadn't have shouted though? He would have walked in and seen them. This is why this idea of toys coming to life could never work! No kid would always shout when they enter their room and most kids leave their doors open yet Andy never does - allowing the toys to move around and communicate.Once you take these plot holes into account, the conclusion is that the film sucks and is a really poor movie. Honestly how could anyone like it? An interesting idea that just falls flat. And also the final question that is never addressed is: Why can't toys reveal they're alive to humans??? It's never explained and I don't get why. Poor film 1 star. Awful.
I was well prepared to like this movie on the basis of the art alone, and the art did not disappoint.  However, I found much of the humor to be based on cruelty, and I was truly horrified by the overall message of the film: "Lower your expectations for yourself and everything will work out fine." It reminded me of The Breakfast Club, whose main theme seemed to be "Conform to the style of the popular kids, and all your problems will dissipate." This is just so wrong.  If you want to see really good computer animation that will amuse you, inspire your children to be good and strong and true, and which predates this  shallow and uninspiring vehicle, check out the television series Reboot, now being re-run on Cartoon Network.  This movie is only good for refreshing your mental catalog of toys you may have once owned.


                
I found this amusing for about no minutes whatsoever.The movie has "franchise" written all over it. Are we ready for the dolls? The Burger King cups? Heck, yes, obviously - let's reduce all imagination to cheap commodities, sell our children on an open market and let business ethics only apply.The "story" is soporific, the dialog cliché, the characters banal, the message simpering wimpy crap only suited for a sado-masochist on a hangover.Gaudy bit of CGI fluff pretending to be a "children's classic" - only in the dreams of the cynical and the dead.


                
Amazing! I have just seen Toy Story. The first one. For the first time. And it's like I'm seeing it back in the days before Toy Story 2 got out on the big screen. The only thing I wouldn't have known was the future story of Apple Inc.This is a wonderful one hour advertisement where you can see branded toys. The only thing that is original in this one hour waste is the way Steve Jobs' employees created a toy universe. It was so yesterday to create a new line of cheap plastics than do some silly adventure. It was called an adventure so people won't have any issue leaving the children alone for one or two hours of advertisements. It sounds so much more educative to have cartoon adventure instead of having cartoon characters selling you stuff. And, instead of a real actor, the cartoon has precisely zero morals: it can sell plutonium to a 5 year old or to some radical terrorist group without blinking. Unless the art director thinks the blink would raise the quantity at least 10 percent.Now about the creative part. Steve Jobs' employees never bothered to create something like say Hanna-Barbera. They just pushed older toys into this new advertisement. And here's where the creativity ends.What's even better is the world imagined. A world where children are isolated. Where they depend on their branded toys. And watch out for the bad kid! He is real creative. But the toys are working together to bring back what the lower case 'c' in a circle meant: a toy identical with million others on the shelves. Oh! And don't forget! A good kid would preserve all the junk: large useless wasteful boxes with advertisements for the whole line of plastic somethings.Contact me with Questions, Comments or Suggestions ryitfork @ bitmail.ch


                
This movie is completely stupid. My math teacher said so. In it, this old antique toy gets jealous of this fancy new spaceman toy, which represents the cold war. Anyway, at first the baby boomer gets upset at how the millenial acts. He is so entitled. Then they fight over a piece of plastic and fall on the ground. They need a couple therapist. 
All in all, this movie is immature in how it represents the generational changes to the proposed demographic, which seems to be 2 year olds. I don't think this movie did anything for animation, and the Hungarian animation of the mid 90s is more important than this piece of windows 95 trash.
