This is a very clever animated story that was a big hit, and justifiably so. It had a terrific sequel and if a third film came out, that would probably be a hit, too.When this came out, computer technology just was beginning to strut its stuff. Man, this looked awesome. Now, it's routine because animation, which took a giant leap with this movie, has made a lot more giant strides.The humor in here, however, is what made this so popular. There are tons of funny lines, issued by characters voiced by Tom Hanks, Tim Allen, Jim Varney, Don Rickles, Wallace Shawn and John Ratzenberger, among others. As good as Hanks is as "Woody" and Allen as "Buzz Armstrong," I think the supporting characters just about stole the show: Mr. Potato Head, Slinky, Rex the dinosaur, etc.Multiple viewings don't diminish the entertainment, either. There are so many things to catch, audibly and visually, that you always seem to discover something new. The colors in here are beautiful, too. This is a guaranteed "winner" as is the sequel.


                
Toy Story – 5/5 starsChildren play with toys. It is a known fact. At one time or another, we all played with toys, whether they were action figures, dolls, little green soldiers, etc<U+0085> But what if toys were real? What if they could talk?Pixar and Disney serve us this theory in what was the first full-length computer-animated film ever, 'Toy Story,' chronicling the events in the life of a cowboy doll, Woody (voiced by Tom Hanks).Woody is the favorite toy of his owner, a small child named Andy. Andy brings Woody everywhere, and cherishes him, as we see in the beginning of the film. However, this all changes on Andy's birthday when Andy gets a new toy: a Buzz Lightyear doll (voiced by Tim Allen). Woody is suddenly forgotten, left with the rest of his friends: Mr. Potato Head (Don Rickles), Rex (Wallace Shawn), Slinky Dog (Jim Varney, better known as Ernest) and Ham (see if you can guess the voice of this one? I'll give you a hint: 'Cheers'). But after Buzz accidentally gets knocked out an upstairs window, Woody is the prime suspect. Now, after Woody and Buzz end up next door, in toy killer Sid's house, Woody must prove his innocence by getting both Buzz and him back to Andy's house safely.'Toy Story' builds on an element we all shrug off carelessly and thoughtlessly. Much like they did last year with monsters under the bed, Pixar took the theory of live toys to a new level in 'Toy Story,' filling our minds with endless possibilities.What Pixar does is a strange thing. It doesn't just try to expand our mind, but also out world. I respect and enjoy that. In 'Monsters, Inc.,' Pixar managed to preach to us 'What if monsters under the bed are real, and what if they have a world much like ours, and have feelings like humans,' while never forgetting the equally important formula of humor. Much is the same with their earlier film 'Toy Story.' What if those wooden and plastic toys we all played with as kids are real? What if they have feelings, emotions, voices, and human qualities? An interesting idea by itself, but when mixed with a wicked sense of humor and reality, you've got yourself one of the best films ever.Tom Hanks is perfect as Woody. Pixar must have modeled the doll's expressions and movements after Hanks, because after a while, I feel like I AM watching Hanks on screen, and NOT a computer-generated image. When you get to the point of not being able to tell animation from reality, you know that the voices are good.The same goes for Tim Allen, though the body gestures were most likely not modeled after Allen's physical expressions (Buzz is a short, pot-bellied toy).The rest of the cast is excellent, all very believable and entertaining. You begin to love each character for their distinguishing traits, and that is always refreshing.I can safely say that I have not enjoyed animated films quite so much over the years as I have enjoyed Pixar films. The only film they made that I named forgettable was 'A Bug's Life,' which was in and of it not horrible, but lacking the sense of humor the other Pixar films have and had.Pixar makes very refreshing films. In an era of cheap, made-for-video Disney sequels, rip-off cartoons and television babysitters (i.e. 'The Jungle Book 2), Pixar holds true to the values that made Disney films so entertaining back in the 30's-60's: Respect for the audience's intelligence, humor, provocative ideas to base the film upon, and respect for the audience (not the exact same thing as the first element), all of which are forgotten in this day and age of money-makers. I respect Pixar very much, and after hearing how little Disney does in helping with their films, I feel that Disney is just trying to cash in on their ideas by having their name branded on the posters for Pixar films. Shame on you, Disney. Proof that Disney has no respect for audiences is the fact that they will not let another sequel be made – something that fans like me would rather have than something like 'Finding Nemo.''Toy Story' 1 & 2 are both on my 'favorite films' list. It may sound stupid, but if I made up a top 250 list like IMDb.com, both of those films would be on there; so would 'Monsters Inc.' After an unpromising trailer for Pixar's upcoming film 'Finding Nemo,' I think that after their licensing deal with Disney is disputed (they have to cough up five more ORIGINAL films – not sequels – by 2005), they should definitely try to make a 'Toy Story 3.' I'll be first in line for it, anyway.
Toy Story is the film that started Pixar Animated Studios into its long string of never ending success. What Pixar does is not just absorb the younger demographic and keep the older ones mildly entertained. It completely absorbs everyone watching no matter the age or the level of maturity, films of Pixar, starting from Toy Story, have kept a certain magical touch around it with an unexpected amount of depth. Everyone as a child imagines their toys will come alive and go on their own adventures. One of the great things Pixar does is that it does not attract audiences with its overloaded superstar casts but rather with its material. The only superstar here is Tom Hanks and Tim Allen is the next most aforementioned voice over. Unlike what most people think their is an actually a method to casting for animated films as there is to a live-action one. As a result of this Pixar stays faithful to its material and creates a great genuine and warm feeling around the film and its characters.


                
Toy Story is not only the best Disney film because it has the best story and the best animation, but also because of the excellent actors chosen to provide the voices of the animals. The casting was perfect from top to bottom, and the movie provides an excellent adventure story about friendship and loyalty that keeps you engrossed until the nail-biting climax.
Tom Hanks and Tim Allen provided excellent voices for Woody and Buzz Lightyear -their performances alone are one of the biggest things that made this such a spectacular movie. Besides that, though, you have the excellent story that is not only noteworthy because it has never really been told from this perspective before, but also because it was just told so well. All of the characters in the film are very well developed and all have appropriate and effective actors chosen to provide their voices. And of course, who could forget the revolutionary animation! The computer animation used for this movie not only made it startlingly realistic but also opened up tons of possibilities, and thankfully the filmmakers chose to explore these possibilities. There are dozens of things that are hidden in the woodwork throughout the film, as well as in the songs <U+0096> note, for example, the subtle playing of the Indiana Jones theme song in the scene where Woody knocks Buzz out the window with the desk lamp.
Toy Story is by far the best Disney film ever made, it's pretty much perfect. It's adventurous, it's exciting, it's entertaining, it's good for the whole family, it's got great characters, story, and plot, and above all, it's fun.


                
Toy Story is a sheer delight to view on the screen.  The characters are well done, the plot is exceptional, and the best thing of all, the film is entirely produced on the computer.  The animation is extraordinary in it's ability to bring such great entertainment to the screen.  The film also teaches some good lessons for the kids like friendship (mainly between Woody and Buzz Light-year).  Spectacular entertainment all around and one of the best films Disney has come with.


                
This was the very first computer animated film from Walt Disney Pictures and Pixar Animation, it is just excellent. It is showing what happens when the young Andy leaves his room, his toys come to life! Woody the cowboy is Andy's favourite toy, and looks after all the other toys (and he is a very good Tom Hanks voicing). Unfortunately on Andy's early birthday party he gets a new favourite toy, Buzz Lightyear the space ranger (voiced by Tim Allen). Woody obviously gets jealous and both him and Buzz end up lost, and then in evil Sid's room. For a kid, Sid is a good villain. Woody and Buzz are now trying to find a way to get back to their owner. Also starring Don Rickles as Mr. Potato Head, John Ratzenberger as Hamm, Wallace Shawn as Rex, Jim Varney as Slinky, Annie Potts as Bo Peep, John Morris as Andy, Scream 2's Laurie Metcalf as Andy's Mom, Full Metal Jacket's R. Lee Ermey as Army Sarge and Jeff Pidgeon as Green Aliens.With recognisable toys for every generation, and the Oscar and Golden Globe nominated song "You've Got a Friend" and Oscar nominated music by Randy Newman, this is a great family film. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Writing, Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen and a Special Achievement Award (fior creation of a feature-length computer-animated film), it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Special Visual Effects, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy/Musical. It was number 5 on The 100 Greatest Family Films, along with the sequel, both was number 4 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons, and it was number 40 on The 100 Greatest Films. Outstanding!
With the wonderful collaboration of Pixar and Disney, who as of 2013 have given us some of the most visually impressive and wonderful movies ever made. "Toy Story" was the go to film of many childhoods (Including my own), and brought CGI movies into the mainstream with stunning promises & confidence.How things came to be, Lucasfilm sold a portion of their effects company to computer giant Apple (That inevitably became Pixar), who would go on to strike a deal with Disney. Director John Lasseter had lost his job to Disney for pitching the idea of this story, and after the successful development stage he managed to gain back the confidence of Disney, and alas the rest is history.I bring this story up just to reflect how far we've matured in terms of story telling & technology. The idea of adults giving kids morals & entertainment through animation, wonderfully echoes that of what Walt Disney set out to do so many decades ago. Toy Story has aged extraordinarily well for the first CGI film ever made. Held together mostly for its impeccable casting, I feel ashamed now 20+ years old and much more experienced in movies to say I still look at Tom Hanks & Tim Allen, and almost immediately think "Toy Story". As well as the stellar supporting cast, its visuals are fantastic and the music is timeless. Writers include a young Joss Whedon, and with a rotten antagonist by the name of Sid, makes this movie just as entertaining now as it was then.Final Verdict: It's hard to find any flaw with such a beloved movie, especially the one now most adults will first show their kids. It has everything to move and touch you deeply, and to believe a bunch of 0's and 1's flying around in digital space can do that, "Toy Story" is that proof. 10/10.
I remember seeing this film at the ripe age of seven, and I was totally entranced by it. What kid would not have been attracted to that sweet of a premise? Released way back in 1999, it was totally different from the usual hand drawn animation, and yet still as vibrant, if not more so. Even now as an 18 year old dude I find it so amazing. Attention to detail has always been Lasseter's strong suit, among many I might add. But the greatest thing about this film was the life evoked into its unique and untouchable characters.With the voice talents of Tim Allen, Tom Hanks, as well as the hilarious Don Rickles, and the late Jim Varney, the voice acting was perfect and the dialogue was surprisingly intelligent throughout. What could be perceived more or less as a simple story is told with heart and humor, one that hasn't aged a bit since that first viewing. I still own my original VHS copy in fact, but perhaps it's time I buy it on Blu-ray or DVD.
I'm 19, going on 20 in six days. I don't need to tell you that "Toy Story" is a movie tailor-made for the kiddies, but there's a special reservation for adults too. I should know, as should anyone who views it with an open mind. We've all had our favorite toys. For guys, like me, there's a 90% chance you played with either Transformers or G.I. Joe or Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles or all three when you were six, seven, eight, or nine years-old. For me, it was Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and Godzilla action figures. I'd always imagine living out wild fantasy adventures in my room or basement; ah, the joy of being a kid again. But that's part of "Toy Story's" fun appeal. It gives you a chance to relive your childhood again. Today I saw for the first time in about eight years and it's still just as fresh and inventive as Pixar, probably the best film studio in computer animation, conceived it back in 1995. In the room of young Andy, the toys are alive - when he's not present of course, and cowboy Woody (voiced by Tom Hanks) is the boy's favorite item. But all that changes on Andy's birthday and a new toy given to him on that day captures the boy's heart - Buzz Lightyear (voiced by Tim Allen). Of course, any replacement of this sort inspires jealousy, and pretty soon Buzz is the new "it" item of the bedroom. Andy's given into everything Buzz Lightyear, even new bedsheets - bedsheets! - leaving poor Woody on the short end of the stick. But the thing is, Buzz has trouble believing he's just a simple toy and nothing more, as he thinks he's actually BUZZ LIGHTYEAR! It also seems this couldn't have come at a worse time for the toys, as Andy and his mother are moving away, which is causing all sorts of chaos as Woody tries to get everything organized so nobody is left behind, and that's exactly what happens with rivals Woody and Buzz, who are misplaced and must find their beloved Andy before they move. Not only that, they must also battle Sid, the serial killer in-training kid that lives next door and tortures toys. As directed by John Lasseter and his army of screenwriters including himself, Andrew Stanton (who would co-direct Pixar's future hit "Finding Nemo" in 2003) and Joel Cohen, "Toy Story" is true imaginative fantasy realized in superb animation. It more than brings the kid in you to the surface, it makes you want to be a kid again, as many toys have cameos including Army Men (including the Sergeant who's voiced by R. Lee Ermey) and Mr. Potato Head (voiced by Don Rickles). I love "Toy Story," and I think anyone who views it thoughtfully will love it too.10/10


                
The first feature length Pixar film and the first feature film to be made entirely in computer animated imagery Toy Story was a milestone in film history. But apart from it's massive impact, Toy Story is still a really great film. The toys in the bedroom of Andy Davis (John Morris) are alive (when Andy doesn't look) and seem to have their own community set up. The most popular toy being Andy's favorite toy, a toy cowboy named Woody (Tom Hanks). But that might change this birthday when Andy get's a new toy named Buzz Lightyear (Tim Allen) a toy spaceman who still thinks that he's a real spaceman. To add on to that Woody takes an immediate disliking to Buzz because Andy seems to play with him more now and all the other toys go the same route. Well Woody and Buzz inadvertently end up in the house of Sid Phillips (Erik Von Detten) the destructive next door neighbor who is pretty much the type of person that would put a turtle on it's shell for fun. So Woody and Buzz have to overcome their differences and get back to Andy's house before he moves. This film's story is great and intriguing. The comedy here is also great. The dialog between Woody and Buzz is very funny. I definitely recommend this movie to anyone who hasn't seen it. It's the birthplace of Pixar who over the years have proved themselves worthy of the praise given by adults and children alike.
What a wonderful integration of classic toys and a superb plot. It's a new height in animation (though things have gotten even more impressive long since). The voicings of Tim Allen as Buzz and Tom Hanks as Woody, with their inherent connection to their toy beings, with an incredible supporting cast, make this a romp to end all romps. There is a strain between the realities of the world and the fact that even though they are sentient beings, they are still toys. Buzz has lights that flash but he can't really fly. Woody has the ludicrous string on his back that allows him to deliver his catch phrases. Then there is the neighborhood villain, Sid, who is a maimer and destroyer of toys. There is the quest for the mishandled and lost. And a finale that is worthy of everything that has been set up. What really makes this work is the "humanity" of the characters. There is love and a true connection among them. If you have never seen this, it is worth every minute.


                
Toy Story was the first fully animated movie that released in 1995. Starring Tom Hanks as Woody who brings life to the cowboy pull- string doll. Buzz Lightyear, played by Tim Allen brought the right attitude for the newest addition to Andy's (John Morris) toy collection. The story takes us back to the day where we played with toys and used our imaginations to create our own stories. When Andy would leave the room the toys would come to life. A week before Andy's birthday, with his family moving, he is given a party to spend with friends before they leave. The toys plot a way to discover Andy's new presents. After the party the other toys discovered Buzz is one of the presents Andy's receives before he leaves. The main theme of the story to me is "friendship." It's a great story relaying the message to be kind to everyone because you never really know when you might need them and your enemy could be your best friend in the end. After all, "You've got a friend in me."Woody doesn't want to lose top spot as favorite toy so he plots to get rid of Buzz. He starts with a master plan that leaves the both of them in a situation to help each other to get home. The rich colors and 3D animation gives the movie a more realistic feeling as if it were drawn. It is the lighting, modeling, computer graphics and animations are what bring this movie to life. The shading of certain objects, cracks or spills could be the difference between a human look or manufactured. The lighting had to be hard to create the film. They had some dramatic moody lights in Sid's room, flashlight stuff, daylight, bright sun for all sorts of different kinds of environments.When they add light it gives more a visual interest for viewers and hide some flaw in animation. Andy's room gives a sense of a happy, friendly and safe place because the brightness in the room gives that affect. This is an overall great film introducing a new way of animations!
Hilarious. Thrilling animated tale of toys in our lives. Wondrous done and fast moving. the story unfolds like smoothly and Tom hanks voice is a delight to hear as always. Toys have been a really close part of our childhood whether we care to admit or not. When i was a kid, i din't go to bed hearing bedtime stories, i went exhausted playing (swat cats and power rangers). I used to tie a towel round my neck and fly around. Cars also were a big favorite like the need for speed kind. i used to race them crash them build fortress with chess pieces and escape with the cars. I was a mad kid. Understandably so the real juice of a boy's best friend, toys. The juice of that relationship is captured and created fantastically in this movie. Got to run because there is a snake in my boot. Check the movie out.


                
I watched all Toy Story movies even all short movies of Toy Story. I saw Toy Story first time when I was just 5 years old and I loving it :). Then I watched all episode of Toy Story those released out like Toy Story 1, 2, 3. Every characters of Toy Story is awesome and memorable, children love to playing with Toy Story's character's toys and I also :). Recently i watched a short Toy Story film, the name of short movie was Toy Story terror, and I always hope and love to watching Toy Story movies, it's not matter it's full length or short length, if it is Toy Story than it's OK :). I always waiting for a new episode of Toy Story movie, but many days have become the Toy Story 3 has released, I am eagerly looking forward for releasing the next part of Toy Story movie.
This wonderful, heart-warming animated film has been considered a classic for many, many years.The story centers around Andy's toys who live happy, fun and peaceful lives, their only concern being birthdays and Christmases, when new toys could replace them. On one such birthday Andy's favourite toy, Woody the cowboy, finds himself competing against Andy's new Buzz Lightyear action figure. When rivalries boil over, Woody tries to hide Buzz under Andy's bed, but accidentally pushes him out the window. The other toys exile Woody for this action, which leaves him no other choice, but to find Buzz and bring him back. However, with only two days before Andy's family moves, time is of the essence<U+0085> Not only is Toy Story a terrifically fun 80 minute adventure, but it also speaks about friendship and has underlying themes of what friendship really means and the importance of it. As a matter of fact, almost all aspects of the movie (such as the story, message, animation, voice cast, tone and humour) were extremely well executed. For truth, this really is a great movie for everyone – young and old – and would be an excellent choice for those looking for something light- hearted and family friendly.


                
Pixar has an impeccable filmography, but even with ten films, Pixar's first animated film still it's best one. This movie show some kind of magic, that I can't explain, and just fascinates me.Revolutionary, "Toy Story" was the first of all the great 3D animated movie. It's voice casting is just perfect, Tom Hanks and Tim Allen give memorable performances (Like the scene where Woody yells at Buzz "You are a toy!") making this movie unforgettable. The animation itself is great, although nowadays animated movies are a little bit better animated. The songs in this film are moving and exciting sometimes, witch gives a beautiful touch to the movie.But that's not the best part of it. The problems and dilemmas that the characters experience, are so good, that it may sound a little too complex to a kid's movie, the fact that buzz can't be real astronaut and that he has to settle with being just a toy is just brilliant, and like I said before, uncommonly intelligent. And also the situation where Woody has to prove his "Ex-friends" that he didn't kill Buzz, that is for me what makes this film different than any other animated film ("UP" also has an intelligent plot, but the execution is not as good as this one).Verdict: Magical, touching, and quite brilliant, "Toy Story" is a lot of fun.
"Toy Story" is one of the best children's films ever. It's cute and funny, and Tom Hanks and Tim Allen are hilarious! All of the toys are very funny, and the movie is sure pleasure! A family hit! I give it a 10 out of 10!


                
Im 29 and still love this movie. Its really funny and also great. I've seen Toy Story a few times and its not just for kids its also for adults too. My favorite scene where Woody gets so scared in Sid's room with the toys.


                
This movie really was a milestone and representation of how far the animated graphic movies have made leaps and bounds through the last few years. This movie will entertain the child in you and make you giggle and laugh as you venture to far off and wide places, within the bedroom of a kid named Andy. The keyword here is cgi and the results are spectacular. I was never this interested in CgI films until this masterpiece was shown to me. Watch it for sure!


                
This film was brilliant with a brilliant cast and a brilliant story line causing, a brilliant film. It is so funny and is for everyone, whether you like animated or not. It is so believable and I've watched it over and over. The whole story line is awesome and has been well expanded and must have taken some time to think on. It is easy enough to follow and is for all ages. If you were to put the animation aside, it'd feel like it was a proper movie, as in live action, it'd feel real. If you haven't seen it, I'd watch it.


                
Really really loved this Toy Story movie! woody totally saved the day and was awesome!
Toy Story, truly is the best Pixar movie. It has a great cast, great plot and great animation for the first 3D animated movie. My favorite character is Woody. He is one of Andy's favorite toys anyway.Toy story is also my second favorite animated movie. If you haven't seen it, you should watch it. But I'm sure you must've seen it by now


                
A film nobody thought would work out, that became an instant classic. What are the odds? Anyway Toy Story's beautiful Screenplay and Beautiful characters, (that have since become classic film characters) and great vocal performances from Tom Hanks and Tim Allen. While the animation may get more dated, the film is and always will be one of the BEST movies ever made.


                
If you didn't hate buzz lightyear you're not a true fan


                
Toy Story is and will always be one of the best children's and adult's Disney animation ever created. As a parent, you dread seeing the same animated movies over and over again (kids never get bored seeing the same movie many times), but this one is different. I've lost track how many times I've seen it and it's just as enjoyable as the first time I saw it. Tom Hanks' voice is perfect for Woody, as is Tim Allen's as Buzz Lightyear and Don Rickles as Mr. Potato Head. Love this movie and I don't think I will ever get bored seeing it. It's a perfect 10/10 from me.


                
