Just in case you were also wondering what happened to all the toys that went missing when you were a kid, the answer is clear: They escaped."Toy Story" is the kind of children's movie adults can enjoy just as much, because it very cleverly mines deep deposits of nostalgia from the memory banks. That may be the reason the 1990s bedroom of young Andy is populated by playthings of the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s. If Andy was a real boy of his time, there would be a computer and a TV/Nintendo, and not much else.The voicings of the various toys add to the enjoyability. Tom Hanks was the biggest star of the moment when "Toy Story" came out, and he works with that likeability by creating a stable center as Woody the cowboy doll. Don Rickles has the screen role of his career (not that "Kelly's Heroes" was Oscar material) as a prickly Mr. Potato Head, while Jim Varney and R. Lee Ermey are standouts in the supporting cast.Tim Allen gives the movie's best performance, as a newfangled toy that takes Woody's place in Andy's heart but can't bring himself to accept that he's just a plastic plaything. It's the role of the story that gives him the best lines ("I don't believe that man has ever been to medical school"), but Allen delivers them with real panache. He more than holds his own, and you kind of see where he took off with that note-perfect William Shatner parody he perfected on screen in the underrated "Galaxy Quest."While this movie's use of computer animation makes it a milestone, it neither represents the most innovative use of the technology or the cleverest Pixar-ated treatment of a story. "A Bug's Life" seems a more worthy apex; that story was funnier, worked better on its own merits, and used the animation to better effect. But given how novel all of this was in 1995, "Toy Story" could have been a lot less thought-through than it was, and still made gobs of money. The fact it is instead invested with real heart, and can be watched and enjoyed today just as easily as when it debuted nearly 10 years ago, is a tribute to the people behind it.I like Randy Newman's music, just not here, and while the animation textures are surprisingly lifelike, there are places, especially with Scud the dog but also with the baby's drool, where it falls short. The story itself gets kind of rote with repeat viewings, though the transition to Sid's bedroom and its sad mutilated toys is a genius moment. So too are the vending machine aliens, who gape in rapt wonder at the judgment of "the claw." If it reached for pathos a little less often, "Toy Story" would be an undeniable classic.As it is, it is very, very good, the kind of film that's only good for children, even (especially?) the inner ones.


                
When Toy Story came, in 1995,I was 9 years old and it was a remarkable animation;Pixar wasn't famous like today, and we didn't have movies like Shrek and Finding Nemo. But I have to say that even in the present days this movie is awesome and has great graphics. Only to start, the story: The toys have life of their own, and every time we humans are distant from them, they have their lives and their own plans. Woody, until Buzz LightYear comes up,was Andy's favorite toy and also the leader of all of them. Jealous of Buzz's fame, Woody tries to get a rid of him, and because of that is totally ignored by the others toys, who once were his friends and admired him. Looking what he did, Woody goes search Buzz and them many adventures happen.


                
Disney and Pixar studios team up and brought us an imaginative adventure story about a little boy named Andy who loves playing with his toys, with his best friend being a cowboy doll named Woody. However, when Andy and not body else is looking, the toys come to life. Woody is the leader of the toys in Andy's room, which include a Mr. Potato Head, Slinky the Dog, Rex the Dinosaur, Hamm the Pig and Bo-Peep the girl doll. However, when Andy's get new toy space ranger Buzz Lightyear for his birthday, Buzz takes the place of Woody of being leader of the toys and Andy's new best friend. Brewing with jealously, Woody attempts to get rid of Buzz, but both ended up lost outside of Andy's house. As a result, they must find their way back to Andy's house before they move - first trying to get through Andy's weird neighbor and toy torturer Sid.This is filmed in brilliant and colorful computer animation - very detailed and realistic. The story is full of surprises and adventure, from Woody and Buzz getting lost in a pizza shop to them trying to break loose out of Sid's house to get back to Andy's. The movie is also filled with comedy; you will have to watch the movie to appreciate and understand the humor only live toys could make. And, there are toe-tapping songs you would learn to love including Randy Newman's opening song "You've Got a Friend in Me." While this movie's plot is full of non-stop fun and adventure, making every moment exciting and entertaining, the film also concentrates on friendship and teamwork and overcoming all odds. While I mostly enjoyed this movie, I wished that Woody was not made out to be hated on so much by the other toys after Woody's jealous behavior towards Buzz. I thought this takes away at Woody's hero status too much especially for his first movie.But overall, this is one of Disney's best work, which will make you suspend your disbelief and expand your imagination. Also, hands down to a great voice cast: Tom Hanks, Tim Allen, Annie Potts and Jim Varney.Grade B+


                
A wonderfully sculpted piece of filmmaking. It brings us into a new age and may this new age have films that are just as delightfully witty as this pleasing film for all ages. The laughs are constant, there's great creativity at work, from the artists and the numerous talents who lend their voices. Hanks, Allen, Rickles and Ermey stand out in their performances.


                
It has a cowboy doll, a space doll and a dinossaur. They all speak 10/10. I enjoy this movie as a kid. It as great animations. All children must watch. The beginning of a 3 movie's story. Consider watchingwhile sober. Nevertheless is a good movie and you should watch it. It's a about a kid that has some toys and they all speak like real people but when people apperas they just act like real toys not moving and all. I rather wathc this kind of movies white other people than alone. I liked this film very much and you should buy it in blueray so you can see all the greatness behind the cenaries and all the other elements.


                
Toy Story is one of those rare animated movies, designed for children, that adults can enjoy.Plot In A Paragraph: Sheriff Woody (Tom Hanks) is 8 year old Andy's favourite toy, however his world falls apart when Andy gets a Buzz Lightyear (Tim Allen) figure for his birthday and he has to play second fiddle to the new space ranger.I loved this movie. Over the years I have watched it with both my kids and nieces and nephews and they have all enjoyed it. Watching it now, it has lost none of its charm. Tom Hanks is superb as Woody, Tim Allen (who I'm not a fan of) is delightful as the deluded Buzz Lightyear who is not aware he is an action figure, but for me the stand out voice was John Ratzenberger as Pork Chop the Piggy Bank.


                
A great movie turned into a franchise the tales of Woody and Buzz. This move will never get old and hopefully be shown to all generations of children it will keep the little ones occupied for a while and most adults. I have watch this many of times and it never fails to bring back happy childhood memories. It show that you should never give up on any problems that may occur also a good inspiration/lesson for the kids it will show them never to give up. Personally i will be showing this movie franchise to my children a heartwarming way to spend a couple of hours with the family.


                
As the first major CGI animated movie, this was quite the treat at the time. An all-new cast of toys (some of which may be a little familiar) plus big names in the voice cast, including Wallace Shawn, John Ratzenberger, Tim Allen, Tom Hanks, and the late Jim Varney. Pixar really kicked off their career with this one. There are some little morals to be learned, especially between Tim Allen and Tom Hanks' characters. It's never dull and you won't be sorry you saw it.


                
Toy story was a fun, imaginative renewal of the animated genre already when it was released in 1995. It continues to be one of the epic children's movies.Behind several of the voices are well-known actor, such as Tom Hanks, Tim Allen, Don Rickles. That said, personally I have no affection for real-life, callous trophy hunters like R. Lee Ermey, which is playing the role of the sergeant.


                
Although i like to think the 3rd is the best, everyone should respect this film, the first feature film to be animated, and still holds up as one of the best! And not to mention being in the top 250, thats a accomplishment! this film will forever stay with me as a Nostalgic relic, i only hope that newer generations will remember this film as i do.I still like to think of this as my favorite film of all time, if anyone was to ask me, usually because i can't think of one i'd rather be proud of saying i love it so much, or maybe i'm a total hipster?This film for me is a 8/10, not as perfect as the 3rd, but good enough for any Pixar fan.


                
Toy Story is easily one of the best CG animated movies ever made.it was the first one completely animated by computer.the story is simple but wonderful.the voice acting is terrific.all of the voices fit the characters very well.the film is very fast paced.both kids and adults should enjoy it.it still stands up well after over 15 years.Randy Newman's music takes a bit of getting used to.he has has a distinct voice.but once you get used to it,you can focus on the rest of the film.if you haven't seen the film yet,what are you waiting for?run out and rent it.you won't be sorry.you'll probably end up buying up like i did.for me,Toy Story is an 8/10


                
As if Tom Hanks wasn't talented enough...someone had the brilliant idea to animate him! Not to mention pair Hanks great sense of humor with comedic genius Tim Allen! Together, these two keep the giggles and laughs coming in this cute and successful Disney Pixar flick that spawned an even cuter sequal!


                
I avoided this movie for a long time- in fact, I only ended up seeing it due to the influence of alt.video.laserdisc.I am forever indebted to this movie for re-igniting interest in Tron (my sentimental favorite movie of-all-time); but besides this, TS is an incredibly entertaining movie in its own right.I was familiar with Pixar animation before TS; I actually stayed away from this movie because I didn't want to have my opinions altered by the presence of Disney.  I now wish I had seen this movie years ago, instead of waiting for a cheap LD clearance sale.TS, while adhering to Disney movie traditions, is an entertaining diversion, and historically important as a computer-rendered movie to boot.  The difference between Disney and Pixar sensibilities concerning humor are evident early on; one is thankful that Disney gave so much lee-way to Pixar concerning story and dialogue.  While I can't say that I was as entertained by the goings-on as average Disney fans, I can say that the results are much better than standard Disney fare.  (In fact, if you can find this for under $50 on laserdisc, I can assure that your entertainment dollar is well-spent)The LD contains the pre-TS Pixar shorts (worth the price of admission) as well as director's comments, and much more.  The LD is probably the best deal I've had in a while, and I recommend that everyone- despite their feelings towards Disney- get this LD set.  I hope that Disney comes out with an equivalent set for DVD users; everyone deserves to have access to this.An amazing film, seemingly light-years beyond what Disney is capable of. I'm definitely looking forward to the sequel.


                
Toy StoryDIRECTION 85% Astute and clever.camera work to attract viewers.ACTING 81% Good characters which are able to make you laugh, but you have to wait to their further adventures to make you cry!EDITING/SPECIAL EFFECTS 89% The WHOLE film is stunning to look at!PLOT 75% Not complex, but good nevertheless.STRONG WORDS AND VIOLENCE ETC N/A.MUSIC 78% Nice throughout.SOUND 93% Great and fills the air around you!.HOOKABILITY 93% If you don<U+0092>t get hooked you are not a child at heart.LASTABILITY 90% Like any good company in life, one and a half hours seemed so short for the entertainment value I was receiving.OVERALL 85% Entertaining, but watch out for part two!


                
This is the first ever movie that uses computer generated imagery and it does it very well with likeable characters and some good humour. But it is not as good as animation today but I am going to give it credit, considering that it is the very first one.


                
You know I loved the first and secord! The third is okay. But, The 4th is coming out this summer!
I watched this film when I was just three years old, since then I've watched it almost twice every year and it doesnt get old. Over the last couple of years I haven't had the time to watch it, but I watched it the other day.This movie being a major part of my childhood, I have to exclude all emotions and review this as a movie itself. Being one of the first animation movies, this movie truly delivers. It has an incredibly interesting plot. I mean a toy sheriff has to deal with the jealousy as a toy space soldier takes his place as Andy's favorite? That already is enough to catch someone's attention. Then the acting is superb. The animation is done beautifully and the story is extremely fluid and is paced beautifully. Character development is more than sufficient in this movie and it is paced properly into three acts. I have to say this movie really is one you should watch at home and that you can enjoy. Just beautiful. I rate this an 8.4/10


                
Toy Story was not only the first Pixar film but also the first CGI feature film. While the 3D animation doesn't totally hold up, one has to respect it for being 23 years old. The movie triumphs in comedy, emotion, and a lot more and is everything that is great about Pixar.


                
This movie never failed to bring a smile to my face; although, it was not my favorite kids movie, it is one to be remembered.


                
Buzz Lightyear says that "Fly to Space, Universe Infinite."
And also, he understands his obligation.
All say that "In this world, there is only one heroism--I will always go down even if I find the truth of life "So, Buzz Lightyear has done it!"
Woody can't deny that "I need friends!"
Toy story is is one of the best animated films it's cute and funny, As much as I enjoyed this film


                
Loved this film. Saw it 4 times and the sequels ate entertaining as well


                
I love this movie. When I was little I kept watching this movie together with my cousin. To this day I continue to see her along with my nephews who love her. I'm looking forward to the new movie. The movie that I like the second when they go to the toy store. In this film what I liked the most has been the part of the move.


                
The story is quite predictable, but at least it makes up with the heart and execution.The animation, while dated now, was great for its time.The characters are memorable and lovable So overall, nice job Pixar.


                
