I am a big fan of the animated movies coming from the Pixar Studios. They are always looking for the newest technological possibilities to use in their movies, creating movies that are more than just worth a watch, even when they were made a decade ago.The movie is about toys that come to life when their owner is asleep or not in the same room. When the young boy's birthday is coming up, all the toys are nervous. They don't want to be ignored when the new one arrives. Woody the cowboy is their "leader" because he's the most popular one of them all. He's the only one that hasn't got to be afraid, but than a new favorite arrives ... Buzz Lightyear. He hates him and tries everything possible to get rid of him, but as the time passes by they learn to appreciate each other...When you see Toy Story, you may think that the different human like characters (Woody the cowboy for instance) aren't always as perfect as we are used to see in todays animated movies. Perhaps that's true, but if you keep in mind that all this was done in 1995, when computers weren't yet as strong and the technology for creating such movies was almost unknown, than you can only have a lot of respect for what the creators did. I loved the story and liked the animations a lot. I give it an 8.5/10.


                
Y'know, I always suspected that my toys were coming to life when I wasn't looking! In Andy's Room, his toys lead lives of noisy desperation come every birthday and Christmas - no one wants to be one-upped by a new addition to the toy box. Nominally led by Cowboy Woody (there's a Brokeback joke in there just waiting to happen), Mr. Potato Head, Rex the Dinosaur, Ham the piggybank, Bo Peep, Slinky the dog and a smattering of other playthings go about their toy business of playing checkers, hanging with the hometoys and "plastic corrosion awareness meetings," until Andy's birthday party, when they gather expectantly around a transistor radio, listening to the reports of their toy soldier troops "in the field" (downstairs watching Andy's gift-opening), hoping that no gift will be exciting enough to cause Andy to neglect *them.* There is. His name is Buzz Lightyear, Space Ranger.Directed by Pixar mainstay John Lasseter, with the voice talents of Tom Hanks (as Woody), Don Rickles, John Ratzenberger (forever Cliff from *Cheers*), R. Lee Ermey, Annie Potts, Jim Varney and Tim Allen (as Buzz), *Toy Story* is that *rara avis* that succeeds on all levels <U+0096> in its animation, storyline, character development, its messages of friendship and self-realization and, most importantly, its entertainment value. The fact that this is a cartoon (or animated feature <U+0096> just what DO we call this new wave of computer-generated movies?) is incidental. Which makes the slightly dodgy animation (of the "real people") irrelevant - it gets the point across with or without the technological finesse.The "Disney Movie" has become synonymous with maudlin messages, redneck fundamentalism, anachronistic family values, boneheaded parents, smart-mouthing youngsters, too-hip-to-be-smart teens and insufferable pets. Though Disney's tyrannical umbrella overarches this film's production studio, Pixar Animation, *Toy Story* somehow avoided all trace of Disney's craven hand, which is doubly surprising, considering this is Pixar's first feature length film, after years of experimentation. Right outa the gate and right outa the field.Sure, there are "messages," but they are heartfelt, rather than maudlin (Woody tells Buzz during Buzz's greatest depression that it matters not what Buzz thinks of himself, what makes him important is what his owner, Andy, thinks of him); there are emotional segments, which are truly heartbreaking, rather than cheesy (when Buzz's escape attempt lands him with a broken arm, proving he is Not A Flying Toy, the lyric, "Clearly I will go sailing no more," launches a thousand hankies); and the portrayal of Andy's family was Pixar's triumphal achievement. Boldly contravening Disney's *idée fixe* of the 1950's nuclear family and Norman Rockwell fantasies, one of the many incarnations of a modern-day family is presented: a single mother with two kids, who are neither geniuses nor monsters, just normal children; happy to visit Pizza Planet and disappointed when favorite toys are lost.Buzz <U+0096> who believes he is a real life space ranger on a mission to save the universe - become Andy's favorite toy over Woody. The funny thing is: though Buzz believes he is real, he still adheres to toy protocol of "playing inert" when humans are in the area. (Maybe it's instinct?) When he mentions saving a toy from Sid, the vicious boy next door, how does he propose to do it if he is to adhere to the inert protocol? Buzz's ingenuousness regarding his role as a toy infuriates Woody to the point of attempted toy-assassination. Through a concatenation of accidents, both he and Buzz become lost and must use teamwork, trust and ingenuity to beat their path back to Andy, which finds them ensconced in scorchingly funny vignettes (Buzz fastening himself in an over-sized seatbelt; both falling in with green, three-eyed aliens; Buzz hyperventilating as "Mrs. Nesbitt"). During a climactic rocket ride, the callback line, "This is not flying - this is falling with style," simply seals this movie's greatness.At least I now have a plausible explanation as to why my toys always got lost: after going about their toy business, they would just go inert anywhere they happened to be, instead of paying attention to their master's infallible toy filing system<U+0085>.


                
Though I am not a big fan of computer animation,I have to give the folks at Pixar credit.This brand of animation is nothing short of brilliant.The attention to detail,such as eye and body movement is quite remarkable.Computers allow them to make their characters as close to human like as possible,something we have never seen in traditional hand drawn animation,though the latter will always be the closest to my heart.Combine this excellence with a genuinely good story idea and a top notch voice cast and the result is good family entertainment.It's obvious that the people at Pixar are not only caring perfectionists when it comes to film making,but they care about our kids,something rarely seen today.Highly recommended for any home library.


                
I see that my previous comment on this film was deleted.This is the thing that started it all: Pixar. Somewhat photorealistic modeling. Deep, deep attention to story dynamics. An animated feature not so polished since "Snow White." Something worthy. Something that led to the reinvention of Disney.Its an iconic turning point, like "Citizen Kane," "2001," "Bonnie and Clyde," Greenaway's "Tempest." (and others) Many things after change. So it should be seen on its historical basis alone. Here already you can see that Pixar decides to combine goals. They want the movie to be just as good as the best non- animated movie. There is the well-documented attention to refining and refining the story dynamics so that the narrative spine simply works. That took years. What I mean by combined goals is that they also realized that they were presenting something relatively new in their three D modeling capability. So they wanted to have that new cinematic vocabulary enhance the narrative dynamics and vice versa. It is subtle here, not fully developed until "Nemo." But its plain to see when pointed out: the camera simply moves in ways that a real one does not. There are a broader set of intimate and distanced observer perspectives. These are not overused, lest you notice them, but you can see that out tolerance and viewing skill has slowly evolved from this to the later Pixar projects. (At this writing, that is "Wall-E.") The business about family and desired roles are not "the point" as some would say, but strategies to explore this deeper narrative power.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.


                
What hasn't been said about this film the animation, the voice acting, the story, just about everything about this film is perfect and people say and the only thing I don't like about this film is some of the textures on the toys and humans that's my only complaint,And that's why Toy Story gets a 9/10


                
Pixar's first major smash hit and one of the first entirely computer animated films may not have aged well, considering the huge steps CGI characters have taken since 1995. Its biggest assets, a huge beating heart and a great sense of humor, still work so many years later and let you forget about the sometimes flat textures. The story, the characters and the jokes are what draws you into the story and soon after you forget you're actually watching an adventure about living toys. The great voice acting helps too, of course. The result, a glorious collection of exciting and fun action scenes, is so perfect, you sometimes feel the urge to clap applause in responds to the events on the screen. The voice cast of Tom Hanks and Tim Allen fit the characters of Woody and Buzz so perfectly, this film should be seen as a major highlight in their careers. From Pizza Planet, to Sid's House and the race for the moving truck, this film features plenty of memorable scenes and locations. Randy Newman's song "You've Got A Friend In Me" is undeniably one of the best songs to be featured in a Pixar film, shame it didn't win the Oscar for 'Best Original Song' that it deserved. A classic.PS: Steve Jobs personally funded Pixar to make this film possible. So those who grew up with this film, remember this is another reason on how Jobs changed the world.


                
The movie isn't just the first one in the Toy Story series, but also the first movie Pixar ever created and they didn't waste any time showing us what they could do.This movie shows what being creative is all about. The soul ingredient of the story is simply what happens when your toys are left alone and the benefits (and downfalls) of being a toy. But what amazes me the most is the emotional connection that it gives to anyone at any age and what keeps it together is the friendship between toys, even though they are only toys, the movie easily grasps the emotions of 2 people turned into best friends.Of course sometime in the future another animated movie will have the same success or more than Toy Story and may even beat it. But Toy Story will always be remembered as the first, and never will be forgotten.


                
This movie is at least 18 years old and still is able to capture young audiences from around the world. How did Pixar do it? How did they create a movie that has one of the greatest story lines to it? Who knows but I'm sure that Dreamworks will never be able to top it. Not once. By the way, if you have not already seen this movie my only question is "how?" Almost every living body has seen this movie it's alive and it's active yet you still have not seen it? Wow, you most indeed live one depressing life. Anyways, even if you have watched this movie you should already know that it's good but if you just wanted to see reviews fine by me, but don't come yelling at me if you don't agree with what I'm saying, it's pointless.


                
I remember being a kid when this movie first came out. I used to watch it everyday and I loved it. Now an adult I still love it just as much as I used to. For its day the animation was groundbreaking. Nowadays it cant compete for it is still very good. The acting is great and the script is hilarious and heart warming.This movie is about a world where toys are alive and when the humans are not around have lives of their own. The childs main toy, Woody(voiced by Tom Hanks) begins to get jealous of a new toy the child gets for a birthday present.This movie is just great. The acting is hilarious and very good. The script is awesome and the plot and story are fun and entertaining. I love this movie the best of the series in my opinion.


                
Toy Story is directed by John Lasseter who also co-writes the story with a whole host of other people! It features the voices of Tom Hanks, Tim Allen, Don Rickles, Jim Varney, Annie Potts, Wallace Shawn, John Ratzenberger and Laurie Metcalfe. Music is by Randy Newman.The first feature-length film animated entirely by computer, there's not a lot that can be said now that hasn't been said before about Toy Story, both as a film of heart and substance, and as regards its importance in the world of animation. Two further sequels would follow, both enormously successful and both equally as enjoyable. But it began here in 95, where Woody, Buzz and the gang operated on a level that beguiled the children whilst simultaneously bringing knowing laughs to the accompanying adults. Pixar paint a vivid colourful world, bringing us down to the toys level and etching in emotive threads about jealousies, friendships, neuroses' and the relationship between a child and his toys, while youthful splendour bathes the film constantly. Even though the plot is simple in terms of ambition, the characterisations are substantial and the film never panders to political correctness. The voice work of the actors is terrific, especially Hanks and Allen as Woody and Buzz respectively, their vocal comedy ticks wonderfully bring life to the animated figures, while Newman adds his optimistic tunes into the mix.Never maudlin or cheesy with its messages and sombre moments (something some other Disney films can't lay claim too), Toy Story's only crime is being too short at an hour and fifteen minutes (both subsequent sequels would rectify this issue). But it's a small complaint, probably (in my case) born out by greed for a longer adventure involving these marvellous creations. This was the start of a beautiful friendship for many, up there on the screen, and here in our own lives, thank you Pixar, you knocked it out of the park with this one, a film for all that keeps on giving delights with each subsequent revisit. 9.5/10


                
Toy Story is truly a pioneer of this type of movie. I don't know what it's really called but I think digital animation best describes it. From here, you have all the Shrek, etc. derivatives.Not only is the film irresistibly funny it is also has a clever story and unlike many movies of today you can watch this one over and over. The voices are done by a host of popular names that we all know and love. Some of the most popular being Tom Hanks as Woody, Tim Allen as Buzz Lightyear, Don Rickles as Mr. Potato Head, and John Ratzenberger as Hamm. Jim Varney even lends his hilarious voice as Slinky the Dog. The story is about a boy (Andy) that gets a new toy (Buzz Lightyear) for his birthday. Andy's previous favorite toy (Woody) feels forgotten. After a series of mis-adventures the two find themselves away from the home and must learn to work together to find their way back. The film is followed by a sequel "Toy Story 2" and "Toy Story 3" which were just as awesome, if not more so than this one.9/10 easily
Toy Story will forever be remembered as the first feature film to be fully animated by computer. Since its debut in 1995, dozens more have joined it, including a sequel (soon to be two sequels as of this writing), as well as several other excellent films from its animation company, Pixar. However, for its unique accomplishment, Toy Story stands alone. It doesn't hurt that even beyond the technical achievement, the film is charming, well-written, and touching.The toys in question belong to Andy, who has a huge variety of them scattered around his room. The unofficial head toy is Woody, a cowboy toy who has "been Andy's favorite since kindergarten". Woody loves being the favored toy, but the order is shaken up when Andy receives a surprise present on his birthday: a Buzz Lightyear action figure, who causes Woody to become jealous when he begins to take over the #1 toy position in Andy's playtime.There's a lot of good stuff in this film: The animation, which mostly still works 15 years later; the voice acting, which is carried out excellently; the story, which keeps viewers engaged throughout. What gets me most about Toy Story is the way that both Woody and Buzz must grow throughout the movie. Woody has to let go of his jealousy and accept that things change when someone new enters the mix. Buzz has to learn (the hard way) that he really is a toy, but that he has a very important role as such. This is better character development than we see in some "more mature" films. It was here that Pixar began a long line of memorable, excellently crafted characters.Pixar has released ten feature films in the past fifteen years. Toy Story 3 this summer will make eleven. They've maintained a very high standard of quality during that time. It definitely helps that, with Toy Story, they were off to an excellent start.


                
The opening scene says it all. Film-making begins in early childhood, as children use their toys to create little scenes (or movies if you will). The word "play" when used to describe such activity indeed derived from the movies of another era, plays. Or perhaps the other way around. Either way, the point of this film is to show that creating a film and playing with toys are virtually the same thing.So the film is basically about itself. A play about playing. This is exactly the type of multi-layered construction that I believe subconsciously challenges and nurtures our kids' minds. Teaching a child (or adult!) to think on more than one level at a time is simply a gift.It should also be applauded that it's all substance and no fluff. Other animation teams have inundated their films with meaningless pop culture gags, camp, and nostalgic irony. Not to mention an abundance of toilet humor. Music by the great Randy Newman instead of the Village People.None of the mindless pandering to adults here, either, yet we are included in the fun by being subtly reminded of our own play days. Barrel of Monkeys. Potato Heads. In fact there is a strong undercurrent theme here as the classic cowboy toy is threatened by the flashy new space man who is obviously being pushed on kids via a relentless marketing campaign. We 30-somethings must root for Woody. It's Wal-mart vs. our favorite mom-n-pop corner store.These Pixar guys are brilliant, and I believe they will be revered someday as perhaps the most important influence in all of filmdom during the turn of this century's period. There is no more sure thing than a Pixar offering. Always compelling, engaging, intelligent and abstract. And this one is the best.


                
This was the first feature film that was done entirely by computers, and Pixar couldn't have done a better job. Not only is this movie hilarious, touching, and well plotted, but it lead the way for every other computer animated movie, and really set the bar high. If this movie had completely bombed there would no more, or at least not as many, CGI films and we would still be seeing drawn animation. Not to mention that the absolute perfect voice talents were cast to make such a memorable movie for kids and adults and teens and preteens and seniors and new borns or anybody else who eyes and hears or either or. This movie can not me avoided and is a cultural landmark that has opened the door for a completely new genre of movie making.


                
Toy Story is a gem of a movie from Pixar that is still as visually impressive today as it was when it was originally released over a decade ago. Computer animation was a new thing at the time but Toy Story proved that the medium was more than a novelty act and was going to be around for a while.Woody (Tom Hanks) is Andy's favorite toy until Buzz Lightyear, a spaceman voiced by Tim Allen, arrives on the scene. To quote Randy Newman's song from the film, strange things begin to happen to Woody when he loses popularity with the other toys and is accused of trying to kill Buzz out of jealousy. Soon things go awry for the toys when Sid, Andy's sadistic neighbor, gets a hold of Woody and Buzz. The toys have to learn to work together and forge an alliance in order to survive.Great story and voice acting all around makes Toy Story a classic.9 out of 10.
Toy Story is the first fully computer-animated film. It tells the story of a cowboy toy named Woody (voice of Tom Hanks) who is jealous when a new toy arrives, Buzz Lightyear (voice of Tim Allen). Buzz thinks he's a space ranger, and is eventually "disposed of" accidentally by Woody. (Woody had only meant to knock Buzz behind a dresser) Woody and Buzz eventually become friends, and had it not been for that friendship, Buzz would have been . . well, I'll let you see it yourself. Toy Story, while a great film, is the only Pixar to not be among my Top 10. But still, I think it's worth watching. It may not be log enough, but not all good movies have to be 2-3 hours long. My Score: 9/10
Finally a Disney movie which isn't moralistic but just fun to watch. Also it doesn't have the boring "sing-along-songs" so this movie is also a perfect movie for anybody about 10 years and (much) older. I really liked the computer-generated graphics because the characters moved very smoothly, something which can't be done the original way. More of these masterpieces in the future please and I will really like Disney at last, but dont't make it to moralistic and musical. That this movie is above all the other Disney -movies in the IMDB top 250 is proof of that.


                
I rememeber I was a schoolboy when i saw it on cinema with my dad.A total new experience made by computer with humour,adnenture and emotion.With stars as Tom Hanks,Tim Allen and Don Rickles toy story is a film experience you'll never forget.


                
Simply a masterpiece. When the Pixar Studio and John Lasseter decided to do the first animated film, they would never do a film just as an "experiment", nor make it fast and neglect the story and the technical things. They worked for years to deliver to the world a new way to make films and a wonderful story that is appealing for people all ages. The dialogues are great and funny, every single character has a defined personality, it´s perfect technically speaking and lives to date, helping as a standard for new animated movies.


                
I Like this Movie, Because it the first CGI film, This is the Best Movie ever.


                
This is the coolest movie ever! It's like watching all of my toys come to life!


                
Ok! I always knew Toy Story. I knew the characters and was somewhat aware of what the film was about. I watched this film as a ehole quite late in my mid teens and found it average. Re watching it as a 21 yesr old, I absolutely love the film. This film has such a basic premise, but it is executed so well. I absolutely love this film and characters. The animation is also pretty goos, although the human and animal designs and animatiom are very dated. I was suprised by how funny and entertaining this film wss after my inital viewing of it. With alot of heart and some nice songs, I 100% recommend this film. <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+0081><f0><U+009F><U+0091><U+008D><f0><U+009F><U+008F><U+00BE>. This movie completely changed the animation industry, being the first EVER fully CGI animates feature.


                
I'm watching this film after 23 yrs of it's release. The first impression i got from the VFx works were so bad. I didn't find anything special,so I quit watching for the day after 15 to 20 minutes. Later i resumed it on other day and found an amazing feel good movie of those times. I'm eagerly waiting for Toy Story 4, so i wanna catch with those other 2 movies soon. Welcome to Toy world,my dear...!!


                
"Toy Story" came out when I was in third grade and it remains the most revolutionary film of my lifetime. Outside of Pixar's offices, who would've predicted that in 1995, at the at the height of Disney's 2D animated musical resurgence, that the course of animated family films had just been changed forever.And it wasn't just the technology. "Toy Story" undoubtedly deserves to be heralded until the end of time for being the first computer-animated feature film, but so many other forces contributed to it becoming the year's box-office champion, chief among them - story.Pixar's first concept exemplifies all the incredible storytelling they've done in the last 20-plus years: What do our toys do when no one is watching? Children's imaginations have infused their toys with life ever since there were toys, and "Toy Story" plays out that fantasy for kids while evoking profound nostalgia for the parents.This "hidden world" notion, with stories that explore little universes hiding in plain sight, has been Pixar's secret story sauce. Just take a look at the movie's credits to see how that concept influenced future classics: Pixar father (and the film's director) John Lasseter ("A Bug's Life," "Cars"), Pete Docter ("Monsters Inc.," "Up," "Inside Out") and Andrew Stanton ("Finding Nemo," "WALL-E").But even a brilliant concept needs anchoring in real, universal human themes, and that's the real reason Pixar has been the cream of the crop ever since November 22, 1995. In "Toy Story," that boils down to the characters of Woody and Buzz. There's Woody, who has the whole being a toy thing figured out and enjoys his cozy little "spot" as Andy's favorite. Then there's Buzz Lightyear, the shiny new novelty who hasn't had the existential realization that he's not a space ranger yet. It's a storyline for these two leads born out of something that happens all the time: kids' tastes change and they're always moving on to the next cool toy. Woody's jealousy and Buzz's naivete are relatable to kids and adults alike.That takes us to the crowning touch on "Toy Story" - the voice acting (no, not Randy Newman, but he's crucial to the film's complete aesthetic). Only with the casting of Robin Williams as the Genie in "Aladdin" a couple years earlier had there even existed the notion of casting big-name actors in animated films. Even then, like Williams, the name parts were given to comedians in the comic relief roles. Getting Tom Hanks to play the lead role was a total coup, and when "Toy Story" made bank, animation studios immediately began putting together cast lists of name actors that could barely fit on a movie poster.Hanks' Woody still deserves to rank as one of the best voice-acting performances. He's the emotional signpost keeping young viewers in tune with how they should feel at each moment (though Buzz's botched flight attempt is the emotional apex of the movie to be sure). Hanks isn't merely lending his voice to the film, he's playing the role of Woody, and it makes all the difference.During my many childhood viewings, "Toy Story" always felt like an exhaustive multi-chapter journey, especially once Woody and Buzz leave the confines of Andy's room, so on this revisit it's funny to realize that the film remains Pixar's shortest. That's how much dimension Lasseter and team pack into this movie and a large part of why it endures. Any notion that "Toy Story" was a "cute" first attempt by a studio that would go on to vastly improve upon it is missing the point. Yes, Pixar would get more visually advanced, build even more intricate worlds and tell even more emotionally deeper stories (and all in the "Toy Story" series alone), but all those elements in this film still stand strong on their own. It's a classic, and one that set the bar upon which all those films were left with no choice but to strive for.~Steven CThanks for reading! Visit Movie Muse Reviews for more


                
The best no way my favorite film and my brother too


                
