Something's probably bugged you about "A Clockwork Orange" and other films like it. You're not quite sure what it is, but it makes you mad. That's because you are witness to one of the greatest conspiracies of moviedom. Critics say Clockwork Orange is good. Film professors teach that Clockwork Orange is a masterpiece. Contentious artsy-fartsy students can't shut their silver spoon mouths about the brilliance that lies within Clockwork Orange. They do this about many, many horrid films, and we take it meekly, assuming that other people know something we don't.That's a lie, 'cause I know it all. And A Clockwork Orange reeks. It's a lot like Impressionistic art: labeled as classy and innovative, yet it really makes no sense to anyone.I tells it like it is. Here you have a film that has a really antagonistic subject Alex (Malcom McDowell) who revels in sex, violence, and talking in some sort of weird language that's most likely based on sounds emanating from 5-month-old tots. After some shocking, shocking acts of violence and rape (and CHECK OUT that phallic imagery, our film professors chime), the law catches up with Alex and throws him in jail. A bizarre experiment rehabilitates him to become nauseous at the mere thought of sex, violence, and Beethoven. From this point on, a large subtitle might as well be flashing "SOCIAL COMMENTARY" at the bottom of the screen.My thought is, social commentary in movies is fossilized dinosaur dung sold at museums, unless shown with a spark of creativity. This is not the case. The plot turn is not more complicated than anything you've seen on a Happy Meal box. Think: What goes around comes around. Alex treats his friends badly. Later, they do the same to him. Alex tries to beat the system. Alex drinks milk. Blah, blah, blah. Kubrick revels in long, dry stretches of cinematic wasteland that has everyone barking that it's the best thing since Oprah started reading books. Open your eyes to the truth! It's just a few people bullying you into liking something that you haven't had the time to make up your own mind about! Free the people! Begin the revolution!


                
I really wanted to like it, but.... This is the first review of a movie I'm ever writing. I decided to do it because I never saw so many positive reviews for a movie that I consider mediocre at best. I just finished watching it and I'm not impressed a bit. I read some reviews and at least 30 review headlines and I don't see any of the "super" things all the people are writing about. Maybe there's something wrong with me or I'm too stupid to get it.It's not boring at all, I didn't fast forward even once, but what I don't like is the message it's giving to people watching it. You can do whatever you want and if you're just a bit lucky you not just get away with it, but you even get awarded.I hate Alex. I hate him for everything he's done and got away with it with little or no consequences at all. Maybe that's the point of the movie, but it's just wrong. It reminded me of Trainspotting, but with a different ending.Maybe it's supposed to be like that to warn the future politicians, lawmakers and the elite to change something or our future will be like that...
Alex DeLarge is one of the most despicable characters ever portrayed in film. He steals, assaults, rapes, and kills without a second thought. He does not have psychotic charisma, nor does he have strong bonds with friends, family, or lovers. He's a true monster, with no positive human characteristics.Which is a titanic flaw of the film. Alex DeLarge is not a human being. He is only a caricature, used to force a point. He is impossible to relate to, and isn't relevant to 99.99% of the population.Yet we are to take him as some kind of tragic anti-hero? We are supposed to be terrified by his forced psychological conditioning? I don't buy it. Every scene in the film was evidence that Alex was not stable enough to be a productive member of society and would never change. If he wasn't mentally neutered, he would have only harmed more people until his untimely end. People may blather on how it robs Alex of his freedom of choice, how the government is even worse than Alex, but at the end of the day, they know which version they'd rather invite to dinner.Honestly, this story could have been great if it allowed for some sense of moral ambiguity, some shreds of humanity to both the violent, rebellious Alex and the pathetic, shell-shocked Alex. It would make the government's actions far more questionable, and Alex's character far more dramatic. But as is, Alex reaps what he sows, but avoids true punishment through luck and politics.The film wasn't lifelessly drab, so it keeps one more star. Stanley Kubrick knows where to point the camera, if nothing else. But its lack of realistic character makes any of its statements debunked before they reach the debate. Its the thinking man's exploitation film, and deserves as much respect.
I really think all the Kubrick-worshippers read far too much into his films than intended.  Yes, I "got" this movie - I just don't think it's really that groundbreaking, important, or thought-provoking.  Malcolm McDowell's performance is great, and the cinematogrophy is interesting.  Other than that, there's not that much to gain from watching this movie.


                
OK, I'm sorry, but after watching this film twice, I still can not see why film critics love it. Truthfully, I am not a huge Kubrick fan, he's a little too artsy for me, this film is so extremely graphic when it doesn't need to be. The scene where his crew sexually assault a woman did not have to that detailed. It takes a good director to be able to get his/her point across without showing everything. For example, how could Charlie Chaplin's the Tramp get his points across without using a single word? Kubrick wanted to make it graphic to help emphasize his point, but he didn't think or care how it might effect actual victims of similar crimes. Those who think I'm being prudish have never been a victim or known one personally. The rest of the film is not near as clear as the way it is described, in fact it just meanders along with no real sense of direction at all, and ends with you scratching your head thinking, "Is the best he could do?" Please, if you have not seen this film, don't bother, you'll just wish you hadn't wasted two hours of your life.
I have never seen this film until last night. Everyone says it's absolutely amazing and terrifying. I expected this to make my skin crawl. A Clockwork Orange has to be one of the worst films I have ever had to watch. The first twenty minutes were okay because it was not boring, then holy crap, the rest of the movie was flat out dreadful! I could not believe that this film got all great reviews. Do critics enjoy boring, non-psychological crap from the 70's? I guess so! There was honestly no point what so ever to this disgusting film. The story line was terrible, the acting was below horrid, and the fact that this movie is a cult classic makes me sick to my stomach. Terrible, terrible film.


                
Honestly, I was so disappointed in this movie. I have read the book, and since it got great reviews, I was expecting a fantastic rendition of the "must read" by Anthony Burgess. That's not what I got. The movie played down the use of the "slang" words so prevalent in the book. In my opinion, that makes this book stand out among other futuristic, dystopian novels. So, they barely used the lingo, and then cut out several parts from the book! Important parts, nonetheless. All in all, I found this movie extrapolated the "weirdness" of the book, while generally brushing off the ethical implications that Burgess brings up, as well as other underlying concepts in the book. After I watched it, I asked my friends what they thought of the movie. "So cool!" "So weird; loved it!" "It's one of my favorite movies!" My next question? Whether or not they had read the book. None of them had. Looks like this movie dumbs-down the book for people who haven't read it. The one thing I did like was the eyelashes they gave Alex. He looks even more haunting than I expected him to with them. But then again, the movie didn't address what they were wearing, and numerous other things people wouldn't pick up on unless it was mentioned. The director decided to dumb down the novel, and that is why I hated it so much, I think.


                
First of all, let me state that Anthony Burgess' "A Clockwork Orange" is one of the most phenomenal books I have had the pleasure of reading. I've known about the film for many years now, and have given it multiple viewings--not even being able to make it all the way through the first few sittings. The main character, Alex, is a completely different person in the film than he is in the book. Burgess' character has a very likable way about him. Though he's committing acts of violence, he manages to win your heart over and you cannot help but side with him throughout. However, in Kubrick's "masterpiece," Alex is an annoying, underdeveloped character that you never feel any emotions for. He's not scary, loving, funny.. he's just, there. I've viewed the film before reading the book, couldn't finish it. After loving the story so much, and knowing the high regards the film gets, I had to watch it again, and once again I didn't like it. So much more could have been done! It drives me crazy that this is rated so highly when to me it seems like a mediocre attempt at reconstructing a real masterpiece. The book itself deserves beyond a 10/10 rating, whereas I hate to even rate the film. Burgess, Kubrick has done you wrong my friend.


                
One problem with this movie is that senseless violence is depicted as glamorous. (This is obviously less of a problem after Pulp Fiction and Sin City.) Speaking for myself, I find this to be only a minor problem.My main problem is different: the movie raises an important issue, but deals with it in a confused and illogical manner. The issue is whether something like the Ludovico treatment, if feasible, would be ethical. For those who have not yet seen the movie, the Ludovico treatment is a (fictional) conditioning process, by which a violent criminal comes to associate the sight of violence with strong nausea. The purpose is to make the criminal practically unable to use violence ever again.Presumably, the Prison Chaplain speaks for Burgess and Kubrick when he complains that the Ludovico treatment is unethical because it robs the patient of his free will: the patient avoids violence because he fears nausea, not because he has changed his ethical outlook.What the Chaplain says is well phrased, as can be seen in the "memorable quotes" section. It is also very silly. It is silly because it assumes that people who try to avoid nausea have lost their free will.Imagine a criminal who has been to jail and has abandoned crime because he fears going back to jail: does this mean that the threat of jail deprives people of their free will? Imagine also a man who experiences nausea after tasting Bearnaise sauce in a restaurant: this man is unlikely to eat Bearnaise sauce again, but can he sue the restaurant for depriving him of his free will (as opposed to suing for food poisoning)? If the answer to both questions is no, then a man who abandons crime because he fears nausea has not lost his free will, either.On the other hand, if the answer to either question is yes, that means that people lose their free will when they have to suffer the consequences of their actions. So this is what the Chaplain's tirade amounts to: there is no free will if people suffer any consequences from their actions; and therefore there is no free will in the real world. It sounds absurd if put in these words, but this is the only way I can make sense of what the Chaplain says.It might be argued that there is a qualitative difference between fear of prison and nausea: the two emotions activate different brain pathways, for instance. There can be reasonable disagreement on the differences between the Ludovico treatment and prison, and there is plenty of room for debate on this issue. The fact is that the movie does not even begin to address the issue! The Chaplain does not explain why he is opposed to the Ludovico treatment, but not to prison. Nothing in the movie suggests any reason to prefer prison to the Ludovico treatment; if anything, the Ludovico treatment is portrayed as faster and more effective in reducing crime. This brings me back full circle to my starting point: the movie raises an important issue, but deals with it in a confused and illogical manner.In spite of all this, I was entertained by the movie: there is an interesting story and stylish cinematography, as one would expect from Kubrick. The violence is unpleasant, but it is not gratuitous: it shows what kind of person the main character is, and what kind of people he hangs around with. But at the end of the movie, what remains in my mind, and sticks in my throat, is the Chaplain's speech. I perceive it as an insult to the intelligence of the audience. Should I be more disturbed by the violence? I don't think so, because the violence is fictional, while the silly ideas that the Chaplain is advocating can do serious damage to an impressionable mind.


                
Yeah, I know I am a fool not confirming with the praising mass for this movie. Yet I still gave it two stars because I watched it till the end.At the time this movie was made it must have been fantastic - today I think it's quite flat. The message is quite important - maybe even more today than then but the presentation is quite weak, mostly plain stupid. The one thing I don't like the most is that the primitivity of some expressions stay in your head for quite a while - just like a chant.All in all I'd say that A Clockwork Orange does not deserve it's good reputation in any way and I know that many people agree with me. I regret that I have watched it.


                
Oh my. I watched the film about a fortnight after I read the book. Amazing? Oh I was amazed indeed. Other than some nice photography shots, the film lack intensely. I place the book on my top 5 without a doubt. The film however...I'm not one to compare a book to it's film because they are two different mediums and are not meant for comparison, however for any of you who desire to see this film I suggest you step back with your hands out and get the book instead. Enough satisfaction will be found there. Horrible cinematography, BAD ACTING...holy crap! Alex is the sociopath with no emotion...NOT EVERYONE ELSE. And excessive nudity. I have no problem with nudity, if it is done tastefully and necessarily. This film did none of the above. Loved the eye lashes though ;)


                
I think that this film is one of the most over-rated films of all time. I would rate it below average - extra points go to the originality and art. I feel that the film lacks coherence, and I had a difficult time actually being interested throughout the film. I am not entirely sure what Kubrick was trying to achieve here, but in my personal opinion, I think this film was over-rated. I think the reason why it is so popular is that it questions life, and it focuses on taboo topics. There's the element of "shock value" and the fact that no one else would have dared to make a film like this.Overall, I have seen much better films and I don't know what all the hype is about.


                
I did a review on the movie A Clockwork Orange. The movie was made in 1971 by Stanley Kubrick. The plot of this movie is about the main character Alex who robs, rapes and pillages innocent people in Britain. After another night of debauchery he gets caught killing a woman after another violent encounter. Alex then goes to prison where he hears of an experimental program that would mean an early release from prison. Once he completes this treatment he is released only to be faced with his past transgressions.The basic theme of this movie is good versus evil. Alex loves to inflict harm upon others at great personal satisfaction to him and his pals. After treatment which artificially changes his personality towards violence he becomes someone outside of himself. This program denied Alex of being human with his own nature and instead replaced by the Government's will for him to be non violent. This dehumanizing of Alex basically gives him a taste of how he did this to others and distances him from family and friends. There is one film I could draw some similar comparisons to for theme. One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest with Jack Nicholson could be used for that same type of theme. Mac who was Nicholson's character was an outgoing troublemaker who was in the institution trying to get out of hard time on the work farm for committing a crime. Mac sets up several uprisings against Nurse Ratched. One scene, Mac is taken and shock treatment was performed on him trying to change his attitude. This is consistent with the therapy Alex endured which would make him ill every time he saw violence.One motif in this film was the music which played when he was committing his heinous crimes. Alex loved classical music mostly Beethoven and when that music would play was usually during his crime sprees. This music seemed to enhance his criminal acts bringing out his inner evil that flowed through his body. After the dehumanization of Alex the same music that fueled his crime frenzies now has a very negative effect on Alex making him want to kill himself when he heard some of the same music. The music was Beethoven symphony 9, part 4 which set him off.The film is set to take place in futuristic Britain but the lighting and backgrounds make it seem far ago and not futuristic at all. The film uses various angles capturing thoughts and ideas of Alex when he fantasizes about violence and sex. Then when Alex takes his therapy these images of those very things he loves so dearly now make him ill. This is effective since you can listen to Alex narrate what is going on in his head and you can visually see what is taking place as he describes it. Through these images and Alex's actions as things play out demonstrate the how his demeanor changed. The different symbols such as the 4 Christ statue and the phallus symbolism ties in with the good versus evil theme this film portrayed.
Thie film is a mystery in my opinion , although the concept of a futuristic society trying to repair their violent youth through therapy of a kind had the potential to be interesting , the blatant nature of the decadence isn't impressive in my opinion .Malcolm McDowell is a excellent actor and does all he can and the film does hold your attention .However you don't care about anyone on the screen and that really says it all , there is some entertainment here but not the big deal thats made of this film. Kubrick must have laughed all the way to the bank . Full Metal Jacket is a quality film , but the maturity of Kubrick by that time is evident . Still worth seeing , but don't expect too much .
The sheeple who pray an the feet of Kubrick don't so much appreciate this film but treat it like some kind of mystical prophecy.They seem to be blinded by mutual admiration at their insight for seeing this films "divine" inner message.This film is not the great and wonderful revelation they pretend it to be, it is nothing more than a mediocre 'B' movie about a sickeningly violent thug who enjoys nothing more than torturing people to death.I must agree that this film has an interesting idea and with a far better writer it might have been entertaining.If you watch this be careful not to join the masses that delude themselves about this film, they hold themselves as intellectuals for spouting the mantra that this movie has deep hidden messages that are there if you look hard enough.Don't let the armchair psychologists fool you, this film is below average at best and that's giving it more credit than I think it deserves.1/10


                
This contains partial spoilers, so be warned. ********************My major problem with A Clockwork Orange, aside from it being pretentious and silly, was that Kubrick changed the ending from the novel.  The film ends with Alex "reformed" in the hospital, but Burgess' novel continues on, with Alex eventually reforming on his own.  That was the point of the novel: childhood antics are just a part of growing up, and everyone matures. Kubrick, on the other hand, of course couldn't have a positive ending in one of his movies, and thus lost the plot entirely.
Why does a director feel that he needs to be as realistic as possible with sex scenes? The nudity and the "sculpture" ruined this film for me. It really wasn't needed to further the story. If you get past those things, you will find a good film about poetic justice and brainwashing. If it is ever shown on regular TV, see it. Otherwise, it is immoral garbage. I give this film a D+


                
--I find it really hard to believe that this movie is in the top 250 on IMDb. I've seen movies rated 6 and below that are more amusing. After decades of brilliant film-making, does this kind of piece really have a place on such a list?--I first thought that it perhaps aged terribly, but the ideas that are presented in it with the intent of blowing your mind are trite and dealt with in a really shallow manner. My only guess is that the nudity and the subtext screaming "fear the reds" brought in enough fans for the movie to catch some attention.--You could say that the bad dialogue, boring camera angles and horrible music are all worth surviving so that you would discover enlightenment at the end, but alas it was not to be. Go watch something else, you won't miss out on anything.


                
I thought this film had been banned in Britain after its release but just today I found out that it hadn't been banned at all. Anyway I didn't watch this film until about 8 years ago and unfortunately I fell asleep and missed the majority of the film. I have since tried on a number of occasions to watch it all and have only managed to watch it in its entirety twice. I have come to the conclusion that this film is just not for me. I always try to find something positive in any film I watch but I could not find anything in this film to admire. The whole experience was in the absence of a more appropriate word, boring. I have no doubt that the cast and crew were well intentioned and believed they had done a reasonable job at the time but in my opinion the film is 136 minutes of self indulgent rubbish and it appears today to be very dated. I might have reacted differently if I had watched it at the time of its release but somehow I doubt it. I know I am in the minority who just don't like this film but that has never bothered me. There are a handful of films which I have seen which fall into my own category of 'a waste of time and money' and this is one of them. I cannot recommend anyone watch this film but I suggest they do, so you can make up your own mind up about it but please don't get tangled up with the enormous amount of positive or negative hype which has always surrounded this film.


                
I watched this movie with my 2 daughters and it was a horrible experience. The opening shot was shocking with graphic images of naked woman. What follows is a series of violent scenes, including rape and the beating of a homeless man. All the characters talk with weird words I didn't understand. It seems like the writer didn't care for telling a story so he just made up words, all he cared about was shocking us with violence. Everything seemed to go in the right direction when the main character was rehabilitated. I liked this part of the movie very much because it shows faith. But it seems like the writer didn't even realize this and just went back to violence.The highlight of this movie is the music by Beethoven. Thats I give this movie a 2 and not a 1, which it actually deserves because of poor writing and acting.
I watched it as a teenager because it had been banned for ages.
I didn't realise it was banned because it was so dull.


                
