I watched A Clockwork Orange when I was a teenager, I absolutely hated this movie, watched it several times, couldn't get into it. The main reason being was the character Alex, it freaked me out so much that not only was I supposed to sympathize with a killer by that I could relate to him as a teenager. I had never been so disgusted by a movie at that time. A few years later as an adult I decided to give the movie another chance and I also divided myself from the character Alex trying to look at the film to see if there was anything I was missing since it's such a loved classic. I was completely wrong the first time that I viewed the film, this isn't about Alex, this film is about our society and it's absolutely brilliant. Decades later the film still shocks it's audience and conveys such a powerful message about how we as citizens consider ourselves to be civilized creatures, but when given the opportunity how quickly we could turn. Or how to take a brutal murderer, turn the things he loves most against him and wonder how we could feel for him? A Clockwork Orange is truly a remarkable story and deserves nothing but respect.Alex DeLarge is the leader of his "droogs". One night, they engage in an evening of "ultra-violence", including beating an elderly man and fighting a rival gang. They steal a car, they drive to the country home of a writer, where they beat him to the point of crippling him. Alex then rapes his wife while singing "Singin' in the Rain". After the events of the night before, his droogs express discontent with Alex's petty crimes, demanding more equality and more high-yield thefts. Alex reasserts his leadership by attacking them and throwing them into a canal. That night, Alex invades the mansion of a wealthy woman . While his droogs remain at the front door, Alex bludgeons the woman with a statue. Hearing police sirens, Alex tries to run away, but is betrayed by his droogs. Dim smashes a pint bottle of milk across his face, leaving him stunned and bleeding. Two years into the sentence, the Minister arrives at the prison looking for volunteers for the Ludovico technique, an experimental therapy for rehabilitating criminals within two weeks; Alex readily volunteers. After the experiment supposedly works, he is let out back into society where all those who he has wronged are now given the chance to have another encounter with him. Only question is we think we're civilized could turn right back into the vicious animal that Alex was condemned for being himself.A Clockwork Orange did something I never thought could happen, it turned into one of my favorite movies. Alex is one of the most despicable characters ever put onto the silver screen from a book, Malcolm McDowell delivers one of the best performance of his career and honestly when he passes, his work in A Clockwork Orange made his life worth while. Alex does bad because he just enjoys it, he's a teenager who takes being bad to the extreme, not just being disrespectful to his parents, but having sex, doing drugs, drinking, raping and killing. It's just disturbing that you could feel for him towards the end of the film but I think it's not only because of Malcolm's great performance but also because Alex is very intelligent, I think it's just that he's too smart for his own good. It's scary that also when he is given the chance to go back into society where he has destroyed so many lives, you want him to get on the right track despite his wrong doings. But as soon as he bumps into the people who he wronged, they turn on him so quickly and you understand why but at the same time want them to be the bigger person and forgive him. It's a hard movie to understand and watch, but is done with such class and style. A Clockwork Orange is a masterpiece and I'm so glad that I gave it the chance it deserved, it's an incredible film that will remain in the classics for years to come.10/10.
This movie is terrible. Not "terrifying", there are a lot of excellent horror and war movies for that. Rather terribly empty...Stanley Kubrick has many good movies like "Full Metal Jacket", "Eyes Wide Shut", "Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb" and "2001: A Space Odyssey". They have some sort of coherent storyline, and main characters that we can like, and we can identify with. In this movie we have a Beethoven-loving crazy hoodlum, who likes to beat up, rape and kill people with his "friends". And he becomes later a sort of social-experiment victim; crimes deserve punishment I guess, so no tears for him. We also have a lot of poor victims in the movie, spineless politicians, and some crazy scientists. This is OK... but still nothing meaningful, just a chaotic society. Maybe that is the point? Chaos is chaos?If it would not be soooooo much overrated by everyone on the internet I would possibly give it a 3/10 due to that there are technically worse movies than this, with bad camera handling, continuity errors and such; there are no such things in this. It has a much bigger problem: EMPTINESS. Kubrick can do much more than this trainwreck. Many people say nonsense like "this is the greatest movie of all times". This is just not true. This is just a bad sketch of crime-scenes and pseudo- artistic mini-dramas.The main problem is that I do not see any message in this movie, nor any pleasant feature. It is not funny, it is not horrifying or realistic enough, there is no real character development, no interesting statements about anything. It is an empty, overrated mess. It is basically a shock-parade with old instrumental background music.


                
This movie is one of the most overrated titles in existence. Everyone claims its pure gold, but this is a waste of your time to bother with. A movie that advertises ultra-violence should have ultra-violence. There is no gore, a lower body count than the novel and the nudity is done to death. Why anyone would want to see it, I'll never know. The music sounds awkward and t comes off as very bland. Read the book; it gives what it promises and doesn't just waste your time. The end is weak and is missing huge points form the book, mainly Alex becoming what they wanted, but by his own choice. The book shows the human condition in all its shocking glory and the movie is a stupidly explicit waste of film.
Kubrick has made some masterful films, highly regarded ("2001") or underrated ("Barry Lyndon" and "Eyes Wide Shut") but the only thing shocking about "A Clockwork Orange" is just how big a misstep Kubrick made. It's a hypocritical, pompous mess which has been idolised by the youth for its over-the-top violence and over-the-top language and hailed by others for its heard-it-all-before message.After juvenile delinquent Alex (The admittedly excellent Malcolm McDowell) kills one person too many (with a statue of a penis with the other woman swinging a bust of his favourite composer Beethoven at him, oh the deliciously subtle irony of it all), he gets carted off to jail, snags himself the Ludovico treatment and is made to feel disgust every time he tries to act out on his violent and sexual urges.Speaking of the violence, the majority occurs in the opening half an hour, and it would be shocking if it weren't for Kubrick's gimmicky treatment of it to add a cheaply ironic edge to it all. It just reduces the violence to a cartoon, all to smash us over the head with the fact that there's too much violence in society and we're as much to blame as the criminals for this. In effect, Kubrick has designed the film as a Ludovico treatment for the audience, but he made a complete mess of proceedings with the purposely hilarious violence: If you want to make a serious point about a serious issue, sometimes you have to put it in a serious context.But it's not just the violence that is overused, Alex's voice-over simply takes away from Kubrick's storytelling abilities, ramming home every point that doesn't need to be spelt out for the audience, all until the pathetic final line of the film that's meant to be ironic but just comes across as incredibly cheesy. The worst aspect of the film? The horribly outdated synthesised soundtrack which adds another ironic tone to the violence, unnecessary, overused and just plain terrible. It all adds up to a pointless film that teaches us that violence is wrong, politicians will do anything to stay in power, prison can't always reform criminals and the youth are crazy, why tell us something we don't know already. It's not even the fact that Kubrick tries to let us come to our own decision, by purposely trying to make us laugh at the violence and then judging us for laughing at it, it's just hypocritical, forceful and downright pompous. You can't chase somebody down in your car, run them over then berate them for getting hit.Overall "A Clockwork Orange" is a big mistake from a director who has thankfully made far better films with more subtlety and more trust in the audience. For films about the violence in society, I recommend "Badlands" which is better in literally every single way.
This is the authorized but altered for America version and least attractive to the author Anthony Burgess. Originally Alex was the anti- hero sees the error of his wicked ways. Alex is the whimsical yet mischievous rascal in the American version as suggested by the publicist that never quite learns his lesson in spite of everyone he is up to his old tricks at the end. It is a That Darn Cat! Meets American Psycho. Disturbing. Offensive. Caters to depravity, rape, murder and cruelty as long as it is a 1st or 2nd degree felony. I would have given it a higher rating for a student film. Maybe for the day it was something special. For me it just set the stage for many to copy the shock and awe of a sideshow that was wildly blooming societal cancer. The women were beautiful. The way they were used was ugly. Nudity, sex and love making have much greater depth than this crazed episode. The hero of the film leads a gang that murders a harmless old man that has had too much to drink. They lie their way into a home then invade raping, beating and torturing the woman and man that let them in. The only way not to criticize this film is to praise it and quickly move on with a deep breath and a pallet cleanser. The movie says "This is a really bad thing but I will tempt you and show you how to love it and live with a nagging, unhappy conscience forever tainted and damaged." Child porn with adult actors. Every creepy thing you ever feared about awkward situations. I guess you could say it was something, hype. Hyped like the wizard in the Wizard of OZ. Every sick thing you every thought the babysitter might do in your absence. If I was crack piped out of my head and decided to make a movie I'd wash down some pills with moonshine and this would be it. It says, "Watch my movie and I will reward you with nudity in all the wrong ways that will influence weak minds to commit heinous crimes." A cautionary tale for an audience that is too young to view it. It's like watching the possessed demon in the Exorcist run for president. The women were carefully chosen and shown according to their physical appearance used to make the unsavory parts more bearable. The rest of the movie makes supremacists, water boarding, prison rape and torch bearing homicidal vigilantes look normal and successful. The present day equivalent would be the conviction, treatment and reinstatement of a sexual predator after much suffering and the ability to put the blame on the government (A Clockwork Orange 2). Murder now seems considered marginally justifiable depending on which propaganda you follow as long as you don't get caught by the proper authorities or political party. I cannot say enough about this film. Watch it. It's bad for you. The British book version including the 21st chapter and original ending is preferable but still a cringe to read.
I can't believe this film. I would have dismissed it immediately if it wasn't for its so-called "reputation".I could stomach the violence, the "symbolism" and even all the weirdness, but I could not stomach the absolutely TERRIBLE overacting in this movie. For some reason Kubrick made all the actors perform as if they were in a high-school play or in some 70s sitcom. I kept thinking "Monty Python" and waiting for the punch-line, which, of course, never came.A lot of comments here say that you'd need to view this film more than once to start to appreciate it. I say even one viewing is one too many - this farce is simply not worth your time.


                
"A Clockwork Orange" is my favorite novel of all time. Before watching the movie I wondered if it would do justice to the novel. Well, it didn't. The movie was basically a porno version of the novel. Kubrick's aim seems to have been to take a philosophically meaningful story and incorporate as much female nudity into it as possible. Why? I guess it was avant-garde or something. I think there were a couple occasions on which bare "groodies" were possibly warranted. Other than that, the nudity was over-the-top and cheesy.People talk about how disturbing the violence is in "A Clockwork Orange." Disturbing violence? I really didn't see any. What did masquerade as violence reminded me of the old "Tom and Jerry" show. Most of the violence consisted of Alex and his droogs tapping each other and their victims with canes, but the bizarre sound effects during these scenes told the viewer to see this as brutal. In another scene Alex raises a phallic sculpture in order to clobber a crazy cat-lady, but you don't actually see him hitting her with it; instead, you are shown something that looks a bit like cartoon fireworks. Then the rape scenes are always accompanied by upbeat music which just makes them seem comical. The violence in the book was truly disturbing, but I don't see how you are supposed to take violence in this movie seriously.The book had a theme, which was that a person's most important right is being able to think and choose for himself, and nobody has the right to take that away from him regardless of the consequences. In its truly ridiculous final scene, the movie obliterated that theme by choosing to focus on and glorify Alex's sexual fantasies, as if he was some sort of perverted superhero. Thus the point the movie inadvertently seems to end up making is that if the government doesn't stop people, they will just go out and perform deviant acts, but deviance is so much fun that the government shouldn't try to stop them. This completely undermines the message of the book.In short, the novel is a literary masterpiece. The movie is a hypersexualized, cartoonish version of that masterpiece, practically a parody. Good thing Kubrick didn't try a film version of "Pride and Prejudice"--wonder how that would have turned out. There are numerous things I hate about this movie, from the glow-in-the-dark jumpsuits to the fact that I will never be able to listen to the William Tell overture the same way again. But it had a few good points. It did follow the basic storyline of the book up until the end and was well acted and filmed. For that I will generously give it a 3.
I'm afraid I'm one of those few people who just doesn't 'get' this film. There are two things in this film I like: Malcolm McDowell, who is an excellent and really under-used actor, and the music. Apart from these two I found the film silly, unbelievable, and the main 'theme' (does forcing people to be good actually make them good?) lost to me. Of course, I fear I am in the minority here, but I don't base my opinions on what the majority thinks. I'm going to go out on a limb and say I think Stanley Kubrick was unique, but not a very good director. 2001, Barry Lyndon and Full Metal Jacket are very interesting and different, but not very good. He always appears a bit aloof and cold in directing, not letting the audience feel to strongly about the characters. Much like A Clockwork Orange.Just thought I'd share my thoughts on this film. I know many will disagree with me, but A Clockwork Orange is too random and subjective a film for me to consider good film-making.


                
Everyone seems to like this movie so much. But I honestly think that people just like to put their own thoughts and ideas into this film and imagine that was Kubrick's genius.The points of the movie might have been revelations 30 years ago, but now there is nothing original and relevant in this film. There is really no message in this movie. An invitation to think? May be, but do you really need an invitation for that?The quality of the filmmaking itself is crappy, honestly. The acting is uneven and sometimes extremely unrealistic. Nothing special about camerawork, sets, sound or music (of course, it's Bethoveen, but they could have put any classic music there, so Kubrick doesn't get any credit). And the movie is tooooooooo sloooooooow for the modern tastes.One thing was quite good - directing. Too bad that Kubrick's talent was wasted, because all the components were crap.And everything is extremely silly, from the opening shots, to the use of Russian words without any apparent purpose, to the manners of the people, to overacting by practically everyone (I felt embarrassed for practically every character :]).


                
Clockwork orange, the story of a young man called Alex and his gang of teenagers, the kind of boys that loved do drugs, drink, skip school, and wreak havoc during the night. The movie shows a complete metamorphosis of the main character (Alex) who loved ultra-violence, Beethoven, who was the leader of the gang, and was rude and disrespectful towards his other droogs, and, in a higher level, with the people that suffer his wreak havoc. Alex become in a complete different man contrary to the man he used to be, and his "new brain" forces him to hate what he used to love. Thanks to this change, the hangman (Alex) was the victim and his old victims were the hangmen.This movie doesn't seem to belong to any particular time; You can find situations and behaviors similar to those shown in the movie. It doesn't matter if it's now or ten or twenty years ego, its messages can be applied to any epoch. One of the messages that this movie gives us is: "old sins have long shadows", in other words: late or soon you have to face the consequences of your acts, and that happened to Alex. From other point of view, the movie can make us reflect on the possibility that other person or think can have to control our mind, our decisions, our life. They don't have to use medicines or special treatments to make us live under their control, they only feed our mind day after day with the concept of "perfect or ideal life", they construct our dreams and goals around this concept. The special treatment in our case are those material things we "need" and the media that every they wanna sell us all necessary things to build that perfect life. Do We actually live like we would like to live, or we live like this "treatment" wants we to live? think about it.
Perhaps, had the movie drawn down to an epic or even slightly provocative conclusion, i could excuse kubrick's apparent fixation upon graphic violence against women. but the truth is, this movie says nothing of any value. what question does it ask, or attempt to answer? does the humanity and morals of man have to rest solely on his shoulders alone? anybody could ponder that question and come up with a slew of reasonable answers, surely more creative than this. what happens in this movie? a man does bad things that we get to witness in full colour, he goes to jail, he is shown violent films, and then spends the rest of the movie choking and gagging each time (and there are many!) he is provoked in anyway. i just have to ask - who cares? the story drags on only to return to the original standing point with no striking statements having been made. should i be happy that alex has wrestled himself free from the chains of suppression which bound him, and can now freely enjoy the thought and act of rape?
 the highlights: some of the art deco and certain characters. 
i wonder if the good reviews come solely from those who are thrilled by rape and/or have a poor repetoire of previously watched films. this is no revelation of ideas. boooooring
Shocking, it's not (if you are used to watching horror etc) artsy, it is - only way overmuch. Must be where the 'inspiration' for rubbish like Kill Bill comes from. There is some great acting, wonderful 'screenshots' and, yes it is very different. But that does in no way mean it deserves the accolades it receives. People read FAR too much into this movie, as with other weird movies out there, and as it's so weird, they can always find meanings, sub-plots, and moral lessons etc that are just not there or at best borne from drug-use by their creators.Good cinematography and acting by most of them, but I regularly drop more inspired things down the loo. Just perfect for those non-conformist apple and linux types out there.


                
Clockwork Orange is a great book. I love the language of the book and I think the topics that Burgess is trying to address are interesting.When I heard there was a movie of the book, I thought I should go see it. Kubric forgot one very essential thing to the movie that just turns it into a movie about a hoodlum. We never get to peer into Alex's head-space. Without being able to "see" the world as Alex see's the world, we miss the real points of the story. Alex doesn't get to grow, and he never becomes a person that one can empathize with. We also miss the arguments about whether or not society has the right to fundamentally alter a person. Kubric has inflicted a monumental disservice to this book.


                
This film has got to be the most over-rated film I have seen.  First off, this film is way too drawn out. Kubrick could have cut 30 or maybe even upwards of 50 minutes off this film and presented it as some short-film, at some sundance arts film festival or what-not.What is everyone talking about? I am pretty open minded when it comes to viewing new and old movies, but I just couldn't stand to watch this movie.True I did not grow up in that generation, at the time the movie came out, but I have asked people who have, and they say that it really wasn't that great. So I am not the only Jericho-Holic out there with this same opinion. This movie really has to be appreciated for what it really is. 2 hours and 11 minutes of your life, that you will NEVER, EVVVVVVVVVVER, GET BACK, AGAIN!!!


                
-- This comment contains minor spoilers --This is a movie I would not recommend even to my worst enemy. It is a horrible picture, containing too much random violence and rape committed by four no-goods in white pyjamas, than is good for anyone too watch.The only fun moment is when the main character, being brainwashed into a non-violent state of mind, is being bashed by his former friends.
There may be some "hidden message" in this movie about society and blah, but the message (not too well brought) is completely drowned.
It is not even a waste of your time, it is worse than that. Avoid at all cost.
Well, first thing first - my rate to this move was 3. I did rate it 1 in the evening after I saw it, but reconsidered that in the morning. This is spoiler free review.The move has a good idea, which has enough matter within it to be enough for about 4-5 minute clip. Nothing more. This movie is 2 hours of pure torture to one's senses. Each scene was carefully crafted to drill in your mind and torment your soul. There is nothing to be comprehended from most scenes anyway, nothing that can't be laid out within 30 seconds. The sounds are going from 0 straight to 80 decibels in a second and then back and then forth and then back... I had trouble sleeping after it, not because I was afraid of something but because I felt tormented. Highly unnecessarily graphic, too 70s-arty and it feels like some bat sh*t crazy hippy on LSD spat it out from deep within his delusional intestate. Would not recommend it to anyone, but perhaps a directing student, who is after "classics". I give it a rating of 3 stars because of the clever and teaching idea, which has nowhere close enough matter to hold meaningful focus for 2 hours.


                
For me it was one of those movies that tried so hard to be controversial and different that it lost most of its luster. I couldn't help but be bored and disgusted by how hard Kubrick tried to make this movie disturbing and "different". Really I am one that has never viewed Kubrick as a genius of film, but most people seem to disagree with me. The acting was okay, but nothing special, mostly I just found it annoyingly weird and not amazing in any aspect. I think Kubrick just makes movies as weird as his brain can allow and then critics regard that as amazing, when really its just stupid garbage that means nothing and doesn't follow any real patterns of human life.
I really looked forward to see this movie. I read the book first and really liked it and where it was going.(would rate it 10/10) So, I was already quite sure about the fact that I would definitely like this movie. With this big name, Stanley Kubrick, on the front cover and the movie itself being under the best rated movies of all time it was pretty clear for me that this movie would do its thing good. Well well well, it was not all what I thought it would be like. Kubrick somehow achieved to f*ck this great book completely up. To make it short: The novel "A Clockwork Orange" is written by Anthony Burgess and has a very huge point: it is a plea for free will, for freedom and has many, many great ideas. The movie by the "genius" Kubrick fails to portray any of the criticism in the book. It is just a mash up of female nudity, phallus symbols and dialogue, taken from the novel, that is completely misused and reversed. All characters here, except for Alex, are stereotypes and only the main actor does good work, portraying "Kubrick's version of Alex". The setting doesn't feel right for the story at any time and is just (as the characters) some modern art installations of the 70's one after the other with no deeper sense or contribution to a higher thing. THIS is what a pretending piece of filmmaking is. The "ultra-violence" and how it is portrayed is also laughable. In the movie, the shocking acts of violence from the original story are presented pretty harmless as if Alex and his droogs and no single f*cking other person ever had the intention of hurting anyone really bad. The main actor does a good job, the soundtrack is gripping and fitting and it is interesting to watch these meaningless art installations(3 stars), but every other thing is done wrong in this movie. Can't recommend this movie. Read the book instead or at least before watching the movie.
