A Clockwork Orange was always a film I wanted to watch but it was one of these films that I was too young to watch when it was initially released in British cinemas and then banned by Director Stanley Kubrick from being available in Britain. The ban remained until he died.The film became infamous for its depiction of violence and sex. It overlooked the fact that despite its initial scenes of brutality and rape, in its heart it is a dark comedy set in a futuristic Dystopian Britain.An adaptation of Anthony Burgess novel, Malcolm McDowell might be a shade too old to play the teenage delinquent Alex getting high on milk-plus which is infused with drugs and then partakes in an orgy of ultra-violence which includes beating up a vagrant, fighting with a rival gang and then speeding through the country roads where they burst into the house of a writer who gets beaten up and watches his wife get raped as Alex sings Singin in the rain.We know Alex is still at school as he lives in his parents flat and is visited the next morning by his probation officer who is concerned about his absence from school.However Alex's luck runs out. He falls out with his fellow gang members and when he breaks into another house, he kills a woman with a phallic sculpture, betrayed by his gang and caught by the police, he is sentenced to 14 years in jail.The opening part of the film would had been deemed shocking in early 1970s Britain. I doubt that level of sex and savagery would had ever been seen before in a mainstream British film.However the film becomes more of a surreal prison film once Alex ends up in jail where he joins a church group and tries to fend off advances from fellow inmates. A visiting government minister offers him a chance to take part in an experiment. Once he undertakes an experimental aversion therapy for rehabilitating criminals within two weeks the film becomes a black revenge comedy.Once freed from prison and rehabilitated Alex finds there is no room for him in his parents home, he gets set upon by a gang of vagrants as the tramp who he beat up in the beginning recognises Alex. His old gang members are now in the police and they torture him. Worse still he stumbles into the house of the writer who he attacked and he gets his vengeance as well. Poor Alex now cannot listen to his favourite piece of Beethoven without doing harm to himself.There is an underlying political satire of a government wanting to tackle violence in society by being draconian themselves until public opinion turns against them.The film contains a lot of slang derived from east European languages and although I mentioned he looked rather old to play the teenage Alex, Malcolm McDowell delivers an amazing performance providing a narrative with his Yorkshire tones.The film might put off some of its audience with its disturbing opening but settles in well after that.


                
If you watch this to gain extra depth from your discerning mind and senses, the more disturbing it becomes. Even though the violence is stylized, comical, choreographed and phony, the movie's theme is more repugnant than most Avant Gaurde and Noir film makers could even fathom making. This film, although groundbreaking in its shameless and willful ambition, has some flaws. The flaws are artistic choices that are meant to convey an idea while a few other flaws are just poor craftsmanship. The acting is quite uneven in some areas. The set designs, background settings along with inappropriate wide angle camera shots, for me, detract from the personal focal points required for me to get personally involved and connected. Most everything in Clockwork Orange looks too post 60's modern from the home decors, artwork, and some other set designs. It is highly unlikely that middle aged people will sport funky futuristic furniture and art in their home, especially in England. What's more off-putting was some of the dialogue and kitschy usage of British youth slang. And I think this turned off many viewers as well. I am convinced that Stanley Kubrick was a genuinely evil man. Whether or not one agrees with this charge is not important to me, but after I begin to make a compelling argument against this film from a moral standpoint, you may consider it. To begin, our protagonist and (Humble Narrator)is a sadistic villain, who, without any rationale or excuse, commits heinous crimes without giving any personal reasons for doing so. As we follow Alex and his gang of Droogs on this voyeuristic rampage we witness their assaults on innocent victims, both young and old. There aren't any social or anarchist purposes for doing so. They do it just for kicks. This fuels their rebellious spirit, and somehow we are supposed to admire them.As our Humble Alex gets arrested and sent to prison, we witness the process of rehabilitation through punishment and 'Aversion Therapy'. Once Alex pays the price and does his time he is chosen to be a guinea pig for a new experiment by a renowned psychiatrist. Alex goes through the grueling process through being administered of drugs and subjected to watching non-stop screen violence. Alex is cured, or reformed rather. He is sent out into the real world again for a second chance.This is the fatal moralistic flaw of the film and why I think the message is seriously wrong. While Alex is being confronted with hostility he gets ill and queasy when trying to fight off his temptations for revenge and self-defense. This is not necessarily the benefit he needs, but rather the benefit to society for those that had the misfortune of being in his presence. What we see is that Alex has not fundamentally changed in his character. He is still the dastardly menace he always was inside. The difference is that he has been conditioned to feel physically bad when giving into temptation. I'm not sure if this Scientific medical programming of the mind works as it is shown here, but if it is then we are faced with another controversial topic. The story reveals that as we are supposed to be appalled by violence and brutality it is even worse to nip the problem in the bud by sacrificing a sick person's natural instincts. This is a bad message. It is also an anti-establishment message. This movie has been lauded by many art house and cinema majors. I believe that these people imbue too much profundity and meaning into a film than doesn't exactly deserve much notoriety. Sure, Kubrick was a die-hard perfectionist who was dedicated to his craft. He was a true artist. And that is why I give this film 7 out of 10 stars. The effort, dedication, meticulous camera work and effective angles make for an effective movie. But it is what I call a really well made 'bad movie'.


                
The flawed genius of Stanley Kubrick.There is no doubt that this film was cutting-edge when made.The censors must have had quite a time deciding how much sex, violence and colorful language the film's audience were going to get. But it isn't so shocking now. This is my summary of the film. Typical Kubrick: wonderful story, brilliant acting (as a result of ingenious casting) and clever cinematography. And don't forget the twisted, wacky, dark, funny script.Untypical Kubrick: lame ending. So unfulfilling that I'd venture to say it is his most over-rated film. Still, as with Spielberg, a 'bad' Kubrick film is still better than most other 'good' films made.
Plenty of female nudity although most of it in the wrong tone. Beautiful camera movement and angles. Stunning imagery conveyed through set design and makeup. A bit boring in terms of surround but the music is excellent. The dialogue is fine but lacking depth. The sound effects are sometimes a bit ropey. An interesting story well told. It has some fascinating political undertones. It is a full circle movie where the story makes sense from beginning to end referencing earlier encounters and making every shot important. Every aspiring director should watch this to get a sense of content and how to pack it in. A truly interesting experiment that is fascinating but not entertaining.


                
A classic satire and social commentary, definitely not for the faint hearted.English cynicism coupled with American style violence set in a fictional futuristic society. Luckily, a society not properly representing reality for most people. However, I suspect if one lives in an inner city or ghetto area of many large cities one may be able to relate more to the chain of events. The film is a tad predictable, hence no higher than seven stars from me. Nonetheless, the plot does suggest a horrible place for society to end up at in the event social fabric disintegrates and a virtual law of the jungle prevails. Only for the politically aware and socially conscious.


                
Overlaying violence with black humor and the gentle strains of classical masterpieces was original in 1971 and still has comedic shock value in 2010. The stylish way the lead villain, Alex, and his droogs go about their crimes, i.e. wearing grotesque masks and protective cups over their clothes to emphasize their caged male genitalia, cutting holes in a victim's jumpsuit to expose her breasts while performing a rendition of "Singing in the Rain," is jarringly and sexually perverse, and combining this violent imagery with the witty narration of Alex stays in the viewer's memory long after the movie ends. However, the shock and awe campaign only goes so far. It wears off soon after Alex is caught, and once he begins his treatment he, and the movie, lose their mojo and the rest is fairly trite and predictable. 3 1/2 out of 5 stars.


                
The movie goes on strong in all of its scenes and sequences. From the quirky and mysterious opening, to the utterly crazy first chapter of the story, to the explicit depiction of forced brainwashing, to the 'full circle' final chapter and the conspiracy theory ending. The movie is a great work for me because it can make me feel two different types of attitude towards Alex. At first I was utterly disgusted by what he and his gang do in their spare time on the first chapter. But then when the 'full circle' revenge is exacted by the cripple, I was kind of sorry for him to have endured such atrocities. But then the feeling return back to normal when the conversation with the psychiatrist happens. The acting is okay in overall. It's shows just he kind of standard Stanley Kubrick work which also sometimes allow a bit of hyperbolic over-acting here and there.


                
Recently saw A Clockwork Orange and I have to say I was disappointed in the end..I understand its art and all but to be a thriller it lacks the pace and perhaps the same movie within 100 minutes could have made a better impact on me..I had heard so much about it and a classic and all but seriously except Malcom Mcdowell's intriguing and terrific acting and vague imagery I cant write home anything else.For me its highly overrated.. Stanley Kubrick's other films like the shining and full metal jacket just enthralled me and the most important thing missing as per me in Clockwork is the thrill I suppose but i quite liked the ending..PS: Read the book it ll clarify more doubts and at least make u understand the meaning of the title..


                
One thing was certain about Stanley Kubrick: once you gave him complete control over the story of his film, you were at the mercy of his malice and onslaught. Like his science-fiction classic "2001: A Space Odyssey", his 1971 film "A Clockwork Orange" was and still is a film of heavy controversy and debate. Some laud the movie for its satirical and dark humor when addressing crime and punishment. Others believe it's just too dark, too nihilistic, too right wing, and brutal to be taken for art or even a good movie.What's my verdict? Well, somewhere in the middle. Overall, I enjoyed the movie, but to me, it's not a masterpiece. I really enjoyed the first half of the movie. I liked the middle section, but the third act just fell apart for me. Perhaps I wasn't quite ready just like I wasn't prepared for the Star Child scene in "2001" and wasn't sure how to take it. A second viewing might help. But one thing is for sure about "A Clockwork Orange." It is a brutal, disturbing, and even at times offensively off-putting madman story. But buried beneath all its exterior horrific content, there is also a sort of mad, maniacal genius that holds it together.The film is set in futuristic Europe, during a time when all the people in world seem to have gone nihilistic and pornographic without a fear or care. A young rapist named Alex (Malcolm McDowell) is captured by the police after accidentally murdering his victim and becomes subject to a new sort of government test that should cure him of his evil ways<U+0085>but things might go awry.The first half of "A Clockwork Orange" really shocked and appalled me. There were times my stomach turned around inside of me because it was so disturbing. I actually felt uncomfortable and even a little unclean sitting there watching these scenes of explicit rape and nudity and almost dance-like violence. Kubrick clearly wasn't afraid to let his expressionism free on the screen. But oddly enough, although I felt really bad watching these scenes, I also felt kind of awed for I understood that Kubrick wasn't glorifying crime, he was kind of alerting us to how many people seem to glorify it. In a way, he's alerting us to our own perverse thoughts. This is also aided by the fact that our protagonist is one of the screen's most offensive villains.The middle section of the film was not as good as the first part. When Kubrick started to satirize the justice system gone mad<U+0085>I felt the movie became way too talky and verbose. Characters would say a whole lot of words but communicate very little point. And then the third act just became too slow for my liking and this is what ultimately cost the film a potential fourth star. Kubrick had a lot of say, but I don't think he said it with the right notes.I say notes, because Kubrick is also making majestic uses of classical music during scenes of violence and madness. Ludwig van Beethoven's symphonies are used several times throughout the film in surprisingly appalling but ingenious ways. Edward Elgar's classic "Pomp and Circumstance" also makes a wonderful appearance in a wonderful sequence. You can say another thing about Stanley Kubrick's (and can see this also in "2001"): he had good taste in music.Perhaps I am writing this review a little too early. Maybe "A Clockwork Orange" is not a film that can be properly analyzed and reviewed after a single, unprepared viewing. But I will say this about my first impression of this dark and perverse tale. It is good film-making. And the performance by Malcolm McDowell is hands-down brilliant.


                
A really solid film. Malcolm mcdowell is very good in the lead role.


                
Stanley Kubrick's bizarre, stylish, disturbing, crazy, confusing classic is still a controversy and a film that few truly understand. Kubrick does a great job directing this film, yet doesn't explain it well enough. We clearly see the work of a director in each scene, Kubrick's style and artistic vision evident from start to finish. Yet I feel he struggles in creating a vision that lets his audience actually understand what point he wants to get across. Malcolm McDowell gives a complex, layered performance as Alex the psychopath who enters grueling psychiatric care in order to be cured of his evil and transformed into a productive member of society. McDowell is electric, terrifying one minute, then sweet and reserved the next. It takes a truly gifted actor for us to hate his guts one moment, then empathize with him the next. Stanley Kubrick has good intentions in adapting this creative and visionary tale, yet could have done things differently to have it come across more clearly. He ends the film perfectly, an ending I would argue is one of the most satisfying and unique endings in film history. If Kubrick kept a more clear and less distracting vision from start to finish, we'd have an absolute masterpiece, not a confusing pulp film that leaves more questions than answers.


                
Malcolm McDowell stars in Stanley Kubrick's 1971 sci-fi-drama based on the novel. This takes place in the future and McDowell (Rob Zombie's Halloween) plays Alex, a sadistic, young man who commits acts of rape and violence along with his friends. Soon, he's arrested and volunteers to be an experimental test subject for the prison which alters his mind and body. This is a bizarre film, McDowell gives a terrific performance and I like Wendy Carlos' atmospheric score. I recommend this.
Fairly good movie, it had a good message about how bad it is to force people to be moral or good and convinced me of it. Lots of the movie was painfully disturbing and no, I'm not talking about the protagonist beating people up or rape, I mean it was awful for him to be betrayed, the experiments they did on the protagonist and how they made him weak so he couldn't defend himself when attacked. I suppose I liked him and cared about his character despite his criminality. I think it was overly pornographic and a bit slow. It had a good ending. Nitpick is how they don't know what the word subversive means and how Nazi parades that are really just them showing off were shown as evil film. My real rating is 6.5.


                
Science fiction stands apart from other genres because it is actually a setting and nothing else.  It is a toolbox of ideas and items that storytellers borrow from to try and heighten their work.  Matrix, Aliens, and Terminator are all action movies that borrow the sci-fi elements of machinery, technology, alternate realities, and souped-up firepower--that's the only thing that separates them from the Die Hard films.  Even Blade Runner is just detective noir set in 2019, no different.Only in 2001: A Space Odyssey did the full impact of unadulterated science fiction get ingrained in the public conscience because Kubrick makes the setting the star, not plot or characters.  He would later try again with Barry Lyndon to lesser extent.Compared to Sam Raimi, who isn't concerned with shot composition so long as the movement of the camera remains wild, Kubrick's parallel (or is symmetric) style is the definition of precision.  He loves orchestrating his shots around the characters in ways I'm sure Brian DePalma dreams about. The focus isn't on the people, it's on the scene and mood.  The fact that people are in the shot is incidental.That said, A Clockwork Orange is a genre-less picture.  The setting is not pure science fiction, but it certainly isn't anything other than drama. While not as declarative as Dr. Strangelove, it succeeds in making the science fiction point about what humanity's actions cause to our collective thoughts and psyches.  In this case, our newest crop of bad boys are in for some brainwashing fun.  Shallow yet insightful.Overall, between Ludwig Van's pomp and the shaky chords of "Singin' in the Rain", Kubrick proves he is still the music man of synchronization while McDowell menaces.  4 out of 5.


                
I remember I was somewhat younger then. A more mature friend told me that there was a great film on one of the arthouse cinema and I had no clue what the hell it was. I saw it. I thought it was strange and there was 'something' there but that was what I left it to be: weird.
Fast forward five years later, many things had changed. I took an interest in films and started watching many great films and I stummbled upon a director named Kubrick. I saw many of his other films by then and I was curious what I would think now about Clockwork Orange five years later from my first viewing.And I was glad that I watched it again because so many things had changed for me the second time round. Apart from all the directing, camera works etc..., what I loved most are the comments on certain issues. Most people had already commented that the film critizises on social choice and individual freedom, however, I think there is another side of the coin which some of us had missed; which makes this movie even more of a masterpiece. As I see it, Alex (or many of us for that matter), is a victim that holds little freedom. But not just from social limitations but also from nature. From the beginning I could see this 'animalistic' conditioning and the movie progresses to social conditionings and later towards the end back to nature conditionings. It is just like the 9th symthony.  EVEN IF SOCIETY SOMEHOW MANAGES TO PROVIDE INDIVIDUAL FREEDOM, WE STILL NEED PERMISSION FROM NATURE


                
Shame on those who can't see Kubrick's genius (Females 45+). It may have been the tagline to 2001, but it's true here too: "The more you see it, the more you see in it." It's a truly intelligent and intellectual film that should be viewed by a person at various points throughout his life. This film is as important as the Bible. It is a life lesson, a statement about freedom and free will. It is also artistic and beautiful visually and on its soundtrack. The soundtrack was aural sex. This is the best two million dollars ever spent. The film EVERYONE should see. Look folks, it's not about the sex, it's not about rape, pillaging, it's not about ultraviolence that shapes our children's heads. It's about interactions, it's about people, and if you can't see it, you're blind. If you have to choose one thing to regurgitate to sound smart in front of all your other art viewing, bohemian friends, say this: "Kubrick will change you for all time."


                
Story takes place in the future. It's about Alex (Malcolm McDowell) and his "droggs" (friends) who go about and rape, rob and kill people just for kicks. Alex is caught and goes through a sadistic form of therapy to cure his violent impulses. It works...or does it?This was considered a masterpiece in 1971. It was pretty strong stuff (the original rating was X in the US and it was banned completely in Britain) and introduced the term "ultraviolence" into our language. I loved it all the times I saw it in the 1980s (at least 7 times). I did think it was sexist (notice the decor at the bar) but found the ideas and themes fascinating.Seen now it's very dated. The violence in it is not even remotely shocking anymore and the ideas and ultimate message in the film (which totally changes the ending of the book) are old hat by now. To put in bluntly the film bores me now. It is extremely well made by Kubrick (the sequence with the "William Tell Overture" was great and how can you resist Beethoeven?) and powerfully acted (McDowell was just perfect) but it drags and I'm more bored than anything by it now. Perhaps I saw it too much in the 80s...I'm giving it a 7--for its time it was very powerful...sadly, it just doesn't hold up. And I know I'm going to hear from those Kubrick fanatics who thinks everything he did was genius (even "The Shining"). Let the attacks begin!


                
Interesting and trippy movie, as well as very detailed and psychological. This movie is known for being quite violent, disturbing, and sex-filled for its time, and even for current times as well. The ending is very sudden, just like this review's.


                
When watching this movie, and comparing it to some of his other work, I have no doubts that this is the work of Stanley Kubrick. And in this movie (like in some of his later work), Kubrick gives us a quick glance into the twisted minds of the psychopaths he depicts.As we follow Alex through all his bad deeds, be they rape, murder, or just the beating of an old man for the fun of it. It gets increasingly more difficult for me to feel anything else for him than a combination of fear and loath. He is shown as an extreme sadist with a deeply worrying lack of empathy, e.g. when he carries on in raping a woman while smiling and singing still.I have read several reviews here on IMDb saying that they hate Alex at first, but later on they feel sorry for him. But I'm sad to say, that no amount of bible studies, mistreatment from the government, or beatings by the police, is ever going to make me feel sorry for him - Period!A decent story (a bit disturbing perhaps), Production is fair for an '71 movie.Sometimes though, it feels like some of the roles are "overplayed" (especially Alex, Dim & the Chief Guard Barnes).
The movie has a very ordinary story.. at the end of the movie you may have liked the direction acting DOP and all but the story is clichéd. Some of the scenes are too dragged. The parents refuse to accept their son .. I felt this movie can only be enjoyed from a direction point of view. I don't understand why the breasts of the woman were shown in the last part. This movie was rated X but believe me, there is not much of such content. May be it has become a common thing nowadays so I am not feeling for the time it was made. But I would give maximum credits to direction, the scenes were so well directed so you can call it more of a film noir. It is not the typical drama it is presented in a very picturesque manner. Stanley Kubrick with all his Trade mark shots makes you realize he was one of the finest directors. I forgot the music is really used beautifully and gives an edge to the film. I was bored in many parts of the movie but considering the time it was made it is really very commendable.
This was my first Stanley Kubrik movie and since he is considered as one of the greatest directors ever and a clockwork orange is considered as one of his best movies I had very high expectations. But i have to say I am really disappointed. its not that its a bad movie but its nowhere near great as its accolades suggest. I know some people doesn't like this movie because of its violence but it doesn't really bother me. The main problem with this film is it's screenplay especially the last act which is very lazy screen writing in my opinion. Though the film does have a good theme: free will and psychological conditioning of human mind lack of better screenplay ruins the movie from achieving greatness. On the positive side lead actor Malcolm McDowell has done a great job. The film does have really interesting background music which i liked. Overall its a good movie that you should watch (if you re comfortable with violence) but don't expect it to leave you awestruck.


                
The first time that I watched A Clockwork Orange as an adult old enough to understand it, I really loved it. Then I read the book, and I loved the movie a little bit less. It is a great movie when it follows the source material, but the Kubrick-i-zation of A Clockwork Orange makes it merely good. This is because Kubrick adds all kinds of ridiculous style to the movie, as well as the occasional bad joke. It's worth a watch, and the humor mostly works. However, it's not the masterpiece that Kubrick's thralls insist it is.A Clockwork Orange covers a lot of themes. Mostly, it deals with modern society's utter ineptitude when it comes to managing and eliminating violent crime. Society tries brutal punishment while psychoanalyzing psychopaths. Nothing seems to work. Both of these extremes are shown in a darkly humorous manner in A Clockwork Orange. Although it is a "comedy", there isn't any point in A Clockwork Orange that is laugh-out-loud funny. The humor comes from the absurdity of it all. A Clockwork Orange has the same sense of humor as Dr. Strangelove -- portraying everyone as either evil, dogmatic, or stupid, interested only in themselves, and not humanity as a whole. The politicians and cops in A Clockwork Orange don't care about finding real solutions that make society better. They care only about applying band-aids, and phony solutions that look good. Like Dr. Strangelove, the story feels like a great big sick joke, but with a strong message behind it.Malcolm McDowell does give a great performance as Alex, the "humble narrator". Alex is a total sociopath, and he narrates the violent events of the story with a stoic indifference. When the violent tables get turned on him in the movie, McDowell perfectly plays the phony victim that Alex becomes. The one problem that I have with McDowell though is that he is too old for the part, but perhaps that was inevitable since a more faithful portrayal would have been too disturbing for the studio. Unfortunately, McDowell gives the only real good performance in this movie.My biggest problem with this movie is with some of the absurdities that Kubrick introduced. For starters, the style throughout the movie is absolutely ludicrous. Old sci-fi movies about "the future" are notorious for having a bad sense of fashion, but this movie really takes the cake. In A Clockwork Orange, "the future" looks like somebody's gaudiest '70s nightmare taken to an extreme. Interiors of houses are full of blindingly bright colors and crazy artwork. Every other woman has brightly colored hair. Alex and his droogs wear tight white clothing with derby hats. Maybe in the early '70s this looked edgy. Now, it looks stupid.Another problem with the movie is that it was just too far ahead of its time. It isn't Kubrick's fault -- it is just the reality of making a movie based on an incredibly violent and sexual book. Even now, in 2012, the public would have a hard time accepting a perfectly faithful translation of Anthony Burgess's masterpiece. But because of this, a lot of the content falls flat. For instance, a scene in the book where Alex rapes a couple of young girls becomes a scene in the movie where Alex has consensual sex with a couple of women. The book scene illustrates what a horrible monster Alex is. The movie scene is just pointless soft core porn. (No I don't think that the movie should have portrayed that scene faithfully -- it should have just been left out). I am probably one of the few people on Earth who thinks that the movie isn't disturbing enough and, the violence, not visceral enough. If you think that I am crazy, watch the Goodfellas scene where Joe Pesci stabs the guy in the trunk of the car. In the 40 years since ACO was made, it is startling how much more realistic movie violence has become.I still own the movie, and this is one that I can definitely recommend. To me, the book is a 10, and the movie translation is a 7. Given how horrible the majority of book-to-movie translations are, I'd consider that a win. With that said, I think that this movie, more than any other, would benefit tremendously from a remake.


                
A Clockwork Orange is a really interesting movie, which handles a great argument and a skill in the concept that allows great variety of opinions. For my case especially, it is a movie that shows of certain form the need that many young people have to be the center of attention, happening over whom it is and without importing the consequences that this carries. It is something that happens frequently to ours around and that finally turns into big problems of which it is very difficult to go out or where really already there is no solution, where the persons who realize these activities end with their lives. In addition the form like the friends they can influence so much on our lives and that in many cases we do thousands of things for belonging to a group or for being recognized and valued. Really it is not a movie that could please all the persons, besides the fact that it is something strangely and probably be necessary to see it a few times.


                
Clockwork orange is an impressive movie. I didn't enjoy the first scenes because this type of movies isn't my favorite, but then I understand the principal reason of it, which in my opinion it is a critical observation to government. The first actor was wonderful, he represents to a sick person who likes doing bad things, and he doesn't realize that is wrong. Some scenes are very strong because they show a lot of violence and terrible crime done by a group of teenagers. I think that the family of Alex is a typical family of United States, because they don't mind their son, when he kill the woman and he went to jail, they rented his bedroom to other man and he became like a son to these people. The mother always had a terrible personal aspect, she wore her hair with horrible colors, and the father was a person without character. That government was an excellent example of one in our days where they thought only in its image. They failed when they wanted to correct the Alex's thoughts with their particular methods and the solution was and is always to give money to the victims after they make mistakes. My favorite part of movie was when Alex met with "his friends" and they tried to kill him, and also the rest of the scenes when he met with his victims.


                
Most say, 'Kubrick (Dr Strangelove, Eyes Wide Shut) was right' the world would become more violent, not less. Some warn us of big-brother. One reviewer wrote, 'A film for half-baked sociologists.' Critic Roger Ebert didn't like this movie, saying it's message is, "in a world where society is criminal, the citizen might as well be criminal, too." I think, this movie tries to give voice to a hidden drama. It's meaningless, except as an allegory. Clockwork Orange is not about violence, or even the future. When the movie begins, it's about the past. 'Alex' representing Britain of the past.Alex steals and plunders, storing the booty in his drawer at night. A World War is reduced to: a fight between Alex and his gang wearing Bobby-hats and billy clubs and Billy and his boys dressed in German war paraphernalia.The powers that be decide 'Alex' is in need of reform. He's strapped in a chair (similar to one once used to test viewers emotional responses during movie making) for aversion therapy. He's shown footage of Nazi atrocities while being made to feel bad, "I can't stop watching!" Alex exclaims.Alex is tested - he's made to lick another mans' boot and he is found unable to approach a beautiful naked woman - then he's released.Alex comes across every person he's done wrong to in the past. Each extracts their vengeance, and of course Alex is now unable to defend himself.In the end (after Alexs' unforeseen breakdown), to save face, the political class presses Alex to admit, he has been cured of his cure. As an aside Alex says, "I was cured alright" (He seems enamored by women again)
