At the end of the day the films you give top marks are those films that become constant companions. You can see them again at the drop of a hat, you show them to people who have never see them and it's always a triumph. "Witness For The Prosecution" is one of those wonders. Suspend your disbelief for a couple of hours and enjoy this banquet of a romp. Charles Laughton showed here what he was made of better, more clearly and more loudly than in any other film and all of his films, at least the moments with him in it, are unforgettable - Captain Blight or Henry VIII, Quasimodo or that malefic Senator from South Carolina. Here the severity of his lawyer by vocation takes your senses away with his masterful judicial way to see logic and it's such an incredible fun to watch him do it. Tyrone Power is a toy in his hands but not Marlene Dietrich who stands her ground, not merely as a character but as a presence on the screen. Billy Wilder visits early Hitchcock territory with wit and fun. Elsa Lanchester's nurse is the cherry on top of this delightful film.


                
A film I have not seen for years but will always remember with fondness. A classic thriller with all the right ingredients - Power and Dietrich are spectacular, and, by early standards (and recent ones!), the twist is excellent. Charles Laughton however, provides us with a glib chuckle as the aging defense attorney ruled by his overlord maid. A distraction that only adds to an excellent plot line.I can't imagine another film of the genre and the era, that so wickedly entangles the essential thriller with a 'crime of passion' (oops, spot the plot killer...) gem. A classic. A film for true movie lovers. Take it from me!
WARNING! SPOILERS AHEAD! The Billy Wilder touch adds cynical wit to his sparkling adaptation of Dame Agatha Christie's play WITNESS FOR THE PROSECUTION (WftP), with some of the best lines in a Wilder movie since DOUBLE INDEMNITY, thanks to Wilder, Harry Kurnitz, and Larry Marcus. In our household, "Is that really desirable?" has become a catchphrase, along with many other gems from the mouths of star Charles Laughton and the rest of the sterling cast! :-) I only hope people seeing this for the first time haven't already seen Marlene Dietrich's scene-stealing performance in Orson Welles' TOUCH OF EVIL, or they might tumble to the twist finale before they're supposed to! :-) (In fact, if I recall correctly, when WftP was shown on Turner Classic Movies, Robert Osborne mentioned in his intro that Welles helped Dietrich out with her WftP "Cockney informant" makeup as a favor!) La Dietrich looks fabulous and keeps you fascinated even when she's coming across as the ultimate bitch; it's a shame she wasn't nominated for an Oscar along with co-stars Charles Laughton and Elsa Lanchester. Tyrone Power's usual slightly wooden delivery actually serves him well as the defendant; somehow it adds to defendant Leonard Vole's air of feckless innocence. Henry Daniell, John Williams, Ian Wolfe, Torin Thatcher, and particularly Norma Varden as the ill-fated Emily French provide able support, too, with Una O'Connor stealing her scenes as Mrs. French's loyal but "antagnistic" Scottish housekeeper. A young, brunette Ruta Lee provides a memorable moment or two. As sickly but sly barrister Wilfrid Robarts and his chipper but no-nonsense nurse, Miss Plimsoll, real-life husband and wife Laughton and Lanchester shine in the most engaging performances of their careers. The comic sparring chemistry between Sir Wilfrid Robarts and Miss Plimsoll, and the warmth and understanding that's grown between them by movie's end, had my husband Vinnie opining that if another movie was made featuring these characters, Miss Plimsoll would probably end up as Mrs. Robarts before it was over -- what a delightful series that could have been! Hey, at the very least, I'd have paid good money to see Billy Wilder direct Laughton, Lanchester, and Dietrich in a sequel in which Sir Wilfrid prepares for the trial of Christine Vole, a.k.a. Christine Helm! :-)
That's a quotation from the film and what you'll say at the conclusion. I saw it the first time 36 years ago back when network TV ran old movies late at night, and I'd never even heard of it. I thought it was a Hitchcock film with all of the unexpected twists, but no, the director was Billy Wilder. How surprised I was to see Wilder do Hitchcock better than Hitchcock ever could! The set-up is this - Leonard Vole (Tyrone Power) is an inventor that is having trouble getting his inventions to market. He befriends a wealthy older woman, one Emily French. She is obviously flirting with him, and Vole, though married, flirts back, his objective being that maybe she will financially back one of his inventions. Then disaster strikes. Emily French is found murdered. Vole is an obvious suspect because Mrs. French has just changed her will and left everything to Vole. There is circumstantial evidence pointing to Vole, and he says he knows nothing about the will. Enter barrister Sir Wilfred, the finest in England, whose doctor has told him he must quit work and go on a vacation because of his heart condition. Sir Wilfred talks to Vole, believes his story, and also talks to his wife, Christine (Marlene Dietrich) who backs up Leonard's story but comes across as somewhat cold to her husband's peril. Sir Wilfred is convinced to take the case and agrees to retire upon this last trial. Past that I cannot tell you any details or I'll ruin it for you.Everyone in the cast performs masterfully. Especially charming is the interaction between Laughton's character and his nurse played by his wife of then 28 years, Elsa Lanchester. They go back and forth at each other with Nurse Pimsoll insisting that Sir Wilfred keep his rigid schedule of medications and him treating her like a jailer with hilarious one liners at the poor woman's expense. Only a long married couple could do this feature length banter so well. If Nightmare Alley didn't convince you that Tyrone Power was more than a pretty face, this film will. Likewise, Marlene Dietrich is much more than a blue angel and a fine figure of a woman at age 56.Notice all of the little touches. How Sir Wilfred seems to be ignoring testimony in court by counting out his pills, only to stand up and ask insightful questions when his turn comes. Plus this film really shows that nothing is off the record, even if the judge says that it is - the jury hears and sees everything. Sir Wilfred plays on that fact.Great acting, great direction, great story - it doesn't get any better than this. Thus I give this a solid 10/10. And one irony - Power's character mentions several times about Sir Wilfred's heart, but it is Tyrone Power himself who will be dead of a heart attack by the end of the following year. Sadly, this is his last completed film.


                
After the artistic success of AND THEN THERE WERE NONE, the only notable film based on Dame Agatha Christie's stories was a remake of LOVE FROM A STRANGER with John Hodiak and Sylvia Sidney as the ill-matched couple, but re-staged in the 1890s rather than 1930 England. Then, in 1957, Billy Wilder made this production of a short story by Dame Agatha called WITNESS FOR THE PROSECUTION. With a tip-top cast of Charles Laughton, Marlene Dietrich, Tyrone Power, and Elsa Lancaster, the film was a brilliantly done version of Christie's short story, changed in it's ending (but to a changed ending found in Christie's own dramatization). Leonard Vole (Tyrone Power) is a salesman who meets an elderly, wealthy woman (Norma Varden) and gains her affections - much to the dislike and mistrust of her servant (Una O'Connor). O'Connor claims she saw the two together the night that Varden was beaten to death in her apartment. Vole is arrested, and his solicitor (Henry Daniell) wants England's best barrister, Sir Wilfred Robarts (Laughton) to defend him. Robarts is recovering from a heart attack, and is being nursed by Miss Plimsoll (Elsa Lancaster). He is a difficult patient, and is not looking forward to an enforced rest in Bermuda. So, despite the protests of Plimsoll he takes the case. He does promise her he will listen to his doctor and take his medicine. She does not trust him. Sir Robert meets Vole's German born wife, Christina Helm (Dietrich), who alarms him. She is too cool, to detached at her husband's peril. But he goes ahead, and is soon in court fighting a first rate opponent (Torin Thatcher as Myers), and scores some impressive points against the prosecution, especially in cross-examining O'Connor. But at the critical moment he finds that by a subtle point of law, Dietrich can testify against Power, and does so. So the plot becomes, how to defeat this "witness for the prosecution"? Is there something that can turn the tables on her and her testimony.And the evidence to use against Dietrich does appear - from an unexpected source. Is it effective? Will Power be saved in the end? Or is there something going on?Although the conclusion of this film has been pretty well known for years, I will refrain from explaining what it is. A good mystery should surprise the audience, as this does every audience that sees it for the first time. Laughton and Lancaster make a funny pair (and in the end, an endearing one from Lancaster's point of view). Power gets to play his most sinister part since "the Great Stanton" Carlyle in NIGHTMARE ALLEY. And Dietrich does pull off the biggest surprise twist in her career. As for Wilder, after some questionable films in the mid 1950s (THE SEVEN YEAR ITCH, THE SPIRIT OF ST. LOUIS) he was back in form. His handling of the courtroom scenes (which make up nearly 60% of the film) are far more realistic and speedy than Alfred Hitchcock's plodding THE PARADINE CASE a decade earlier. It was the best of the Christie films prior to MURDER ON THE ORIENT EXPRESS.
This is one of the absolute best courtroom movies ever made, along with ANATOMY OF A MURDER and THE VERDICT. All deserve a score of 10 and each is great in it own way.This film is great, but not for the realism of ANATOMY OF A MURDER. Instead, it's got such a wonderful script full of wonderful twists and turns. Plus, having top actors on the top of their game (such as Charles Laughton, Tyrone Power and Marlena Dietrich) made this such a great film. Plus, it has one of the best all-time endings on film.So is it realistic? Hardly, but given the magnificent script, this can easily be forgiven and just be enjoyed for the massive entertainment value it brings. If you don't enjoy this film, you must be dead!


                
This movie is truly gripping. The actors involved are top of the line and they all have the ability transport the viewer into the film and make you forget your surroundings. This movie is worth watching. I am not a fan of Agatha Christie, but this movie is one of my favorites. Charles Laughton makes this movie. He is what drew me to the movie to begin with. I was not disappointed.Marlene Deitrich and Tyrone Power play their rolls to the max and manage to play both the jury and the audience to the end.This movie is well worth watching.


                
Hollywood's Golden Age set the standards for how great films should be made with its pioneering narrative and visual approach. There were countless great works that emerged from ingenious directors like Alfred Hitchcock, Frank Capra and Billy Wilder. One particular masterpiece from the latter was the 1957 courtroom drama Witness for the Prosecution.When a young man (Tyrone Power) shadily becomes the beneficiary of a recently murdered wealthy widow, he must testify to his innocence with the help of a master barrister (Charles Laughton) recovering from a heart attack. His immunity ultimately rests with his wife's alibi who opts to be a "witness for the prosecution", making for a tumultuous trial for the aforementioned men.I can't say enough about this film's quality – it was simply outstanding. When it was originally released, audience members were actually given and asked to sign cards that read "I solemnly swear I will not reveal the ending of Witness for the Prosecution." At a time where twist endings were not ubiquitous, it certainly would have stunned quite a few people. But this film unquestionably shines from beginning to end and merits a viewing from any film lover.There are many fascinating characters that bring the Agatha Christie play to life. Marlene Dietrich is phenomenal playing the accused's wife in a cold, calculating manner. Tyrone Power gives a great performance as a timid man who, for the most part of the film, is subdued in his distress. Charles Laughton, playing the defense's attorney, absolutely stole the show for me. His sharp-witted and astute character is an absolute joy to watch during the trial. He makes the trial process an enthralling, entertaining experience that seems to never have a dull moment.It is character-driven, stimulating films like Witness for the Prosecution that remind me of just how great courtroom dramas have the potential to be. This film manages to keep you in a tight suspense while simultaneously managing to be humorous, incisive and intelligent. The use of long takes and the authentic feel of the court atmosphere converts the viewer into an onlooker in the courtroom with the others. Yet another masterpiece on Billy Wilder's impressive repertoire and one of my favorite films of the Classical Hollywood Style. The man was a genius in so many ways.


                
When the efficient but bitter and stubborn barrister Sir Wilfrid Robarts (Charles Laughton) returns to his office in London recovering from a heart attack, he is invited to defend Leonard Stephen Vole (Tyrone Power), who is the prime suspect in a murder case. Leonard is a former soldier that fought in World War II and is married with his beloved German wife Christine Helm Vole (Marlene Dietrich). He is unemployed and accused of seducing and murdering the wealthy middle-aged single woman Emily French (Norma Varden) to inherit 80,000 pounds. His unique alibi would be the testimony of Christine, which would not be accepted by the court, since she is his wife. Along the trial, Christine is surprisingly called to testify in court by the prosecution, when secrets about their lives are disclosed. "Witness for the Prosecution" is another remarkable movie of Billy Wilder and one of the best about trial. The plot is perfectly tied-up without any flaw in the screenplay, which has many plot points and witty lines in a perfect combination of the caustic and sarcastic "British humor" with crime, drama and mystery. The cast has awesome performances, highlighting Charles Laughton and Marlene Dietrich. Billy Wilder is one of my favorite directors and his direction is once again outstanding. Last time I saw this movie was on 12 March 2005 on VHS and today I have watched it on DVD for the fifth or sixth time. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "Testemunha de Acusação" ("Witness for the Prosecution")


                
A man (Tyrone Power) is accused of allegedly murdering a woman. His wife (Marlene Dietrich) also believes he did it and testifies against him in court. A powerful, brilliant lawyer (Charles Laughton) believes Power is innocent and does his best to prove it.Sounds dull but it's not. I caught this on TV way back in the 1970s. I started watching it casually but very soon was caught up in it. The script is smart and, even though it's over 2 hours, it never feels too long. There are many ingenious twists and turns and an ending that (I have to admit) I didn't see coming at all. I've seen it many times since and never tire of it.The acting is great. Power is good in one of his last roles; Laughton is just superb as the lawyer--he throws out one liners or insults so casually that it's hard to believe he's just acting. I never found Dietrich that good of an actress--I hate to admit this, but her accent always made me giggle. However she's great here--especially at the end. Also Elsa Lanchester is a scream as Laughton's by the book nurse. Her and Laughton had a marriage of "convenience" for many years and their fondness for each other comes through making their verbal fights even funnier.A wonderful, exciting, fun courtroom drama--one of the best ever made. Well worth catching. I give this a 10.


                
Based on the wonderful play by Agatha Christie, the film version of Witness for the Prosecution is a magnificent film, one of the best ever. It was given the all star treatment - directed by Billy Wilder, starring Tyrone Power, Marlene Dietrich, Charles Laughton, and Elsa Lanchester. Right there is all you need to know.This is one of Charles Laughton's greatest performances. He's absolutely superb as the ailing man who risks his health to defend Leonard Vole (Power) on a murder charge, over the strenuous objections of his nurse, Lanchester, who is hilarious. Dietrich is great as Leonard Vole's seemingly uncaring wife, Christine, in the most difficult role in the movie.As Leonard Vole, Tyrone Power is a little more problematic as he is somewhat miscast. One of the most beautiful-looking men who ever lived, he's a tad old for the role, not quite jaunty enough when he needs to be, and very un-British. For an international star to have put on a British accent after 22 years in films would have been both distracting and ridiculous. However, no one could do charming like Power, in real life and in reel life. In that sense, he's perfect. As far as comments that he was "hammy" in the role - he wasn't the ham - Leonard Vole was the ham! It was a role within a role. Power hands in an excellent performance, his last, and he's especially enjoyable in his flashback scene with Dietrich (who during the filming kept bringing him gifts while Charles Laughton leered at him - I'd say he still had it big time). If you haven't read the play or story, you won't guess the ending of Wilder's masterful film. Oh, and look for a young Ruta Lee in the courtroom.


                
A gem of a 1957 film. How Tyrone Power wasn't nominated for best actor here was a major surprise. Charles Laughton was and deservedly so as the terrific defense attorney who brought comic relief into the film by fooling Elsa Lanchester, who received a supporting actress bid. Remember how he would smuggle liquor into the courtroom and manage to sneak a cigar when she wasn't around? His performance was as always a masterful one.As Paul Vole, Power is a man accused of murder. He calmly assumes the role of being accused of a murder. He definitely receives sympathy from the audience during his outbursts in court when his wife Christine (Dietrich) testifies against him. The victim was veteran Norma Varden (the housekeeper years later in "The Sound of Music.") Marlene Dietrich was his love interest who gets him off only to have quite a rude awakening afterwards.The film was terrific in every way possible. You want to sympathize with Power and then have utter contempt on him when it appears that he has pulled a fast one on the judicial system. Charles Laughton is absolutely magnificent as Sir Wifred, the defense attorney, who undertakes the case after recently suffering a coronary. He is a master in the court when he challenges just about everything that the prosecuting attorney states. Dietrich has never been better. She comes across as an uncaring wife, despite the fact that Vole has brought her out of the ruins of Nazi Germany in 1945. Veteran pro, Una O'Connor, steals the scene she is in as a witness who was Varden's maid and apparent heir to the latter's fortune before Power stepped in. As his nurse, Elsa Lanchester, the real life Mrs. Charles Laughton, was also Oscar nominated in the supporting Oscar. A pain in Sir Wilfrid's rear end, she comes to realize that her patient will not be ready for that Bermuda vacation at the end of the trial. This best picture nominee of 1957 is well-worth seeing. Billy Wilder's expert direction must be viewed.


                
Billy Wilder, assisted by a tremendous cast of actors, does a brilliant job of adapting and filming a classic Agatha Christie story in "Witness For the Prosecution".  The movie has everything a great mystery should have: memorable and interesting characters, satisfying plot twists, excellent dialogue, plenty of suspense and tension.  This may be the best adaptation ever made of one of Christie's legendary mystery stories.Christie's original was only a short story, and it has been modified considerably for the screen, with the characters and events fleshed out, new characters and scenes added, and new additions made to the plot.  There is even an added surprise twist at the end - that is, on top of the already masterful twist from the last line of Christie's story.  All of these additions fit in perfectly with the original idea, and even a literary purist should find the film version to be a worthy tribute to the great mystery author and her conception.Most of the movie is driven by the battle of wills and wits between Christine Vole (Marlene Dietrich), whose husband is accused of murder, and Sir Wilfrid Robarts (Charles Laughton), who is defending the husband. Laughton and Dietrich give brilliant performances that get the most out of their already fascinating characters.  Tyrone Power also succeeds in the challenging role of the actual defendant, Leonard Vole, a man who seems simply to be caught in the middle of the battle between his strong-willed wife and lawyer, but who may not be as helpless or as dependent as he seems, after all.  There is also an outstanding supporting cast (including the always wonderful Elsa Lanchester) that makes the secondary characters an important part of the story.All of the actors and characters fit perfectly into the splendid story that Christie wrote.  Add in Wilder's carefully-conceived adaptation and flawless direction, and "Witness For the Prosecution" is a masterpiece that will be enjoyed by anyone with even a casual interest in mystery films.


                
Verily defines top flight film-making.With some quirks. Made in the 50s which many consider a "lost decade" for Hollywood, the age of the B-movie, the time when Hollywood chased the teen market.A cast of greats doing great work. A wonderful and flawless script with a twist-reversal at the end that pretty much set the bar a dozen other movies since which have shamelessly copied it.And one of the most extraordinary performances ever put on film from an actress who strictly speaking did very few English movies, making this a rare treat.Marlene Dietrich at the peak of her star power, steals every frame she is in, projects a character so powerful (for a woman) that it is hard even today to find the equivalent combination of poise and strength and femininity.There is a specific scene in the film - a bonus if you like -- in which Dietrich plays a second role right in front of the audience and even if you watch the film many times you will still have trouble believing it is her, so astonishing is the acting.One of those films, if you were lost on a deserted island and could only pick a handful of DVDs, this is one of the keepers.


                
I started watching this movie with very least interest since besides being quite old and black and white,it is expected to be quite slow.At least that was on my mind,but with every next scene movie goes on impressing me thanks to the humor added Charles Laughton as an old lawyer.Witness for the prosecution is based on Agatha Christie novel.I previously encountered with another movie on Agatha Christie novel "Murder in Orient Express",and I wasn't quite impressed with that so expectations were low.But at the end I loved this movie because it gives you a big surprise in the end The movie deals with a man on the trial of murder.Its hard to imagine such movie in 50's because it seems so fresh today also.Watch it out guys,it's something special !!!


                
Everything snaps, crackles, and pops in this delightful courtroom mystery, one of the best films Wilder ever directed. The cast is superb. Laughton and Lanchester, of course, and Marlene Dietrich gets one of the best roles of her career. Although she gained fame originally as a sex symbol, movies like this show what a fine and intelligent actress she was. It's really a shame she didn't win -- or even get nominated -- for an Oscar. She certainly deserved it.The seamless mixture of comedy and drama in the brilliant screenplay should be studied by all aspiring screenwriters. The funny scenes never detract from the suspenseful, serious story -- they actually make it stronger. Some may feel the melodrama of the final moments seems a bit contrived, but that's a very minor quibble.WITNESS is one of those rare perfect movies. What a pleasure to watch a film where everything -- writing, direction, acting, music, photography, you name it -- is exactly right and blends into a terrifically entertaining whole.


                
The movies shows the star power of its cast from the starring to the smallest supporting role with great direction from Billy Wilder. A classic of the golden age of Hollywood meant not just for movie scholars and fan of the genre, but every person with any interest in movies.


                
I have never seen a Billy Wilder movie that I didn't like, and to say that "Witness for the Prosecution" is another example of his masterpieces does not do it justice (pun not intended). In the movie, American Leonard Vole (Tyrone Power, who died shortly after they finished filming) is accused of murdering a woman in England. He hires Sir Wilfrid Robarts (Charles Laughton), a reputable attorney, to defend him. To get more information about everything, Robarts consults with Vole's wife Christine.But that's where things take an unexpected turn. As the trial - and the movie - progress, we keep learning secrets that the characters have been keeping. By the courtroom climax, all bets are off, to say the least.This just may be the perfect movie. No matter what you suspect, I guarantee that you will be surprised. You will never look at a trial the same again. And above all, it confirms Billy Wilder as one of the greatest directors in history.


                
As a fan of Alfred Hitchcock films and Agatha Christie Novels I couldn't wait to watch this movie. I became drawn in to the story like a little child.Great plot twists!  I HIGHLY RECOMMEND this movie!!


                
Witness for the Prosecution is yet another marvelous film by the insanely talented Billy Wilder. The dialogues in this courtroom drama-slash-murder mystery are sharp and witty, and Charles Laughton's charmingly sarcastic delivery ensures practically every line from his character Sir Wilfrid is solid gold. Add in a few tense interrogation scenes, some colourful characters and a couple of clever twists and turns, and a delightful viewing experience is guaranteed.


                
One of the best courtroom dramas ever for sure! An amazing movie with surprise after a surprise! Many memorable characters and scenes. Superb performances by the main cast, and a great pace that manages to hold the suspense high throughout the movie. Highly recommended!


                
This is one of the very few films that I can happily watch over and over again. For those who have not seen it, the twists and turns in the plot are guaranteed to keep you guessing and on edge. But for those who have seen it many times, the dialogue is so crisp as to retain its impact. (There is one line from the film that still sends shivers up my spine - and I have probably seen it more than 20 times!)Laughton is superb, and at his best when matched with wife Lanchester. Tyrone Power does a good job too but is not quite in Laughton's class. Marlene Dietrich almost manages to steal this film from Laughton and that is no mean feat.This film has everything going for it - script, acting, direction. Don't miss it!


                
This film has it all. Drama, suspense, comedy, a twist ending, all star cast, great acting and directing and a great story. What else can you ask for? It should have won best picture in 1957. It's a shame that it was Tyrone Power's last film.


                
Many years ago, I was a teacher, and I annually showed this film to my students stopping the film to take a vote as to whether Leonard Vole was Guilty or Not Guilty. The pupils entered into the spirit of the film and always gave out false scents to groups that had not yet seen segments. Although they all moaned when they saw it was in Black and White, that soon faded to silence as the pupils were absorbed by the plot(s). At the moment I am working on a Teacher's Pack to accompany the film.The film has an outstanding cast, although I am aware that some people think that Tyrone Power's Vole is "hammy", but perhaps that was his character. Alas, we must also take into account he died soon after finishing the film. Dietrich's entry is one of the best ever in films! Laughton and real life wife Lanchester are superbly cast.The ending is superb! If you have not seen the film, don't stop the tape before the credits roll! Outstanding! Final comment... why is this film not available on DVD in the UK?


                
Of all the movies adapted from the works of the great mystery writer Agatha Christie, this one would have to be my favorite. Rene Clair's And Then There Were None, hailed as a classic, was very silly and couldn't hold a candle up to the book. Murder on the Orient Express, a story of my favorite Christie detective, Hercule Poirot, had an unsatisfactory star performance (Albert Finney), and a great supporting cast (Sean Connery, Ingrid Bergman, John Gielgud, etc.) went to waste. But Witness for the Prosecution triumphantly carries Christie's wit and suspense to the screen. Billy Wilder directs with style and flair, showing once again that he can master both comedy and drama. The screenplay, by Wilder and Harry Kurnitz, contains expertly balanced suspense and dry humor. The performances are a joy, notably Charles Laughton, Marlene Dietrich, and Elsa Lanchester. All in all, if you're an Agatha Christie fan, you really should see this exceptional film.


                
