Witness for the Prosecution is, as IMDb voters cann attest, a great movie. A clever, character-driven courtroom drama, it deserved the Academy Award nominations that it received in 1958, and it has justly endured to the present day. Starring the terrific talents of Charles Laughton, Tyrone Power, and particularly Marlene Dietrich, directed by Billy Wilder, and based on the superb short story by Agatha Christie, it is a combination has all of the very best ingredients, and delivers a nearly outstanding film.The movie centers around Laughton's character, an aged, feisty, and very canny English barrister (lawyer) who is in poor health and headed toward retirement. The opening of the movie is entirely Laughton's show, as he portrays a curmudgeonly and endearing character. On his first day home from the hospital, he soon takes up the defense of Leonard Vole (Power) a man who is charged with murder and up against a barrage of circumstantial evidence. Power is convincing as the honest and somewhat naive defendant, in increasingly over his head. Soon, Dietrich makes her entrance as Vole's cool German femme fatal of a wife. After a few flashbacks to set up the story of the murder case, Laughton takes up Vole's case. What ensues is a well-written and well-directed courtroom drama, in which Laughton continues to shine, delivering a convincing performance peppered with humor. Soon, the story takes a series of dramatic twists, during which Power plays his part as the beleaguered defendant to the hilt and Dietrich uses the gifts that made her a legend. By the end, the audience has been treated to an excellent drama with sensational acting.The result is a classic, but not an icon in the sense that Christie's short story, penned twenty years earlier, would become. While it may be the best-regarded of all Christie adaptations (Murder on the Orient Express a possible exception), the movie does not seem to have the stature it ought to have. At the end of the movie, I did not feel the same as when I read the story, and not just because I knew all along how it would turn out. With such visible talent on all fronts, I took a long look at what it was, and what was missing. The answer: Christie. The movie is good in its own right, but from the beginning misses the crucial aspect that the original story has: the mystery. Agatha Christie is the master of suspense, and throughout the story, that suspense, that anxiousness to know what will happen next, the eagerness to know where this next twist will lead, and the shock that comes at the very end, were what the story was all about. The direction the movie went, the legal thriller, substituted drama for mystery, and while the movie only added to the story, changing very little of what Christie wrote, the movie lost the grip that only she could create. Christie treated the courtroom proceedings (the centerpiece of the movie) with brevity, focusing on the intrigue surrounding the case. Also, the Hollywood ending overdoes it a little bit, and deprives the most important plot twist of some of its its emotional impact.That said, however, the movie is still a classic. Fortunately, the heart of the story was still very strong, with a unique plot and rich characters, which were taken advantage of by Wilder and the cast, respectively. And, as it turns out, the movie is a good complement to the story. To those who have only seen the movie, the story should be read to truly appreciate the missing value of the mystery. To those who have read the story, the movie nails the characters (particularly Dietrich's Mrs. Vole). All in all, I give this movie a 9 out of 10, and would gladly see it again.


                
This is a fun movie, with marvelous performances by Laughton, Dietrich and Lanchester. Even the usually mediocre Tyrone Power fits his role to a tee. It's the best filming of a Christie mystery that I've seen.If you haven't seen it, though, read no further. For those of you who have, I would like to point out one relatively large flaw in the plot. Much is made during the final scene of Christine Helm's perjury. She even agrees with Sir Wilfred that she will go to prison, but teases, "it won't be for life, will it?"Is it possible that neither Christine Helm, Sir Wilfred Robarts, Billy Wilder, nor Dame Agatha herself noticed the rather stunning fact that every word Frau Helm spoke on the stand was the absolute truth? The revelation of the final plot twist could have been that much more dramatic had she asked Sir Wilfred, in their moments alone together at the end, "Perjury? What perjury? I committed no perjury. Leonard was guilty as charged. And all I testified about the letters was that I wrote them, not that they were true. They can't touch him, and they can't touch me, either."It's possible that the book ends differently, and this flaw was introduced in the adaptation. Not having the book handy, I can't verify it one way or the other.
It's hard to imagine how Dame Agatha could have pounded out so many mysteries. I know she lived a long time, but still, if I lived as long as Methusala I couldn't grind out that many pieces. Not just novels, either, but plays, including this one. And they all tell the kinds of stories that involve a lot of lead time while the author works out the details of the intricate plots. Between Jack Kerouac knocking out "On The Road" on a single roll of toilet paper or whatever it was, and Nabokov and his multitudinous 3 X 5 index cards, Christie must have been very much closer to Nabokov.This is an engrossing and tightly wound tale of greed, murder, deception, bigamy, adultery, and all the other good things in life. It's essentially a courtroom drama with several big -- REALLY big -- surprises. It does not end the way you might expect, with the true criminal suddenly revealed in all his moral turpitude by the expert, penetrating examination by the defense, breaking down in the witness chair and sobbing, "Okay. I did it! I DID IT! I didn't mean to kill her! I just wanted to frighten her." The play's the thing in this movie, yet the director, Billy Wilder, brings his own snappy interpretation to it. The dialog is unashamedly fast. Nobody dawdles over "significant utterances." Even on the witness stand they seem to make a series of unhesitating declarations. "Yes." "No." "Yes, I told you already." And it wouldn't be as good as it is without the acting. Charles Laughton is the central figure, one of those cute old curmudgeons that everyone likes because of his weakness for cigars and brandy. His efforts to bootleg these items under the nose of his nurse, his real wife Elsa Lanchester, are pretty funny. "She won't even find the ASHES," he cackles innocently, like a child getting away with mischief, flicking his cigar ash into an empty drawer. She's always bright and chipper and energetic, a nice contrast to his flabby sedate presence.Una O'Connor as the Scottish maid is extremely engaging as well, snapping back indignantly at the judge. Tyrone Power is called on to change from a careless and thoughtful guy, to one stricken by fate, then back again, and he pulls it off. Henry Daniell, a Robin Hood villain, and John Williams, ever the legal type, are welcome in every scene in which they appear. Reliable sorts, don't you know. But Marlene Dietrich takes the palm. She was everyone's idea of a no-baloney kind of woman but never anyone's idea of a great actress. And yet, she had me fooled here. Oh, hammy, sure, but her performances fit in because EVERYONE is hammy in "Witness for the Prosecution." God forbid anyone try to make anything serious and arty out of an Agatha Christie mystery! They're fine, just as they are.
I watched Witness For the Prosecution tonight, and was struck by it. It is an interesting courtroom drama with solid performances all round; compelling in it's style and makeup, and well directed. But the ending, after such a plausible and almost beautiful winding story of complete believability. . . left me shaking my head in disbelief. How the film makers could allow such a fine picture to collapse with such a concoction of trumped up melo-dramatic absurdity in the final scene goes beyond absurdity. It was as though someone in the production staff decided they had to save Charles Laughton's (who gave a grand performance as the lead defense English barrister, Sir Wilford Robarts) reputation, so that he did'nt come off looking as though he had been duped by the main characters involved in the murder he was defending. Afterall, Laughton had been the beloved protagonist featured as the barrister hero throughout the film. So at the end, when the wife (Marlene Dietrich) saves the murderer (Tyrone Power) from the gallows, they had to quickly concoct a scene to avenge the wicked and scandalous trick that had been played on the defense team, the law, and the true hand of justice. If they had allowed the husband and wife to walk off together hand in hand into the sunset at the end, I would have said this is one of the greatest courtroom pictures ever made. But Billy Wilder could have done much better with the ending IMO, which had nothing to do with plausibility, and for me almost ruined the picture. Kudos to the actors, especially Laughton, Marlene Dietrich, and Elsa Lanchester. More kudos to the director who clearly did a masterful job right up until that final silly scene that kind of ruined it for me.


                
1st watched 11/4/2001 - 7 out of 10(Dir-Billy Wilder): Well-done courtroom drama with many twists at the end with a unique trailer that asks all who watch this to not reveal the ending to others.  So I will obey and not give this away to anyone.  Laughton is wonderful as the aging & ailing defense attorney(barrister in England) with a typical mysterious performance by Marlene Dietrich and a sometimes hammy performance by Tyrone Powers.  A lot of talented people were a part of this production of a Agatha Christie story & screenplay including Director Billy Wilder.  They all came through remarkedly and presented this story as it is(a well-written courtroom drama that was originally a play).  Wilder did a good job of letting the actor's play this story out and it shows in the final production.


                
Among black and white movies there are some which stand on their own merits as genuine Classics. This is one of them. The Movie is called " Witness for the Prosecution. " If you have read the book, then see this film you will not be disappointed as it is directed by one of the best, Billy Wilder. The story is set in England and spins the unlikely tale of Leonard Vole (Tyrone Power) a handsome young man accused of murdering a wealthy woman who left him a sizable amount of money in her will. Once on trial for murder he is able defended by noted barrister Sir Wilfrid who does a splendid job. (Charles Laughton) The entire case stands precariously on a sole witness named Christine. (Marlene Dietrich) The story runs smoothly as does the play and all the characters from Elsa Lanchester, John Williams to Henry Daniell do their part to ensure a dizzying display of early stage theatrics. Watch this from the start to it's end and see if you're not surprised by the ending. I was! Superb movie and a must for Power fans. Easily Recommended. ****


                
The script of this Witness for the Prosecution manages to captivate thanks to delicious and incredibly well written dialogues, and Charles Laughton's performance who superbly delivered them and who clearly stands out within a cast that has no big flaws but isn't exceptional either. The plot however lacks sometimes a bit of interest, and the rhtyhm a bit uneven doesn't play in favor of this very static movie.But the main point for which it can be blamed is its ending, not that the "initial" twist is bad, far from it, it's excellent, but it is followed by a series absurd and very little credible twists. The explanation for this improbable outcome lies in the Hays Code, this censorship code that governed Hollywood's productions from 1934 to 1968 and obliged Wilder and his writers to provide this rather twisted (!) ending that inevitably impacts the quality of the movie on the whole, which remains a notch below 12 Angry Men for example.


                
It's no surprise that Billy Wilder, the man who gave us the ghoulishly funny "Sunset Boulevard," would be drawn to this macabre but witty Agatha Christie play."Witness for the Prosecution" is very minor Wilder, and would probably go unremembered today if not for the wonderful performances of husband and wife team Charles Laughton and Elsa Lanchester. Both seem to understand better than the stiff-backed and Brill-creme-haired Tyrone Power that the material is not to be taken too seriously, and it's a ball to watch them trade barbs back and forth (she plays nurse to his ailing prosecutor) with twinkles in their eyes. The story itself is shamelessly manipulative -- Laughton's character suffers from a heart condition that threatens to kill him in the middle of the trial, for God's sake! -- yet it worked at keeping me in suspense despite myself. And may I just say that Marlene Dietrich appears in one of the most bizarre performances I've ever seen on film.Won't tax your intellect, but will probably tickle your funny bone.Grade: B+


                
Based on a marvelous play by Agatha Christie, this Billy Wilder film is entertaining throughout. This is in no small part thanks to some very good performances from the cast.Tyrone Power is good as Leonard Vole, and Marlene Dietrich is very convincing as Mrs. Vole. Elsa Lanchester, as Sir Wilfrid's nurse, is great, as is the irascible Sir Wilfrid himself, Charles Laughton. Laughton's character may even have conceivably been the inspiration for Leo McKern's 'Rumpole'.The real credit however, must go to the plot. Christie's storyline keeps you guessing 'til the end, and then.....!? Well, you'll have to see it for yourself. Please do!Monday, June 8, 1992 - VideoAgatha Christie's sensational play converts deliciously to the screen in the hands of Billy Wilder, who directed and co-wrote (with Harry Kurnitz) this ever popular classic whodunit.It's wonderful cast helps treat the audience to a mesmerising plot concerning a young man who stands accused of the murder of an elderly woman whose estate he stands to inherit. The proceedings take a dramatic twist when his wife reveals her intention to testify against him. Charles Laughton is truly masterful as the wily old lawyer Sir Wilfrid, in a role completely tailored for him, and he devours several scenes, while his support cast of Tyrone Power and Marlene Dietrich also give strong showings. Elsa Lanchester is the other stand out as Wilfrid's painful, nagging nurse who doesn't miss much herself. Both Laughton and Lanchester garnered Oscar nominations for their efforts.Daniel Mandell's excellent editing (also an Academy award nominee) pieces the whole tantalising picture together with aplomb, and ensures an absolutely fascinating feature is ours to enjoy for movie generations to come.Sunday, February 19, 1995 - Astor Theatre
Originally a short story by Agatha Christie, which was then adapted into a play, which then served as the basis for this film. A down on his luck fellow named Leonard Vole (Tyrone Power) befriends an elderly widow, who just happens to be loaded. She also happens to end up dead, with Leonard blamed for the murder. Enter one elderly barrister named Sir Wilfrid Robarts (Charles Laughton), who has just gotten out of a hospital after a lengthy stay due to reasons of excessive lifestyle and bad habits. But, the case intrigues him, so he takes Mr. Vole as his client despite the protests of his nurse.Most of these courtroom dramas follow a fairly predictable pattern. Not that other genres don't have their conventions and clichés, but courtroom dramas rarely even try to hide them or shy away from them. With them the pattern is the point of it. You want the predictability, to a certain degree. You want to play along and try to guess the final outcome. Likewise with this film. Most of the running time is spent going over the case, reviewing past events, getting to know the characters.And it works. Charles Laughton especially is a blast. Sir Wilfrid is a wreck of a human being. Man consumed by vice. But then the case starts and his cunning intellect is suddenly at the forefront, his gaze unwavering and sharp.This was also Tyrone Power's last film. He would die during the filming of his next movie. But, as far as swansongs go, this is not a poor legacy to leave behind.But then, the main point of these films. The ending, when something is suddenly revealed. A key point of evidence is found, a new witness appears, someone cracks on the bench. I absolutely don't want to spoil anything, but the original story is by Agatha Christie. Trust me when I say it's wonderful.Witness for the Prosecution is a gem of its genre. Professionally crafted and entertaining, with great characters and an ending that won't leave you disappointed.


                
The other day I started watching a movie from 1957 called Witness For the Prosecution starring Charles Laughton, Tyrone Powers and Marlene Dietrich in an adaptation from a novel by Agatha Christie and directed by Billy Wilder who had previously directed Marilyn Monroe in The Seven Year Itch and Gloria Swanson in the classic Sunset Blvd. Although I had never seen Marlene Dietrich in a film before I knew that she is quite a name in the glamorous old Hollywood movies of an era that shall never come back again, when real movies had really good scripts and when you really had to pay close attention to the story and just enjoy the great performances . Witness For the Prosecution is as complicated and multi-layered as mystery movies ever come: a man (Tyrone Powers) has been wrongly charged of murdering an old lady and is seeking legal advice from a famous attorney (Charles Laughton) who happens to recently come back home after having a heart attack. He's not supposed to take on any stress that may jeopardize his health but as stubborn as they come, this old man won't give up his cigars, take on this murder case while fighting with his nurse that insists he shouldn't be doing any of it. I love the way this movies present these characters in a comical, multi-layered yet simple way and allow them to take shape. When the accused man's wife (Marlene Dietrich, as stunning as ever) comes to the lawyer's home to supposedly defend her husband and give him an alibi in court but, it turns out, shes as devious and mysterious as they come. That's when the real mystery begins and everybody seems to be a suspect.It was a real joy to watch all these characters and see what unfolds in the courtroom, especially a crucial moment in which Marlene Dietrich takes the stand, as a witness for the prosecution nonetheless and breaks down while being questioned by the defense lawyer. At first I wasn't sure if that was her voice since they don't focus on her right away while she's delivering her lines but then it becomes clearer, and clearer, and clearer: "Damn you, damn you, Damn you! Damn you! Damn youuuuuuuuu"... I didn't know what to do so I started laughing since it's just like one of those lines that are always featured in the vignettes for the Awards Ceremonies as the pivotal scene of the movie yet it becomes instantly classic and her deliverance certainly deserves an award of some sort (unfortunately no such luck for Marlene that year) and I had to stop and rewind and rewind it just to get my fix. There are certain movies that I can quote line by line such as Mommie Dearest , or The Birds, or Sunset Blvd and now I have a new classic Hollywood line that I already started quoting to my boyfriend and always get him to laugh (in guttural deep voice:) "Damn you, damn you, Damn you! Damn you! Damn youuuuuuuuu"Ahhhhh, they don't make movies like this anymore...
I enjoyed this movie because I like courtroom films. I also enjoy war movies, and for that matter, almost every kind of movie, except musicals, generally, and absurd fantasy types. Having said this, I want to make the point that the motion picture industry cannot do anything true to life. The need to produce drama is the worst spoiler of all, because the best writers can't seem to come up with believable incidents of the type that would happen in real life. Real life is full of coincidences and unbelievable situations, that seem perfectly acceptable when they happen, but these things cannot be put into a work of fiction without seeming forced. There, I got that off my chest.This movie was exceptional because I finally saw Tyrone Power in a sympathetic role, where I actually did not dislike him. I do not consider this odd, because other commentators have agreed with me that they do not see his attraction. As I have said in comments on other of his films, I have heard from reliable sources that he was very hot stuff in the 1940's, but I cannot see why. Maybe women found him attractive, but I would say there were better looking leading men then.Following is the spoiler: About 2/3 of the way through the movie a new character showed up. I said to myself, "who is this character really?" Is this the sister of the Marlene Deitrich character in disguise?" more likely, "Is this the brother of the Marlene Deitrich character in drag?". Obviously, at least to me, if not to Robert Osborne of TCM and most other people, this character was being played by Marlene Deitrich in very heavy makeup. "Why?", I kept asking myself, to the point of distracting me from the rest of the movie, until the secret was revealed. I don't want to sound like Sherlock Holmes, but all the details of the disguise were too obvious. It was like she was supposed to be spotted. But she wasn't! Luckily for me, they have this film at my local library so I can watch it a few more times to see who screwed up. The whole big deal they made about not revealing the ending to people who had not seen the movie seemed to me to be totally ridiculous.Elsa Lanchester, Charles Laughton, and most of the supporting cast did their jobs very well, so it won't be a chore to see it again. Elsa's little thing at the end made it almost seem like truth, not fiction.
Considering this movie is very dated and considering it has been remade in some form or the other(which I no doubt sadly saw before the original) I still wasn't impressed with "Witness For The Prosecution". I was expecting a good old-fashioned serious court drama but instead I got all the information handed on a plate and the serious part was very unfortunately and unsuccessfully combined with unintelligent and highly annoying and unappropriate humor that made the movie feel less credible and almost cheap. For this I blame everything on Elsa Lanchester who perhaps played one of the least suitable and useless not to mention most blatant and annoying characters I ever saw in a movie of such caliber. Her stupid facial expressions and lines during the trial should have been completely edited out and burned but she got nominated for an Oscar instead. Charles Laughton was the only truly bright star of this movie as he was  the only one who wasn't all that transparent and provided the best moments and laughs throughout the movie. His performance was really good, but somewhat short of being David Niven good. As for our main femme fatale, mrs. Dietrich's performance was the key to figuring out the plot before the foundations were even laid. When we first see her, turning up at Sir Wilfrid Robarts's house her striking and sinister-looking face made it perfectly clear.
My reasoning - !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!SPOILERS AHEAD!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! The plot would definitely include her somewhere in the disentanglement, because the character is simply too imposing and she will definitely turn out to be one of the "good guys" because it's just too obvious to let her stay evil-looking through the entire picture. Either that or the movie was really going to suck. So it made me think that the good guy, her husband, played by Tyrone Power, was also more than met the eye, he was just too nice and too innocent for some reason. With this in mind I quickly realized that the two would work together: either that or they were giving extremely bad performances. So basically the movie was finished as far as anticipation and mystery was concerned. I didn't however, put two and two together with Christine's disguise although I kept wondering if a woman could be that ugly and even more so to as how she got the letters to the husband in the first place. And the very ending was also a surprise when Leonard ditches Christine and explains why.  So sadly, I was deprived of the big surprise, or turn of events if you will, but it made me realize that I had perhaps seen a crime drama too many not to complete such a simple and obvious puzzle. Definitely not one of Billy Wilder's best, but still worth watching for mr. Laughton's performance alone. 7/10
A charming but unsuccessful man (Tyrone Powers 43) is accused of a murder. His wife (Dietrich 56) plays a double agent witness that gets him off.Laughton makes this movie. It was one of the more enjoyable court room movies I have seen and keeps your interest.It has unexpected twists however after the final twist I felt somehow empty. It would have worked better if Powers had been innocent without the last twist.Basically a film noir court trial. Oh there are flaws if you look for them anything has flaws if put under a microscope--e.g. people who just narrowly escaped being hanged don't blurt out the truth in the courtroom.RECOMMEND
Such a fine movie despite Tyrone Power being as believable as Marlene in disguise, yet we accept this all on face value. Must have been something about the time that Billy Wilder got away with. Agatha Christies courtroom drama is fun though th end, but would have lost me early without Charles Laughtons' open defensive thought regarding the trial and his endless attack on his nurse (wife, Elsa Lancster). I really enjoy watching the couple fight knowing truth behind humor is usually pretty close to the heart. And yet they know each other so well at the end in contrast to Leonard and Christine Vole. We also have two Americans abroad, Lenny and his travel store harlot and nobody bats an eye? Oh well. Worth the watch on a Saturday afternoon. Get past Tryron (no star) Power and his happy go-lucky non-sense and enjoy this thriller, but don't spoil the ending for your friends who still may not have seen this 57 years later!


                
If you ever find yourself up on a charge of murder Charlie Laughton's testy, irascible Sir Wilfrid Robarts is definitely the man you'd want fighting your corner. Even when fending off a repeat of the heart attack that had put him in a coma he'll out-punch any QC the defence may put in his way.Laughton and his character are easily the best thing about this talky adaptation of the Agatha Christie stage play. Laughton lords it over his co-stars, secure in the knowledge that his acting prowess is so gargantuan in comparison to theirs that he could read his lines from an autocue and still out-perform them. In the role of Leonard Vole, the penniless man accused of murdering a wealthy widow for the inheritance she has promised him, Tyrone Power provides a masterclass in the art of overwrought emotion. When the camera gets in close on him it exposes all the puffiness and lines resulting from too many years of excess. He was only forty-three years old when he made this film (younger than Clooney or Pitt today) but he looked much older. He also isn't up to the demands of the role, over-acting horrendously during scenes of high emotion.Marlene Dietriche plays Powers loving wife. She brings a careful brittleness to the part, but blows it in her big courtroom scene, and you can almost sense Laughton smirking as she does so. The smirk may have slipped however when the diminutive figure of the truly wonderful Una O'Connor stepped up to the stand because she steals every scene that she's in.The courtroom scenes are terrific, even though they are filled with unrealistic interruptions from the accused and surprise witnesses from both sides. Despite this, director Billy Wilder ratchets up the tension on two fronts - the verdict regarding Power's alleged crime, and the uncertainty as to whether Robart's ticker will keep going long enough to hear it. The film isn't over once the verdict's in though, with an effective double twist saved for the final couple of minutes.If you like quality old-fashioned courtroom dramas with a touch of class provided from the likes of Laughton and O'Connor, and can ignore some of the more obvious Christie 'twists' you'll love Witness for the Prosecution.
