I watched the first episode and couldn't believe my eyes. How could anybody, Catholic or atheist take this story seriously? I was watching it and praying: Please, Kieslowski, don't trivialize the matter! Here's the plot: A nice intelligent guy raises a gifted and sensitive son alone. They relationship if filled with love. But the hero has one flaw, he's an agnostic, even though he was brought up in a Catholic family. What's worse, instead of trusting God, he happens to trust science--in particular his computer. God has no choice but to teach him a lesson. And what could best drive God's point if not killing the person the hero loves most--his son? Having grown up in Catholic Poland, I can attest that this is how most people there understand religion. The loving God, who--like a Mafia boss--kisses you before stabbing your heart. This is the kind of God who doesn't stay Abraham's hand.There is no subtlety in Kieslowski's story. No questioning of faith. The commandments are rigid rules--you break them, you pay. And the competing god--the technology--is viewed in a superstitious, parochial, way.I'm glad Kieslowski didn't present his views on the intelligent design vs. Darwinism.


                
Simuland misses the point me thinks. 'K tries to add to the Bible' but fails! In an interview with Kieslowski, he tells a young student of film, that he wasn't trying to moralise but to ethicise, as moralism is too monolithic and closes down dialogue. He felt that to move to an ethical stance, it opened up a dialogue with the viewers. This I don't think is an attempt to add to the Bible, but in truth registers the fact that the trace of history - to allude to Ricoeur - is such that we have to realise that this is a different age. And Biblically of course a different dispensation, having moved from Law to Grace. Not that I'm a theologian, so hey shoot me before it happens! Nor do I think it peters out. It stands as a 'tour de force' in film-making, which rejects the temptation to moralise and tub-thump and is wonderfully aesthetic, allusive and after all gets us talking.What more can you ask for, in a film or 10?


                
