OK I'm not quite sure what everyone else is watching because I decided to buy the Artificial Eye release of The Decalogue after hearing much hype about it. Stanley Kubrick even called it the only masterpiece he could think of in his lifetime. Everywhere you look you'll find reviews praising it to the heavens. Some people even confess to it changing their lives after watching. The only thing The Decalogue changed about my life is that it took ten hours away from it when I could've spent that time doing more interesting things like collecting stamps.Incidentally, collecting stamps is actually what the final episode is all about and is what sums up the whole ten hour affair. Dull. Every single episode is as dull as dishwater from the dreary music to the drab Polish landscape. I don't mind depressing films, in fact most of my favourite ever films are majorly depressing (Requiem for a Dream, Dancer in the Dark etc.) but The Decalogue is just dull to the point of being almost unbearably boring.I was filled with hope after the first episode which is easily the best of the lot. Whilst it was very slow and uneventful, I did feel drawn into the lives of a single father and his son. The whole episode kept my attention right up until the devastating finale. However, once I popped on the second episode I found myself suddenly struggling to stay awake. Unfortunately, this was the case for the vast majority of all the episodes.The problem I found was that each story was barely enough to fill a half an hour running time, yet each episode is one hour long and you feel every minute. I never cared about any of the characters (apart from the first episode) and all of the stories are so uneventful and dull. Some are so dull that I can't even remember them. I spaced it out watching one episode a week. I heard that some people watch all ten episodes in one go and the idea of doing that just fills me with horror.Perhaps I am being a little unfair though as none of the episodes are appalling. They're all well-acted and competently directed, the screenplay is just so uninspiring. The idea of setting it all in the same apartment is interesting but none of the characters ever become linked in a clever Magnolia kind of way. The only episodes worth watching are the first and sixth. The short film about killing one is extremely overrated and far far less interesting than it sounds on paper.


                
