Krzysztof Kieslowski was a Polish filmmaker from Warsaw (1941-1996) that brought great pride to a country that has had to overcome many hardships in order to survive. This is one of the reasons I love the Polish people. Another is that I grew up with them in my native Chicago, Illinois. They are a resilient, strong, and intelligent people. Above all, they are amongst the most caring and generous souls I have ever met. It is fitting then that they had a brilliant filmmaker who stayed in Poland through thick and thin to document their lives. I was thinking of how I might describe Krzysztof Kieslowski's 'The Decalogue'. My thoughts throughout kept coming back to the American series 'Twilight Zone'. We know it is a series of ten episodes. Each one is a loose study of one of the Ten Commandments. We are also aware that each episode has a character that resides in the same group of Warsaw apartment buildings. Yet, none are carried over into subsequent episodes. Finally, it is clear that the 'The Decalogue' was filmed in 1988. So let us go a bit deeper. It is something Kieslowski would insist upon based on his character studies.Krzysztof Kieslowski co-wrote each segment of 'The Decalogue'. His collaborator was Krzysztof Piesiewicz; a lawyer who Kieslowski felt added a different perspective to compliment his own style. Kieslowski directed every movie. I originally thought that he was consulted on every aspect of the filming, as like a Coppola might be. However, I found out that Kieslowski invited nine different Cinematographers to participate. He gave each one total freedom on their movie. He remarked in an interview that this brought freshness to each episode. He said that he was particularly concerned that the crew not be bored. The characters in the movies run the gamut from young to old, clever to naive, and intelligent to foolish. However, each has a common thread running through their lives. Each must make a decision that may change their lives. This is reflected in each of Zbigniew Preisner's dramatic and sensitive scores. The movies are intense and there is little in the way of action-based sequences. Some of the episodes may bring sadness, while others tend to make one reflect on the subject matter. I favored the first and last episodes. In particular, Decalogue X has a nice comedic touch throughout and it is a great way to end the series. Kieslowski certainly emphasizes that point with the last lines uttered in the Decalogue. It is his signature and a fond farewell to a wonderful project.


                
Art that can claim greatness deals with complex issues in complex ways. If the answers or questions posed were simple they could be framed in a single sentence, or a ten second film, then the art would not be its own best explanation. This thought stuck with me as I watched Krzystof Kieslowski's complex and fascinating, if flawed, The Decalogue, illuminating aspects of the Ten Commandments from the third, transitional phase of his career, which included this 1988-89 Polish television series, filmed in 1987 and 1988, as well as the two subsequent feature films derived from episodes five and six, A Short Film About Killing and A Short Film About Love. Kieslowski's filmic career can be divided into four parts. The first was his career as a documentarian, the second was his early fictive films, and the fourth and final part was his final films- The Double Life Of Veronique and the Three Colors Trilogy (Blue, White, Red). The Decalogue (Dekalog), released on three DVDs by Facets Video, after a decade and a half in the wilderness, is where Kieslowski's potential for greatness first had more than a few flickering moments. No, unlike many critics who declare the whole series a masterpiece, I'll say it's certainly it's not. It has a few excellent to great episodes, a few good solid ones, and some mediocre ones, but without this proving ground, his later masterpieces would not have been possible.The series is not a simplistic set of parables nor morality plays, but short stories, snapshots of Poland two decades ago. Yet, so many critics, then and now, got and get so much about the series wrong. Regarding episode two, Chicago Sun-Times critic Roger Ebert writes, 'The film is about their separate moral challenges, and not about the two of them locked together by one problem.' This is absolutely wrong. The doctor has no moral challenge; he violates his ethical responsibility. The reason he does so is interesting, but his is not the problem the film is about. That Ebert conflates the two says something about his own beliefs, but nothing of the film. He then writes, of episode nine, 'She did the wrong thing (adultery) and the right one (ending it); his spying was a violation of her trust- and then there is an outcome where pure chance almost leads to a death, which was avoidable if either had been more honest.' Well, no. There is no chance- pure or not, in the lover's pursuit of the wife nor in the husband's decision to suicide, and Ebert wholly misses the importance of the husband's impotence and the male ego. In the Christian Science Monitor, critic David Sterritt claimed the cinematography was 'expressive,' even though it is the antithesis of that, as it is very static. Perhaps he confused these films with the Three Colors Trilogy? Of course, just as literary critics can be subject to off the rack blurbery, so can film critics, many of whom were as dense as Ebert and Sterritt.But, it's not just American critics who miss out on the film's import. A Polish-Canadian film scholar named Christopher Garbowski, wrote in his book, Krzysztof Kieslowski's Decalogue Series, that the characters share a conscious or half-conscious desire to 'transcend the details of their existence.' Again, wrong! Simply desiring a move away from one's lot is not in and of itself 'transcendence.' When I read such things I sometimes wonder if a) the critics have even seen or read whatever thing it is they're reviewing, and b) do they even know the definitions of half the words they use? Yet, to be fair, critics are not the only ones who can botch assessments of works of art. The great American filmmaker Stanley Kubrick offered this treacle about The Decalogue: 'These films have the very real ability to dramatize their ideas rather than just talking about them. They do this with such dazzling skill, you never see the ideas coming and don't realize until much later how profoundly they have reached your heart.' One of the very reasons this series fails the 'masterpiece' litmus test is because there are too many times you can see exactly what is coming. The most obvious times are in episodes one, five, and eight, where the ends are known within the first few minutes, even though determinism is not central to the series as a whole, which refutes the argument that this blatant obviousness was intentional.The Decalogue is its own best explanation, but what it conveys is not always the best it could be. Such is the lot of all art. But, without its failures and successes, the greatness that Kieslowski achieved in his final portion of his career would not have been so sublime. Failure and success can thus be both complex and simple. Discerning the two from the two is called criticism.
Ten television drama films, each one based on one of the Ten Commandments.The series is Kieslowski's most acclaimed work, has been said to be "the best dramatic work ever done specifically for television" and has won numerous international awards, though it was not widely released outside Europe until the late 1990s.Today (2015) there is no shortage of deep, moral drama on TV. It is a medium that is finally coming into its own with such shows as "True Detective". But in 1989, the Poles were treated to something just as good, long before anyone in America took TV seriously.Each of these films (and they can rightly be called ten rather than one) is worth seeing, and they are all eerie and gloomy in the right way. The Facets DVD is a little murky and this might be improved, but it is no less great because of that.


                
While I watched this movie ("Decalogue I"), I thought of what the Apostle Paul wrote to the Corinthians: "Now we see but a poor reflection as in a mirror; then we shall see face to face. Now I know in part; then I shall know fully, even as I am fully known" (1 Corinthians 13:12).I had been taught at schools (and sometimes at seminary) that I should know fully by studying and researching harder, even though I knew in part at best. Pawel's father was like that. He trusts in computers and rationality more than in the Infinite. And he is a physics professor who asks his students and his son Pawel to believe in science fully.We need to be both spiritual and rational, but during the modern era, human persons placed too much emphasis on rationality and science. Spirituality was kicked out of this modern era. We put God after science and let Him come into our lives only when we needed Him desperately<U+0097>just like Krzysztof ran to the church in protest and despair. We haven't been in a healthy relationship with God.Why don't we pray? It is because we still put our trust in science, and we believe that we feel safe as long as we have the right science and smart computers. Right now we live in a post-scientific era.We don't want to agree with it, but we tend to live our lives like we want to keep the rephrased commandment: "Thou shalt have no other gods but science." What's the result? We fall down. And we can't come home, just as Pawel couldn't. The computer wasn't right. Science can't be always right. But God is always right and true. If I put God at the center of my life and put science around Him, I will live a balanced life. If God is not at the center of my life, I will be in trouble<U+0097>and science can't help me get out of trouble.However, I still remember that we live in a post-Christian era. That sounds paradoxical!


                
In the 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die book lists this ten part series made for Polish television as one single film, supposedly one of the episodes, I watched it all and I'm glad I did, from director Krzysztof Kieslowski (The Three Colours: Blue; White; and Red). The ten hour long films each are themed around The Ten Commandments, also called the Decalogue i.e. that Moses brought down from Mount Siani, the stories and characters are not connected, but they all have this in common. Part 1, "I am the Lord thy God; thou shalt have no other God but me." sees Krzysztof (Henryk Baranowski) and his ten year old son Pawel (Wojciech Klata) spend most of their time on their computer, and for Christmas Pawel is given a pair of ice skates, and the computer informations calculates a lake will be frozen and stable, but he breaks through - the computer is this "other God". Part 2, "Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain." sees pregnant Dorota Geller (Krystyna Janda) wanting elderly Doctor (Aleksander Bardini) to tell her good news about her husband who is gravely ill, if he dies she may abort the baby who is fathered by another man, I'm guessing the "God in vain" thing is to do with her playing God to the unborn child. Part 3, "Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy." set on Christmas Eve sees taxicab driver Janusz (Daniel Olbrychski) leaves his house and Wife (Joanna Szczepkowska) to help the woman he had an affair with three years ago, Ewa (Maria Pakulnis) to find her husband, but she was lying and wanted to see Jaucsz but he parts with her, obviously Christmas is the "sabbath day" he should be with her family and not his ex mistress. Part 4, "Honour thy father and thy mother.", young Anka (Adrianna Biedrzynska) has lived with her father Michal (Janusz Gajos) since her mother died when she was a baby, they've always been more like friends, but things may change when she finds a letter from her mother for her that may concern her true father's identity, but she wrote her own version of a letter, and instead of finding out what the real one said, they burn it in the end, obviously she is "honouring" her father and keeping things the way they are. Part 5, "Thou shalt not kill.", a shortened version of A Short Film About Killing, this sees killing from two sides, good and bad, we see Lazar Jacek (Miroslaw Baka) is the serial killers who murders innocents, and then when he is caught he is sentenced the death by hanging, so it is both legal and illegal killing. Part 6, "Thou shalt not commit adultery.", a shortened version of A Short Film About Love, sees nineteen year old post office worker Tomek (Olaf Lubaszenko) spying on his opposite neighbour, thirty something Magda (Grazyna Szapolowska), through her window with his telescope, eventually they meet and spend some time together, but he may not actually want to do anything with her, he slits his wrist, and returning says he will not be peeping anymore, the "adultery" is probably on her part. Part 7, "Thou shalt not steal.", sees recently quitting twenty two year old university student Majka (Maja Barelkowska) take away six year old daughter Ania (Katarzyna Piwowarczyk) from her parents Ewa (Anna Polony) and Stefan (Wladyslaw Kowalski), but as time goes by she cannot cope with the responsibilities, Majka was formally told to pretend the little girl was her sister until she walked away, obviously the "stealing" is the kidnap. Part 8, "Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbour.", sees elderly university professor Zofia (Maria Koscialkowska) meets Elzbieta (Teresa Marczewska) from New York, visiting Warsaw, and during a lecture there is told a true story of a woman who refused to shelter a little girl during World War II, Zofia realises Elzbieta is the girl grown up, she was forced into lying to German about being Jewish or something, this I'm guessing is the "false witness" thing. Part 9, "Thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's wife." sees doctor Roman (Piotr Machalica) who is impotent loves his wife Hanka (Ewa Blaszczyk) too much, but because they are not getting on well recently he allows her to find a lover, but when she does find Mariusz (Jan Jankowski) he spies on her and becomes increasingly jealous, to the point when he attempts suicide riding his bike off an edge, but he survives to hear her on the phone, I guess the new boyfriend is the one "coveting". Part 10, "Thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's goods." sees brothers Artur (Zbigniew Zamachowski), part of the punk group City Death, Jerzy (Jerzy Stuhr) have recently lost their father, and in his possessions are a stamp collection, it is only after they have been sold off for hardly any money that they find out they are actually worth millions, they do everything they can to get them back for the money, even sacrifice a kidney, it is a father rather than a neighbour, but it does not matter. Each episode in the series has its own reasons for being very watchable, mostly with the dark or tragic turns, it is certainly a collection to be recommended, I will admit parts 3 and 10 are possibly not as good, but overall it is hard to pick a favourite part, it is all pretty much highly watchable. Very good!
