I am a student and my field id English creative writing. Apart from my classes and all of the material that is given to me I do dabble by following contemporary writers and studying their methods.After seeing the films: "A Few Good Men" "Charlie Wilson's War" and "The Social Network" I. having been too young to watch "The West Wing" when it was on TV noticed a pattern in these films and made the link, the connection that made me find these films interesting, compelling and entertaining, Aaron Sorkin.I have since, and this is just for the past two years, found and watched everything that Sorkin has produced. His fast-paced overly intelligent yet humbled (in many humorous ways, think of Josh meeting Jzoey Lucas with a mad hangover) characters capture and interest me to no end. I have spent many hours reading his scripts and studying his methods of building and creating characters to be some of the most intelligent people in America (story form) while also giving them "the human element" Now that I have gotten the nerd fanatics out I must say that I love, oh wait, sorry: LOVE "The West Wing". I have watched the entire series through twice, however I must admit a fall off when John Wells took over the reigns however, he did have an excellent foundation to work with.I have been a member of IMDb for about three years now and I have never written a review. I read them all the time to see what other people thought about certain films or what they got out of a story, I find that many of these reviews compliment Martin Sheen's fantastic portrayal of President Josiah Bartlett but I am hard pressed to find reviews that compliment John Spencer! The real love story of this series is the relationship between Josiah Bartlett and Leo McGarry. John Spencer brings such a powerful presence and a stimulating performance to every scene that demands such an abundance of respect from the other characters. John Spencer cuts through the other characters with such precise and direct morality that there is no doubt that when he has spoken that he is correct and the argument is over. (I am not taking anything away form any of the other actors I simply don't see enough respect being paid to Mr. Spencer).Specifically I will direct your attention to the scene where Leo is talking to Vice President Hoynes and Hoynes refers to Bartlett as Leo's "friend". An amazingly powerful scene and within that statement Leo confesses his adoration, support and love for his best friend and The President.Sorry it is so long, Thanks for reading, Eric
I just started watching this show 5 days ago. My family received the first 3 seasons on DVD and I put it in and started watching. I'm on the 14th episode of the third season now, and having sat here for 36+ hours watching, I must say this show is intelligent, witty, funny, reasonable, has wonderful acting and actors, writing, and is a great look into the White House and the government of this country.I'm only on the 3rd season and I don't know how long it will take for the others to come out on DVD (as i won't be watching the show on TV, since i don't want to miss anything) but up to this point, I LOVE this show, the characters and will continue to watch it at any opportunity available to me.


                
I first caught "The West Wing" for two reasons: 1) our school was AGAIN on strike and 2) I had a crush on Annabeth Gish from "The X-Files", and I'd heard she was going to be in the Season 5 premiere. I watched a few eps on Bravo to get a little background so I wouldn't come in completely cold (my very first ep was "Let Bartlet Be Bartlet", which is still in my top ten). It took me awhile to get used to Aaron Sorkin's writing style, but by this point, it's my absolute favorite show.I think that the idiot Republicans who b**** about the "liberal bias" are, well, idiots. The show is written by a very openly liberal guy, so why are you surprised? It's not like AS is a Republican, and NBC forced him to write a "liberal" show. THEN you might have a case for complaining. Besides, very few Republican characters are presented as "evil". Besides the obvious (Ainsley Hayes and Cliff Calley), most of the other guys are presented as against the president's agenda, which DOES NOT EQUATE WITH EVIL, unless maybe you are an intolerant far-right Republican who thinks people against the war in Iraq like Martin Sheen are "evil" and "un-American" (I was for the war personally, and I'm not saying ALL Republicans). There are a few guys, like John Diehl's Claypool, or the congressman from "Bartlet For America", or Bruce Weitz and Paul Provenza, who are portrayed as rather unlikeable, but they are an aberration on this show. And most Republican view points are given a fair airing, at least. That said, there's not a whole lot I can say about this show that hasn't already been said a hundred times over. The writing, acting, and direction is arguably the best in television history, and I now prefer it to "The X-Files". Besides the marvelous starring cast (save Moira Kelly and Joshua Malina), there's also an excellent supporting cast as well, and fantastic guest casting. Tim Matheson is my favorite non-regular character as the egotistical, self-serving yet intelligent and likable Vice President Hoynes. Then there Timothy Busfield, Anna Deveare Smith, Marlee Matlin, Roger Rees, Emily Procter, and John Amos, and many other very memorable characters. My favorite one-shot guest star has to Karl Malden's Father Cavanaugh from "Take This Sabbath Day" (the death penalty episode).I think that all of the main characters do outstanding jobs. Martin Sheen is really the glue that holds the show together, so I'm glad they decided to make him a regular. He isn't THE star, but he is simply wonderful, and his interaction with the cast is a focal point of the show.The whole cast, indeed, provides us with one of the best ensembles in television history. Rob Lowe did a much better job than I expected he would with his role as Sam, the deputy communications director. Stockard Channing simply blows the doors off the place as the First Lady. Dule Hill never has a whole lot of screen time as Charlie, Bartlet's personal aide, but he usually injects a fun shot in the arm. Janel Moloney is really cute and side-splittingly hilarious as Donna, Josh eager-beaver assistant. Allison Janney as CJ, the press secretary, is a bit of a sore spot for me, however. In the first few seasons she was great, a character with intelligence and a great sense of humor. However, in recent years (and this I blame on the writing) her character has devolved into a whiny feminazi (see "The Women of Qumar"), just a notch above Mary-Louise Parker's Amy Gardner (a character I like, but most people don't). However, Janney is a talented enough actress to largely overcome this. Richard Schiff is fantastic as Toby Ziegler, the prickly, mumbly Communications Director. And then there's John Spencer as my favorite character, chief of staff Leo McGarry, a recovering alcholic, drug addict, and Vietnam vet who represses his emotions very well, but has a very deep sense of loyalty to all his friends and employees. Spencer gives a bravura performance week after week, and he is totally believable in the role. His greatest moments were his dialogue with the fired White House staffer in "Take Out The Trash Day", and the very end of "Bartlet For America" (of course). Wonderful actor. And then there's Bradley Whitford, as the egotistical but good-natured Josh Lyman, Leo's deputy, who is as every bit as loyalistic as Leo. (BTW, I hope that Josh and Donna NEVER get together; remember Mulder and Scully on "The X-Files", anyone?) Whitford starred one of the best episodes ever, "Noel", where he overcame his bout with PTSD. And of course, Martin Sheen I've already commented on. Moira Kelly and Joshua Malina are fine actors, but they were given rather poor characters to work with, and just didn't fit in to the fabric of the show. As to the departure of Sorkin: certainly the show has declined in quality, is less humorous, and there have been a good amount of stinky episodes this past year ("Access", anyone?), but Season Five of "The West Wing" is still almost infinitely better than anything else on TV. "7A WF 83429", "The Stormy Present", "The Warfare of Genghis Khan", "An Khe", the rightfully well-loved, Sorkinesque "The Supremes", "Gaza", and "Memorial Day". BTW, quit ragging on Gary Cole as the new VPOTUS, guys, just because he was in "Office Space". Tim Matheson was Otter in "Animal House", and I didn't any of you bring that up when he first showed up.My favorite episodes are "Take This Sabbath Day", "And It's Surely To Their Credit", "Lord John Marbury", "A Proportional Response", and "Noel". I'm sorry I didn't too much deeper, but really, what could I say about this show that everyone else here hasn't already.A bazillion stars for the greatest show in television history IMO.


                
As many, many other reviewers have said (and others have agreed with) this is as good as TV gets ... period. I don't think there is a better show ever to tell the truth and perhaps that's because Aaron Sorkin's newest show only has one season under its belt so far. Perhaps after seven years it will top even this monumental achievement in television but it has quite a challenge ahead of it.This series set a standard for sharp rhetoric and quick, clever interplay between characters as well as creating the "walk and talk" scene where often short meetings take place between characters as they walk from their office (or other location) to a scheduled meeting. This gave the scenes a physical rhythm to go with the verbal rhythm of the witty "patter" (for lack of a better word to portray the beautifully rhythmic feel of the scripted lines). The lines nearly could be song lyrics as the syllabic beat and witty wordplay made for fast and tightly-filled scenes that sometimes could almost need two viewings from which to pull all the information you needed.And while this show is listed as a drama, which it is, it could also be very funny on many levels. Often the level of embarrassment set at the heights of the White House are used as comedic tools and thinking of how embarrassing a simple error on our every day level can be (assuming we're not in the daily international eye), placing the same error on a White House level certainly can make you cringe yet laugh as you watch one unfold in the show (Donna Moss was often a wonderful character for this to happen to). But also, as in the episode "Galileo" when contact with a Mars space probe is lost that has been tied into a televised "classroom" hosted by President Bartlet, the President explains that if someone wanted to see a real screwup, they should "come up here and see how the big guys really do it" (for a rather close paraphrase I believe).It's also another nice aspect of the show that they show these people to be human. I know they're human in real life but how many times do we think of them that way? Not many really ... at least not in the way The West Wing showed them to be and really, that is how they are (unless they are to ungodly pompous and arrogant to be believed ... which of course those offices are filled with somewhat regularly and unfortunately). Also however and unfortunately, the concern and humanity of this administration is not shown nearly enough in the real political arena. I know, I know, there are many ways in which they simply cannot be in real life. Or at least cannot seem to be in real life. But that's another conversation I suppose.I watch this entire series through every couple years or so it seems, perhaps more often even. It really is that good. If you haven't watched it or haven't watched it in some times or didn't watch consistently the first time it was broadcast, I encourage you to treat yourself to a television show that is every bit as good as the best film you've ever seen ... imho at least. :)
Allow me to gush. I absolutely love this show. I can't really convey how much I like this show. To say that I think that it's the best show I've ever seen would not be exaggerating. For those who haven't seen it, The West Wing is about the administration of President Jeb Bartlett (D, NH). What makes this show special is an amazing combination of writing and a perfect ensemble cast.
Before I get into the detailed character rundown, let me say this: there is something common to all of these characters, something that is a large part of what makes this show great: All of these characters are extraordinarily intelligent (well, compared to the common person; maybe all White House staffers are like this), have incredible recall, and have wonderful senses of humor and timing. (Yes, I know. We can thank the writers for that. That's the point here, though, isn't it?) Martin Sheen (playing President Bartlett) makes, in balance, quite the likeable President. I say "in balance" because there are times when you find him annoying or condescending. But, well, you'd kind of expect that of a President, no? He is brilliant, sarcastic, funny, and has a great dry sense of humor. He is, of course, compassionate (I mean, he's a Democrat, right?). He's been shot. His Vice President doesn't like him much. Oh yeah, and he also has MS. Leo McGarry is the White House Chief of Staff. John Spencer seems to land a lot of these roles, probably because he's perfect for them. Looking at him, you just know he's a good authoritative man who's worked in the government in some capacity for most of his life. He's a solid man, one you can always run to, who will provide guidance and leadership. Sounds like a perfect Chief of Staff, doesn't it? Leo's Deputy Chief is Josh Lyman, portrayed by Bradley Whitford. Josh is the... softest... person of the staff, in my assessment. That doesn't mean he's a wuss. It just means that he seems to lack the harder edges that most of the rest of the staff has. This doesn't diminish his passion or his dedication or his willingness to fight in the least. It's very hard to explain. Toby Ziegler is the Communications Director, and is played by Richard Schiff. You might recognized Mr. Schiff as one of those "that guy" actors. This is by far his biggest role, and damn, he's good at it. Toby crafts the President's words, and is one of the major players in the White House staff. He is also the brooder of the staff. If there is something deeply troubling about which to worry and fret and develop angst, Toby's going to be the one to do it best. Rob Lowe, making an impressive comeback from his unfortunate incident, makes a brilliant Sam Seaborn, Deputy Communications Director, Toby's second-in-command. In a cast of characters which all possess an impressive memory and ability for recall, Sam stands out. He has a near encyclopedic memory. He's also the geekiest character on the show, and I mean that in the endearing way. Allison Janney plays CJ Cregg, the White House Press Secretary. She fills her role in the White House administration with an amazing amount of grace under pressure. (Trust me, in this administration, the White House Press Secretary is almost always under pressure.) I can't even begin imagining doing her job, much less doing it as well as she does. I'd fly off the handle about 9,000 times a day. Dule Hill portrays Charlie Young, who is quite possibly my favorite character on the show. Charlie is President Bartlett's aide, and as such, doesn't have the impressive pedigree that the rest of the crew has. In fact, he showed up at the White House looking for a job as a courier when he got tossed upstairs. But, just because Charlie doesn't have a wall full of degrees, don't write him off. Charlie has expressed amazing integrity and fortitude, and regarding his intelligence... well, Sam was once so impressed by hints of Charlie's mental aptitude that he asked, "Charlie, just how smart are you?" (To which Charlie responded, "I got some game.")
Even the supporting characters are amazing. Emily Proctor plays Ainsley Hayes, the token Republican on staff. She's flighty, she talks a mile a minute, she's constantly flustered... and she's insanely intelligent, and she can outtalk Sam. Stockard Channing plays Mrs. Abigail Bartlett, the First Lady. Or perhaps I should say Dr. Abigail Bartlett. The First Lady's got some game of her own. Janel Maloney is Donna Moss, Josh Lyman's assistant. She's got a great sense of humor, and I keep hoping she and Josh will figure out they're supposed to be together (though, I'm also hoping they don't, you know?). Anna Deveare Smith (an amazing woman in real life) plays Nancy McNally, the National Security Advisor. She fills this historically male role with a wonderful competence. Joey Lucas, the primary political consultant used for polls, is beautifully portrayed by Marlee Matlin. Oh yeah! Oliver Platt as Oliver Babish, White House Counsel! Wonderful stuff. Oh yeah, and the show itself. Wow. This show has tension and comedy and hints of romance, and tension and comedy and... And the writing. Genius. Check out some of the quotes. And really, just give the show a chance. The next time someone tells you that there's nothing worth watching on TV, you'll have a rebuttal.


                
Most of the time, Hollywood depicts American politicians, and the President in particular, as either buffoons or unlikely action heroes. Exhibits A, B and C: Independence Day, Air Force One and Deep Impact. Thank God, then, for television, which finally enabled people to see these powerful men in a more realistic light. Real-time thriller 24, to name one show, painted a compelling, if somewhat dark portrait of US politics, and the interesting but short-lived Commander in Chief went as far as imagining what would happen if a woman became President of the United States. Neither series, however, comes close to the genius of The West Wing, which dealt with domestic and foreign problems with more precision than most news shows. Most importantly, though, it achieved the impossible: it made politics fun to watch.Created by Aaron Sorkin (A Few Good Men), who also wrote almost every episode in the show's first four seasons (more on that later), The West Wing can be seen as a small-screen continuation of The American President, since they both combine an accurate analysis of what could happen in the White House with a colorful yet believable cast of characters who are in charge of keeping audiences hooked, thanks to foolproof acting and Sorkin's trademark razor-sharp, quick-fire dialogue.What sets the series apart from the writer's team-up with Rob Reiner, though, is the fact that it focuses less on the POTUS than it does on his staff and their attempts to solve personal problems and the latest political crisis at the same time. This narrative choice is shown at its best in the very first episode, where President Josiah Bartlet (Martin Sheen) doesn't appear until the last five minutes, the preceding 35 having been carried effortlessly by Chief of Staff Leo McGarry (John Spencer) and his employees, all of whom have some defect that helps provide the fun in the show: speech-writer Toby Ziegler (Richard Schiff) is a bitter man who seems to find no real pleasure in life outside his office; his "sidekick" Sam Seaborn (Rob Lowe) accidentally slept with a call girl in the pilot; Press Secretary C. J. Cregg (Allison Janney) finds it hard to occasionally be elusive when talking to reporters; Deputy Chief of Staff Josh Lyman (Bradley Whitford) has trouble keeping his mouth shut; Leo himself is a recovering alcoholic. Even the President, as it turns out, has some secrets that could undermine the administration.That these flaws were treated with a light approach was the main joy of the show's first four years: the typical episode had the characters walk through hallways and exchange fast, usually witty opinions on the most recent problem. With very little room for subplots, the series was entirely in Sorkin's hands, his endless conversations covering any lapses in dramatic construction at a killer pace. After all, who needed suspenseful cliffhangers (mostly employed only in the season finales) when there were the countless arguments between Toby and Josh, or the latter's impeccable chemistry with Donna Moss (Janel Moloney), or Bartlet's "loving" confrontations with the First Lady (Stockard Channing)?Problems ensued at the end of Season Four: prior to that, the only real misstep in the otherwise perfectly oiled machinery had been an out-of-continuity, 9/11-referencing episode which has no significance if deprived of its context. That, however, was and is nothing compared to Sorkin's decision to quit: the remaining three seasons failed to win the Best Drama Emmy (losing out to The Sopranos, Lost and 24 respectively), seemingly confirming that The West Wing was powerless without its creator. The fifth year did little to prove this theory wrong, and only some juicy guest spots (Mary-Louise Parker and Lily Tomlin above all) had the energy to compensate the writing staff's poor attempts to spice the generally good stories with something even vaguely similar to the traditional comedy-inclined dialogue. The difficulty was eventually dealt with at the end of the season, when the producers realized a format change was necessary: the chaotic, verbose style was abandoned in favor of a more plot-centric approach, which made the main story of the last two seasons (the choice of the new President) more poignant and the acting more affecting (Janney and Spencer in particular benefited from this transformation), making Seasons 6 and 7 the best in the show's run. The most vital shot in the arm came from television veteran Alan Alda: as the determined and charismatic Senator Arnold Vinick, he stole the entire sixth season, despite appearing in only six episodes, and won a deserved Emmy for his contribution to the final year, which saw the series at its most endearing and heart-breaking (not least because of the mandatory script changes that were made after Spencer died halfway through production of the last batch of episodes).Starting splendidly, suffering a midlife crisis and then improving, The West Wing is one of the smartest, wittiest TV programs of all time. If it weren't for the likes of Six Feet Under, The Sopranos and Twin Peaks, it could even be THE best show ever made. Such is the power of the expert writing and spot-on ensemble cast that gave life to the best presidency America never had.


                
That's right, people like this would never be put in the White House. The West Wing is an idealistic presidency where a group of people come together under the Barlett administration to, like, better the world they live in. Imagine that. The show deftly avoids being sappy or sentimental. These people know that it isn't all sunshine and roses, that they will have to fight every day and lose a lot of the time. All through this is the kind of quick witted verbal assaults that people wish they were capable of, highlighted by several different relationships. The cute and playful Allison Janney and Timothy Busfield, the excitable Bradley Whitford and the more restrained John Spencer, and the abrasive, but frequently right, Richard Schiff. The entire cast is phenomenal. At the head is Martin Sheen who plays a tough president who isn't afraid to get his hands dirty, but, more often than not, will use his well rounded speech skills to great effect.
I have nothing but praise for the West Wing. As a self-confide politics nut this programme easily appealed to me. It had a fantastic cast, including Martin Sheen who is one of my favourite actors, and the production values could easily match most movies being made. Programmes like the West Wing are a sign American Television can challenge modern cinema.As already mention the programme has a brilliant cast, and has some of America's best. As well as Martin Sheen, they are actors such as Bradley Whitmore, John Spencer, Allison Janney and the programme did reboot Rob Lowe's career. The programme has also had some excellent guest stars, such as Glenn Close, Christian Slater and Mary-Louise Parker.The drama offered in the programme is fantastic, you can see how American government works and how deals are made a broken. It is very intellectual and never attempt to dumb down. It is also has moments of comedy and can be very lighthearted which is a nice and refreshing, compared to say 24 which is never lighthearted. As the programme progressed you can also how the relationship and change and evolute.The West Wing also tackles contemporary issues, ranging from abortion, taxation, terrorism, torture etc. The West Wing is obviously political, but it still gives Republicans a fair say and show how they can argue their case. It does show good Republicans and bad Democratic, as well as Dogmatic Republicans and intelligent Democrats. My personal view in American politics is that America needs a Democratic president and I totally support Barack Obama. I also have a hatred for George W. Bush and his team.The programme also takes the most realistic approach possible, compared to 24, which can be very silly. Many political experts felt that the programme was true to real live and you can see who characters are based on, for example President Barrett was base on Bill Clinton and JFK, whilst Sam Seaborn was based on George Steponotplis. It was also very useful to me because it helped me understand American politics more and was useful during my Politics A-Level.I think it was a shame that this programme had to end and I hope that Hollywood can make more programmes of this quality.


                
"In Excelsis Deo" (First Season, Ep 10)It's almost impossible to review an entire series, so I won't try. But suffice it to say that I consider West Wing to be pretty much as good as episodic television can get. The first four seasons (guided, creatively, by the towering talent that is Aaron Sorkin) were simply stratospheric in their achievement, as evidenced by the shower of Emmys that cascaded on the show during those four years. And while John Wells is no slouch in the writing department (boy, if I had half his talent, I could win an Oscar!) there's no disputing that Sorkin was too tough an act to follow. Consequently, Seasons Five to Seven pale (unfairly) in comparison.So let's talk about the best of the best ... There are many genuinely superlative episodes of this show, especially during the first four seasons. I've lost track of the times that I have watched a scene in an episode and had to pause the DVD while I digest the brilliance of what I've just seen. I know many would vote for "Isaac and Ishmael" - a damn fine piece of writing which should be compulsory viewing for schoolkids all over the world, of every culture and faith.And you have to love the series pilot, "Pilot", when Jed tears into the rude "representatives" from the religious right ... other honourable mentions go to "Indians in the Lobby", the Josh.com episode "The U.S. Poet Laureate" and the two-parter "20 Hours in America". And I have a special affection for the episode "The Mid-Terms" in which Jed Bartlett dresses down right-wing talk-radio host Dr Jenna Jacobs for using the Bible to justify her offensive beliefs.But for me it has to be "In Excelsis Deo". Everything about that episode just ticks like a well- oiled watch. The sobering speech given by Mrs Landringham to Charlie about why she feels down during the holiday season sets us up for the heart-wrenching moment when she offers to accompany Toby to the funeral. Jed "rebuking" Toby for using his name to engineer a military funeral for a homeless ex-serviceman, then patting him on the shoulder. And how could anyone not be moved by that fabulous montage of the choir in the White House singing "The Little drummer Boy" as the immaculate US Marines perform as honour guard at Arlington for the military funeral.Writing rarely comes this sublime ...
Since its final episode in May 2006 many shows have come and gone,but very few have come close to its fulfillment.Set in the west wing of the white house, a battle ground of sorts where the meeting of minds shape America.Focusing on a few key players from the Chief of staff,Dept Chief of staff, press secretary,speech writers and the President of the US.With stories of every possible scenario involving presidential life.From assassination attempts to re-election campaigns.There are many remarkable highlights to the west wing but the one that secured its 2 terms or 7 seasons was Arron Sorkins ability to keep it fresh with unusual but factual stories that would come across the desk of POTUS. The cast which includes Rob Lowe, Allison Janney, Bradley Whitford, Richard Schiff and energetic chemistry of John Spencer(Chief of Staff) & Martin Sheen (POTUS)puts this show in a league of its own and gets my Vote as Best T.V Show of all time. 10/10
We her in Australia haven't received season 5 of the west wing yet, so we are still waiting to see what happens to Zoey after the kidnapping (18 months ago). BUT, i LOVE this show. Bradley Whitford has to play the most brilliant character on TV. We don't get Sports Night here, but i would love to see it if it can even compare to the west wing. One of my fav episodes would have to be "the leadership breakfast" when sam and josh try to start their own fire. Hilarious, "you know what we need?" "dry leaves" "dry leaves", "it's like we're one mind" "i know". the 'banter' between characters is amazing. i stumbled across this show when i was flicking channels late at night (yes a 10.30pm time slot is the best it's seen here in Aus) and everybody would rip  me off for watching a show so religiously, but i finally have my best friend and little brother hooked!Like the sopranos, this show is just amazing! there is nothing else like it anywhere. The only thing i have had luck over is that here in Aus, we've had the DVD's for about a year longer with season 3 just having been released! THESE ARE A MUST SEE!


                
It was hard to find a summary line and it's not the best, but at least there is one. I want to explain why I like this show so much, in a similar fashion/way that I've described movies that I don't like. I did put a lot of effort in those comments, so I want to take my time with this one too, because the show deserves it.I won't spoiler anything story-wise, I won't even mention what role Martin Sheen plays. That was one of the few things I knew when I started watching West Wing. And I imagine that it must have been a great beginning for those who didn't knew what was about to hit them! The show has a fast pace, so that will be something you have to get used to, but it's not like it's impossible or too much (story) in one episode. That brings us to the writing of the show. Which is fabulous! I'm not only talking about each storyline (some/many explored in more than one episode), but also the fleshed out characters. And they come with witty and intelligent dialogue. Here's a point where you could criticize the show for not being realistic. Who would talk like that and also why would they do that, while they're walking? Although I can imagine, that it would be possible, to do just that, just to save (valuable?) time! That's not enough though for a great television show/series. You have to have great actors too. And they're here. Very well casted and of course very well acted too. After watching the show you can see why many have asked Martin Sheen, why he's only acting and not doing his TV-Series Character for real! After watching only one episode, you could be excused for thinking, that it can work.The episodes are also very well directed. They're shot in a very smooth and nice way. Long camera movements and shots are included which are a testament to the actors, because that means they have to stay longer focused on the role they're playing and also have to remember (without any mistakes) their text! It is very well edited (see fast pace), so that leaves not really many points to criticize! There will be people who will objectify to a few things. Such as the pace (for some it might be too long), the fact that it's more drama than action (although often very funny, but also very touching), some will hate the dialogue (either because it's too quick or because it's not "real" enough) ... That's about everything I could think of ...... Although I can assure you that I absolutely adore the show. I fell in love with it. I can't describe it with words, but judging by the many people who have voted here (mostly like myself a high vote), most of them feel the same way. If you haven't watched it yet, shame on you! ;o) Go ahead rent/buy it and enjoy the show! :o)


                
Deteriorated after 4'th season with loss of Sorkin, Schlamme and Lowe. When the show hit it's prime it's easily the best show on television, If you care about the subject. Warning, could be boring to some people, but for it's target audience it is pure nirvana. Truly one of the best casts that have appeared on a television series. An ensemble of talent with well acted scenes that rarely focus on one character for too long. The writing has a quick, brisk flow with a poetry about it that manages to feel unique, without being "sing-songy." The difference between this and other shows is that the characters sound elitist and self-important, but unlike Sorkin's other show there is a good reason for it. Canceled because of falling ratings caused by the noticed absence of the show's founding producers and Rob Lowe leaving. (To become a senator)
I'm a Republican, and am starting to get PO'd at Martin Sheen for doing everything he can to push Bush's buttons (give it up, Bush won 4 times over). Despite that I love this show and every charecter.                Don't get me wrong about my earlier comment, Sheen is a great actor and I greatly admire his works (Apoccolipse Now RULES!) and he is just one of several great actors on the show. Rob Lowe bounces back from his scandle and is perfect as Sam Saeborn. Richard Schiff stands out in his Superb Role as Toby Ziegler. How 'bout Allison Janney as Cj Craigg, Jannel Molney as Donna Moss, Stockard Channing As Mrs. Bartlet, oh the list is endless. There's almost no flaws in this show.


                
This show exemplifies all facets of what television should be and should achieve in its medium. The writing is dramatic, yet realistic, despite those who would disagree, with its blend of the dramatic and the humorous. Aaron Sorkin knows when to pull the punches, making sure nothing is cutesy, taking note from shows like er who started fine and then turned into a hospital soap opera. The cast is first rate, finding new actors like the magnificent Allison Janney, Richard Schiff, Bradley Whitford and Dule Hill, to join familiar actors such as Martin Sheen, John Spencer and Rob Lowe. The show is truly an ensemble piece with no one cast mate outshining the others, each pulling their weight and putting their spin on things to make it all the better. The West Wing, forgetting what most shows have their sophomore year, even got better in their second season. And I can't wait until September 19 - when the third season starts- or even next Wednesday - for that matter - to see what the staff of my president will be doing. Question: Can we have a President Bartlet instead of this Bush guy?


                
As every fans knows by now, this series is being canceled. WHY? Quote: "ratings were falling in it's Sunday time slot vs wed.'s" They moved it to Sunday, the ratings started to fall, if they wanted to keep it 1 - they wouldn't have moved it, 2 - having moved it they COULD have moved it back.Yes, this is/was a good show! Unfortunately, they will probably replace it with another "Law & Order" series or rerun. Do we REALLY need over 8 hours of L & O each week? GIVE US VARIETY! I suggest that if you liked this show, email NBC and b**** them out for deliberately setting it into a time they knew would cause it to fail in.
I am from England, and although well educated I had only a smattering of knowledge regarding American Politics (I knew you could win a two horse race with less than 50% but that's about it). I am at the end of series four, as far as I can purchase on DVD, and I only started watching the West Wing about a six weeks ago. It is the best television show I have ever seen, uplifting and touching at the same time. It is also one of very few programmes aimed only at intelligent audiences. I love the writing style, and the fact that conversations are rarely explained and often not even finished (count how many times in an episode that the next line is said in your head but not on screen). If only we could make everyone in the world watch this programme and take an interest in politics. The writing, acting and directing of the show are top class, and I defy anyone to watch it and not wish that's how the world was actually run. As for the depiction of Republicans, I find that from across the pond the Republicans seem a damn sight nicer on the West Wing than in real life, give the writers a break, they never say Democrats are right, only that they believe they are. Bartlet has never refused good council. I eagerly anticipate the rest of this series. I mean really.. if anyone's got any knock off region 1 DVDs of series 5 and 6 send them to me.


                
I am a very late convert to this wonderful show, but now hooked, I am determined to see all the episodes. Who could have believed that a show about US politics could be so funny, perceptive, entertaining, moving, thought-provoking, addictive, all at once? I love almost all the characters, for various different reasons, and this is certainly an ideal administration, rather than anything like reality as we know it. A contributor said there wasn't an equivalent in British TV - may I respectfully mention the late great Yes Minister/Yes Prime Minister? Although a pure comedy, the characters of Sir Humphrey and the PM were so wonderful, dialogue so clever, political points so well put, that it's a close second (and oh so British too). The West Wing works beautifully as a comedy, but has so much more as well.


                
When I heard that Aaron Sorkin was leaving I didn't think the show could last, but this was the best season yet. Alan Alda and Jimmy Smits are both incredible. If real politicians could be as compelling as these two men, the apathy so many of us feel towards the political process might begin to fade. Unfortunately I see the future of politics continuing down the path of divisiveness and polarization that has become the American Way. At least on Television we can see a country that has statesmen willing to serve the entire public, instead of talking heads serving special interest groups. I hope that NBC will keep this wonderful show on for at least one more administration.


                
This really is the best show ever, ever, ever!!!I'm in my early teens and I cannot believe how good this show is. I love it. Bradley Whitford is amazing one of the best actors on the show along with Martin Sheen and Alison Janney. She does a great job in playing a woman in a male dominated environment.Sam, Sam, Sam, I've just heard he's leaving and really love him please please bring someone in just as good as him to replace him.


                
This review contains no spoilers. It is designed to convince you to watch the show, not to break down the plot or the characters. So read on:I felt compelled to write this review after I saw the rating it was given on IMDb compared to some other titles, which I felt was grossly unfair. This is far and away the best TV i have ever seen, and quite possibly the best I will ever see. As good as Breaking Bad, Mad Men, House of Cards and The Newsroom are (some other favorites), the West Wing blows them out of the water with its incredible characters, acting and writing (no one in the known universe can match writer and creator Aaron Sorkin for his ability to create wit, pace and depth in his writing.) Admittedly I haven't seen popular titles such as Game of Thrones, Walking Dead, The Wire and The Sopranos, but it is hard to believe anything could top this.Of course, it is important to understand that it isn't for everyone. The incredibly fast paced and witty back-and-forth dialogue may become irritating for some, especially those who like to sit down and not think too hard about what is happening on the screen in front of them. It is also very (intentionally) unrealistic. Aaron Sorkin has created a highly romanticized and optimistic view of working within the White House. You can rest assured it would be very different in reality, but that is far from the point. It is, after all, media: simply a representation of reality.If you are considering watching this show, don't be put off by the entire premise. Yes, it is about politics and set within the white house, but this in no way makes it boring or nerdy. It is much, much more about the characters and the relationships between them. And, contrary to what you may think about a show about politic, it gets seriously INTENSE. If you've seen something like Breaking Bad, it gets even more intense than that does, no exaggeration (not as consistently, mind you.) Specifically the season 1 and two finale, but most of all season 4, episode 21 'Commencement'. The most intense, gripping episode of television I've ever watched. Oh yeah, that's the other thing. It's long. Really long. 42 minutes an episode. 22 episodes a season. 7 seasons. So you'll need a fair bit of time to finish it all. But trust me, once you start, you won't be able to stop (well, if it is your type of show - as i already said, it may well not be.)Well, I think I've gone on long enough, but I just want to mention one more thing - the acting. Absolutely flawless on everyone's account. Martin Sheen is sublime as a slightly eccentric, heart-of-gold President Bartlett, Bradley Whitford is wonderful as an egotistical but lovable Josh Lyman, and Alison Janney (who won four Emmy's for acting in The West Wing) is incredible as talented, fun loving, adorable-yet-commanding C.J Cregg. I could go on for hours about the remarkable cast, but i'll leave it at three.If you are still left in any doubt, head over to the wikipedia page of lists of awards received by the west wing. It holds a number of records, such as most Emmy's awarded to a show in its first season, most number of times awarded 'outstanding drama series' (4 times, and nominated 3), and most acting nominations by regular cast members. It also ranks 4th all time for total number of Emmy's awarded to a show. Yeah, this thing has been critically acclaimed to death.Simply put, this show is the best thing to happen to T.V Go watch it. Then re-watch it. Then watch it again. It is seriously that good.


                
Long have I been thinking of how to express my surpassing joy of having watched this series, and now watching all episodes again. I've only discovered it recently. And although I'm from the Netherlands I still wonder how this show has managed to be kept from me so long. Last September or October I watched a documentary about the impact of movie- and TV-presidents on our perception of the actual president. It was in that documentary that they discussed the West Wing, I decided to watch an episode and was completely hooked!Much has been said about the absolute brilliance of this show. Finally something on television that can not only entertain us, but challenge us intellectually, inspire us and set a bar for what an administration should be like.I have long thought about which show is better, this or the other pinnacle of TV-shows: the Sopranos. I haven't decided yet. Sure this show has it's flaws. For example I thought the first season had to much relationship stuff going on. Sam with Leo's daughter, Zoey with Charlie, CJ with Danny and of course the hint of romance between Donna and Josh, it's just a bit too much and makes the West Wing a socially unrealistic environment. Luckily they backed off of that quickly. This is just an example. Simple stuff about characters like Donna, CJ and Josh bother me sometimes. And the show always balances on what is realistic, and sometimes it falls off the fence, like with the Camp David middle-eastern peace negotiations.But still, I'm only putting this up because everything that's great about this show has already been set. It is so great I'm left with two contradicting feelings. (MAJOR SPOILERS HERE) 1. If NBC ever wants to climb back to the #1 position in TV, it should better start investing in it's pinnacle shows. So why not get Sorkin (or at least Wells) and the all-star cast back and start season 8 with the Santos administration? (They should've amended the Constitution so Bartlet could go for a 3rd term, but this will do) Bartlet can appear sometime in an episode in some kind of mentor role. 2. All good things must end, and with the end of the Bartlet administration this great TV-show must end. Doing another season would probably spoil the legacy of this amazing masterpiece.I don't know what would be the better choice, but hey, it's not my call anyway.
The West Wing is the best written TV show ever. The intelligent, witty banter and character development has never been done better.


                
This is a much watch. Are you looking for something to binge... West Wing has great writing, great acting. It's entertaining for sure.


                
As a writer, I enjoy the craft of weaving stories together in a natural unforced way with occasional coincidences while avoiding contrived or ridiculous situations. It's not as easy as it sounds. West Wing is a masterpiece of temperament, humor, situations, and moving fast enough where you don't have a lot of time to analyze the validity of what's said until later- then, when you do it makes the show brilliant and re-watchable. Obviously, having actors like Allison Janney, Rob Lowe, Martin Sheen, John Spencer, Bradley Whitford, Richard Schiff, Elisabeth Moss and a season to season all-star cast of fill-in character actors makes lines come alive in a meaningful way. A lot of shows don't have the deep resources or revolving characters that make perfect episodic sense on such a high level as dealing with Governmental affairs. Subjects are touched on in real ways, from sensible situations, and yes resolved in usually a far too easy predicament- but hey, it's television. It really evolves from an infant President and his staff trying to figure out which way is up, to a resilient administration fending off all comers and issues, often picking the lesser of two bad choices, until two elections later when the show ends with the fact that the Presidency doesn't. It's a beautiful character study of the positions and operations without being too dull, annoying, dreadfully political, or harmfully bias.Watch. This. Show.
