Now that the last episode has been shown in Australia, and having very much enjoyed the show despite seeing it out of order in several different countries, I'd like to make a few general comments. Thankfully the ABC showed series six and seven weekly in blocks of two episodes without commercials; thus the pleasure was undiluted.1. Whatever inaccuracies there may have been in the depiction of White House procedure (apparently Clinton adviser Dick Morris was not impressed) and however impossibly smart everybody seemed, "West Wing" caught the essential flavour of politics, US style, where a squillion issues, some great, others trivial, all compete for attention in a complex legalistic and ponderous system.2. There is a lot of emphasis on the trappings of the "imperial presidency"- flitting around the countryside in Air Force One at a cost of about $10,000 an hour, the amazing White House protocol for almost everything, the veneration of the public for the office. Louis XIV never had it so good. But then I was brought up in a country where until recently the Prime Minister's phone number was in the phone book and he used to walk the 800 metres to work. Of course the security measures don't require much justification in the land of guns for all.3. President Jed Bartlet is indeed the liberal ideal (the show could well be called "Left Wing") but he is also a patriot, and to those of us who have to put up with the US heaving its weight around abroad this is a problem, not a matter for praise.4. The "walking heads" delivering rapid-fire dialogue are off-putting at first, but do give the show pace; compare "Commander in Chief" which is leadenly slow (and otherwise dire) by comparison. It no doubt helps to know something about how the US political system works but generally there is enough information provided to at least follow the story.5. The internal politics of the White House are downplayed; Bartlet's team are portrayed as uniformly bright, keen and loyal, both to the president and each other, and not interested in internecine conflict. Lucky Jed.6. The acting from the main players is all that one could ask for <U+0096> they emerge as real people, but then they get a lot of air time, sometimes with most of an episode to themselves. Some of the minor roles tended to be written and played as stereotypes. My favourite was Lily Tomlin as the Pres's secretary <U+0096> she acted as if she could do his job herself, although Allison Janney as CJ ran a close second.7. It must have been a fun series to create and we must thank Aaron Sorkin for the effort he made in developing this show from his "The American President" which was a piece of fluff by comparison. He got away with what must be about the talkiest show on television. Alas, things did tail off a bit after he left (after the fourth series) but the show had enough momentum to make it entertaining right to the end of Bartlet's second term, though the last few shows were rather limp.


                
With the odd series bumps.I wait always for the series to be complete before writing about it. It seems fairer to me, as sometimes these multi-year dramas start out with a bang and limp away in a shameful and ill-written manner, beaten to death by the money grubbing studios. I don't watch cable TV but purchase complete sets of DVDs when issued, thus safeguarding my own time to watch when and where I want.To me, this series remains up there with the best of all time. The punch through of multiple story lines, the camera angles, the engaging "everyday" appearing stars (no one was exceptionally beautiful), the consistent wit of the script, the daring "live" broadcast, the intelligence of the actors, and the liberal slant of the White House - eight years of truth and honor, highlighting courage and peace in our time.Martin Sheen, is, as usual, brilliant, as was John Spencer and Allison Jenney, Richard Schiff, I would go on and on. For this consistent engagement of the senses of the viewer is a rare attribute in a series of this genre. 7 Seasons of it.Some of it seemed over-written at the time (Bradley Whitford's screaming at the White House comes to mind)but his subsequent near nervous breakdown would seem to explain that. The run up to the election seemed elongated, due to other star commitments, perhaps.The part of Charlie seemed forced and odd at times, one of the characterizations that seemed to amble in and out of episodes with no particular purpose apart from the *gasp* shock of being Zoe's sort of boyfriend, otherwise he appeared monk/eunuch-like.A very "white" White house, no visible minority (and I exclude Nancy McNally) in a major part apart from Jimmy Smits at the end, no gay/lesbian/trans-gendered characters, it would have been good to see John Spencer as an "out" chief of staff.These are minor points and I don't wish to diminish a fabulous and engaging series full of the promise of a U S of A that alas, we can only hope for. 9 out 10. Spell-binding, intelligent and gripping. Bravo to all.


                
I loved this show during the Sorkin years (Seasons 1-4) but after that, even though I kept watching it in the hopes that he would some day return, it just plain sucked. It still had its moments...well, no it didn't. I've heard a lot of people try and compensate for Sorkin's absence by excusing the final three years and calling them better than they were. The fact is, I didn't give a damn about any of the new characters, and the old characters were all ruined (especially CJ).Catch the first 4 seasons if you're new to this show, but after that, just make up your own ending to the Zoey-kidnapped storyline that ends Sorkin's involvement with the show, and imagine the further adventures of these fantastic characters. 9/10 (would've been a 10, but I had to take off at least 1 point for the crappiness of Seasons 5-7).
Again and again I see people comment on the "realism" or lack thereof in this show. It's irrelevant. This is a work of dramatic fiction, however much it might base on real ideas. It's a drama about the workings of a Presidential office and the staff that runs it. As such, week after week, it's consistently one of the finest drama series ever to grace the TV airways. If you let your political viewpoint or your demand for realism get in the way of enjoying it, so much the worse for you. The academy has honored it repeatedly because it does what a good TV show is supposed to do; it entertains, it involves us with colorful, fully-drawn characters, and sometimes, wonder of wonders, it even makes us think. It's not real, people. It's a television show. Long may it continue!


                
i give West Wing a nine out of ten. i know a lot of people have said this, but after Sorkin left the show it was still one of the best shows on TV, but it was no longer clearly the best show on TV. the first four seasons are fantastic. magnificent. entertaining and insightful. from then on, they are very good. that is really the only way to describe it. the show has a superb cast, you look at every main character and think there is no way they could have done a better job, both in casting and in the work the actors themselves do on the show. the direction is great, the editing is great, and the writing (once again, in the first four seasons, though still great afterwords) is the best ever in a dramatic series that i have seen. This show is right up there with Scrubs, The Shield, Arrested Development, 24 and others as the best shows on television in both recent memory and television history. Bradley Whitford, Richard Schiff, Allison Janney, Martin Sheen, Aaron Sorkin, John Spencer and the rest of the team behind "The West Wing" have truly made a show for the ages.


                
This is the show that sets the standard in modern television drama now. The dialogue is uniformally excellent.  I LOVE the way they use small talk in this show.  It can be said that this show has the most fun lines in a live-action television series around today.  (It makes most of the sit-coms seem simplistically pathetic by comparison!)  This is almost the perfect textbook demonstration of how to put an intelligent drama series on that handles top current affairs and personal issues without getting too maudlin or preachy.  Top marks all round.


                
There's no question about it, The West Wing is the greatest drama I've ever seen on TV, period. I'm a fan of Lost and Buffy but would never put them ahead of this (I've also taken a look at The Sopranos and Six Feet Under). Having reviewed the first two seasons on DVD (I've still got most of season 3 to re-watch), my belief that the show is a minor miracle has been reaffirmed. The consistency is amazing- no weak spots at all in season 1, every episode is either very good or great. Season 2 has two episodes I considered weak but it's also mostly strong. You may be asking, strong how? I'm about to explain.A major part of The West Wing's appeal to me is the subject matter of politics and government. The show centres on a Democratic White House. I'm not American, but I am interested in how the world works and I recognize the US is a huge influence on that. I don't think it's always been a positive influence, but it can be- with Democrats in particular, there's hope. I am liberal, so is this show. The West Wing is a vision of how government can be a noble endeavour, how good people can make a difference. Bureaucracy is usually a dirty word these days, but The West Wing takes a wholly different view of it. That might be criticized as being too optimistic, too naive. But it inspired me to try government work and I think some of the people that I met at that department are like that. Unfortunately others, including the ones I had to work for, are not. Still, it's not like The West Wing characters are perfect. At the end of season 2 the administration is distressed over the cover-up of the president's illness. The president is about to give up- but then he realizes there are still battles worth fighting.This show's magnificent achievement goes deeper than the subject matter and general outlook, of course. The West Wing is written wonderfully, with excellent characterization. One of the things about this show that I love the most is that the characters are smart, and they have smart conversations, which are stimulating and compelling. The show, as only a smart show can, finds drama in dialogue- the "walk and talks" have become legendary. The trivia peppered in the dialogue may be trivial but it's always interesting. (Is it true more people are killed by vending machines than wolves? Either way I'm hooked!) The wit and humour is plentiful. The West Wing sprinkled comedy in with the drama and the result is a complete meal- a nutritious main course with delicious dessert.That said, the show's not perfect. Sometimes stories emerge only to be tossed aside- Leo comes under pressure when his alcoholism and drug addictions come to light, but in later episodes it's suddenly not an issue anymore. One major season 1 character, Mandy, completely disappears in season 2: no explanation. The greatest, most emotional episode of the series, Noël, gives Josh post-traumatic stress disorder, but it's not really expanded upon in the rest of season 2. And I boycotted the show completely after I heard Zoe got kidnapped- that cliché action drama betrays the character and dialogue-driven drama of the first groundbreaking seasons. Nevertheless, The West Wing is mainly an momentous achievement in television history, worthy of multiple wins of the Outstanding Drama Series Emmy.
The trials and tribulations of the Democrat Bartlet Administration, spanning two terms, issues great and small, intimate problems, political maneuvering, an arguably the highest sustained quality ever seen on a TV screen. Aaron Sorkin pulled out all the stops on this one, creating unforgettable characters and drawing admirable actors to portray them. He also made us care about the interpersonal dynamics, something hard to sustain over a seven-season running time, without short-changing the political angle or bogging things down with explanations. As a result, The West Wing's appeal extends far beyond US borders.As an American viewer, your enjoyment of such a politically-themed show will be affected by your own politics: the Bartlett camp - and Sorkin the writer - are unashamedly liberal and genuine, and while the show is often rightly praised for its dialogue, it was hard to escape the odd sermon here and there. In all fairness, this is balanced later in by giving us very likable antagonists in Republicans Walken (John Goodman) and Vinick (Alan Alda), and being so prescient as to the evolving political landscape: the final election race weirdly anticipates the candidates, themes, and sometimes language of 2008.Check it out for yourself: it might sometimes be too smart or idealistic for its own good, but it definitely has more brains and heart than most shows out there.


                
We're quite international (4 nationalities) followers of this series. Saw the 1st season on very late french TV, dubbed. Were intrigued straight away.Finished buying all the seasons on DVD, are now waiting for the last (7)one to come out. Because one has to hear it in the American language, dubbed it loses much of the power of the text. The witty, fast dialogues are fantastic, hard to follow in the beginning, but we're reviewing the series now for the 3rd time and discover things we hadn't seen before. The glimpse behind the white House scenes is also great, because as non US people we do learn quite a bit about the US political system, although of course we realize it's all fiction and many things do not work this way in reality. Actors great, writers great and getting Alan Alda as an extra treat was great (we are avid fans of the old MASH series).This is the way politics should work, liberal and social feeling, but unfortunately the real world is different from this very, very, good series about US politics.


                
"THE WEST WING," in my opinion, is a pure definition of must-see TV! Despite the fact that I've never seen every episode, I still enjoyed it. It's hard to say which episode is my favorite. However, I get a kind of funny feeling in my stomach whenever a world crisis occurs. As a matter of fact, I think just about every single episode I've seen is touching. Everyone always gave a good performance, the production design was spectacular, the costumes are well-designed, and the writing was always very strong. In conclusion, even though it can be seen in syndication now, I strongly recommend you catch it just in case it goes off the air for good.


                
There are many reasons why "The West Wing" is my favorite show ever, in fact there are far to many to explain here but I'll try.1) Believable Characters: Far too often the characters that are on television today are portrayed as always having the correct answer to any moral dilemma that crosses their path and they have even the most complex of situations successfully resolved within a half an hour.This is simply not the case in "The West Wing" these characters have to deal with serious moral dilemmas including weather or not to bail out an economically struggling country in a time of crisis, and dealing with the emotional/psychological aftermath of the death of a loved one.2) Great Values: So many of the characters of "The West Wing" exhibitor exceptional morals and good value systems. These characters are typically loyal, brave, honest, funny, and if someone is hurting someone that they count as a friend in any way they close ranks and eliminate the problem.3) Character Driven Drama: As a result of all the characters on "The West Wing" being so complex the possible story lines are nearly endless. Honestly if the network had not cancelled the show so prematurely there is a good chance that it may be entertaining people for years to come.


                
If all Democrats were as benevolent and altruistic as the characters in the Bartlett administration, I would be one. As it is, I consider myself a moderate with right leanings. The rather extreme polarization of the two major parties in this country has disenchanted me from both of them. I love how the Bartlett camp cares deeply about the American people, both collectively and individually. I don't like it so much when they occasionally villify Republicans and Christian groups. As a political drama, it's about the best I've ever seen, if sometimes flawed and overly partisan. Would that all politicians were such men and women of integrity, and mostly moral.


                
I wasn´t paying too much attention during the first episodes but my interest grew stronger as I was watching...
I always liked politics but it is the only realistic series that I have seen so far. 
Each season is bringing us in a new case the President has to deal with in the most diplomatic way. The episode that I enjoyed the most is the one in which we can see people who actually worked at the White House comment what we see on the screen. My second favorite is ´The debate´ in the last season that I found very realistic and passionate.
My only recommendation is to dedícate your full attention to each scene as they deserve it.


                
I bought this TV show because I am bored and I like wit. Apparently this show has that, hence why I am watching it. I am four episodes in. TH=he TV show is quite old making the resolution not so great. I like a show that has good definition but in this case I will not complain. THe show is fast paced and I don't like that. However, the content is funny. Its not just funny but it reflects politics and I personally think politics is a little funny because it thinks its serious and better yet, the people think it is more serious than what it (politics) thinks it is. I have no doubt that this show incorrectly reflects policy but TV has a habit of doing that with all things.Now I am not about to claim to know I meaning of life because I do not believe there is one but! if there is one it would consist of this show, that is not to say I believe this show is the meaning of life.... how ever something is the meaning of life, I am just not sure what it is but I know it is something.... I think we can all come to the conclusion that politics may govern it but politics is not it so that being said, if, you, are, one of those who are currently searching for the meaning of life, I can confidently confirm that this show is not it. This show is no more than a joke which is what it is meant to be. That is respectable in its own right but we must ask ourselves is politics no more than a joke?If so we both can complacently concede that life up until this point, as far as we know, is a joke.I now on to the third season and I most certainly enjoyed the relationship CJ has with two turkeys and her passionate request for their pardon. On a more serious note I also enjoy the thought out themes that are certainly connected with reality.Ainsley Hayes is also brilliant, I like her idiotic humble attitude which fails to mock Christianity while every guy in the house swoons over her. Often God is ignorantly but cunningly attacked by the intelligent wit of men like Bartlett and that to is curiously interesting.


                
The West Wing (TWW) is an amazing product. It was assembled meticulously and accomplishes its various missions. I love some of those missions and hold others out at arms' length.It's fun and frolicsome. I can't think of another theatrical product about which I can simultaneously say that it was an enormous make-work program for talented artistic people, and that I'd not have it any other way. All the pieces fall into place, and you're swept along with the pageantry.I can also see that the producers and directors had a prime directive: To maintain just enough aesthetic distancing so as to avoid an accusation of pedestalizing figures who are, after all, functionaries in a democratic republic--that is to say, doing the boring, plodding work of building, tweaking, and managing the systems that make it possible for folks to conduct their lives, and do it so well that folks are unencumbered by the intrusive shadow presences of the architects of those systems.But, dammit, the story arcs and portrayals occasionally fly under my radar and niggle their ways into the tabernacle of my heart. And when that happens, I resent the producers for falling off that side of the tightrope and letting something like emotional propaganda leak out of the process.But, in the end, it's my call. I decide how to metabolize the product. And I generally wind up a little smarter about the basic outline of real-world governance, and rather in awe of the vision, and its highly reticulated production, which produced such an amazing theatrical product.Enjoy it. But watch yourself, in the process! Don't let it convince you for a second that you're watching The Lives of the Secular Saints!


                
The West Wing is the best politically based TV show to ever air. It triumphs over the award winning House of Cards in every way imaginable. The show centers around a base of political characters with few changes. We get to see the rise and maturity of characters right there, episode to episode. With outstanding performances from Martin Sheen and Bradley Whitford as Jed Bartlet and Josh Lymann the void left in season 7 by the untimely passing of John Spencer really carried the show over the finish line. The West Wing sets out to document two full presidential terms and does so with class and ease. Overcoming on screen and off screen trials and tribulation you're with the cast the whole way. If it's Jed Barlets MS or the very real passing of John Spencer you're there with the cast. You rise with them and you fall with them, the making of any good show is just that. The West Wing is a real masterclass. Despite the rise and fall of Aaron Sorkins personal life throughout the West Wing it never lost its charm, its class or its wit. It is one of the few consistently good TV shows with arguably no bad season.Sure, we would of all liked to see the next 8 years, the trials and tribulations of Josh Lymann, Donna Moss and President Santos but it ended perfectly. It was a happy ending for the characters, one that we were never sure was going to come.
This is quite simply the greatest TV show I have ever seen. Not only that, it has ruined me for other shows as nothing I have tried to watch since has measured up.The characters are fantastic, both as individuals and in their chemistry with each other. The dialogue is fast-paced, witty and clever. The show deals with many important topics about the American political system as a whole and others of more global importance. It can leave you in a state of hysterical laughter or on the verge of tears. It was also not afraid to take chances such as in the live debate episode which consisted entirely of a presidential debate and did not feature a single original cast member.It is not without its flaws however. There are some story lines which are built up as being huge events but simply fizzle out to nothing and one or two characters also seem to disappear almost without a trace. These are forgivable though. My biggest issue however is that for the final three seasons there are some significant changes to the shows cast and structure (most notably the loss of Rob Lowe as Sam Seaborn) as well as changes to the writing staff including the loss of show creator Aaron Sorkin which meant the show was just not the same afterwords.The first four seasons are pretty much perfect (high praise, I know) and had the show managed to maintain this standard to the end I would have easily rated 10/10. The final three seasons were still very good but the show had lost something. I would still however consider this as essential viewing and would recommend it to anyone!
Out of all the shows to take place in the decade of 2000-2009, it's clearly one of the best shows of that time frame. The best of the network shows for sure with only cable shows like The Wire and The Shield ahead of it IMO.One of the most intelligent and poignant shows to be put into production, dealing with real issues as they affect the highest office in the country. Not only do you get to see what the President does every day but also his Chief of Staff, Deputy Chief of Staff, Communications Director and Press Secretary.Great overall cast and excellent writing done on this show by Aaron Sorkin.


                
Creator Aaron Sorkin's world is just that – a world of his creating, an embellishment of beliefs and realities that are filtered through his own imagination. As such, it's possible not to 'fight' "The West Wing" and just accept it for what it is, a simply brilliant tour-de-force piece of writing, acting and high-octane politico-drama, centring on the White House, written by liberals for the benefit of the western world.I say that advisedly: I can imagine that many, many groups worldwide (including much of Europe) would find this show insufferably smug about America's sense of itself; the right wing will be tearing out their hair at the way in which republicans get a look-in only as manipulative game-playing 'anti's; other departments of the American political machine will be gaping at the way in which it appears to posit that the entire country (sorry, "the free world") is run by, er<U+0085> the Chief of Staff, the Communications Director and some speech-writers. When I hear the swirly music I know I'm about to get another lesson in American democracy (argggh!); and I'm not sure I quite agree with reviewers who feel that the complex stories don't have 'pat' neat endings: I think they do have very unlikely neat endings, but the writing is so sophisticated that this isn't obvious – but it's hard not to feel that when the President makes another "difficult" decision and looks "bad" doing it, your strings haven't been pulled just a bit (he falls only to rise up again in glory in the next segment).But enough sniping, I love this show: the refreshingly left-wing liberal politics, the quality of the writing, the relish of the actors as they get their teeth into rapid-fire 1940s style rat-a-tat-tat dialogue usually performed on the move; I love the characterisations, particularly Abby Bartlett, Toby Ziegler and Danny Kincannon. So, watch it for great, witty drama; don't allow the style to push your annoyance buttons – it's a style, not an attempt at any kind of reality. I'm happy enough to watch the political game memorialised as highbrow and earnest, but I never allow it to blind me to the fact that in real life many politicians seem to me to be the very opposite of highbrow and earnest: sometimes scarcely-intelligible, extremely fallible, vainglorious human beings, and any lofty ideals they once had seem to be quickly pushed out of them by the sheer race and tussle of the political machine. No President ever made as many good, and as few poor, choices as Bartlett does. It may be news to Americans, but no one else in the world actually *likes* to think of the President of the USA as "the leader of the free world" (which is how Bartlett is constantly described during the show). I suspect that those outside the US aren't excessively grateful to the US for their 'freedom' (and that, in any case, non-Americans may interpret freedom in a more personal, and less political, way). But the way in which this show IS extraordinary is in making the ground-level assumption that every viewer is capable of following and believing in high level intellectual political discussion. In this it's a triumph. Check out Sorkin's precursor show "Sports Night"; and younger viewers may be interested in glimpses of Martin Sheen's acting excellence as a much younger actor in "Badlands" and "Eagle's Wing". But if the glamorous sheen of "The West Wing" is a bit much for you cynics, "In the Loop" is a masterful British antidote.


                
To get across the point just how much I enjoyed this show, saying something about myself will help. Reading a review like this would have helped me. I'm 20 years old, live in Scotland and I have no clue about politics. Seriously, I had no idea what a Republican or a Democrat was when I started watching this show.I can barely put into words how good this show is. The cast is exceptional, the characters funnier than any other show I can name and the chemistry between them is incredible.The politics isn't the most important part of the show, despite it being in the White House, so if politics doesn't interest you or you don't really understand the dynamics, still watch this show, you won't regret it.


                
I really think West Wing is one of the best drama-series I've ever seen. I've got the first four seasons on DVD now and waiting for the fifth season to arrive here in The Netherlands. I love the inside peek in the Oval Office and I think the cast is absolutely phenomenal. It's unbelievable that the Dutch TV-station broadcasts it on Sunday night at a quarter past midnight. What a shame! When you have such great material in hands you shouldn't waste it on such an ungodly hour. Oh well, I'm afraid I've become a fan and will buy all the seasons on DVD anyway. And does anyone else thinks John Spencer (Leo) grins a bit like Jack Nicholson?


                
The West Wing is Hollywood's version of life in Washington D.C. with a beautiful cast of accomplished actors and actresses but it's nowhere near the behind the scenes version of the White House's Presidential Wing. Granted, the great Martin Sheen can play President Josiah Bartlett as he did playing John F. Kennedy in the mini-series. Stockard Channing is brilliant as the first lady while Allison Janney shows her acting abilities beyond the call of duty as one of his right hands. There are others like Dule Hill, Mary McCormack, John Spencer, Bradley Whitford, and Richard Schiff in an excellent supporting cast. There were also guest stars like Kathryn Joosten and Lily Tomlin. The writing was solid as the acting itself but I'm not into dramas. They suck too much energy from me. I want to leave laughing and not thinking because I do it already. In fact, I was studying political science when the show went on the air and I've lost the interest because I went towards education.


                
Aaron Sorkin has created one of the best written shows of all times. It is powerful wishfulfilment TV of a moral president trying to navigate the political system. The dialog is written in Aaron's fast flowing musicality. However the show loses its center when Martin Sheen leaves and the story no longer compelling.It's a stroke of genius to have Martin Sheen as the president. And it reintroduce Rob Lowe as a major star now more than just a teen heartthrob. The great thing about the acting is that a lot of great lesser known actors Allison Janney, John Spencer, Bradley Whitford get to shine.


                
