I got given the first season of this on DVD after expressing disbelief at the incredible hype going on about it in a certain UK newspaper. I was told that, once I'd watched it, I'd see what all the fuss was about. Well, I finally finished season 1. I won't be bothering with season 2.This is an average procedural, nothing more or less, stuffed with an array of interchangeable and forgettable characters (I couldn't for the life of me remember who was who, and soon began not to care) and clichés galore. You want the the maverick cop who plays by his own rules, speaks his mind, pisses of his stuffed-shirt, officious superiors but gets results? Whose dedication to his job has cost him his marriage and left him with a drink habit (signalled by occasional swigs at a bottle)? Well, one can never get enough of THIS sort of character, obviously, so bring him on, have him played woodenly and be done with it. You get the usual weary battery of petty, lazy, fat and/or balding officials who get in the way, just for contrast, and they all but ask for his badge and his gun and/or give him 48 hours.And so it dragged on, the self-conscious dialogue dribbling forth. You want the beautiful and ballsy lesbian cop expounding non-sensically on her reasons for being a cop to her (fortuitously gorgeous) lesbian friends? Want to see a fat cop enter his superior's office and start, for some reason, to talk about how he was masturbating in the bath? And, no, his superior does not, as in any real world, ask him to get out or get to the point, but merely smiles and nods indulgently ('cos he's an a-hole, too, geddit?). The cringe moments come thick and fast, one of my favourites being the moment that the cop I came to call Morgan Freeman interviewed the Tart-with-a-Heart (another cliché) at his desk, conveniently littered with the miniature furniture he makes (contrived plot point, there)and for some reason didn't see fit to clear away. He tells her to choose one that she likes and, yes, she chooses the cradle with the baby in it and coos, ickily.Lovers of clichés will also be able to spot who's about to get wasted in advance. If you can't....well, hand in your gun and badge.


                
I have read all the hype and been told by many that this show is a "must see" but after watching the first ten episodes I am totally underwhelmed. First off, I hated all the characters. Not one redeeming character at all. The acting was wooden and predictable as was much of the character development. The characters were also far too clichéd even down to a lesbian black cop. I also had difficulty understanding much of the dialog and what I could understand was banal and childish. Real people don't talk this way and if you believe they do then in all probability you watch far too much TV.There are much better TV crime series around.


                
So far, I watched 10 episodes of the first season I was not able to complete the series of events I have not found what attracts my attention to completed by. First, the events of the series very boring.Secondly, I see a big racist employers in the choice of most of cast in the series of black-skinned owners . Third, how to be classified as a serial drama where there is no dramatic events or events intertwined with each other are all focused on trivial case of and some losers addicted to alcohols are seeking to resolve the issue.I see that the evaluation of the series very exaggerated how this garbage you to be in the Top 250 TV series


                
I gave into to all the 10/10 reviews after overlooking this show for more than a decade. I would have been quite happy overlooking it completely if Im honest. Where did these reviews come from and why are you rating this as the best show ever made? This isn't fit to clean Sopranos shoes, not 25% as good as breaking bad, it is not even as good as the British cop drama, line of duty. Its a slow running bog standard cop drama, rarely anything atually happens throughout the whole series. Its just groundhog day over and over again.
I am up to series 1 episode 8 and close to throwing in the towel unless this seriously picks up and soon. I have only persevered up to this point as I had to pay for it.


                
1.5 episodes and I cannot be bothered. Does it get better, maybe, I just cannot sit around waiting for that?


                
