This movie was expertly directed and had tons of historical consultants, that didn't prevent it to stink to heaven high when it came one simple thing: HISTORICAL ACCURACY.Oh sure, all the military vehicles are correct, and every ribbon on the German uniform is done just right, but that's NOT what I'm talking about. The historical accuracy of the human kind is COMPLETELY MISSING.The main heroes (presuming from the title, the average everyday Germans) are portrayed as innocent 20-year olds, apparently completely oblivious to the Nazi propaganda that was avalanching Germany for the last 8 years. They are friends with a Jewish tailor and see absolutely nothing wrong it. After all, what could be wrong with having a Jewish friend in 1941's Germany, right? Then comes the soap opera and the war drama. Don't get me wrong. Both of these are expertly done, and quite engaging in their own respects. But I feel like the producers desperately tried to appeal to BOTH sexes equally, unnecessarily making some episodes too short while others too long. That however is a minor quibble.The major quibble of mine is the unabashed and naked attempt by the producers to equate the German atrocities in the WWII with those of other countries. Russia, Ukraine, and, particularly, Poland...The Polish partisans are portrayed as Jew-hating assholes and provide a nice opposite to the clean-cut, multi-kulti main characters who would never say a bad thing about Jew, much less kill him... Surely that's a historical fact... Right?? RIGHT???


                
I do not like this movie at all. OK, it was well made but it provides false picture. It is somehow obvious if one will remember that Stefan Kolditz, author of the script was East German (DDR) soldier. His "place of work" was Berlin Wall called also "border of death", where DDR troops killed about 190 peoples.First problem of the movie is that 2WW started not in 1941 but in 1939 by Nazi-German invasion of Poland. There is nothing what Nazi-German troops did before. For example Nazi German Concentration Kamp in Auschwitz was established in 1940 and before the plot starts Nazi-Germans already started to exterminate Poles and Jews there.Movie presents "normal Germans" sent to war in East. But there is no information why there was German-Russian border. Nor that Nazi-Germans and Soviet-Russians were allied till 1941.The only nation who kills Jews in the movie are Poles. How is it related to 6 million Jews and former Polish citizens exterminated by Nazi German it is secret of former communist German soldier Stefan Kolditz.Another picture. Nazi German soldier try to protect Jewish girl from local "antisemits". How Nazi Germans treated kids in conquered Eastern countries one can see on every museum from that period.History of one of five friends - German Jew is pure science fiction. He joined the partisans to fight against Nazi Germans. According to the movie he was in Poland. The problem is that mentioned places like "Raciborz", "Gliwice/Gleiwitz" or "Klodzko/Glatz" with KL Gross-Rosen from 1917 till 1939 were part of Germany!!! The border was changed after war in 1945. Poles were moved there from East Poland after 1945!!! Most of these cities contained regular Wermacht's barracks long before 1939! Scene when chief of partisans try to smell out if he is Jew is purely insult of Poles. I am not sure how Germans think that one can judge by smelling another person if he is Jew. I would rather call it antisemitism of script's author.I think that calling it new-Nazi propaganda is well grounded.
I was happy. Finally something new about WW2. And it's even made in Germany. Must be worth watching. Especially, being born in Belgium, my whole family has a history in WW2. My grandfather was forced to work in Russia, my grandmother worked for the English in Germany. I know a lot of stories, of real people. I've been in Normandy, Bastogne, Omaha, Utah, Berlin, and visited a lot of exhibitions and read thousands of books about WW2. So... I was excited. Unforunally, it didn't last very long. The acting of Tom Shilling and Volker Buch was OK to good. But Miriam Steins' and Ludwig treptes' performances are really, really bad. You don't believe a second what they're saying or doing. So far the acting. Then you have the storyline... Oh my God, so, so bad. It's so hard to say, because I really looked forward to a good TV film about the war. But nothing was good: From scene 1, where the 5 protagonists are having a minor party, you know how the film will end. In that same room, all having their own story. Historically, many things aren't correct. You can predict what's going to happen. Each time someone is bound to fall, they are saved by the bell. That's so cheesy. A war is hard and raw, it doesn't save peoples' lives by coincidence. That makes the story so thin, so 1 dimensional. It's not about the war, it's about 'look how good we can write a television show'. There's just no depth in it. Feel sorry for the millions who watched it, you don't learn anything about the war, and you don't experience a decent made movie. 5 out of 10.
I can see, that film is very well made. The story is told in an interesting way. I could say many more slogans, which fit rather good films. Why I hate this film then? It is just disgusting way, the Germans try to take off their responsibility for WWII and blame others.I can stand any stupid plot. Even absurd one. But to lie in such fundamental issue? The cases when polish partisans shut KL prisoners in wagons and leave them to die NEVER happened. It was rather German "habbit". This is just one example. And film is full of such characters - Poles antisemitic only and Germans - well. Then who was responsible for holocaust? Come on. Germans for years try to soften their part in WWII. That is why I hate to watch such movies.I can "congratulate" authors of the movie. Seem they've learnt the lesson Goebels taught them well. Now they are doing very good propaganda films.I am sorry for such strong words. But this mini-series crossed a line.It is everybody's right to tell a story about what is interesting to him or her. And make a background plot just useful thing without going into any details - just make it flat as in this film. But when those who are responsible and guilty transfer their main crime (hate to Jews) to others it is morally doubtful and, to me, disgusting. Someone from Chine above mentioned that Nazi hurt other nations: Poles, Russian and even Germans. I ask you: Who were Nazis then? Some other nation? NO! NO! NO! They were Germans!!!! Not some virtual Nazis. Nazism was just a political form of government in German, that is all.


                
I really felt sorry for the Germans after watching this movie. Why such poor, peacefully nation had to suffer so much from the Poles and the Russians???!! WHYY?! Hitler should be a national hero in Germany. Both Russia and Poland should apologize to the Germans for all the trouble and pain! :(:(:( Perfectly is shown courage and supernatural abilities of German soldiers. Brilliant scene where the German soldier with Mauser rifle fired into a group of partisans hidden in the forest!!!! Everything is brilliant. I will not say a bad word about this movie. I ate all my fingernails 10/10 :D (Your review does not contain enough lines)(Your review does not contain enough lines)(Your review does not contain enough lines)...


                
Bad Poles, good Nazis, and if by the end of watching this german sci-fi drama/propaganda you still think Nazis were the bad guys, then you congrats! You're not a sheep.


                
