Where is my gift of exegesis? Gone, gone, swept away by my outrage. 4 1/2 hours of my life lost...The new apologias - they are so clever. Everyone knows you can't say "I was only following orders" anymore. That's become a hoary cliché. So what to do? Study subliminal use of proportions - that does the trick. Show horrible atrocities, and give the feeling you're being unflinching. But at the same time, "balance it out" with equal or greater atrocities from other sides that actually take up more screen time. Hey, it was War, y'know? It was bad...real bad. German soldiers - they were so torn. They loved their country - is that so wrong? If they had Jewish friends, they killed their superior officers to save them. I know a movie is a movie, but is there ANY record of such a thing happening? A big radio star is put to death for fraternization...I know a movie is a movie, but is there ANY record of such a thing happening? She's executed - the only Jew who is an actual character lives! From what I've read (and I've read a lot), Aryan stars who did such things were threatened - that's all. Was für einen Schund!PS - people who hate this review. Go ahead, hate it. It's certainly not my best. But check yourselves and ask what is bubbling under the surface of your assumed liberalism. The most pernicious aspect of this series is that it presents the whole period as though it was some kind of bad dream. And it pays lip service to the Holocaust as though (and this we KNOW not to be true) it was just perpetrated by the smallest group of MOST fanatical monsters. Hey, keep that WirtschaftWunder dream alive, homeboys!
If Generation War had been a SF-story it could have been a decent movie. The acting is no too bad and the production value is okay. But it is supposed to be about a deeply moving part of our history. A part of history in which the Germans played an evil part.Many people where abused and murdered by Germans or for the German, and only German, good, from 1932 onwards. A movie that let's Jewish live happy in Germany in 1941 and where "die Kristalnacht" is only mentioned as an incident from the past is a historic falsification on a dangerous scale.Don't like this movie because it is well made. Hate it because it is a very dangerous piece of propaganda. I do like Germany and that is why such false propaganda hurts so much. Germany 2014 doesn't need to lie about it's past. It was horrid, but slowly it is becoming the past. Movies like this contain the risk of forgetting the real past en thus repeating it's mistakes.


                
