First of all, I am no casual viewer. I am a casual viewer of television but I am really interested in the third Reich from a historical perspective as well as on a personal level. I watched all the three parts and my rating for this mini series degraded every single episode. Now first of all: For some viewers outside of Germany this might be a refreshing view. Oh the Germans were also humans... Not at all like james ryan where they are only puppets to get shot by tom hanks and his buddies. For me however its nothing more than a mix of all the German ww2 clichés in every movie I saw in the past 20 years. Everything is here: A cheerful start with young people living their live while the 3rd Reich only is shadowing in the background-then suddenly the war starts and people start to realize what is going on. CHEAP. SS Oficer as the main evil dude- Really CHEAP. STOP PLEASE. German army has some A holes but the maincharacters are just tormented nice guys... OMG. Russian human waves... Cliché. Unbelievable coincidences and deus ex machina moments to somehow create a story arch... bad movie making. Well anyway, the first part is tolerable and actually interesting because it tries to show life in the third Reich. Not accurate but also not bad. 2nd part shows more of the war but in a very clichéd bad way. I don't buy it. 3rd part is seriously the worst 2nd world war movie since Enemy at the gates. Everything is wrapping up so laughable. I wont spoiler anything but the storyline of the singer, the jew and the nurse are unbelievable. How does someone get founded for that in my country. I was stunned. Watch it for entertainment but always be aware you are watching expensive looking trash. Its like Tarantino without the intended humor and trying to be taken serious.


                
The story follows a group of friends just at the beginning of the invasion of Russia. As their paths diverge, the series shows different perspectives of regular Germans during the war - which is quite unprecedented and welcomed. So, there's both a war and drama component to this piece.As a war/historical genre, it fails miserably. Not because of accuracy, but lack of depth. Most of the action sequences are basically "Stormtrooper tactics", but more ridiculous. We have junior officers discussing macro management of the war, instead the actual scenario they're involved. This is way under the average US war series/movie.On the drama department it's mediocre at best. The story is quite interesting, but the dialogues are 5th grade stuff.Go watch Band of Brothers, Generation Kill, the Pacific... This is C-quality, despite the good production.


                
