What characterizes the German perspective of this mini-series? The Wehrmacht's invasion into the Soviet Union defines Germany's memory of WW2. This campaign lasted the longest 1941-1945, covered the largest front-line, involved the most soldiers, it is where the Wehrmacht suffered 90% of its 2 million dead, it is where Germany was defeated.Realistic or not? As a former German conscript soldier born 1968 I recognize the depiction of military behavior, group dynamics and everyday-life of soldiers in a German context. However, I would expect more vulgar language. Other than that, I lack authority to judge.The question whether or not this series is authentic is twofold ? First, is it true to history? The Wehrmacht's invasion into Eastern Europe and Russia accounts for the majority of deaths by war or genocide in the European theater of WW2. Regardless of modern technology, this war was still predominantly fought by the common infantry man and suffered by civilians. The series reflects these facts. But it never establishes the Wehrmacht as the efficient and dangerous fighting force it was, even during defeat.Second, is the narrative authentic ? The series illustrates the recollection of my grandfather's generation and their perspective as I heard it from them. In that sense, some undertones are both apologetic and authentic to that generation's testimony. As an ambition, the series aggregates many personal memories into one narrative. The visual impact of the combat scenes feels intense. The stain of a period drama, costumes and uniforms, disappears into the spectator's excitement easily after 5 minutes. Cutting into black-and-white newsreel footage feels smooth and provides perspectives a film on a budget small compared against the actual event cannot. The staged shots create an illusion of conquering a large landmass and moving in foreign territory.The dramatization follows the generation born in the 1920s: one German Jew, two soldiers and two women. The story reunites the five in fabricated coincidences. Does this overstretch the artistic license? No, for it serves to re-examine the change both of the individual characters and their relations to each other as a result of violent experiences. More frequently observed is the changing relationship of two brothers, different in character, different in response to shared hardship.The series explores the nature of what in modern terms would be called war-2.0 . Traditional war was but a means to an end that, at least in principle, could be achieved otherwise. War-2.0 kills for the sake of killing. In this series you'll see the Wehrmacht routinely executing civilians with the SS or alone. War-2.0 applies traditional warfare to the goal of genocide.The series remains silent about the motives. It shies away from showing the deep racism, antisemitism, the cool institutionalized execution of genocide. When Friedhelm yells at his brother "there is no purpose, no sense (Es gibt keinen Sinn) " to express his desperation he is obviously blind to the genocidal intent of the campaign. The Nazi criminals appear as people of bad character to which their genocidal beliefs are but an accessory. Nowhere do we see a German as an educated , sympathetic individual, whose only flaw were his racism and antisemitism. The series only presents this type as a Polish partisan.Entering the third part, one is sucked into an ever closer marriage of survival and killing but gets trapped by Nazi patterns of thinking. The Nazis created the myth of the German people fighting for survival facing the Eastern peoples in order to legitimate the genocide, preplanned from day one. The film implicitly picks up that image of survival. Initially it were millions of men and women in Eastern Europe, millions of Jews who fought for survival - not the Wehrmacht. While the series appears apologetic on some subjects it completely refrains from accusing the Red Army.What about guilt? The soldiers portrayed in their early twenties were not the generation who planned the genocide, nor did they cheer Hitler into office. The swift and easy Wehrmacht victories in Western Europe motivated German soldiers, the series reveals. The story leaves the spectator with the crucial question: what, given the circumstances, could one have done differently at the age of 23 ? The series suggests that the line of guilt separates the generations rather than the good from the bad combat soldiers. It is the older generation who abused the young generation as the instrument of war. The series offers an iconic scene to justify my interpretation. It shows a German soldier in an act of self-sacrifice and redemption (I shall not disclose the details here).I cannot grant redemption. The act benefits only German soldiers but none of their victims. De- humanization and cruelty out of racism characterize WW2. Uncompromising loyalty to one's own ethnic group sits at the core of extreme racism. It is this exact loyalty the film upholds in part 3.I recommend the series. "Unsere Mütter, unsere Väter / Generation War" entertains. Using 3x1.5hours, the vast scale of WW2, the nature of the violence and the depth of personal experience come alive. It opens the subject of WW2 to a female audience who can identify with the rich female characters. Poles, Ukrainians, Russians will find the German perspective accessible for it correctly places the horror of WW2 in their home-countries. The series provides substance to a serious debate by being historically accurate, though not representative.


                
As a WW2 movies fan I have always missed films from the German prospective. So to watch this mini series was a thing I was looking forward to.It is a visually very appealing picture, the plot is pretty good too, although there are some things I did not understand...such as..SPOILER:why did the younger brother has to die in such foolish way at the end??how did the German MP caught the older brother days after the battle of Kursk when the front line had already moved kilometers to the west.Anyway, I would like to see more similar German-side movies.
I watched this all in one weekend. We start in May 1941 and end in May 1945. This miniseries follows the highs and lows of World War II.Greta, Charlotte, Wilhelm, Friedhelm and Viktor are all childhood friends. In 1941, some are sent to the front or hospitals in the German war effort. Some remain in Berlin for a portion or remainder of the war.I thought this miniseries was well done; I got this on Netflix as a recommendation. I have seen others such as "Holocaust" and other world war 2 movies but never from the German point of view.I liked the use of original black and white historical footage to setup the time frame. I had originally seen some of the same film footage during a documentary "The Third Reich". That documentary comes in three parts, two of which are "The Rise" and "The Fall".Some make it through the war, others do not. I would recommend this to anyone who wants to watch world war 2 movies or miniseries.
At last a film from the young (and not so young) German perspective. It is refreshing to see that the Germans are dealing with their "Schuldgefuehl" at last.I lived there from 1974 until 1994 and was amazed by my German peers feeling of guilt for the actions in WW2, when they were not responsible.It reminds me of seeing the German flags festooning all of the towns during the soccer world cup. A great sight to behold and one long overdue.mfGFrank


                
Saw this in a theater in two parts and found it fascinating entertainment, as well as educational and sobering. At the end the audience was very still and quiet, clearly impressed. This movie tells a barely plausible story of five young Germans who happen to be celebrating their new adulthood as their country's war against the world is heating up. The characters and situations that follow seem like the usual composites from history. The really great thing is the artistry and technical sophistication with which it is presented. Rather than cartoon villains and heroes and clearly contemporary style situations we are presented with a variety of personalities, right down to the smallest character, dealing with situations that really occurred during the war. The only spoiler I want to give you is that the five friends have agreed to meet back home in Berlin when the war is over (around Christmas?) but as things get worse they sometimes joke that they may not be in time for the Fall Semester (of what year?). After a while the audience is really wondering who, if any, shall survive. Please show this to impressionable young people for a quick history lesson.
This is a 2013 German TV series, originally titled Unsere Mütter, unsere Väter - Our Mothers, Our Fathers - 3 episodes 90 minutes each. When it was out, this series produced not a small stir and a real havoc among Polish, German and English-speaking audiences. Why? At first, it seems just a story of 5 friends during the times of WWII. Yeah, but with one slightly huge difference - this is a story form the Germans' point of view. And this is where the biggest controversy is about. I cannot dwell deeper into the movie plot, otherwise, that'll be a spoiler, I can just say that several aspects of the story do stir serious bedazzlement and shock. And there is one more serious drawback - despite all the desperate efforts, the movie does lack certain depth of character development and does leave with a sense of some over the surface gliding. The actors try very much, and often they deliver decent ideas, but sometimes the film just leaves much to be desired. This is such a painful and delicate ground - Jews, Holocaust, Nazi rise, Communism versus Nazism - that any slight bias will ruin the whole movie easily. This one barely stood the ground and still flopped on may aspects


                
One word describes my impression from this series: good. Well shot, well played and the main idea is served to the viewer on a plate (sometimes even excessively so; I wouldn't mind some guessing on my own - just a remark).I totally agree to the point that in a war everybody is a victim, without exception. Humans can become killers when looking for possibilities under dead-end circumstances. This is no excuse of course but a cold fact. This could happen to me, this could happen to you. Now, that the world's biggest countries have fallen for the right-wing kind of leaders, this understanding is crucial. We must not think nations, we gotta think humankind, it's the best anti-war jab.The right message at the right time. Glad I watched it.


                
I already heard a lot of good criticism when I finally managed to watch this movie, which is not so common for most German films or series.With the variety of films and books already published on this topic it is not too easy to stand out and really create an impact. Even though I'm always skeptical towards "tv-events", I do think that this production has some points.First of all it shows you war in all it's absurdity, where friends become enemies, lose track, lose themselves and find together again in some cases. It shows that we should be very careful nowadays to talk about war and that peace is not a burden but a gift. Time and again it is awful to see what humans are capable of under the wrong circumstances or leadership. At several points in this plot, people cross each others ways again and you get to learn how different their paths went on.The acting is solid, the plot not predictable. It is a very German movie, I still don't really get why one can always tell that at first sight, but it probably has something to do with the way it is produced.My one major point of critique is that too often this movie isn't brave enough. It is just outstandingly unlikely that five people of such different origins would have survived that long. Since the movie is said to be based on real characters maybe indeed something unlikely happened but still there are several points throughout the movie where in my eyes the film had benefited if one of the characters really died instead of just making the audience think so to rise again due to some lucky chain of events.Still it is a powerful movie and everyone that needs to be remembered why peace is always the right choice to be made should maybe give it a try.
By the original German title the proper title should have been "Our mothers, our fathers" and in the end this mini-series is about what was the living like during the Nazi administration of Germany and for the most part the series manage to be both faithful to the period and gives as a four and a half hour of quality entertainment. To the plot itself we follow five friends from the invasion of Russia in 1941 to the fall of the Third Reich in 1945 and what they faced during that period. And as I have wrote before about films and series-about historical periods, focusing in an event or a small group of people makes it easier to us to see what was like back then and what the people believe for their government. In general the series manages to show very well the idealism of the average German about their country before the war was intensified and as the fighting progress, the outcome turned against Germany and the implementation of the racist laws against other nationalities came to effect how that effected their outlook of their country, themselves and their ideology. As for our main characters they are as follows : Wilhelm Winter,our narrator, lieutenant in the German army ,is shown at the beginning as the paragon of a good German, distinguish soldier, loyal citizen , look up to by his soldiers.Friedhelm Winter, younger brother of Wilhelm, has no aspiration of military glory, the most sensitive of the group.Greta Müller, bartender who seeks to become a famous singer and she is willing to go to great and undignified lengths to succeed. Charlotte, the girlfriend of Wilhelm, she is idealistic to a fault ,she becomes a nurse in order as she say to do her duty as a German woman.Finally ,Viktor Goldstein, a Jewish young tailor, he is inconstant fear for his life and he is the only one from his family who sees the emanate danger.In general all of them are interesting people and in the end the impact of the War is the main theme of the series.But the series is far from perfect as it has some big issues ,especially in the third and final episode. Not in directing, costumes or performance, these are top notch, the main issues are the portrait of the Resistance forces in Poland,which was quit off, the fact they never shown the consecration camps( but the rest of the treatment they show it) and the ending was too abrupt I wanted it to be about three to five minutes longer to close more smoothly the arcs of our character.In general it is a good series, with some flaws ,but apart from this ,I recommended for history lovers and person interested to German television/ cinema.
I would be lying if I said I didn't enjoy this German miniseries about five young friends caught up in World War II. I actually enjoyed every moment. A lot! It has tender love scenes, explosive battle scenes, heart stopping suspense, agonizing cliff hangers, and a poignant mood of youthful loss and nostalgia that feels very appealing and (to an American viewer) feels like it came right out of St. Elmo's Fire. You can't help but love the five friends in this movie. Miriam Stein as Charlotte ("Charly" to her friends) is so sensationally alive on screen. She has the glowing, girl-next-door wholesome sex appeal that American movie actresses lost decades ago. Yet at the same time, she fully plays the dark side of her character, showing how Charlotte is hardened by the war and how she does terrible things as a combat nurse on the Eastern front. Tom Schiller is just as brilliant as Friedhelm, the young dreamer who goes from being a poetically cynical critic of the war to a brutally effective combat soldier. At first I hated the way the script presented him as a victim, but as the story progresses the character surprises you, becoming exactly what he hates and yet still retaining his understanding of why the war is wrong. And Tom Schiller never fails to be convincing at every point along the way. Now I agree with many of the criticisms of this movie. The idea that "the war" brutalized these wholesome kids totally ignores the fact that Nazi Germany was a brutal place before the war ever began. The daily violence on the streets is never shown, nor do we see the Hitler Youth or the Brown Shirts in action. We never see the failures of the older generation who voted Hitler into power in the first place. The anti-Semitism of the Poles is played up, while the anti-Semitism of the Germans is discreetly muted. Interestingly, the roots of European anti-Semtism in the teachings of the Catholic Church (i.e. the Jews betrayed Christ) are deliberately ignored as well. Anti-Semitism is just presented as a side effect of the war and not the cause of everything the Nazis sought to accomplish. In the end, the producers of this movie weren't really trying to create a movie like DOWNFALL or SCHINDLER'S LIST. What they really were after was to create a lost-youth nostalgia epic like ST. ELMO'S FIRE. And the disturbing thing is, they succeeded. In fact someone should do a "trailer" for GENERATION WAR featuring the song "Man In Motion (Theme From St. Elmo's Fire)" by John Parr. Everything fits perfectly, right down to the lyrics!"I can make it/I know I can/You broke the boy in me/But you won't break the man!"
It is complicated for Germany, who was the main (but not at all single) inducer of World War II, to make something depicting that era as several like-minded and pressure groups from the "allied" side find immediately something worth criticism. On the other hand, German environment, characters and language provide so much additional value, that I prefer watching films and series on related issues this way - unless it is blunt defensive propaganda...But Unsere Mütter, unsere Väter is definitely not the latter; it is a sad and dramatic story about deprived illusions and opportunities, without clear assessments provided, thus letting the viewers ponder on and over painful and serious issues. The budget was apparently big, allowing to create realistic wartime/battle scenes and employ versatile actors from different generations (particularly Tom Schilling as Friedhelm Winter, Ludwig Trepte as Viktor Goldstein, Sylvester Groth as Sturmbannführer/Standartenführer Hiemer). True, not all scenes are of the same value and necessity, and the final scene seemed a bit odd, constructed, but the overall plot is mostly smooth and plausible. In my opinion, one should avoid to create something where losers are bad by definition and winners are always good (e.g., after WW II, the Soviets used several Nazi concentration camps for their own political prisoners, commissars of Jewish and East- European origin committed many atrocities while enforcing socialism, etc.). Before getting steamed up about something, one should learn its circumstances from different sources.


                
Generation War is a German mini series that shows us war in all its unglamorous horror. Its not quite as apocalyptic as the Russian film "Come and See" but it does share and express many of the same sentiments with the same simple honesty. The series revolves around a group of five friends, who are, in many respects, naive to the realities of life and war. As the story unfolds, it starkly shows how the young's honesty and innocence, are manipulated and betrayed, by cynical politicians looking to achieve a desired objective. In this case, its Hitlers goal of a Fascist denominated, unipolar world. The series sees each of the friends, in their own individual way, brutalized by war. The brutality is as much psychological as it is physical. They become hardened and spiritually exhausted, by horrific experiences they are compelled to play a part in.Generation War does not flinch in showing the horrors of war. The murder of innocent people, including children, racial repression and genocide and the dehumanizing, industrialized process of warfare and death, on the modern battlefield. Are there any shortcomings in this series? I did feel the depiction of groups, like the Polish resistance, was historically inaccurate. There is much to suggest the Polish resistance assisted Jews persecuted by the Nazi's and little to suggest they were anti semitic. I also felt, at times, the actions of some of the main characters stretched credibility. In particular, the oddly nihilistic death, of at least one of them.That said, Generation War is, in most respects, an excellent series, that offers a largely unembellished look at the harsh realities of war. Eight out of ten from me.


                
It certainly was a good watch: No punches were pulled in showing German and Russian barbarity on the Eastern front and Germany,in general, was not portrayed in a very positive light (how could it be?).The two major problems I have with it is the fact that they have a Jewish friend and that it's all a bit contrived.The Jewish friend just seems to be a way of assuaging German guilt and I think it's entirely unrealistic. It felt like a token gesture and was difficult to believe.The characters also seem to randomly cross each other's paths far too much. There is one moment hunting partisans in the forest which is particularly ridiculous.I do recommend it, however.


                
A great series to watch if you enjoyed Band of Brothers and other war films but are tired of seeing it from the allied perspective. Gritty and shocking - hits all the right feels for a war movie.


                
