Let me begin by stating that my grandfather (a civilian) was executed by the German occupation forces so I know quite a few things about Nazi atrocities. Let me also add that I understand all the negative reviews given by Poles.That being said... This was a piece a brilliant viewing! I think that it captures the essence of what war can do to people's souls. I do not agree that Germans were portrayed in a positive or neutral light as there were quite a few characters who were corrupt and evil from the beginning. In addition, the tone of the film is depressing from the start even during the time when Nazi Germany was jubilant. I especially liked Friedhelm's character and how he turns from a pacifist to a soulless murderer, only to rediscover his humane side as the end of the war came near and eventually act on this rediscovery at the very end.As many reviewers pointed out and I can't disagree, the main flaw is the portraying of almost all Poles (except one girl) as antisemitic to put it mildly. Apart from that it does show at least three in a positive light. One of them, the leader of an AK resistance cell stands out as honorable, almost heroic, even if he is flawed. But so are the German characters, and the Russians. So what? This is the true human nature after all!Technically, the film is also brilliant. I consider the comparison to Band of Brothers (even though they are VERY different in context) to be a great compliment given the fact that this series had a fraction of BoB's budget.The performances of the main characters ranged from excellent (Tom Schilling) to acceptable. What really strikes me is that nobody has mentioned the second line of characters who were stunning and gave the series much needed depth.All in all, this is not a documentary about WW2 or the Holocaust. It is not a hero-based mega-budget production like Band Of Brothers. It is however a good story, remarkably well filmed, about five specific Germans during the climax and end of WWII. Watch it as such and I'm certain you will enjoy it!


                
We follow the experiences of five young adult friends from Berlin during the second world war (WW2). To a certain extent this series can be seen as the German counterpart of Band of Brothers: parts of the series are about the combat of the German Wehrmacht (two of the five friends are Wehrmacht soldiers while one of them is a battlefield nurse). We are given a raw picture of how the German Wehrmacht operated, including the slaughter and sometimes humiliation of its enemies. The story is about German civilians as well: one of the friends tries to avoid the deportation of her Jewish boyfriend by seducing a German officer. Overall, the story does not provide an excuse for the way that the Germans acted in WW2 ("Wir haben es nicht gewusst"). On the contrary: it points out that not only the Nazi's but also the Wehrmacht (the 'ordinary' army) was involved in the killing of Jews and other civilians. The story is about evilness as well as about the struggle of German soldiers with their conscience while following orders. Doing so the series seem to provide a genuine picture of what really happened.The story is set at a very good pace and the different plots unwind nicely. But what really distinguishes this series from most other WW2 series is the quality of the footage and the excellent acting. You feel the fear of a German soldier who steps on a mine; you understand that the efforts of a soldier to prevent executions are deemed to fail. Nothing short of excellent!


                
Being fed the usual US blockbuster TV series makes the viewer numb. Mindless rubbish that is sold to us as a"'Television Event 'is nothing more than marketing hype. But every now and then a quality television film comes along. Generation War is a bright light in an otherwise production line of poor offerings that seem to rate on commercial TV. This film was brilliant in so many ways. From the skillful direction and intriguing storyline to masterful character development, from magnificent set recreations to convincing performances from its actors, this film is a winner. Having an interest in WWII history I would agree that some albeit minor inconsistencies in the retelling of history may be identified. But given that it is entertainment mixed with history it does an outstanding job of closely matching the attitudes and people of the time. Its easy for us to sit back in the 21st Century judging the people and attitudes of those living in a deceitful, cruel and secretive fascist state that was Nazi Germany. But times were different and all people that live through any war (whether good or bad) are in some way adversely affected by it. Generation War showed another side to the WWII story which shows no one is a winner. Needless to say I thoroughly enjoyed this offering from German TV.


                
I cannot remember another German mini-series since "Das Boot" that was as extensively discussed as this one - not only publicly in the media (TV talk shows, newspaper articles and internet blogs and forums) but also privately (within the families, between the generations). Whether you like "Unsere Mütter, Unsere Väter" or not, you cannot deny that Nico Hofmann (the producer) was successful with his expressed intention to initiate such a discussion.Of course, it was not the first time that the question "Dad/Grandpa, what did you do in the war?" has been asked in Germany; in the past this question has been triggered for example by the rearmament discussion in 1955, by the student movement in 1968, by the American TV-series "Holocaust" in 1979 or by the Wehrmacht exhibition in 1995. The difference is that on these occasions the (grand-)children of the Nazi generation rigorously DEMANDED that their (grand-)parents break their silence and confess their collective and individual participation in the atrocities of the 3rd Reich. By contrast, "Unsere Mütter, Unsere Väter" invites the last remaining men and women of this generation to get ALL their wartime memories off their chests - not only the crimes they may have committed but also the traumata and suffering they experienced.In my opinion the three-part series gives a great and relatively balanced depiction what the war on the Eastern Front probably was like. This is achieved by great acting (Tom Schilling is brilliant, but all the other actors are also very, very good) and excellent production values. In spite of the low budget (14 million Euros; very high for German TV but pretty low in comparison to "Saving Private Ryan" or "Band of Brothers") the combat scenes look quite realistic and the set design, costumes and makeup look very authentic. A big step forward for Teamworx compared to their previous TV productions with WWII themes ("Dresden", "Die Flucht", "Nicht alle waren Mörder" - not too bad itself - or "Rommel").For international viewers it might be of interest what kind of criticism was brought forward against "Unsere Mütter, Unsere Väter" in the aforementioned discussions in Germany. In typical German fashion I will try to orderly ;-) list SOME of these arguments in ascending order from not-to-be-taken-seriously to pretty valid and sound. I will also give my personal opinion on these arguments.1) The criticism from military nerds and uniform fetishists "In 1941 the MG 42 machine gun was not yet in use, in the fight for the telegraph station the Russians use a German Panzerfaust, etc." My 2 cents: Seriously, who cares? Apart from these nerds no one even notices these mistakes.2) Some strange mistakes in the timeline and/or geography "When Friedhelm is sent to get provisions from behind the main front line in episode 1 he reappears BETWEEN the German and Russian lines. Nobody can get THIS lost!". Or: "When Wilhelm goes AWOL after the Kursk battle he is caught by German military police quite some time later. At this time the front line had already moved >100 km to the west, so that the MPs would have been operating far behind enemy lines!" My 2 cents: IMHO this really seems to be lazy writing.3) Chance encounters "There are far too many chance encounters of the five protagonists in the course of the war. Realistically they would have met again - if at all - only after the capitulation and captivity (and Wilhelm and Friedhelm would not have been in the same unit in the first place)." My 2 cents: Of course, this is a valid argument, but you have to remember that each of the five main characters stands exemplarily for the war-time experiences of a whole lot of Germans. Therefore I can ignore the improbability of the coincidences and accept them as necessary dramaturgical devices (except for the reappearance of Lilja, which is still very unrealistic).4) Authenticity of the characters "The five main characters are too modern/not in their time. In reality they would have been a product of a very authoritarian upbringing: uptight, guarded and much less outspoken." My 2 cents: That's probably true but it's a common mistake. Most American period movies have the same difficulties at creating characters who are truly a product of their time.5) Scope of the story "The mini-series does not show what the five friends did before 1941, how they grew up (in the HJ/BDM) and how their views evolved after 1933. It also does not show what happens after 1945 and how they lived on with their conscience." My 2 cents: As a writer only you decide where you want to start your story and where you want it to end. A prequel or a sequel would be possible but it would be a different film with a different focus. The purpose of "Unsere Mütter, Unsere Väter" was to explain why many (most) of the perpetrators (and also the victims) of the Nazi regime could not talk about their experiences even with their families for years/decades (sometimes until their death).6) Fair balance of the story "The suffering of the Germans is overemphasized while the suffering of the Jews, Russians, Ukrainians and Poles is belittled. The fate of the Russian POWs (2 million starved/died of epidemics in German captivity) for example is completely left out. The antisemitism within the Polish resistance and the atrocities of the Russian soldiers are exaggerated and completely blown out of proportion." My 2 cents: This is such a difficult subject that I won't even try to discuss it here. But I will say that I find it commendable that the mini-series never mixes up cause and effect and never questions the responsibility of Nazi-Germany for the Holocaust and for its war crimes during WWII.See this mini-series, it's worth it!
I'd like to start this review with saying that I really adore this mini series and that I enjoyed almost every aspect of it. I loved the original and intriguing cinematography, the excellent acting and the genius of the dramaturgically consequent writing. In fact, I watched all three episodes without pausing and I was under its spell completely during all of it. But I couldn't quite let it go after I finished it so I started looking up facts and curiosities about it online and I eventually ended up here, at IMDb. I started reading through the various reviews and was filled with disgust, disappointment and vicious anger by most of them.I read review after review of small minded garbage and finally I couldn't help myself and started writing this review. It seems like many of you have completely missed the point of this show. Many of you seem to think the agenda of it is to somehow sugar coat or deny the many war crimes committed by the Nazis during their various campaigns in Europe. To think this is not only ridiculous and bizarre, it shows just how brainwashed and unintelligent you are. Most of your reviews consist of complaining about how the series does not show some of the atrocities they performed like during the holocaust or the invasion of Poland when, in fact, this has nothing to do with the show.Do you really think the German makers of "Unsere Mütter, unsere Väter" do not know the Germans had concentration camps during WWII? Do you really believe they are not aware of the crimes against humanity they committed in countries all over Europe? Of course they do, how could they not when they're reminded of it in about 99% of all works of art that has anything to do with this war. Those things have already been brought to the attention of the world in thousands of movies, TV-shows and books so why bring it up yet again? The makers of this show were a bit more original than that so they decided to tell a story about the people behind the Third Reich, the persons, not the demons and monsters that they're usually portrayed as.And to those of you how say Germans were showed as nice, lovable and tolerant people in this show, watch it again. There are numerous scenes in which German soldiers behave like cold killing machines as they murder innocent civilians and in an early scene a German officer shoots a little Jewish girl in the head. But maybe you couldn't see that through your tears.Also, there was nothing said about the heinous rape of Berlin in the last episode, committed by communist troops during which girls as young as seven years old were raped repeatedly, some as many as 60 to 70 times. One and a half million German women were raped savagely and yet I see no one crying about that not being shown in the series. History really is written by the victor...Those of you who refuse to believe that Germans during the '30s and '40s were actually human beings are just racist and narrow minded. If you're scared of this original and diverse approach of a WWII story I suggest you go watch Schindler's List.
I watched this flying to & from LA and had to see it again properly. The series is set very differently than US or British shows and it speaks volumes to the producers & writers even if it offended the Polish (its not a documentary its drama). Many American & British WWII shows are factually incorrect. To the show the five characters are well portrayed and acted and I liked the pace of the show and that it didn't duck certain issues like the killing of Jewish women & children by the Nazis or the brutality of the Eastern front. It showed how war changes people into something they were not before and how desperate you can become or fatigued. In the end it shows that regardless of nationality their is good & bad in all societies and the power of politicians and senior armed forces personnel over the rest of us and what they can make any of us do is frightening.


                
I'll leave it to Germans, Jews and historians to vouch for the accuracy of this film. As a work of dramatic entertainment, however, I can attest to its brilliance of construction and visual realization. Following the lives of five principal characters in the confusion of war is no easy task, yet the makers have succeeded in keeping their stories clear while producing exciting variety for us viewers. I saw this film at a festival after sitting through two duds. Generation War came as a riveting, exciting and thoroughly professional achievement. The writing, acting, cinematography are all first-rate, and kudos, too, to the musical score, including the terrific song, "Mein kleines Herz". In detailing the lives of five people during World War II on the eastern front, Generation War ultimately exposes the brutality and futility of war. Because its protagonists plunge into it with the greatest of hopes, the process of how those hopes are dashed is what makes Generation War such a fascinating film.


                
Just watched on SBS TV Australia and a very high quality and entertaining war perspective from Germans of WW2......I see it is on at movies in USA and at 4.5 hours too long for movies...but loved it on TV.....war is a no win for all sides so don't try and analyze the political ,racial or historical accuracy.Its not meant to be a documentary.....but you must feel empathy for all people that went through the horror of WW2...our worlds biggest disgrace with 50 million killed...my father was an Australian soldier for 6 years in WW2..and he was disgusted by the treatment of soldiers on both sides....well done German TV.


                
Like a mirror image of Der Untergang, the film depicts the lives of ordinary German people during the same period and shown with the same brutal honesty. It should also be based on real life events, since at the end they show how much each of the protagonists lived.The plot revolves around five friends, in their late teens and early twenties, happily partying before some of them are sent to the front for the war that "would end by Christmas". There are two brothers, sons of an asshole father who loves just one of them. The unloved one naturally is an intellectual and an artist, while the other is the pride of his father. Then there are two girls, one wishing to become a star like Marlene Dietrich and another preparing to go to the front as a nurse to help the fatherland. Also in their group of friends is the boyfriend of the wannabe starlet, who is also a Jew.Now, they all start with expectations, the first being that the war will be swift and won by Germany. Other such expectations reduce the rate of violence related deaths in a war, make Germans leave nice Jews alone, applaud the loving and caring nature of humans everywhere and . The war changes all of those in a gruesome three parter film that lasts for almost five hours. Years later, when the war is actually over, they meet at the café where they optimistically planned to party that first Christmas, their souls and lives in tatters.The story is complex, the script well done, the war effects and related scenes are realistic, the characters are human and change a lot through the film, the acting is exceptional. It is certainly at least one order of magnitude better than most American war movies, perhaps because the sense of hopelessness given by a war lost (morally at least) way before it began gives everything an uncomfortably realistic grit. Any acts done in the name of god and country look and feel completely stupid and pointless, and are not sold as heroic drama moments. Good guys don't always make it and bad guys escape unpunished.If you like war movies this is a good one and I submit that this film will appeal even to people who don't generally watch the genre - like myself. It also makes me want to watch more German films in the hope that they would be just as good.


                
"Generation War" is a 3 part dramatization of 5 young Germans friends and their experiences in World War II from 1941-1945 in German with English subtitles. Of the 5 there are three men and two women. Two of the men are German soldiers as well as brothers (one a lieutenant and the other a private) and the other male is a Jew whose family has a tailor shop. Of the two women one is on her way to being a nurse on the Russian Front while the other woman becomes a semi-famous singer. The acting was first rate and the scenery and battle sequences were fairly realistic (never being in a war I can only guess). The trials and tribulations that each one of them has to endure is the plot behind the series. I was fairly pleased that for once not all Germans were portrayed as fanatical Nazis. They are patriotic and feel, at the beginning, that the war in the Soviet Union is a just one. Slowly that patriotic fervor starts to fade away as the German advance is halted at the gates of Moscow, then the capitulation of Stalingrad as well as the failed attempt at Kursk. That is it in a nutshell and I do not want to give away too much of the story. I did find one thing very interesting; whenever the "Fuhrer" is named there is an "F" a blank space then, "hrer" the "u" is never there. All in all it is a great mini-series and well worth watching. I was somewhat taken aback by some of the reviews I had read online particularly from people in Poland who complained that there was not enough about the concentration camps, etc., etc. Some people will never be happy with the fact that World War II and all its atrocities took place and that failure to mention that 6 million Jews perished is reason enough to pan it. There are depictions of atrocities being carried out by German soldiers as well as one of the main characters (the Jewish tailor) being sent to one of the camps and his experience on the train there as well as innocent civilians being executed by German/Nazi soldiers. War is war. It is mankind at its worst. However, criticizing the series just because the major part of it did not depict all of the 6 million Jews getting gassed is not a good reason to not to see the series. Uri Avnery's (an Israelireview of "Their Mothers, Their Fathers" appeared 1 March 2014 in avnery-news.co.il. Avnery himself fled from Germany to Palestine in 1933. Concerning the film's not showing Nazi death camps, Avnery writes "The Holocaust is not the center of events, but it is there all the time, not as a separate event but woven into the fabric of reality." He describes the progression of two of the protagonists: "Death is all around them, they see horrible war crimes, they are commanded to shoot prisoners, they see Jewish children butchered. In the beginning they still dare to protest feebly, then they keep their doubts to themselves, then they take part in the crimes as a matter of course." He propounds a theory of the individual in totalitarian circumstances: "It is this element of the situation that is difficult for many people to grasp. A citizen under a criminal totalitarian regime becomes a child. Propaganda becomes for him reality, the only reality he knows. It is more effective than even the terror." He sees the Jews of Israel and the Germans as two still traumatized peoples. "That's why the film is so important, not only for the Germans, but for every people, including our own."
For most movies, the rates on Chinese movie forum are similar to that on IMDb. This one is different.I read the reviews posted here, and I agree with some of them. I do think some plots are familiar, and the performances are OK but not very special. But I am still moved, by the miseries people suffered in WW2, and by the introspection of Germany.I like the plot Wilhelm escaped from battle, lived in a log cabin. Honor, loyalty to the country and faith in triumph, which used to support him collapsed. He took off his uniform, shaved, cooked fish, and enjoyed the peaceful life after killing, almost being killed and being betrayed and abandoned by their own troops. I hoped he would never been found. 270 minutes cannot cover everything, it does not tell the whole history of WW2. The TV series focuses on people, mainly the ordinary German people who were manipulated by their government. The five characters were kind young German people. Of course not all German people were like them. But the kindness is always most hurt in the war, that's the tragedy. For those viewers who doubted the factuality of the TV series, I recommend the documentary about it. The producer did visit many senior people who experienced the War and most plots were written by true stories. When you see the tears in the old eyes, hear the terrible stories they experienced, you find it very cruel to make them to recall the memories. But without their recalling and telling, without the recording and documenting, how nowadays people understand how Nazi hurt European, Russian and even German people. As a country that started the War, the introspection is valuable. A public introspection is not easy in Asian culture. When we see such a TV series, complicated thoughts and feelings about our neighbor and ourselves come to us. Maybe that's why we are so easily touched by it.
OK so I watched all 3 episodes and I have to admit that "generation war" coming from an American who's grandfather and his brothers fought the Germans and Japanese grew up with natural hatred toward them from an older breed. That being said this was a VERY well acted and done mini-series that I was skeptical about at first because of possibly glorifying or making the Nazi soldier out to be these guys who were just "following orders" but it was not. They did not show all of the atrocities even remotely close but they did not shy from the fact that they were murderers who followed a psycho path into a war that could never be won and promises only a broken people could follow after such hard times after "the Great War". It wasn't so much about the wrongs of the Wehrmacht and the Nazi soldiers but 5 friends before the war that believed in Hitlers lies of a thousand year Reich and believing in a better life. As they went into their separate ways and onto being soldiers and nurses and a singer and a Jew who was deceived and left to fight with the partisans , so they learned what they were getting into. What was to come was a Lie by a madman and it showed that many German soldiers had become aware through the years that they were fighting a losing battle on all fronts and followed a Coward mass murderer into his "dream". I get that people are unhappy with the series of polish and other descents (with good reason) and think that they went light on these Nazi bastards but really it's about the journey of the 5 friends and all their downfalls and broken dreams of promises that were never in the cards. All in all I thought it was a fabulously shot and acted 3 part series and the real footage of the battles that turned into the actual show battles were amazingly realistic and filmed As an American I watched "Band of Brothers" and "The Pacific" which were just a lot better. The horrors of the Nazi Reich should and never will be forgotten and I'm proud to say my grandfather and his brothers fought their way from France into Holland and eventually Germany with the help of the Russians on the eastern front and helped liberate the Jewish and oppressed people that the Nazis simply were murdering by the millions. I think "Band" showed all of this in their BRILLIANT 10 part series but that's not to say that all these Germans were bad people and I think "generation war" was a fair depiction and did not glorify anymore than how they thought they were while fighting this war. I thought it was very good for a series I stumbled upon on Netflix and got the Nazi German side I probably would never have aside from American made but still true documentaries in which I've watched probably 100s . 9/10 for this series that I believe the makers were brave in showing the atrocities (to a small extent) but more of a journey of these friends and the hardships they faced during the war. These are MO but I stand by them and hope I don't offend anyone with them


                
World War II from a German point of view without pulling its punches is a magnificent experience. The only problem with this 3 episode miniseries is that it was never able to top the brilliant first episode in which clearly indicates all the character arcs. Some historical inaccuracies and representations do give way for controversies, but looking at all other aspects it can be forgiven as the Germans trying to get over their guilt.


                
'UM/uV' is exceptional in many ways, but what makes it very interesting of course, is it's 'native outlook', being made by Germans and played by Germans. Nobody can do it better then the people themselves and the second world war is such a 'heavy' subject, that it has taken a long time before the German film industry finally dared take up the gauntlet. There are still far to few good German films on the subject out there, but 'UM/uV' is certainly one of them. It is absolutely brilliant in many ways. It is also very precise when it comes to uniforms, equipment, weapons etc. Leave it to the Germans to get that right! Many WW2 buffs always cringe at the sight of the wrong stuff. It looks so stupid and careless not getting the basics right. 'UM/uV' is picture perfect.The story is grand and sweeping. The bottomless pit on the eastern front is portrayed just like it is: gruesome and without end. These young people caught up in the great maelstrom is scary and horrific. Just as it should be. The eastern front between 1941-1944 was a meat-grinder like nothing ever experienced in human history. It's a wonder people came out at all, let alone sane. More or less.I find this film sublime. It's a great human story and it's marvelously portrayed by the the actors. It could not be better.This film, alongside 'Der Untergang' (Downfall) -2004- and 'Die Brucke' (The Bridge) -1959- should be regarded as the cream of the crop coming out of Germany up to now. These three are must see films, to begin to understand the total madness Germany sank into during the Nazi take over.


                
I just watched the 3 part series, Generation War, which I found to be utterly compelling viewing with wonderful acting and some wonderfully realistic battle scenes. The over-riding message the story is trying to tell, is one of the utter futility and waste of life in WW2. The character Friedhelm's comments about, 'being fit for the slaughterhouse' are entirely painfully accurate. I have talked to two contacts down through the years who had relatives that fought for Germany in WW2 (and survived)at Stalingrad and both said that their feelings were of being de-humanized over time which is a common theme in this wonderful mini-series. I would suggest that anybody that has an open mind and would like to gain an insight into the German side in WW2, should watch this series and also Das Boot & Downfall. For sure we could nit-pick on trivialities such as all 5 protagonists meeting regularly, etc but that is to miss the point. This was a real tour de force and a credit to all involved. Well done.


                
I watched the first episode of this miniseries for extra credit in a college World War Two history class. My expectations were decently high, and were soon blown away by this excellent series. We follow 5 German friends starting in Berlin, Christmas 1941- Wilhelm, an officer in the German army, his arts minded brothers and fellow soldier Friedhelm, Greta, a combat nurse, Viktor, a Jew struggling to live in Nazi Germany, and Charlotte, an aspiring singer. They all promise to meet again in the same spot in one year. The series follows all five characters, effectively weaving together their stories into a cohesive chronicle of the German experience in the Second World War. It was very interesting and refreshing to see the WWII experience from the perspective of not only German civilians, but soldiers as well. Well done to Phillip Kadelbach and Stefan Kolditz, the director and writer of this excellent miniseries which is was an engaging, brutal, and stimulating war story.


                
Loved this watched it a few times know... once you get into it your hooked and will end up binge watching the 3 episodes Tells a great story about 5 friends during the war. Spoken ingerman so you will be reading the subtitles but it's no problem.. worth a watch great German television this 
Best thing is it's on Netflix


                
The film let me constantly thought about "farewell to arms ",cause every scene focuses on the cruelty of war while also the weakness in human nature. The war has also eyewitnessed the completely change in one role.BTW the BGM was fabulous


                
without the obvious insight and true writing skill of so many reviewers for this title I'll refrain from criticism as it pertains to historical or geographic accuracy and simply provide a humble opinion on the film's ability to move you. For me, it did exactly that, I'll speak for countless adults who tire easily of Hollywood and it's ridiculous flashbang attempts to entertain. This title produces on another level, it reaches out and deep into the psyche of anyone who had the luxury of a birthplace and time by no means crushed by such catastrophe as WW2 and the destruction of entire cities,families and indeed millions of souls. In short, it contains the depth and character capable of delivering you into the hearts of young people caught up in the endless horror of so many years of true hell.... Although entertainment is not the best description, I wouldn't hesitate to call it captivating and a true credit to the writing and production skill of individuals working with a fraction of a fraction of Hollywood's ridiculous budget. This title has found it's way to the top scorers on MY favourites list.


                
Quite rare to see an impartial look at the Third Reich soldiers. All the poles who are triggered need a safe space after they butchered Germans in Danzig. As for the movie itself, it portrays the struggle the friends had to go through fighting an bestial enemy, Soviet Communism. The stress of war brought out their humanity, they are no different than you or I. Comradeship brought them through their journey through thick and thin.


                
First off... I don't think this contains any major spoilers, but if you want to be totally surprised by the mini-series, don't read it.This mini-series makes you realize that not all Germans were pro-Hitler/ anti-Jew. That many, many Germans were simply fighting for their country and ended up very disillusioned with Hitler and his lies. With his insanity and hatred. That blind loyalty to anything can be incredibly dangerous. That war is more Hellish than most of us civilians can ever imagine.The acting/ costumes/ sets were great. The characters did not develop they way I thought that they would. They all certainly aged in four years... they developed depth and wisdom that given a chance, they might give back for their innocence. It certainly didn't end the way I thought that it would. I wish there had been more to it. I wanted to see them after the war... I wanted to see how they readjusted to German society. Did they stay? Did they move? As soon as it was over, I was sad... I really wanted it to keep going for a while.
This series is excellent if one views it as the witness of a minority of skeptical, unconvinced Germans who did not buy into the "rassenkrieg." Since innumerable eulogies in film of Danish, Dutch and French resistance movements rely on the same understanding it is hard to understand why this would not be acceptable from a German perspective. The emphasis on the total loss and unraveling of human existence in this series, compared to the usual nationalistic nonsense produced on this subject makes this a very, very good series. Anyone looking for a comparison in quality needs look no further than the product of modern Russian film companies.


                
