Besides saying that I really liked the re-imagining of Galactica, I just wanted to point out the madness in one of the recurring complaints I've noticed among fans *and* nay-sayers of BSG2003. I read a lot of people saying "the new one doesn't have the humour of the original" or "it takes itself so seriously, the characters are too serious," or things to that effect. I'm just wondering... how funny do you expect a nuclear holocaust to be?? I mean, writers of fiction are hoping that you can suspend your disbelief and try for a moment to imagine that what you are seeing is real, or could be real. So imagine for a moment, if you can, that you live in NYC and you just heard on the news that H-bombs have started falling from the sky in LA, and they're coming down in waves, west-to-east, and humanity is being utterly wiped out. Millions of people-- men, women and children, perhaps members of your own family, are dying in terror. Are you *really* going to be cracking jokes? Imagine that the human race is quickly being massacred, only a few hundred are managing to escape-- a tiny fraction of what civilization was, and you aren't sure if you're going to survive into tomorrow. Just how much humour is going to be in the air, mixing with the fallout and all? Even before the bombs start falling, all of the "overly serious" characters seem to me to have pretty good reasons... Adama's ship is being turned into a museum, effectively ending a major chapter in his military career (which is his life), Apollo's having to face his father, whom he blames for his brother's death, Teague is a drunk (they're not often the cheeriest people), Lauren's just been diagnosed with terminal cancer... you expect these people to be making with the ha-ha?The character I did find funniest was Starbuck. Be it because she was a little 'crazy' or because she had the least on her shoulders (besides her boyfriend dying 2 years ago because of a decision she made... hm, may explain the 'crazy' a little, y'think?) to spoil her mood, and what do people say about Starbuck? "She was too crazy." There really *is* no pleasing some people.Arguing that the characters in a story that depicts the extermination of said characters' species are "too serious" is... well, it only shows that you either can't do what the writers would like you to do-- and imagine yourself as a part of this world-- or that you can, but you're a suicidal sociopath.I thought the miniseries was excellent; the re-worked premise made for a more textured story, the characters actually had some depth this time around, and were well-played by actors who obviously tried to 'get' some of the nuances of their characters and could take a serious situation (however imaginary) seriously. And I loved the special effects, too.So with all due respect, the puritans who prefer the shallow, campy 70's series with its recycled fx footage, its 2-dimensional characters and it's plot that provides little context or background, can stick their complaints in their old pipes and smoke 'em.


                
Yeah, I know: a superlative. Curses to you both Ron Moore and David Eich- you have made it impossible for me to watch "Star Trek" again. Not since the first "Matrix" film in '99 have I sat at a screen and gaped in awe at the push my brain was given.In three hours, we are introduced to a world, and a cast of characters, that are unrivaled in depth and seriousness. The story is compelling beyond belief. We are really there. We really care.Topical, directed with talent and passion, and acted by people who deeply care about what they are creating, Battlestar Galactica sets the standard by which any filmed drama must be measured.Nothing else will satisfy again. May BSG reign for years to come.


                
To think that I heard of a remake of BSG and thought 'pfft, probably rubbish'. Dear God I was wrong. This is possibly the best example of television I've ever seen. The sheer cold, clinical, detached storytelling style makes for an enrapturing viewing. The miniseries is what, 3 hours long?, and I didn't flinch once when I first viewed it.The characters were wonderous, especially I found Colonel Tigh to be a terrific re-imagining of the previous incarnation. Commander Adama and Captain Adama had an almost painful on screen chemistry. Oh, and Mary McDonnel? Inspired choice.The thing that I truly love, however, is that there is very little noise. No massive explosions. No screaming and shouting. Everything is detached, everything is calm, in a slightly sick way. Only one word can truly sum up this miniseries and what follows.*quiet*.


                
I've read a lot of your comments, and it amazes me how some people seem to think that the function of this mini-series (and hopefully series) is to cater to the whims of the fans of the original series.  Sorry, that's not it.The die-hard types -- the "fans" (and I am one, of BSG, BSG2003, Trek, B5, etc.) -- are never going to be more than a small fraction of the viewership of any television program.  It must appeal to a broader audience, or it is DOOMED.Ronald D. Moore -- in my opinion, one of the better writer-producers in sci-fi today -- took a concept that pleased just about nobody but the fans and reproduced it in a manner that made it interesting and watchable to a modern audience.  And if you step outside of your "I want Lorne Greene, Richard Hatch, and Dirk Benedict" temper tantrums, you will find it interesting and watchable as well.As for some of the main cast members -- like the Adamas pere et fils -- being stiff and inhuman...my friends, welcome to career military officer types.  I would bet you're the same people who complained about Commander Jeffrey Sinclair in the first season of Babylon 5 as well.  These are TRUE TO LIFE heroes, not the Saturday morning cartoon comic book heroes.As for remolding Starbuck (does she drink a lot of coffee? ;-) and Boomer into women... well, I had my doubts at first, but I thought they did a magnificent job.  As for the Cylons looking like humans now... well, only some of them do.  And, to be perfectly honest, it makes a lot of sense for them to be able to blend in with their enemies.  Anyone who has knowledge of terrorists in the Middle East knows that the reason they can get in to major civilian population centers and cause hideously evil damage and destruction is because THEY BLEND IN.  Use some logic, people!Much like when going to see a movie based on one of Tom Clancy's novels, I didn't go into this expecting to see the original.  I went into it expecting to see something new and interesting with some similarities at the plot level.  And I was not disappointed.Since ENTERPRISE seems to be killing the Trek franchise -- and I admit, I enjoy ENTERPRISE a lot of the time, but a lot of people don't, and I can see why -- I am in high hopes a series based on BSG2003 can revitalize hope for on-going TV science fiction.  I don't see why it shouldn't as long as people stop thinking they're going to get Lorne Greene.  They're getting Edward James Olmos, one of the most brilliant actors in Hollywood, coming BACK to TV after a successful movie career... and how often does THAT happen?!?


                
I love everything about Battlestar Galactica. I used to watch the original as a kid but this is so much better due to quantum leaps in special effects since then. You feel as if you are right there on the flight deck or in the cockpit or in the command centre. Its easy to believe that Galactica exists somewhere 'out there'. I love the characters, they are so gutsy and real, the plot is excellently portrayed and leaves you gasping for more. I want to be a cross between Starbuck, Six and Laura and who wouldn't want to be mates (and more) with Apollo, Helo and Baltar. Such brilliant and realistic escapism is not always easy to find. The producers, writers and stars should be congratulated but I guess their reward is working on such an excellent project and knowing that they get to touch the lives of so many people.Even though we don't all get to fly vipers out amongst the stars we can pretend we do when we turn on BSG.


                
I expected very little of this Sci-Fi Channel miniseries, for I adored the original so much, but to my pleasant surprise this production is excellent. It doesn't fall back on genre-typical styles of film-making as we have seen repeatedly in Star Trek or other television dramas.  The editing is wonderful, the directing is above par, and the acting is quite convincing. I am especially pleased with the performance of Mary McDonnell as the president of the colonies.  Her portrayal is that of an ordinary human being thrust into power by extraordinary circumstances.  She doesn't overplay her strength and she doesn't fall back on 'exaggerated feminine emotionality' as so many female leaders seem to do in other shows.  The quality of her performance is also seen in the other actors, who are allowed the screen time to show us their personalities, rather than simply deliver trite one-liners.CG-wise, Battlestar Galactica was beyond excellent.  Lighting in space is harsh and I was pleased to see that the producers didn't soften it just to make the ships look more romantic.  External scenes were used to tell the story and not gratuitously.  I was left wanting more every time.Excellent show.


                
A fantastic reinterpretation of Larson's original premise.I loved the old Galactica. It was cheesy, simplistic fun. However, I always find Larson's old pilots hold more promise than their series.Like Buck Rogers, the original Galactica pilot is far darker than the rest of the series run. For a show based on the genocide of 12 planets, the original Battlestar Galactica never really got to grips with the futility, fear and condition of a race on the edge of extinction.The new show makes up for that in abundance. The tone is dark, the pace is slow yet methodical. In the old show the attack on the colonies was dealt with in the first half hour. Here we have a far slower build up.The characters, while sombre are very real. Even Starbuck (and kudos for changing sex here, how many male Solo rips offs will we have to endure in SciFi?) works well. She has a hint of Benedict in expression and dialogue with far more consistency ever offered to Benedicts character.Apollo takes some getting used to, but surprisingly, the best characters this time around aren't the pilots, but the Administration. Adama is fantastic. Believable and oozing authority. Tigh is a wonderful mess and the President surprisingly well written.Finally, the glory to the show has to be Baltar. No longer a panto baddie, he is deeper character. A character with realistic motivations, drives and issues. While a tragic character, his portrayal is humorous and sinister at the same time.The best scifi show since Farscape. The series is pretty fine too!


                
When Galactica first aired in 1978, I was only sixteen years old. At that time in my life, I was craving anything Star Wars or Kiss. When Battlestar Galactica aired it was simply amazing. I made sure that every Sunday Night I would be there to cheer on my heroes, Starbuck and Apollo, to triumph over the evil Cylons. The initial cancellation came as a shock to me, especially since my friends and I would sit in the lunchroom on Monday and talk about the Battlestar Galactica episode the night before. When Galactica 1980 came along I had high hopes but was thoroughly disappointed with the series. I was so disappointed in Galactica 1980 that I buried the series way back in my mind, never again to be spoken of.Now twenty-three years later, my sixteen-year-old daughter shows me this script of a show I loved in my youth. Obviously, I read it out of curiosity to see how they have remade my old show. My toughest experiences with the script were the gender changes of Starbuck and Boomer, and the names becoming call signs. At first I wanted to just put it down and just dream of what was, however my curiosity to see the conclusion kept me going. The most amazing thing about the script is that it is easy to relate to the characters and to understand what makes them human. Now without further ado, my review:We begin the story at Armistice Station with Boxey's Father looking at pictures of his wife and son. Suddenly, a Cylon raiding party led by Number Six, who is a very attractive humanoid Cylon, interrupts him. She sexually assaults him and Armistice Station explodes. Number Six is characterized as being very seductive and Moore maybe trying to accentuate how truly seductive she is in the scene.My issue with the scene is the need to use a sexual assault prior to the destruction of Armistice Station. They could have easily sent just Cylon Centurions in to destroy Armistice Station. However, the further along you go, you begin to understand why Moore chose the sexual assault. His attempt is to remove the Star Wars clichés. If the Cylon Centurions had assaulted the station in the manner described, it would have looked like the opening scene of Star Wars -A New Hope. The message he is conveying in a not so subtle way is this that "this is not Star Wars".In fact, the script conveys that message rather loudly if you pay attention to it. The concept of no sound in space to the split screens to the use of missiles for long-range combat screams "this is not Star Wars". In 1978, critics often criticized Battlestar Galactica as a Star Wars rip-off. The effort to distance itself from this criticism is very apparent in the script.The characters in the remake have been humanized with character flaws that exist in all of us. The approach in many ways has made the characters more compelling. For instance, Adama and Apollo are estranged over the death of Zak. Apparently Apollo feels his father pushed Zak into a career that was not fit for him. Because of the piloting accident Apollo feels the responsibility lies with his father. Many parents, such as myself, play a role in shaping their children's future. Adama, being a military man, would logically believe a military life is one's proof of manhood. This belief is something he conveyed to his children, which would create resentment if one was to die in career that another feels is not suited for the individual. Throughout the remake, you have a sense that the two men do still love one another. Because of the Cylon attack, the dynamics in their relationship begin to change for the better. When Apollo appeared to have died, Adama felt a loss that any parent would feel if they lost a child. But when Apollo returns, the relationship between the two begins to heal. The real turning point in the relationship was when Kara confesses to Apollo that she passed Zak even though he failed his piloting exam. Now Apollo can see that Adama is not solely guilty for his brother's death which helps lead to more healing. During the blockade run from Ragnar, Apollo acknowledges Adama as father instead of Commander. The two realize the love that is still there as Father and Son when the series concludes.The Kara and Apollo relationship is a very interesting one. Kara was Apollo's brother Zak's fiancée. His death seems to be crucible between Kara, Apollo, and Adama. In many instances, you have the feeling that Kara has more than just friendship feelings for Apollo. This shows during Apollo's arrival on the Galactica where Kara and Apollo exchange more than pleasantries. Later on, when she heard that Apollo `died' she was visibly upset and the picture of Zak and her revealed that Apollo was there too. Her tough exterior hides a very complex woman. When she realizes that Apollo is alive, it just brought new life to her. Her feeling of shared guilt for Zak's death was finally shared with Apollo where she tells him that she passed Zak despite failing the exam. Kara proves to be every bit the warrior Dirk Benedict's Starbuck was and fights courageously over Ragnar. She saves Apollo in a belly-to-belly viper maneuver to get onboard a Galactica under duress from the Cylons without the thought of the danger she was in. I have the feeling that in a full series, Kara and Apollo might become a couple.
The relationship between Number Six and Baltar is a strange one at best. I see her as like a laboratory scientist who does research with guinea pigs to see how they react in certain environments. Baltar seems very self absorbed and more concern about people finding out how he was the unwitting tool used for the Cylon destruction of Kobol. Baltar seems intent in ridding the Galactica of Cylons but does not want to expose how he knows what he knows. Number Six seems to enjoy baiting him and studying his behavior.President Laura Roslin and Commander Adama relationship adds a new dynamic missing from the original. She brings civilian rule over the Rag Tag Fleet instead of martial law that existed in the original. Roslin seems like the kind of leader to represent the people's concerns and needs over her personal agendas. She cares more for their safety than hers. She continually put her ship at risk trying to rescue more survivors following the devastating Cylon attack. Her first truly difficult choice as the leader of mankind was when the Cylons spotted the Rag Tag Fleet and sent fighters to intercept. She decided, with a heavy heart, to leave the ships without FTL drives to their doom while saving a majority of her people. Adama and Roslin butt heads several times but in the end, she persuaded Adama to see the reality of the situation despite his objections. Their partnership, I believe, will be a very interesting one during moments in crisis in future episodes.One of the relationships that I feel will play out more is the one between Boomer and Boxey. I am under the impression that Boomer does not know she is a Cylon, which can lead to fascinating possibilities for the future. Boxey may bring out the maternal instincts within Boomer which when the time comes makes her decide to serve the humans and betray her fellow Cylons. I certainly hope that this element is played out correctly in the series as to where it becomes logical why she would choose humankind over cylonkind.Besides the character relationships, the history of the Cylons is clearly defined in the remake. Man created the Cylons adding a twist from the original. The eventual man vs. man's creation relationship is an age-old tale. A tale similar to how the Monster turned against Dr. Frankenstein. In many ways, Cylons are the victims as is the Monster in Frankenstein. They were created as a slave force that eventually became the instruments of destruction for the Colonies to wage war against one another. Finally one day, the Cylons realized that mankind was the monster and warred against man. Apparently the Cylons left and as of forty years ago, they were never heard from again. An uneasy peace exists between creator and creation in which the creation evolved into the Humanoid Cylons. The Cylons also have a form of religion and a God. I found that absolutely fascinating and would like to see how Cylon religion is played out in a series.By far my favorite element of the mini-series is that one can read it while being familiar with the original with a level of real suspense. The original pilot was the roadmap but Moore decided to tell the story from the point of view of what happened on the Colonies during the Cylon attack. The horror of nuclear war is shown in all its horrifying glory in the remake. The plight of the Colonists is a story worth telling and it done extremely well in the remake.Overall, I am extremely pleased with this remake. Most remakes end up being carbon copies of the original story or they overuse the cliché moments of the original. This remake does none of the above, which makes it somewhat unique. It is not a question of comparing the original to the remake since both versions stand out as great works for their time. The remake is not the original but simply a retelling of the old story from a fresh perspective that leaves one wondering, what more will come from this.
As a little kid, I loved the old BSG, so I was a little fearful of what had been done to this universe. A female Starbuck? Cylons are human? Still, I got talked into watching it by some friends.I have some great friends! Gone is the campiness of the 1970s, the silly lasers and haircuts and schlocky script writing. Gone is the annoying little kid. Gone are the clownish-looking cylons of old.The Cylons are back, and they are completely menacing. They do to humans what the Terminator would like to do: they wipe out nearly the entire species on 12 planets, using thermonuclear weapons.And they are now human. Or at least they'd like to be.Among the many differences here: This series is low-tech looking, drab, and gritty, compared with the old show. You really get the impression that these people are on military vessels and that they are on their last legs, running scared and fighting just to survive. The Galactica looks much more like an armored warship. Dark grey, bristling with weapons, and plated with armor that can take hits from nearby nuclear weapons, and yet it is still recognizedly a version of the old series' Glactica. The filming of the spaceflight scenes is striking. The film makers state they were borrowing techniques from 2001: A Space Odyssey, and Black Hawk Down, and it appears they have succeeded.Adama (Olmos) is a warrior. He was born to kill Cylons. He is not cut out for shepherding unruly civilians, and yet he must do this or the human race will perish. He is joined, and sometimes opposed, by a civilian president, who took office because all other members of the president's cabinet were nuked. She is really just the education secretary, and must fight for legitimacy to prevent a military dictatorship.Starbuck and Apollo are now very complex characters, but they pay tribute to their earlier versions. Starbuck is a hard drinking, hard fighting female pilot who has a more vulnerable side. Apollo blames his father, Adama, for his brother's death, and yet he loves the man and remains a professional officer.Baltar is no longer a stock bad guy. He is a brilliant scientist who lets his passions get the better of him and the Cylons use his lust to trick him into betraying all mankind. And yet he is, at times, charming and likable, and you find yourself pulling for him to redeem himself.And the Cylons, my, the Cylons have come a long way! Once a bunch of clownish guys in suits with video game voices, they have been reborn in a more sinister form. The robots are still around, but thanks to CGI they are actually scary, and suggestive of the Terminator film. But they are only the foot soldiers, and do not speak. The Cylons who run the show now have biologically human bodies, with some enhancements. For instance, when they die, their souls are transferred to replacement bodies, under the right conditions.More importantly, the Cylons now have all the complexity of humans. They have a monotheistic religion, which they believe superior to the normal humans' polytheism. Their motivation for slaughtering billions of people is, for the most part, religious. And they long to learn how to love as normal humans do. It's difficult to determine exactly what makes them tick. Do they want to replace humanity with Human Version 2.0? Or are they trying to convert humans and get them to repent through thermonuclear punishment? You'll find yourself watching to find out more!
I am reading a lot of "It is nothing like the old series". Well maybe the reason it isn't done like the old series is because they wanted to make it better! What do we know about the old series? It was super super corny. The re-imaging is done masterfully. The military environment created is flawless. The dog fights in space look better than anything in all of the Star Wars films. And I love Star Wars.What I'm really trying to say is that old BSG fans need to stop comparing both of them. The new BSG is meant for a new generation. They are not meant to be the same. The stories are totally different. This series needed to create its own signature look and in my opinion pulled it off perfectly. SO SAY WE ALL!


                
One of the greatest scifi franchises has been ruined by people who obviously had no idea what made it so great.  Very sad day.  I have been a big fan for a long time and this new miniseries is a travesty.  The casting is terrible. The series needs to be continued not "reimagined."


                
As a huge fan of the show from the second this miniseries aired I may be a bit biased, but regardless this release has incredible merits.There are two aspects of BSG II that really pull you in, first and foremost, and one of the reasons the series is so incredibly excellent are the characters and their interactions. They are just so darn believable, from the alcoholic second in command to a dying school teacher turned president of humanity.The second, and the reason why standing alone this is an excellent piece of cinema is the grim atmosphere that is so realistically displayed. The sense of horror and helplessness is almost palpable as you witness the genocide of a race.As I write this BSG has aired all the way up to season 4.5. Combined with the series BSG is shaping up to be one of the greatest science fiction epics of all time.


                
I've always liked sci-fi but BSG totally captivates me. I cannot help caring for the characters, wish them well. I sort of resisted being drawn in during the miniseries (oh gosh, another rough-tough scarface commander with a voice like a mafia don, and another heart-of-gold tomboyish woman warrior), but could not resist Cmd Adama's honesty and Starbuck's temperament and completely gave in after an hour. I am simply in love with Starbuck, just because of her quirks and temperament. Even if she totally misbehaves I love her. What a role model. Makes me feel like I'm 13 yrs old again :-) And for the rest .. I think the story is incredibly well written, relatively believable (for a sci-fi series), there's great acting in it and it gives me a hell of a good time.Hats off (So say we all!)


                
I had the grate pleasure of been born in the 1970's. 1974 to be exact. We had Star Trek on every day. What more could a young fella ask for in 1977, I remember catching the bus with my father to watch Star Wars. If I recall correctly the dude in the black mask gave me some bad dreams.Skip forward 3 years as father and son went to see the empire strike back. It was around this time at school where every kid was asking was Vader Luke's dad. It would fill up our every lunch time discussions until a kid said did you guys watch the show on Saturday morning. No we all said, so next weekend we all went round to Chrises house and had our minds blown away. There were epice space fights with robots. As a bunch of 7 years old kids we were hooked. We watched it on Saturday morning and played out our favourite scenes. In the play ground on Monday. We loved that show so much that serveral of us started whistling the theam song while playing the Apple //e game elite. ( one of the best challenging space trader games ever ). As kids tend to grow up so did we. We grew up on some pretty fantastic shows and would defend their honnor till death if need be.Skip forward to 2003. We were so excited to see our favourite show brought back from its deep dark hole where it was sitting for the best part of 24 years.We were so excited to see the mini series but we all hated it. It didn't live up to our expectations, yes we know that our expectations were outrageously set too high. So as a group we decided not to watch anymore episodes. Move on to 2013 at a boys night in the motel they just happened to be playing the 2003 mini series. We were all glued to the tube and spent the whole weekend binge watching. Being a bit older and wiser it was easier to accept the series as the excellent show it is and realise that as kids we only remember the good parts.I hope the boys and girls are playing in the play ground after watching bsg the same type of game we were as kids.Despite the initial reacton to the new series I have to admit this could be one of the best sci-fi shows ever. I would like to see a spin off series following another battlestar during one of the wars or maybe a tale of the 13 tribes. Either way give us more BSG please!!!!!!!!


                
Since I started watching the Sci-Fi channel five years ago,I have often had to endure their "B" rating type of movies that came from their shelves. This was not only a "fresh" spin on a corny 70's show that only lasted two or three seasons, but the casting was simply beautiful. We are shown Commander Adama as a Hispanic male whom is preparing his ship, and command to be decommissoned sadly as a relic from the past. Lt. Starbuck as feisty tomboy female that has a real problem with upper command,and Adama's only son Apollo as a glory seeking officer that can barely stand the sight of his own father,whom he blames for allowing his mother to die alone. I also like the way Baltar was deceived through original sin, into betraying the alliance. A much more believable motive for the fall guy of the human race.


                
A fun 4 hours of science fiction! For TV, the special effects were tremendous. The dogfight scenes were especially well done.The performances were good, especially from Edward James Olmos, Mary McConnell, and Tricia Helfer. Obviously the big change was making the Starbuck character a woman. He was my favorite character in the series and she was my favorite character from the mini-series. Nice twist with the Cyclons having the cloning ability.Let's hope the ending leads to a series. More importantly, if it goes to a series let's hope the same commitment to spending money for special effects is made.


                
Being a little behind the states in seeing the new series of BG (I've just finished watching series 2) I was really pleased that someone had finally decided to produce something with some intelligence to it. Politics, terrorism, war, death and destruction; all things we can relate to in todays society transposed into another galaxy with graphic realism. We have characters with less than perfect morals and both the humans and cylon sides. The total annihilation of mankind is played to great effect - just try to imagine a refugee society of only 49,500 souls...Star Trek etc. are great fun and easy to watch but require little in the way of emotion or brain power to get through an episode. At least this is sci/fi aimed at the adult audience - the imitating of the free-hand camera work from Saving Private Ryan/Band of Brothers, for some of the battle scenes is clever as it brings a level of realism not seen before in this genre.There have been criticisms made that the story is too slow - does anybody remember tension, the tool used to keep an audience intrigued and tuning in each week to find out what is going to happen? It's worked on 24 for the last five series!!As for the person who said the special effects in the original series were better - I've got a spare pair of glasses if yours are no longer working!!!!! C'mon people constructive criticism please!I was a big fan of the original series, being 8yrs old at the time it was perfect for my age group and though I had to erase the memory of the original to get my head around the new series it was worth it. The updated version is far more gritty and tells the story of human suffering with sensitivity and great depth of emotion. The homage to 9/11 with the corridors lined with the photos of loved ones dead and/or missing could have been seen to be a bit callous, but was played out to great effect, without being insensitive.In my opinion if you want a drama series that will keep you hooked and have you caring about the characters, that looks good and is written for those of us with an IQ higher that of our shoe size - you cannot go far wrong with Battlestar Galactica.


                
I havent seen the original series but I've read a lot about it, and negative things about a remake. Well, I was absolutely blown away, as I can't really complain on stuff that isnt "the way it should be". Looking at this from "virgin" eyes I was totally amazed and my heart was pounding the whole time! Great work I say. Being an avid Macross/Robotech fan I particularly appreciate the storyline and setting of Battlestar Galactica. It reminds me of the good old days :)If you havent seen the original, see this. If you have seen the original, see this and keep an open mind ;)


                
"Don't get me wrong, there's a lot of potential here..."OK, then, 3 years later, at least in my point of view, they indeed had lots of things in mind."Firstly, and most annoyingly, don't employ drunks to do your camera-work..."Maybe this was intended to enhance a documentary-like atmosphere. OK, I can accept that this could have been over-performed."Secondly, don't overuse the "human Cylons" routine..."The mechanical cylons are something from the past. They are like the non-interactive versions. And yes, the 'human Cylons' routine is no more a routine but an important part of the script that plants the seeds of doubt in the characters and infers into a deeper morality debate. And for the effects, this is not an FX show, but when the present space battles, dude, those are the most on-screen intense ones since Babylon 5 gathered almost ALL the big ships of the universe in one single battle."Thirdly, the Cylon "eye" on the Cylon fighters was, quite frankly, ludicrous in the extreme..."Well, when the nature of the cylon fighters is revealed, the eye makes sense."OK, so what was good about the show. Well, it introduced some character traits into the main players. it's an improvement over the original, which had precious little character development..."An improvement and a necessity in actual TV shows. Plus, not only the problems they have make them humans, also the way they evolve. We can notice some characters changes between 2 episodes due to a large (even 1 month) amount of fictional time that has passed between them."My main gripe, though, was with Starbuck..."Well, Starbuck has become my favourite character of the whole show. It's surely the most complex and elaborated character, and the actress plays it really great. She's not just another Wolverine-like, and cigars are surely not the only thing to see in her performance."I also have problems with the way they are doing the Baltar role..."And if you don't like the bizarre relationship between Baltar and 6, then you're missing most of the funny scenes in the show, plus one of the most important interrogants of the whole thing and that leads the character to some strange behaviors. Moreover, in season 2 episode 17 (i think) "Downloaded" this imaginary friend thing presents an awesome twist."In fact, considering the target audience probably consisted to a great extent of former BSG fans..." Well, this probable audience was not the objective, and thus they reach a wider group of the audience. "All in all it's a valiant attempt to update the franchise, make it a little bit more "adult" and a little less "space opera". The story isn't very strong here and so far, to my humble opinion, neither are the characters..."Both story and characters have evolved into a greater plot, proving BSG one of the best 2005 shows."...humorless show, with no strong characters and precious little story, cannot hope to succeed. All in all.......disappointing. "Time Magazine and CNN consider BSG the best on TV on year 2005 http://www.time.com/time/arts/article/0,8599,1141640,00.html "-1- Battlestar Galactica (Sci Fi)Most of you probably think this entry has got to be a joke. The rest of you have actually watched the show. Adapted from a cheesy '70s Star Wars clone of the same name, Galactica (returning in January) is a ripping sci-fi allegory of the war on terror, complete with religious fundamentalists (here, genocidal robots called Cylons), sleeper cells, civil-liberties crackdowns and even a prisoner-torture scandal. The basic-cable budget sometimes shows in the production, but the writing and performances are first-class, especially Edward James Olmos as the noble but authoritarian commander in charge of saving the last remnants of humanity. Laugh if you want, but this story of enemies within is dead serious, and seriously good. "


                
Spoilers for both episodes:I tend to like sci-fi shows more than other kinds of TV shows. Doctor Who is currently my favorite show, but I think Battlestar Galactica might give it a run for it's money if these two episodes are representative of the show's overall quality. The fact that this was made in 2003 is really, really impressive- the directing, acting, writing, and music are all really good, and the special effects hold up very well. All the characters are really likable. Episode 1 is more action packed, and episode 2 is slower but much more intriguing. My favorite scenes are the ones between Gaius and Number 6, especially in episode 2- the producers do an impeccable job at distinguishing what's in Gaius' head and what is really going on with huge shifts in the music and in the camera work. I have to say, Boomer was a good character, and the cliffhanger at the end of episode 2 really shocked me. You can tell how much effort the producers put into making this as good as it could possibly be.I can't wait to see where this series goes next.
i was 12 when the original was around and i liked it, i thought the hardware was 1st class, being 12 i liked anything that had space ships in...but those ships still are  great designs that hold up today.I just bought and watched the 2003 version on DVD and i loved it. its given the concept a much more adult theme.i can imagine a lot of  kids being annoyed by the changes....but ..well at the end of the day  you dont have to watch this...so dont watch this!!!... keep watching your dvd/videos of the original.


                
I've watched a bit of sci-fi over the years but I'm by no means a sci-fi fanatic, so my opinion of the Battlestar mini is quite grounded, I can't lie though this mini series did appeal to me on many levels. I was one of the few who liked space above and beyond and don't mind a bit of grittiness to my sci-fi soup. Give me program that's not afraid to show that war is hell and people die, even if it sickens the stomach a bit, I really didn't expect the baby neck snapping bit and neither did anyone else in the living room! I felt that the characters needed to settle in but that was to be expected, no real complaints about the new female starbuck I just hope she doesn't get too cheesy. The best character for me was Commander Adama played by Edward James Olmos, for me he kept things on the level with a controlled precision performance and that rugged face suited a seasoned military man. Lets hope the series in development gets a good reception.


                
I was a little too young (seriously) to enjoy the original series, but I'm a sucker for anything with a robot and/or a lasergun involved. This miniseries has more than whet my appetite for the coming, ongoing series -- I'm now a bona fide fan.The worst I can say for Sci Fi Channel's efforts here? A bit of overacting on Lee "Apollo" Adama's (Jamie Bamber) part. But even he grew on me after viewing the entire epic. The rest of the cast and characterizations are believable and fun. Mary McDonnell as the strong if reluctant President Roslin was my personal favorite. Here's hoping that she lasts longer on the ongoing series than we're made to believe she will...A dire threat, movie-quality space battles, characters you care about, and lots of questions waiting for answers... I can't wait to see how it all plays out!


                
After perusing the comments regarding this mini-series, I felt compelled to weigh in. I was 16 years old when I first saw BSG first run.  I loved it.  After the Pegasus episode, my attention wandered, and by the end of the run I could care less.  It lost any intensity due to bad scripts, and a sense of losing its way story wise. Fast forward to December 2003.  As a fan of the original premise and pilot, I too was worried about a re-make.  After the two night presentation, I was enthralled and realized what a difference acting, writing and STORY make. The negative comments here, to me, represent people "remembering" rather than honest evaluation.The only other thing regarding this mini and potential series.  A good friend of mine (and an independent film maker and a USC Film School Grad) watched this with me.  He had no axe to grind, and for that matter isn't even a Sci-Fi fan.  When the ending credits rolled, he turned and looked at me in disbelief.  His comment was: "That was the best GOD-D***** war movie I've seen since Patton." This was out of the mouth of a film maker who has a very jaded eye when it comes to Hollywood Sci-Fi.My sentiments exactly, and nuff said.


                
I watched every aired episode of the original series on ABC when they first aired in 1978. I even watched the 2nd try in 1980. I am a huge fan of that series, so when I saw the adverts for the mini-series I was nervous. Were they going to muck it up? I saw the pre-show special about the changes and I got more nervous. So when Part I came on I was anxious.As the credits rolled at the end I was relived and excited. The producers and writers did a great job in the rewrite. The plot, characters, and textures of the movie showed so much more maturity than the original series.I am not ashamed to admit that compared to this mini-series, the original series looks like a campy romp - because it was. That was due to producing a sci-fi show on a 1978 television budget. The effects were cheap, the graphics were cheap, the costumes were cheap, and a little person in a robtic dog suit - man how did that show get on the air in the first place. It was like a "Super Train" in space or a rip-off of "Space 1999" (which I also love).Fans complained when Star Trek was updated for "ST:TNG" but that turned out great. So too has Battle Star Galatica.Fandom howled when it was learned that several of the main characters, played by men in the series, would be played by women. I agree with the producers when they explained an advanced civilization like the 12 Colonies would not have the same hang ups about women fighter pilots or leaders that we humans do today. A female Starbuck didn't bother me, in fact the actress who played Starbuck, Katee Sackhoff, had all the qualities of the first Starbuck, the cussing, gambling, and hot temper, first seen in Dirk Benedict's Starbuck from the original.I also loved the reimage of Col. Tigh, played by Michael Hogan. In the original series Tigh didn't have much depth, but in the retelling, he is seen as not just being Commander Adama's yes man. He seems to have some flaws in his character.Most fan complaints were that the most of the original cast should have returned. Who wants to see an almost 60 year old Richard Hatch reprising his "Apollo" character. They would have had to update the character for their age anyway which would mean career advancements and new people as the pilots. It would have been nice to see cameos from the original cast in other roles just as a wink and nod but not as their original characters.The Cylon updates were more radical than the human updates. It seems they got ideas from Cyberdyne Systems from the Terminator movies. The new versions look like humans. Since the Cylons have not been seen much in Part I my impression is not final but I did kind of want to see the old "chrome toasters", as the new Baltar explained to "Number 6", the sexy Cylon spy, played by Tricia Helfer, what the Cylon Centurions looked like in the original series.What I loved about the original series remains in the mini-series, the story. The show wouldn't mean a hill of beans to me if it didn't have a great story. Even the retelling leaves most of the story in tact and in some cases - like how Galactia is the only Battlestar to survive, adds to the plot.I was on the edge of my seat the whole time, even though I knew what would happen.The only complaint I have was the use of the jerky camera during some of the battle scenes. The jerky camera worked in some of the bridge scenes, giving you a "you are there" feeling but in the battle scenes, like the Cylon fighters attacking the Galactia near the end of Part I, it looked confusing. It may have been what the director wanted but it took away from the action.While the original series will hold a place in my heart, and I will watch the episodes as many times as I can find them on the Tube or DVD, the new mini-series is a job well done.


                
