OK, so I am not into all this blog thing, nor I enjoy writing, but for this series I just had to say something. So, I'll say the idea from the beginning so if you are already a (hopeless) fan you can quit reading and save your time: this SUCKS (it sucks so much that I even went through the pain to register on IMDb so I would be able to post this, and I had to say there were other bad movies that I didn't say anything about just because I didn't feel like register and then get all the promo emails I am sure IMDb will flood me with) ! I've never seen a worse sci-fi series, even initial Star Trek series are better than this one (those I don't like because they are outdated and the special effects are old, but I still credit them for the good scripts and ideas).So, I should now explain. As in any action movie there are good guys and bad guys fighting. So far so good. Here, all good guys are somehow involved in all this love thing (a common cliché, although they are military they don't seem to care at all about orders when their kiss-partner is in trouble - is not R-rated so we can't even talk about some good f*** that would perhaps justify the trouble to face court martial for insubordination, especially when human race is about 50k souls and is not a lot of place to hide), and the whole action seems to be centered around the smartest man-scientist who's finger or ear is sucked each episode by a smashing imaginary blonde, a cylon mental spy of some sort. Now, this had to be the lamest extension of the lamest cliché I've ever seen:first, you have the guy, who is the world's greatest computer science mind, but in the same time good looking, with a libido to envy, and who seems had time to fool around a lot with this cylon blonde thing and (perhaps in the f*** brakes) develop the world's defense software. Now, if this is not science fiction, I don't know what is.second (things gets better and better), the cylon chick: she is blonde, beautiful, young, libido off the roof, and also computer science genius. Yeah, you will say she is a robot, she can be whatever she likes, but on the other hand we have our own most intelligent man on the planet who is not questioning at all why this beautiful piece of work choose to become a scientist instead of going for modeling or something more rewarding (or they don't have that in the future ???? ). Anyway, bottom line is that this is the first TV series I've seen where that much sex produced that much defense software, and I guess in the future too if you are beautiful and blonde and below 21 you get to be nuclear fusion scientist.OK, so the pilot movie ends, the human colonies are up in dust, the blonde has no longer anything to do with computers and she goes to what she seems she does best (you know what I am talking about), our own genius finally sees above his d**k, but apparently not above his balls because he seems to need a pair to come forward and say: OK, I made a mistake, billions died but what the hell, people die anyway, this cylon chick tricked me and now I'm bugged or something because the damn thing seems to reach me everywhere. He said The hell with that, I choose to live like a rat, nerves stretched at maximum, but hey, I am already nuts so whats the difference, and play on both sides, maybe I live for another episode so I get my ears licked a few times more.Meanwhile, around this great mental drama, is the usual of any sci-fi series: a few skirmish encounters, few special effects, lots of love that beats the cruelty and killing efficiency of the enemy (not quite how nature laws work in fact ha? ), and the usual frustration when the good guys seem to solve greatest riddles in an episode but cant see the obvious in whole series.Bottom line: if you are not a fan, good for you, anything you would use your time for is better than watching this. If you are a fan and you are under 18 you definitely need to go and say to your mama "Mom, let me get some real porn cause I watch this movie for this chick and even if she does the trick I feel like watching an hour episode for a 2 minutes job is too much waisted time for me", and if you are a fan and more than 18, go get a life man.
After watching this new "Vision" of Battlestar Galactica, I must say that it was not very entertaining...:(  The first two hours had me hoping for some excitement, but this did not happen, even in the second two hours. There was too much time trying to develop the characters, and not enough "Original" story, or actual "SCIENCE FICTION", to keep me entertained. The characters did not appeal to me at all, as they were all angry throughout the show, as that was the only emotion they seemed to have. They did not want to make a "Space Opera", so they made a boring "Soap Opera" instead. Overall, I am very disappointed with this "Production".


                
Oh joy, another remake<U+0085>a dark, humorless remake with too many deliberately hostile characters. Modern day filmmakers are apparently bereft of any imagination. Instead of taking a chance on an untried concept, or adapting an old novel for the first time, they would rather recreate everything ever made<U+0085>King Kong, The Time Machine, Planet of the Apes, Lost in Space, Godzilla, Dracula...etc. A remake of War of the Worlds is in production, as if we haven't already seen that with "Independence Day". Now we have a rehash of Battlestar Galactica, not that there isn't room for improvement on the original. The new production does a fair job of updating the social issues, but remember that the humans in this film are not from Earth, much less from our own time-period. The characters act too contemporary and similar to our own society, which is one aspect I hoped they would ovoid repeating in the remake. Some of the actors can be seen wearing standard office clothing such as a tie, dress shirt and slacks. One of the most significant changes from the original story is that some of the Cylons appear to be perfectly human. Whoa! If ever there was an over used sci-fi cliché, this is it! Let's set the way-back machine for 1953 and watch "It Came from Outer Space" and "Invaders from Mars", the first films to pioneer this concept. How about "Invasion of the Body Snatchers" and "I Married a Monster from Outer Space"? Yes, dozens of movies have used this tired cliché, right up to the remake of "The Thing" and the Terminator movies. So when a character in "Battlestar" says "The Cylons look just like us. You realize what this means? They could be anywhere, anyone." I had to laugh. Here they are trying to update a story and make it fresh, yet they take an over used plot contrivance and make it more derivative than it already was. Don't forget that the original Battlestar was rushed into production based on the success of the first Star Wars movie, all in the noble cause of ratings and profits. The best aspect of this remake is obviously the computer-generated special effects. While I thought the f/x were very good, I don't like the MTV style shaky-cam shots designed to give the appearance of a hand held camera. It's used excessively and is no substitute for good composition and visual direction. There were also inconsistencies with the laws of physics, such as cameras shaking with the vibration of the (audible) explosions (in the vacuum of outer space) and the Cylon missiles with vapor trails. Then we have the cliché of a quick escape with the use of instantaneous faster-than-light space travel. (Which physicists still say is impossible.) While we're talking about clichés, there's a line that reads `Get ready for some chop' (in outer space?) which is straight out of `Aliens'. The most interesting aspect of the rewritten story is the blonde Cylon bimbo, but in the end I feel it was just a deliberate attempt to spice it up and sell this tired story with sex. After sitting through every minute of this extravaganza, I feel it was a fair production, but not enough to inspire me to ever see it again. I rate it a 6 out of 10, with kudos to the special effects team, but a raspberry to the scriptwriters and producers.


                
I was looking forward to this as it was hyped up for about two weeks on Sky TV before it appeared.  I'm a die hard Sci-Fi fan and others would say that I'm quite easily pleased, but this?!I have never seen so many bad performances or such a cheesy script.  The special effects were so-so, but I actually found myself laughing at how BAD the performances were half way through the film.OK, I'm not a kid and perhaps they love it, but if you are at all discerning about your Sci-Fi - AVOID!


                
Rating: 4 out of 10As this mini-series approached, and we were well aware of it for the last six months as Sci-Fi Channel continued to pepper their shows with BG ads, I confess that I felt a growing unease as I learned more.
As with any work of cinematic art which has stood up to some test of time, different people go to it to see different things. In this regard, when people think of Battlestar Galactica, they remember different things.  For some it is the chromium warriors with the oscillating red light in their visor.  For others, it is the fondness that they held for special effects that were quite evolutionary for their time.  Many forget the state of special effects during the late 70s, especially those on television. For some the memories resolve around the story arc.  Others still remember the relationships how how the relationships themselves helped overcome the challenges that they faced.Frankly, I come from the latter group.  The core of Battlestar Galactica was the people that pulled together to save one another from an evil empire. Yes, evil.  The Cylons had nothing to gain but the extermination of the human race yet they did it.  While base stars were swirling around, men and women came together to face an enemy with virtually unlimited resources, and somehow they managed to survive until the next show.  They didn't survive because they had  better technology, or more fire power.  They survived because they cared for and trusted each other to get through to the next show.The show had its flaws, and at times was sappy, but they were people you could care about.The writers of this current rendition seemed to never understand this.  In some ways he took the least significant part of the original show, the character's names and a take on the story arc and crafted what they called nothing less than a reinvention of television science fiction.  Since that was their goal, they can be judged on how well they accomplished it: failure.  It was far from a reinvention.  In fact it was in many ways one of the most derivitive of science fiction endeavors in a long time.  It borrows liberally from ST:TNG, ST:DS9, Babylon 5, and even Battlefield Earth. I find that unfortunate.Ronald D. Moore has been a contributor to popular science fiction for more than a decade, and has made contribution to some of the most popular television Science Fiction that you could hope to see.  One of the difficulties that he appears to have had was that there could be no conflict in the bridge crew of the Enterprise D & E.  That was the inviolable rule of Roddenberry's ST:TNG. Like many who have lived under that rules of others who then take every opportunity to break the rules when they are no longer under that authority, Ron Moore seems to have forgotten some of the lessons he learned under the acknowledged science fiction master: Gene Roddenberry. Here, instead of writing the best story possible, he has created a dysfuntional cast as I have ever seen with the intent of creating as much cast conflict as he could.  Besides being dysfunctional, some of it was not the least bit believable.  Anyone who has ever been in the military knows that someone unprovokedly striking a superior officer would not get just a couple of days "in hack," they could have gotten execution, and they never would have gotten out the next day. It wouldn't have happened, period, especially in time of war.The thing that I remembered most of Ron Moore's earlier work was that he was the one who penned the death of Capt. James Kirk.  He killed Capt. Kirk, and, alas for me, he has killed Battlestar Galactica.


                
I have yesterday seen the second part. And I must say, it was actually better then the first one. At the begin, I realized, It is actually a sequel, not a remake but not a good one. I do not like the old movies and series of Galactica, because the cylons saw like toasters (just as it was mentioned in this new movie) and were completely harmless for the old galactica. This movie turns the sides - the Humans were harmless but the whole movie was for me completely chaotic and stupid. Many scenes were unnecessary, for instance the story of the "computer expert" - completely a crap. If I were a scriptwriter I would leave him die in his house, killed by the cylon woman. And the evacuation from the planet? Oh, please if it would be bombed by 50 Megatons (why exactly 50 MT??) nukes, they would be dead killed by the radiation. And how is it actually possible that the big fleet of cylon was completely hidden before the attack? Aha, it was possibly this computer virus, created by the cylon - the script was probably written by ten-years-old school boy. The good side of the movie is, that the humans are at last defeated!! Really defeated, the population is near the extinction (children are dieing - two times explicit in the movie: 1. a baby!!! maybe one month old and a girl in age of max ten - what a violence...). And the bad-asses won and I think it is the first time in such sci-fi galaxy fight movie. I also appreciate the design of the cylons (not only of the humanoid cylon:-) a good job with these ships - I like the design of the ships by both of them - human an cylons. The human ships are a good never version of the old ones. And galactica - really pretty with these docks, I liked that. But this is all, only the design is not enough. The acting was really bad, the whole plot was expectable (only two things not - the human-cylon on the ragnardocks and the human-cylon at the end).The dialogs were trivial (and in the Slovak dabbing just stupid, but that is not fault of the movie). The whole movie looked like a pilot film for a series, but who would shoot such series? What it would be about? One star for the design the second one for the near extinction of humanity.
Sorry, but every time I see a film wherein a woman sucker-punches a man and the man does nothing but cower, the film looses all credibility. So the new (female) Starbuck immediately tainted the plot before it even got off the ground (no pun intended). Dirk Benedict was so much more plausible as the sensitive hero-type than the new-age Kattee Sackhoff-- whose overacting will probably be henceforth lauded as "a compelling, exciting, must-see, ground-breaking performance," by the politically correct new-speak of today's review copy editors; but in essence, it is just a tired, old image of a woman with a chip on her shoulder as big as a townhouse: the biggest cliché on screens today. I may give this series one more shot, but human caricatures alone will not keep me tuned in. As James Hilton once bemoaned, "A story, please; just give me a story."
Disclaimer: The only reason I started watching this series was to stop my friend from constantly badgering me to watch it. Oh I wished I hadn't listened to her and instead listened to my gut.Like I said the miniseries and season 1 were pretty good (except for them dumping 2 characters on another planet as a sub plot (and those characters achieving nothing for 10 episodes or so) & developing other minor characters I didn't give a crap about).And then season 2 happened and I lost my patience. The cyclons having "a plan" but none of this plan being revealed in any form of a timely manner. Gius' continuing hallucination spouting nonsensical fluff about destiny which turned from intriguing to annoying. The unnecessary focus on politics and other random nonsense which in no way added to the plot. And I could just see that it was going to move more towards this whole spiritual-god- religious path storyline of which I have ZERO interest.The only storyline I actually cared about was the romance between Kara and Lee but sitting through all the other crap wasn't worth finding out what happened between these two.Bottom line, I was bored out of my mind. In fact I fell asleep multiple times watching this.It's not sci-fi. It's a dramatic, soap opera which happens to take place in space.Recommendation: Don't walk, run in other direction. Don't waste your time. Put in an episode of Star Trek and go to your sci fi happy place.
