"Our goal is nothing less than to the reinvention of the science-fiction television series." -Ronald D. Moore, Executive Producer/ScreenwriterCongratulations Mr. Moore, you and your team of crack genre experts have succeeded in your goal.The newest iteration of _Battlestar Galactica_ has indeed reinvented the science fiction television series. Apparently, it's been reinvented as a ponderous, convoluted, poorly filmed and even more poorly scored needlessly long exercise in futility. If this is representative of the "new" science-fiction television series, I want nothing to do with sci-fi anymore.I went in to my viewing of the _Battlestar Galactica_ miniseries with a large amount of trepidation. Having been a fan of the original movie and subsequent series (cheese and all), I was more than a bit put off at all the changes made to the basic premise of the original series. Having the Cylons created by humans, changing the sex of much-loved characters and the handful of other "tweaks" made in the name of updating, modernizing and improving left me worried about the integrity of the core story I fell in love with years ago.As it turned out, those things that had me most worried were far from the worst blemishes on the miniseries.In fact, the story pace, cinematography, soundtrack and plot caused more than enough problems on their own, making my initial concerns pale in comparison.The last time I watched anything that moved quite as slowly and flowed as poorly as this new _Battlestar_ was when I caught _Queen of the Damned_ on cable months ago. Coincidentally, _Queen_ was directed by the same man who directed Battlestar, Michael Rymer. While I haven't seen all of what Rymer has directed, of the three projects I've seen by him, two of them have been done poorly. For some reason, his style fit well with the supernatural cop story he brought to life in 2002's short lived series "Haunted."In the past, I've enjoyed much of what Moore has written. His recent work on the second episode of HBO's "Carnivale" and his past work on "Roswell" and especially "Deep Space Nine" has left me quite satisfied with his talents. Somehow, none of that has come through in this rendition of _Battlestar_ except in two speeches given by Commander Adama (Edward James Olmos).There is no reason for this film to be four hours long. The viewer is "treated" to sequence after sequence of slow moving pans and spins, often accompanied by poorly chosen music (when there is music). Each shot lingers more than a little too long, successfully killing any sense of urgency or impending peril that was almost built up. Even the combat sequences, when tension should be at its highest, are made bland and almost boring by poor music and filming.There's more I could say. I could pick apart the needlessly complex problems in the characters' lives or the poor performances turned in by most of the actors or the sub-par special effects used. I could go into great detail about how the story seems to miss every single point it could possibly make by just enough to be frustrating to anyone trying to care. I could, but I won't. Most of these problems could all have been overlooked if the film were made well. If the writing and directing worked, I'm willing to bet that half the other problems wouldn't even exist._Battlestar Galactica_, as it was, is a story about hope and survival. It is a heroic story of men and women fighting insurmountable odds, and knowing it. However, in this version there is no heroic feeling. There is no sweeping undercurrent of hope. This film lacks the one thing that would have made it possible for legions of fans to overlook the changes made: heart.


                
In a word, this re-make, or re-envisioning or whatever you want to call it, was disappointing. There was so much potential with this story, with today's technology and with the actors, yet it was utterly wasted.On the positive side, I appreciated the tie-ins to the original series. There were certain looks to elements like the pilot's helmets and the Vipers that were nice reminders of the original. Also, there was some very talented actors in this series. Starbuck and Adama both did excellent jobs and even Boltar was very convincing as the tormented and unwilling turncoat.But tell me why, with all the computer graphics technology we have today, that the Cylons had to look like people? Seriously, that's the whole excitement with the original: the metal monsters with no heart and no conscience wanting to wipe-out the human race. Instead, they're made to be manipulative cyborgs who use sex to get what they want. Come on! On top of that, you never see them!My other big complaint is the lack of action. Where are all the cool space battles? Where was the Colonial Fleet? Where were the dogfights between Cylons Fighters and Vipers. There were only two skirmishes that lasted all of ten minutes on screen. How disappointing.Besides all of that, the plot seemed very disjointed and inconsistent. One minute the president is in charge, the next it's Adama. What was with the animosity between Starbuck and Col. Tigh? And I'm sorry, but the truth behind Adama's charge to find Earth was pathetic. I won't ruin it for those who haven't seen it yet, but please, they could have handled that much better.If you never saw the original series, you may like this. It is an interesting story on survival. But it was poorly woven together and the script wasted some very talented actors. My hat goes off to Katee Sackhoff (Starbuck), Edward James Olmos (Adama) and James Callis (Boltar) for carying the picture as best they could. But overall, it was a tragic waste of great potential.


                
Well, I've watched the first episode of the series, and, if this is any indication, all I can say is that I doubt I will spend the time to watch the rest.  I'm afraid the writers lost the concept of what `space opera' is all about - two-dimensional characters that are either readily likable or not and a high level of action combined with a load of special effects.  In this version, I found myself hard-pressed to warm to the good guys - Captain Adama (played by Edward James Olmos) comes across as a tormented soul, as opposed to the `grandfather' figure played by Lorne Green in the original. In the new version of the series, Baltar, who should be the central bad guy, played in the new series by James Callis, comes across as being nothing more than an unwitting pawn in the entire Cylon invasion.   This is opposed to the calculated, selfish maneuverings of the character portrayed by the John Colicos in the original.And in a nod to the horribly bad second season of the original, there is a human form Cylon - named `Number 6', played by Tricia Helfer - that really doesn't seem to have any definition at all - a killing machine that seems to have feelings?  And why the name - is this a `wink, wink, nudge, nudge' reference to `Seven of Nine' from the Star Trek: Voyager series?
Finally, the special effects, the battle scenes - they're short, not very exciting, and other than  being done with computer graphics as opposed to the models used in the original, really don't have much going for them.
Overall, I am disappointed...  The original Battlestar Galactica franchise was nothing more than escapist fare, fun in its own way.  The new version has little to recommend it.


                
Don't you just hate it when you order steak but the restaurant gives you chicken?Such is how I felt watching this so-called "Battlestar Galactica". Arguments can be made over its quality but the fact remains, it's NOT what the fans ordered.Imagine if you were sitting down at that proverbial restaurant I mentioned. You have waited years for them to bring back their famous New York Strip steak which you loved.  When your meal arrives, you find they've applied the name "New York Strip" to a chicken dish.  You complain but the waiter merely states "but ze cheeken, ees really GOOD zir"!  Do you really care if the chicken is good?  You wanted New York Strip - a STEAK!  The waiter then explains, "you zee zir, ze chef wanted to to do, as you zay, zomezing NEW. We felt ze cheeken would be more popular zo we gave it the name of our previous delicious deesh".  You ask if you will ever find the original New York Strip on the menu in the future but are informed that because the restaurant HAS a dish called "New York Strip" now on the menu, you'll never see the original New York Strip - ever again.Such is the case with creating something NEW and slapping the "Battlestar Galactica" namesake on it.* This mini series is an affront to all fans of the original show! *It's a shame the production team put in charge of this new version obviously held contempt for the original.  The team put in charge of resurrecting BG should have LOVED the original series - seeking to improve what the fans loved, not try to shamelessly sell this new series by exploiting the Battlestar Galactica name.If SciFi Channel wanted to give us a NEW show, then DO so!  Give it a new name!  Don't use the name we fondly remember in an attempt to lure in viewers.  That effectively robs us of the chance to see any semblance of the original in the future.We have been waiting for 25 years to see what we knew as BG because we LIKED something about the original!  We didn't simply want the NAME and remnants of the basic concept.  There are things we LOVED about the original series!Sadly, probably the BEST elements of the original were those which were omitted.  Sure, the original BG was imperfect and could have used some updating.  This mini series, however, was not an improvement in any regards but the special effects (which were good but not anything unusual by today's standards).Many viewers will debate back and forth about the quality of this NEW show but we will not forgive SciFi and Ron Moore for destroying our dream.That being said...  I shall offer some comments about the merits of this new mini by itself (not in comparison to the original):The battle sequences were the best part.  Effort was obviously put into making the effects more "real" in appearance and less "wow - look at that effect".  I would not say these sequences were exceptional by today's standards yet they were in keeping with made-for-cable original movies. What was the deal with this "pseudo-live-cam"?  Some views tried to fake the effect of a "real" camera with lagging tracking and jerky zooms.  However, it was over-used considering there was no apparent SOURCE of these cameras. The infinitely more intelligent series, Babylon 5, is the only instance I've seen such "live cams" used effectively, when we were supposedly witnessing action from Security Cams.The script, you ask?  The script felt like it was written by a teenager, FOR other teenagers.  The characters felt cardboard and stereotypical.  Indeed, the whole story felt pieced together from other well-known stereotypes.  The only good features of the entire story were those few elements which were preserved from the original series.  It was obviously "dumbed down" for digestion of your average TV audience.The human interaction was pitiful.  Rather than drama based on subtle looks, expressions and fine timing, every moment of human tension was exaggerated to the point of being so obvious they lost all ability to move any refined viewer.  Such was obvious in any interaction between Adama and son.  The director must have been trying to make sure the most dense and unfeeling viewer wouldn't miss it even if not paying attention.  Sorry, but real humans don't behave like the continually.I wouldn't have considered this a BAD show had it stood on its own.  Nothing great; it will never be revered by true SciFi fans or artisans, but it would be watchable by the masses.  I personally could have lived without it, though.  I only watched it to see how it really DID capture the spirit of the original.  How this mini series will always be remembered is as a symbol of how quality in storytelling has been cast aside to appeal to greater numbers.  How even SciFi Channel has "dumbed down" its productions to cater to the masses as opposed to its true niche market, the Science Fiction fans.  It will be the time we asked for steak and they insisted on giving us chicken, despite our complaints.I leave you with only one thought - NO "MOORE".


                
I started to watch the new Battlstar Galactica and I have to say I was very disappointed. Watching the first 10 minutes there have already been a passionate kiss between a robot and a human who is married, smoking, drinking and gambling and with that disrespectful actions against superiors, and then last of all a killing of an infant.People praise this show (pilot) and I can honestly not see why. It might have been well done graphically but when it is degrading peoples values in the first 10 minutes is very sad.If you are sensitive and do not like shows where killing of children, drinking and smoking, and other immoral behavior is done. Don't watching this show as it contains this.The man who wrote the original Battlestar Galactica was a good man with good ideas. I don't know if I could say the same about those who produced the re-imaging.
I was never a huge aficionado of the original series, but, as a teen-aged fan of Dirk Benedict, I watched it often enough to decide that this new rendering isn't going to work for me. Its dark, humorless plodding and its attempts at political correctness (where are the hookers?) simply bury any similarity to classic Galactica. I don't mind a little tweaking--the modern SFX are nice, the call-sign idea is creative--but, I have to say that I was disappointed in the way this pilot... took shape. Specifically, the character Olmos is playing bears no resemblance to Adama: he's far too serious and none too fatherly. Turning Boomer and Starbuck into females is not only silly and annoying, but deprives Apollo of the much-needed male bonding element. I know that times have changed, but these factors are too important to the core concept of BG to be changed so radically and still to bear the same title. Name it something else.I may still watch the new series, but I'll have to forget it's called "Battlestar Galactica."


                
