it failed to thrill.*Spoilers*I appreciated the efforts to give all of the characters more...well, character than the cardboard cutout "good guys" in the original, even if it was taken too far in the case of Starbuck, who is just obnoxious and needs to be seriously toned down, and Baltar, who is just nuts and had FAR too much screentime talking to the fantasy woman in his head (and can it be any coincidence that the only character WITHOUT any issues turns out to be a Cylon spy?).  I also appreciated the sporadic attempts at darkness -- the abandonment of the slower ships in the fleet to certain death was particularly effective.  But despite these attempts, the mini-series as a whole just lacks any real emotional punch.Instead it gets caught up in spending so much time establishing the various characters and their rather broad issues, that it fails to take a look around at the bigger picture around it.  As far as these people know, the ENTIRE HUMAN RACE HAS JUST BEEN WIPED OUT.  Not once did I get any sort of feel for the emotions such an event would cause, nor did we get to see more than the barest glimpses of the chaos of the destruction itself. Independence Day might have had more emotional punch, and that's not good.Nonetheless, going forward I have some hope.  If they decide to turn this into a series, the have already shown a willingness to explore character flaws and depict grim choices and events.  Episode to episode I could see them being able and willing to introduce conflict and occasionally have things not go so well.  But as far as capturing the power and tragedy of the entire species being annihilated?  Just out of the makers' league I'm afraid -- and because of that the mini-series just felt "smaller" than its subject matter.
Don't get me wrong, there's a lot of potential here. But if a series does materialise out of this, I hope they bear a few things in mind.Firstly, and most annoyingly, don't employ drunks to do your camerawork. I'm not referring to the sudden and somewhat disorienting  camera motions during the space battles. No, I'm referring to the "wobbling camera" syndrome that appeared in a number of set piece scenes, almost to the point of making me wonder whether I was watching some "hidden camera" documentary.Secondly, don't overuse the "human Cylons" routine. Whatever your motives for putting them in the script, ultimately it just looks like you're too cheap to splash out on effects. Especially when the new and souped up mechanical Cylons are only on screen for about a minute in four hours!Thirdly, the Cylon "eye" on the Cylon fighters was, quite frankly, ludicrous in the extreme. What was the point of that? We know they're Cylons, that they have a new weapon, etc, etc. I didn't know you could "ham" up special effects, but this did it, and did it to truly Porcine proportions.OK, so what was good about the show. Well, it introduced some character traits into the main players. Colonel Tighe's a drunk, Adama has a problem with his son, and sundry other minor "people are real 'cos we've given them problems" features. So, in that sense, I suppose it's an improvement over the original, which had precious little character development.My main gripe, though, was with Starbuck. Not that they'd given him a sex-change. I can understand that entirely. Think about it. Dirk Benedict is really only known for two roles - as Face in the A Team, and Starbuck from the original BSG. Considering the age of the original, he must have pretty much made the part his own for people to remember him so vividly. The script and casting staff are to be commended for realising that no man could fill his shoes in that role. So I'm OK with the gender change. But try as I might, I just can't seem to like the new Starbuck. They seem to have tried to make the role too similar to poor old Dirk's, right down to the cigars. And trust me, seeing a woman chew on a stogie ain't something that's ever gonna be attractive in a female role. Add the character's insane attitude, compared to the original happy-go-lucky Starbuck, an actress that can't quite do the "tough girl" role, and you have an instantly dislikeable character.I also have problems with the way they are doing the Baltar role. It's good that he's not a one-dimensional cardboard maniac, as portrayed by dear old John Colicos, in the original. However, the whole "Baltar's talking to himself - or is he?" routine started to grate on my nerves, as did the overuse of the sex scenes between the two characters. In fact, the continued reappearance of "Number 6" began to get silly very early on. As for her giving Baltar a hand job at one point - give me a frickin break!In fact, considering the target audience probably consisted to a great extent of former BSG fans, I felt there was altogether too much unecessary babbling, sex and dialogue, and nowhere near enough action. A lot of engagements between the Cylons and the Colonials are talked about, but never seen, a bit like the new Cylons themselves.All in all it's a valiant attempt to update the franchise, make it a little bit more "adult" and a little less "space opera". It has potential, if they address a few issues in any resulting serialisation, but I wonder how much mileage there is in a series where each week the cast and crew run away from searching Cylons, whilst doing little other than argue who's in commmand or who's fault it was Apollo's brother got killed, or perhaps punching out a superior officer to add excitement. A series can survive on one of two things - story, or  characters - preferrably both. The story isn't very strong here and so far, to my humble opinion, neither are the characters.
There's none of the charm or humour of the original, which was what made it so popular way back when, and a humourless show, with no strong characters and precious little story, cannot hope to succeed.All in all.......disappointing.


                
After forty years of armistice, the Cylons massively attacks the Twelve Colonies of Kobol. Their strategy is based on a virus implanted in the mankind defense system. The former Battlestar Galactica, which is being adapted as a museum, is not connected in network with the defense system and becomes the unique warship capable of fight against the Cylons and lead the survivors to the legendary planet Earth.In the end of the 70's, my wife and I were huge fans of "Battlestar Galactica". We did not lose any show, and we loved the saga of Capt. Apollo, Lt. Starbuck, Cmdr. Adama and the crew and survivors in this warship. The enemies of this series usually made depreciative comparisons with "Star Wars", but there were many followers at least in Brazil. This "updated remake" is reasonable, with a female "Starbuck" and better special effects, but without the charm of the original film. Unfortunately, the character of Mary McDonnell is awfully ridiculous and inconsistent, and spoils most of the plot with wrong decisions and positions. The hopeless woman has cancer and is a secretary of education that hates politics, but suddenly she thinks that she is a military strategist, giving orders to experienced military commanders. I do not know the intention of the writer, but it was terrible and irritated me. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil): "Battlestar Galactica"Obs: On 02 August 2008, I started seeing the First Season of Galactica and the first disc is indeed this mini-series. I noted that most of the lead cast is non-charismatic and Mary McDonnell's character is worse and more ridiculous than my first impression.


                
I loved the original Battlestar Galactica, but I feel that for the remake they had no choice but to go a very different direction from the original series. If they tried to replicate the original - firstly: why bother, you can watch the original, secondly, everyone would be comparing every character and story line to the original. Could there ever be any actors that could compare to the originals? No, of course not, so they had to make them different. The special effects were very good, I almost felt like I was really watching them in outer space. The storyline was intriguing and different. They had reminders of the old series with the music and the fighter planes, etc. And overall it was a fun series to watch! people have been much too hard on it!


                
Ok, I loved the original Battlestar Galactica.  It was a fun series and that was that.  And when I saw ads for this new one, I was very apprehensive. Could it be as entertaining as the old one?  Well, since all the ads pretty much showed sex, sex, sex, I didn't see a lot of light at the end of the tunnel.  But after watching it, I'd have to say this show does have the potential to be something really cool.  It's not an identical rehash of the original series and indeed does have twists and some _very_ significant differences, while still following the primary plotline of the old show. No, I'm not fond of the fact that half the cast had their genders flipped, but I guess that's just part of stepping beyond its predecessor.  The special effects and visuals are quite stunning, and I like the use of subtle sounds in space as opposed to the big booms of other sci-fi shows; while you can't have absolute vacuum silence, toning down the noise does add to the realism a little bit.  There is entirely too much focus on the sexual aspect, I think, kind-of that 7-of-9 factor Voyager got sucked into, and the characters yell too much (reminds one of the god-awful movie Space Mutiny which used a lot of Battlestar Galactica footage) to emphasize their points. Other than that, I look forward to seeing what the stories develop into, as it has a great potential for growth and is off to a pretty nice start.


                
i did not know about this remake until i read the defamatory remarks by fans of the original series.  so i tivo'ed it and watched it, and it was much better than i expected.  i have read many comments about the documentary-style space shots but that is one part that i really liked. the premise about them having to use inferior technology to counter the cylons' superior advantage is rather interesting.  the plot is predictable but i still enjoyed it.i basically fast-forwarded most of the sex scenes involving Balthar; hmm in retrospect i may have fast-forwarded a few of the slow/slower parts, so maybe that has contributed to my overall positive reaction.  in any case i am looking forward to the 2nd part of the mini-series.


                
The Battlestar Galactica mini-series is a two hour and a half extravaganza that sets itself up as an introduction to the forth coming full series, detailing the Cylon's attack on the twelve human colonies, that leaves the 'Galactica' and her rag tag fleet of civilian vehicles as the only thing between their robotic nemeses and total eradication of the human race. It pays homage to the original series and indeed as well as re-imagining its predecessor, attempts in its own way to gift them both existence in the same plane. More importantly, however, the mini- series sets out to stamp its own authority on the highly lacking sci-fi series universe using its brand of sublime special effects, intense action, gripping storyline and absorbing characters (even if one in particular is, thankfully, never seen again) to hook you from the get go so that you go further and search for its subsequent seasons. However, and unfortunately there is a however, the very first episode of the first season is an incredibly difficult place to start for those that have not watched the mini-series. Personally half way through the lengthy introduction I went out to purchase both seasons 1 and 2 on DVD as I was hooked, but the seasons do not lend themselves to watching without the introduction. So much happens and takes place and is set up in the preceding film that any one who you have recommended the new look "Battlestar" to simply must view this first, otherwise subtle nuances and plot points will be lost. Why is this such an issue? Simply because the "Mini-Series", while an enjoyable entertaining affair, does not prepare you for how good episode one is, and how you are then catapulted into a world which will eat away hours of your life. This first instalment is unrefined: certain quotations and characters are unnecessarily placed within it to cater to the original fan base (I'm also aware the director and producer are seeing what works within their construct) one of which is so far removed from needed that it almost spoils the experience. The dialogue is also in a rough stage of development, whereby the outlines of characters must be forged so the conversations and interactions don't flow as smoothly as they should, and can provide for a partially cringe worthy affair.However, I will maintain (as I have to many friends I have recommended it to) that perseverance is the key. You will not appreciate the greatness of the subsequent seasons without ploughing through the mini-series. Not that the mini-series isn't an enjoyable watch, but for those who are still undecided about the concept or not immensely avid science fiction fans, it can come across as turgid and clichéd, which is why I would suggest watching the first episode of the series immediately thereafter. If that doesn't capture your imagination then Battlestar Galactica is not for you. It is a great deal of time to invest in what is nothing more, for the cynics, than a dirge-fest of a 70s show transported into the noughties equipped with blonde bombshells and everything that any prepubescent needs in its sci-fi, but BSG is so much more than that, and to be frank, the quality of the show means that there are not many cynics about. Countless times, before I began watching, I read and read in various television supplements that this was and is the best thing on television, and to be frank they are right, for once you are involved it's a sterling whirlwind, but this two and a half hour affair is a must if you are to fully appreciate the series. If you enjoy or have enjoyed this instalment you will adore the series, for those still undecided I would recommend watching the first episode and judge from there whether you wish to continue, and for those that found this tedious and science fiction twaddle...well...you can just frak off!


                
Warning there may be some spoilers here for both Battlestar 2003 andthe old version and tv series.As i sit back and read the very judgemental reviews written by die-hard BattleStar Galatica fans of old, i can only think, GET OVER IT!!!While the number of action sequences was a little less then the original, the acting, plot and character development left the old series to shame.Old Starbuck: gambles, good pilot but not realy tough. New Starbuck:  Butt Kicking Pscho chickOld Boomer:  The Tokken Black guy New boomer:  Yah gotta see it...Old Galactica:  has weapons it never uses New Galactica:  Total war machineOld Adama:  Good Actor, morning loss of son and people, hard core approach to running Galactica New Adama: Morning loss of son and People with a Jim Kirk Attitudealso the technology now makes more sense,  we have a much more plausible Baltar character, politcal issues and doubt to whether or not there even is an Earth to look for.
I gave it a 7 because the show kinda slowed down and left an open ending. They may be planning sequals, but if they dont then our story doesn't end.
I was 19 and in my first year in college when the original "Battlestar Galctica" was shown on ABC. At that time I was impressed with the story, actors and the effects. At last! some good sci-fi on TV! It was something that kept the fans of "Star Trek" satisfied until they finally brought back the Enterprise and the Federation.I'm nearly 46 and even after Trek has returned in all of its incarnations(which I live), I am very fond of the lone Battlestar, the colonies and the Cylons. I never got the chance to watch the miniseries on the Sci-fi Channel, but got the opportunity to see it on NBC on Jan. 8.This is a comment on the show, with a comment of the quality of the DVD.First, the miniseries.I thought it was great! Bottom line-done very well. I read a lot of the complaints concerning the gender changes, the choice of the producer and the choice of actors. everything was excellent! Edward James Olmos uses the same intensity that made him great in Miami Vice and gave the audience a strong, driven Commander Adama. The man was born to be in the military, therefore all of his actions, including insulting the new president of the colonies, was right on target, character-wise.Katee Sackoff is perfect a Starbuck. Talented, a little psycho and a wise-ass makes me say that Dirk Benedict should appear in an episode as Kara's uncle, a veteran who was dishonorably discharged (just to keep the bloodline going!) Her characterization is a tribute to Dirk.Having Lee (Apollo) angry at his father for the death of his brother Zak was a stroke of brilliance! Two generations at war with each other(sounds familiar?) learning to come to an understanding and working with each other is a great sub-plot.I have read a lot of the reviews concerning the Cylons and their change into humanoids. If fans remember, they should do this; e-mail Ron Moore and say "shame, shame" on his supposed decision not to use anything from "Galactica 1980" (the concept of a humanoid Cylon is a homage to the two-part episode "The Night the Cylons Landed") and then say "Thank you". That fact and the fact that Dr. Baltar was used as a pawn brings back the specter of the last three cases of Treason against the U.S.-a perfect victim picked because of his weakness to fame, money and women.Now, the DVD.Universal has never made a decent DVD. The picture can be blurry, the sound is substandard, there are no extra features when there are quite a bit that can be added, and the price is too high for the product. They are disrespectful to the fans of many of the shows they have in their library. I have the original BG on DVD and was greatly disappointed. The videotape I have has better quality! After hearing the comments concerning the miniseries DVD I decided to tape the Broadcast presentation, cuts and all, rent the DVD and live with what I got in my head and on tape.All this being said, get your DVD recorder and set it for Fridays @9p.m. on the Sci-fi Channel. This show has legs!
Though blatantly a very long pilot episode for a potential series, this is a really good and very intriguing study upon society and battling man-made enemies. Unfortunately, Edward James Olmos manages to steal the entire film from the bland actors who play their bland characters. I'm not a galactica fan, but otherwise, it's very well directed, features a story of incredible depth and texture, and has some exciting star fights worth watching. All around, Galactica geeks will love it.


                
I was a huge fan of the original series and was disappointed when they canceled it, and Horrified by that piece of garbage call Galactica 1980.By today's standards the old show is too cheesy and limited. A lot of that had to do with the limits placed on the special effects team in time and budget. And even more blame on the studios for constantly interfering with the writers. But despite all the problems it was a good show.But I found this new mini series enjoyable and I'm looking forward to the new series. One of the biggest flaws of the original is the stories got boring; mostly because of the limits the studio put on it. I hope they can keep the stories interesting on this one.I will keep hope alive and keep watching, and suggest others keep an open mind.


                
I don't remember much as a 4 year old. I have vague memory flashes of playing with Lego, running around the kitchen screaming and mittens connected by a long string that went through my winter jacket. I have few memories of places or events and it generally felt that time plodded on very very slowly as I waited to grow up. However, one distinct thing that I do remember from that time was the television space saga known as Battlestar Galactica. Of course my memories revolve mainly around images of the red on white Colonial Viper fighters flying around space blowing up the silver disc shaped Cylon badguys, as opposed to story lines and character development. Something about a giant spaceship tackling impossible odds against those cool-robotic-voiced chrome toasters with the scanning red eye has left a permanent impression on my young mind. I only recently discovered that the original Battlestar Galactica series ran for a mere 24 episodes over the course of 2 seasons before the plug got pulled due to high production costs and increasingly inane plots. But the Battlestar Galactica legacy survives over 20 years and has finally been reworked into a viable, gripping new (hopefully ongoing) mini-series based on modern themes.The SciFi network has been responsible for some decently successful reworks of SciFi classics such as Dune and Children of Dune. Battlestar Galactica has received a similar reinvention, drawing on the basic scenario, characters, settings and ships for inspiration and throwing it with a dark, conflict-ridden modern curve. The story picks up 40 years after the Cylon war where the enemy has mysteriously disappeared and leaving humanity to live and flourish peacefully on 12 colonies. This peace is short lived as the Cylons return, swiftly destroying the 12 colonies and all Colonial "Battlestars" (big space ship). To top it all off the Cylons are no longer the chromies, but rather look identical to humans. As the last surviving Battlestar, Galactica regroups with a "rag-tag" fleet of civilian ships at a weapons depot, preparing to make a run to the mythical and perhaps fictitious 13th human colony, Earth.The real meat of this show is the character interaction of these human survivors as they are faced with the extinction of the human species. We have pilots and civilians, a president and an admiral vying for the fate of the remaining human remnant. I found the drama particularly gripping when the fleet civilian ships had to leave behind the "sub-light speed" ships, condemning all passengers to death. None of this "we won't leave without you", winning against all odds drivel. The critical choice had to be made to save the majority to leave the rest to perish. In the same sense I respect the decision to make the enemy human looking, to step up the drama as anyone could be a Cylon saboteur. Mind you, no one in this show is going to win an academy award for their performance, the characters get the job done and in a strange tense raw way, get you caring about their welfare.On the special effects side we realize that corners had to be cut and the budget wasn't limitless. The CG of space, fighters and ships is clean and believable, employing an interesting (but somewhat tiring) zoom in effect as seen in many amateur home videos. My beef is that we don't get to see the wide angle shots of space battle or for the most part, we hardly get a sense of place and location ... perhaps that's intentional but I felt that more CG could have enhanced the show greatly. Without those wide angles, we don't get a sense of size and direction as the Colonials battle for their very survival. However, the tense frantic action is still conveyed adequately through the little CG that is shown.After 4 hours of this so-called mini-series you would expect to have a little more progress in the story than we have here. Again this was done with purpose as the ending, isn't an ending at all. This "pilot" has succeeding in scoring an ongoing series on the SciFi network that is currently running.
I haven't seen the original series, but all the bitching by old fans surprised me a lot as this is obviously a piece of quality science fiction.The characters are interesting and layered and I'm looking forward to hearing more about them in the series. The conflicts between them never seem exaggerated or one dimensional. Acting is far better than what we usually get in TV films.Despite stealing unashamedly from classic settings and conflicts (making it even more endearing), the plot twists nicely, and keeps you guessing right until the end. The effects are fine without being spectacular - but that's not the film's focus (fortunately).Battlestar Galactica is the most satisfying scifi I've seen since Firefly - I hope it keeps going strong for a long time.


                
Just saw the first installment and it is awesome.  Great fx, story-telling, production values and acting.  This is so much better than the original TV series/movie of the late 70's and early 80's.  I always considered BG in the same league as the Buck Rogers/25th Century TV series of the same era --- watchable entertainment but hokey.  Now BG can be proudly compared to Star Trek and Star Wars.  Finally the Sci-Fi Channel has produced a decent movie/mini-series after all of those boring, loser efforts ("Taken" was getting there but was WAY too long and convoluted).  Thank you Sci-Fi Channel!


                
Being a diehard fan I was expecting to be disappointed, so far based on part one, I was pleasantly surprised. I enjoyed the subtle homages to the original. I especially liked the original music in the flyover.  A female Starbuck works well, not so keen on Boomer though. Baltar was the other disappointment. While portrayed as weak, he isn't (so far) evil enough. Hopefully we will see more in part 2. I enjoyed the story and the special effects are decent.Edward James Olmos does well as Adama. Looking forward to part 2.


                
What I can tell you honestly about this series is that it has an incredible topic. Advanced robots ,who have constantly developing artificial intelligence, can now produce other robots look exactly like humans. But unfortunately this potentially cool idea has been wasted by repetitive actions, insensibly long thrilling scenes etc. I'd watched till some episodes of Season 2 and had to give up because I was too bored. Briefly, might worth to give it a shot but you'll get bored eventually...


                
I've just watched the new Battlestar Galactica on DVD so I'm seeing it a bit late. I've read some of the comments on the mini-series that slammed it. I did not find the acting horrible. I've seen a lot worse come out of feature length films (including the newer Star Wars films). I did think that the lack of Cylons in the piece definitely hurt it in the end. However it must be noted that over all this had great production design and as far as I could tell is a much better Sci-Fi piece than most of what's out there.I also felt that the redefining of characters worked. I enjoyed Star Buck much more as a woman than the original. And it wasn't because she offered sex appeal. It was because she was just a much more interesting character and not something I've already seen 50 billion times.For those of you who are holding off on seeing this please check it out. It's one of the better Sci-Fi films to come out in some time.


                
How many times have you seen Scotty fix the Warp Drive with an adjustable wrench or work on shuttle with Sears socket set? The answer , of course is NEVER. When have you seen Dr, Mcoy out an IV in, or write a prescription on a paper with a pen, NEVER. When have you seen Spock drove around in a Hummer with license plates and fire guns at Klingons, OK once..heheheh. Well you get my point, they have spent all there time money making the ships look great and the battle scenes outstanding that they forgot about the real life stuff. I see people smoking, electrical outlets, table lamps and nukes. This is a future show, the original show at least never made these types of blunders. When you watch a good sci-fi show or movie your suppose to believe that what your seeing is real and when I see doors on hinges and basketball hoops it kills the show. And what about the Cylons? They turned them into cyber junk and the Cylon Raiders are lousy as well. This show does not compare in any way to the original show, but, its the best Sci-Fi show on TV Right now and if you can get over the things I mentioned and give it a chance I think you will find it to be rather good.


                
While it was fairly good, and the effects were impressive, they deviated a little far from the original. IF it gets picked up, and thats probably a big if, they need to reel it back more to the original idea.
Maybe some writers that have a feel for the original could be added.


                
I know it might ruffle a few feathers, but I have always thought that the original "Battlestar Galactica" was a terrible series. That's because it seemed to be geared mostly to small kids and was far from a thinking person's sci-fi series. This mini-series (intended as an introduction to the series that followed) is quite the opposite--with most of the kiddie writing absent and a much, much slower and darker pace--and a lot of sexual situations. Not surprisingly, this mini-series a zillion times better--and it's a series that can be enjoyed with someone older than 8 but isn't great for younger kids. However, it is not perfect and with a few changes it could have been a lot better. As I mentioned already, the pace is almost glacially slow--and could have stood an injection of energy. Also, the use of the 'unsteady-cam' really annoyed me--and practically made me motion sick watching the scenes of individuals interacting. Additionally, a few of the characters were downright annoying--with Apollo being too annoying to be at all realistic. But it is still entertaining and worth a look--but I can't see quite why so many are REALLY enthusiastic about this series. It's good but could have been a lot better with just a few tweaks.


                
