Viewers either love this programme, or else they completely hate it. It seems there's no middle ground.This incarnation does deviate from the standard format of BattleStar Galactica -- and indeed, from every single episode of every series produced in the 80s by Glen A Larson. The first scene has one of the leading roles played by a woman, the source of about half the griping. Apparently, women aren't supposed to be tough, nor fully-dressed, in space.Also, no one's perfect. It's hard to faithfully jump in and worship the 2-3 main characters, like we're used to doing as children. Back then, the main characters flashed their CHiPs smiles, fired their blasters from the hip and got all the girls, even if they were blue. The main characters saved the day, reliably and on time, each and every week. By comparison, the characters in this series are barely keeping themselves together and obviously suffering from their environment, let alone trotting out the whitened smiles for the final chuckle at the 44th minute freeze-frame. The characters in this series, faithful to the style of modern scifi series like FireFly, are as realistic, as flawed and ultimately as believable as it gets, warts and all. The stories are generally well-written, well-acted and consistently cruel to the characters we want so dearly to like.Be forewarned: This new BattleStar Galactica requires thought and some attention to detail. It's not metal chewing gum, and it doesn't suck up to the audience nor offer the safe and predictably mindless entertainment we're used to seeing in a space opera. But if you can stand occasionally hating your heroes, and if saccharine leaves a taste in your mouth, then you may just become a fan.


                
Those who are used to SciFi's standard fare are likely to be a bit bored by the realism, character development, intelligent dialog, and lack of explosions, mutant organisms and/or poor special effects. This is REAL science fiction, not cheap shock effects strung together with a mediocre plot. Hand-held photography- pioneered in groundbreaking series like ER and Firefly - has started to become cliché. Nevertheless, it works in this film partly because it is not overdone. The shots alternate between a hand-held documentary feel and a more standard dramatic presentation.I was never a big fan of the original Battlestar Galactica TV show, and I have only seen a few SciFi originals which did not embarrass me on behalf of the entire genre of science fiction (Farscape and both Dune Mini-series being the exceptions). SciFi hypes their productions heavily, and they are almost always disappointingly silly. So, I was not inclined to go into this with an open mind. If anything convinced me to give it a shot, it was the fact that E J Olmos was hired to play Adama and that Mary MacDonnell was on-board. To say the least, I was very pleasantly surprised by the production quality, intelligent script, and the cast. This is more than a reinvention of BSG, it is a vast improvement over the silly cowboy histrionics the first series devolved into.The story begins just before an invasion of 12 planets colonized by humans. The invading force has infiltrated all of the defense networks by positioning key agents in positions where they can easily exploit vulnerabilities, and has basically disabled all planetary defenses, leaving everybody and everything vulnerable. There is no battle. The few vestiges left of the once thriving human population are those who were fortunate enough to have been in space at the time of the attack. From this dire premise, Battlestar Galactica proceeds.All considered, this is a film about the human will to survive, redemption and the spirit of hope. Though dark, moody, and as fragmented as life often is, BSG is also driven, suspenseful, and very well written. The cast is as talented as it is visually striking - mixing weird beauty, youthful energy, and hard-edged agedness. None of the actors misstep, and each seems to know their character particularly well. This is an unusual quality for SciFi originals, and shows that the network invested in quality directing talent and worked with reasonable production deadlines (as opposed to rush-jobs).I strongly recommend this film for serious science fiction fans.


                
With a story that seems written while on his potty breaks, Ron Moore has shown once again how badly arrogance can destroy a loved storyline. His boast that "our goal is nothing less than the reinvention of the science-fiction television series" rings hollow, hopefully. If this is the way sci-fi series are headed, this genre is soon to be dead.The beloved characters from the original are nothing at all like their modern day counterparts, the only thing similar are the names. Starbuck is played (over the top) by a young woman, Boomer is now an Asian woman instead of an black man, Col. Tigh has also changed from a black man to a pathetic, white trash alcoholic. Apollo is now a whiny little punk whom you WANT to see vaporized in battle, he's got an annoying attitude probably modeled by the writer on himself.3 sex scenes in the first 30 minutes starts it off and shows where this story is headed, nowhere. Moore realizes he doesn't have the goods so he instead tries to deflect attention away from this mess to Cylon #6 (kind of a cheap ripoff of "7 of 9" for Voyager). Edward James Olmos seems as wooden as the rest of the cast, it goes to show how bad the material is when a solid actor like Olmos can't breathe life into it.Sci Fi gambled big on this one and lost big, they turned off a LOT of people with this mess. Ron Moore flipped the fans of the original the finger with his "reimagining" of a classic and as I said before, showed how little imagination he really has.


                
By the Lords of Kobol!  What have they done!!!Say what you will about the cheesy retro flash of the original series, it was a much better production than the remake. To say that the remake in any way resembles the original is like comparing Michael Jackson from the Thriller years to the present - while still the same person you just can't believe your eyes. Unlike the original BSG which purposefully and thought provokingly created an immersive universe of grand proportions and epic scale - complete with costumes, language, great heroes & sinister villains, and cool vehicles, BSG2 lacks the emotional depth, compelling storyline, and engaging acting (all of which was accomplished within the first 2-hour airing of the original). Gone are such flavorful references as yahren, sectar, felder carb, etc. although they did manage to retain `frack' - just the word that I would use to describe my emotions after viewing BSG2 Part 1&2. But I suppose that I should be thankful that the creators didn't throw in a Jar Jar character (but be warned, we haven't seen their idea for Boxey's robot pet, Muffy, yet!). The BSG2 creators seem to have succumb to the current fad of being so enamored by what sfx can do that they forgot about the original story plot. Instead, we were presented a soft porn SF soap opera. I commend Richard Hatch and Dirk Benedict for being such good sports, but I don't see how they can stand it.The original BSG was also unafraid of embodying a humble sense of `spiritualism' while at the same time avoiding the trappings and pitfalls of being too preachy. This premise goes directly to the heart of why humanity deserves the right to exist and it defines their optimistic sense of hope. The inclusion of any kind of `spiritualism' in BSG2 seems uncomfortable and out of place, `So say we all!' One element that is sorely missing in BSG2 is the sense of family and community. From the first BSG premier, one could readily feel the ties of loyalty and camaraderie that bound each of the characters together. Even when the 12 Colonies and their Battlestars were annihilated, this `coming together' was done to great dramatic effect in the original BSG. Alternatively, the BSG2 Galactica crew seem indifferent to this enormous loss. The BSG2 creators failed to capture the sense of fear, anger and disbelief felt after such similar events as the attack on Pearl Harbor, the Kennedy assassination, or even 9-11.In explaining the origin of the Cylons, the new creators did no better than the original, despite their criticisms to the contrary. All that the audience knows is that human kind created a toaster oven that got fed up, upgraded its operating system to Microsoft Windows 3000 (eliminate all of the competition), watched a lot of `Friends' episodes, and overdosed on hormones.One of the most powerful aspects of the original BSG was the music score. You knew from the beginning of the show that a grand space adventure was about to begin. When the colonial vipers launched into battle you knew that they were about to kick some Cylon ... And at the conclusion of every episode, you knew that despite the odds, the fate of human kind was assured. The artificial keyboard drumbeats during the battle sequences in BSG2 seem like nothing more than filler music.The space combat scenes are a confused menagerie - you don't get a feel for what anyone is shooting at, when someone is in danger, or the enemy's perspective. The snap zoom camera effect shots are sometimes disconcerting and annoying.Overall, the characters of BSG2 leave much to be desired. The BSG2 creators obviously wanted to create a new dynamic in the father-son relationship between CMDR Adama and CPT Apollo by using the death of the younger brother, Zak. But the intended visceral impact does not achieve the same intense sense of loss because we never get to see Zak's death as was so dramatically achieved in the original. None of the BSG2 characters really embody a strong sense of purpose or conviction. As for Starbuck - I'm sorry, but could they make Starbuck any more butch! Maybe a name change is in order - Starbutch! Number 6 is a cheap imitation of 7 of 9, more ST Voyeur, need I say more? Even the bad guys lack a definitive evil nature. Baltar was a whinny, sniveling nymphomaniac. I'm sure that he will eventually create some kind of nano-virus technology and even a means of re-modulating the shields to defeat the Cylons - Oops! That's ST TNG. Or maybe he'll develop a Voight-Kampf test to sniff out the Cylon `replicants' - Oops, again, that's Blade Runner.The original BSG relied on a lot of references to the Egyptian, the Toltec, and the Mayan civilizations (sound familiar?) in crafting the look and feel of the BSG universe, not to mention the core story elements. While I don't have a specific problem with this adaptation, it still hints at the BSG2 creator's insidious predilection for stripping away the foundation that established the creative flow of the original BSG. What the BSG2 creators missed is that not everything has to make scientifically logical sense in a SF film or series. BSG2 lacks a sense of fun and wild abandon. Did any of the BSG2 guys ever play army when they were young, or did they just sit around playing their Atari 2600?


                
The first 30 minutes had such promise, the storyline was decently updated, but then the writer went to lunch and the monkeys finished the script. The Humans deserved to be exterminated. 40 years and they achieved no improvements to their technology and failed to make any advances in defending themselves against Cylon infiltration. Alright, so the Cylons have been gone for 40 years, but no one anywhere figured that they might come back. No one made any attempts to keep track of the human race's most dangerous enemy? Please. The human military is constantly caught off-guard and unaware and seem oblivious to their own history. They allow themselves to make exactly the same mistakes as before and as a result the Cylon's kick the humans collective buttocks. On the positive side, the characters are done well, although it does seem like the Starbuck character was written as a man, and someone just hired a woman and didn't change anything else about the character. I expected a lot more from Ronald Moore, but I know it can't be entirely his fault, the director made "Queen of the Damned" and the executive producers brought us such garbage as "Saving Jessica Lynch" and "Attila". It's nice to look at but turn off the sound or it will rot your brain. Oh, one more thing, why are the Cylon's bipedal? Its not a very efficient design.


                
Although I only have vague memories of the original series, I remember thinking that it was pretty cheesy and bland in comparison to other similar shows at the time. However, after watching this miniseries last night I'm very excited to see the rest of the series. I feel like there was a pretty decent plot, the cast was engaging and they've set up quite a predicament with the Cylons. I think all of the changes I've heard about from the original series were good decisions and that the series has greatly been improved because of them. I like how low-tech and 80s feeling a lot of the technology is and I like how they explain that away. There were only a few truly groanable moments during the miniseries, and for a science-fiction series, that's not bad. Don't be frightened off because it is in space and they use a few words that sound made up. As much as it is hard to believe, about 10 minutes in you forgive all of that and won't even notice it. I know this is hard to believe and I wouldn't say that about most science fiction, but they really do a good job of not making it too far-fetched. Give it a shot.


                
When I first heard about a new Battlestar Galactica, I was dubious at best. I had only a passing familiarity with the old series, mainly because it was essentially unwatchable. Every possible cheese element was encapsulated in that cult classic and I really could not take it seriously. Whereas other older genre series, Star Trek behind the most notable, retain their watch-ability thanks to great acting, writing or drama, the old Battlestar Galactica was a failed experiment to emulate the success of Star Wars and had no redeeming features of its own.So with this dubious background, I entered into this miniseries with some seriously low expectations. Imagine my surprise when this new Battlestar Galactica played out nothing like Star Trek, Stargate, or the original BSG. Instead we have a purposely anachronistic production that strips away the neato-keen props and sets and instead focuses on the people and the drama. This is probably the first SciFi production that I have seen that takes its premise deadly serious. The extermination of the human race actually had weight and meant something in this new BSG, in no small part to the naturalistic way that the show was shot and the actors play their characters.The cast is quite strong and the production owes much to the presence of Mary McDonnell and Edward James Olmos. These two actors lend a weight of credibility to this production and really make it stand head and shoulders above the competition. The script penned by Ronald D. Moore of Deep Space Nine fame is a serious departure from his Trek roots and works exceptionally well in playing lead characters against their surroundings and each other. Some of the characters aren't easily likable or easily quantified into the hero/villain paradigm, especially the newly revamped Gais Baltar, who aids and abets the Cylons against the human race not because of hate or megalomania, but because he couldn't keep his pants on in the face of the bombshell Cylon agent and human copy, cryptically named 'Number 6.' Special note must be taken of the production design. Battlestar successfully merges a worn and used look reminiscent of Alien with a documentary style of shooting and acting to create a shockingly real and engrossing story. Even the special effects shots share the documentary style, with shots reminiscent of amateurs capturing action as it happens. This is at turns exceedingly effective and frustrating. The designs of the space-faring vessels on Battlestar is quite good, especially the redesign of the Galactica herself, but it is sometimes hard to make things out in the dim light of space. The style of the shots aside, the dynamics of the ships while they fight is what really sets this show apart. The special effects crew pay more than lip service to the environment of space and have show ships moving in a very convincing Newtonian fashion, instead of the standard WWII style atmospheric maneuvering.What it really comes down to is that this miniseries and the series that it spawned is a drama first and scifi second. This doesn't sit well with many genre fans who tune in for whiz-bang technology and cool starships with improbable solutions to problems. There is only one remotely 'technobabblish' solution in this series and it is akin more to a contemporary military drama than the Trek archetype that has defined the scifi genre on television for so long. If you are looking for a compelling drama set on a fantastical backdrop, Battlestar never disappoints and the ensuing series is even stronger, building on the strengths of this mini in an exceedingly competent fashion.
I'm struggling, but I can't think of any film or TV series that had more convincing space battles. B5 was too cheesy. Star Wars, ditto. All great fun, but this is the first time I've really felt like I might be watching a documentary from the middle of a space war. I can see that it might not be to everyone's taste, but it astonished and gripped me.To have it backed up by an interesting story, good to great acting, intelligent and brave yet flawed characters, some interesting themes, and stunningly attractive but also strong women, well that's just incredible. I have to go buy this DVD now.In a word: amazing.


                
I can't believe you (one of the previous comments, don't know the name of the author) are saying this is a bad show, your arguments are well constructed, but there's no accounting for tastes, and if you don't like it, don't watch it, just don't go whining on the internet because that got Enterprise canceled, and ruined the fun of a lot of people... I would hate to see BSG get canceled....that said, I'll now start commenting the show, in stead of the comment some guy made...At first, I was a bit skeptic about watching the show, I had been watching Star Trek for years, and BSG has a somewhat different style... but I soon found out different isn't always worse... in this case... its better :) BSG has a military setting, where you can still recognize some of the equipment and tactics/techniques... especially since the Galactica was a museum ship, but was the only Battlestar to survive the Cylon attack, because it didn't have any "new" computersystems, that left all the other battlestars defenseless... this is such a great idea... a great concept.I love it every time the Battlestar and Vipers have to attack Cylon Raiders, and I love the ground missions as well... the only thing I don't like sometimes is the religious aspect of the series... the start of season 2 is really religious, but at about episode 8 or so, the fun begins again... btw, when I say religious, I don't mean Christian or anything, they made up there own religion, based upon the Greek Olympic gods...The camera-work is really good, shaking a bit, faking the 'focusing' of the lens and centering the object (people that watch the series know what I mean) really adds more to the scenes, especially the combat scenes... The sound and music is also really good, the drums in combat scenes and the opening theme are both superbly chosen...I think Edward James Olmos (Capt Adama) is the best captain I have ever seen in a movie/series... He seems to be emotionless and made of steel, thinking like an army guy, making rational in stead of emotional decisions... He really puts down his character in a believable manner, he's acting really good. He, in contrast to Hayden Christensen in Star Wars, knows how to put down a "emotionless" character, without losing credibility.All the other actors in the series are of course great too... Aaron Douglas ("Chief") has a great character and also puts it down in a credible manner, he really deserves more than background parts in movies...Jamie Bamber ("Apollo") is really cool too, his character being the son of captain Adama, a tad more emotional and the best male fighter pilot. Tahmoh Penikett ("Helo") has a somewhat different story line from most characters, but one of the coolest too :) he's right up there with the chief and Apollo.. great actor...And in reply to one of the previous comments, where someone implies the female aspect in BSG is gone; Kathee Sackhoff ("Starbuck") is THE best fighterpilot on the ship, and acts in a very believable manner. Grace Park ("Boomer") is a raptor pilot, she too being of great importance for the Galactica, in more than one way it turns out... (ooooh semi-spoiler ^^ ) and where would the Battlestar be without Kandyse McClure ("Petty Officer 2nd class Dualla") in her role as communications officer... She is really pretty, and that's not all, she can act like the best out there... I'm hoping they will expand on her somewhat in the upcoming season, although not more than her 'rank' in the battlestar allows...Conclusion: This series really gets me on the edge of my seat, the great visual effects, the exciting storyline, the talented cast & crew... the cliffhanger of the first season got my mind occupied for quite some time after that episode hèhè.... my only hope is, that they keep it up for very long time, and that people show some appreciation to them... Battlestar Galactica, definitely one of the greater Sci-Fi shows of today...
I saw the original when I was 8 years old, and as a consequence I have been a fan of the original for more than 20 years. When I first heard that they were making an updated version (a.k.a. remake) I was extremely skeptical. Part of the charm of the original was it's utter 70's cheesiness...it would die a quick and painful death in today's sci-fi market.Then I saw the new version. Without betraying my love of the old series, I have to say that this one was amazing. It explained many details that the old series didn't, as well as having realistic science (watch the Vipers fly...it looks real).I was okay with including female pilots (Sheba was my favorite female in the original) but at first was leery of a female Starbuck. However, the character is written so well (and performed so well) that she is utterly believable.I always liked Edward James Olmos, so seeing him as Adama was a treat. He lent a great edge to the character (Lorne Greene was always more of a "fatherly" figure to me).Above all was the human element. The original never really focused on the actual destruction of the colonies or the loss of hope this might entail. Many of the characters have to make terrible decisions in this one...and the consequences have a lot of impact.For me, the jury's still out on the idea of some Cylons looking like humans. I know that it makes sense in the long run that they would purposely evolve this trait in order to better massacre humanity. I just hope that it is not overused in the series and that the utterly alien aspects of the Cylons are kept in focus.Speaking of utterly alien...the Cylon Base Stars are wonderfully alien and spooky. I also like how they revamped the Centurions and made them much more formidable and scary-looking than the original guys in aluminum suits.


                
(I'm not sure if there are spoilers here or not, so I checked the box as a precaution.) The original Battlestar Galactica was a movie and TV series that was very much a product of its time. It was a fantastic concept, unfortunately weighed down by the fashions (both literal and figurative) of the 1970's. Just as Star Trek benefited tremendously from its update and subsequent spin offs, Battlestar Galactica v2.0 has the potential to fulfill and surpass the expectations of both classic fans and current sci-fi connoisseurs.The Sci-Fi Channel's original productions have been excellent where the budget allows -- witness Farscape and the two wonderful Dune miniseries. So when they announced the updating of Battlestar Galactica, I was anxious to see what they accomplished with it.The resulting miniseries/pilot exceeded my expectations. It really constitutes more a rethinking of the entire approach rather than a reproduction. Still here is the original premise: Our machines race past us in intelligence, turn against us, and destroy humanity, forcing what is left of the human race to flee to the stars. Of the vast human fleet, only the Galactica evades destruction, gathering together a crazy quilt of surviving ships filled with the last 50,000 survivors. The resourceful Commander Adama cleverly leads the humans through their first non-defeat to escape to space.Equally important is what has changed. The bizarre New-Agey names are gone, the villainous traitor Balthar has been transformed into the neurotic and mentally tormented Cylon expert Dr. Gaius Balthar. Boomer and Starbuck have changed genders (in a much more believable fashion than Dizzy between the book and movie versions of "Starship Troopers"). The Cylons have also changed -- they're human lookalikes, designed to infiltrate us and destroy us from the inside. As a character observes, "the last time we encountered the Cylons they looked like walking toasters", an obvious nod to the original concept. You might say that this is a cop-out: it's an obvious budgetary gimmick, they're too cheap to make real Cylons. On the other hand, the idea of the Cylons looking like us adds a heavy sense of paranoia to the proceedings. The enemies are not so obvious. An early gruesome scene on the home planet with a sexy Cylon infiltrator (Tricia Helfer playing a character named simply "Number 6") as well as the final cliffhanger scene, play this to dark perfection.The original attack has also been significantly revised. Rather than a flat-out butt kicking, the humans fall prey (again) to their own technology by having all of their fighters and battle stars succumb to a Cylon computer virus. (It's worth noting that the term "virus" with regard to computers wasn't even coined until 5 years after the original TV movie, so this development makes even more sense.) Only the Galactica, an out of date ship currently used as a museum, has primitive enough electronics to be immune to the virus.The cast, though mostly unknowns, is helmed by Edward James Olmos, who sports more than enough gravitas to make us forget completely about Lorne Green (rest his soul). Provided the series follows through on the pilot's promise, Olmos is set to join the ranks of Patrick Stewart, Avery Brooks, and William Shatner (as the movie Trek version of Kirk) as legendary starship captains in sci-fi lore. Olmos is utterly believable as Adama, and his exchange late in the movie with the President (also a believably hapless yet stoic Mary McDonnell as the 41st bureaucrat in line for the presidency after everyone else is incinerated at a conference) demonstrates the depth of character he brings to the role.This is a dark, bleak movie, and it promises to be a dark series. But as Sci-Fi demonstrated with Farscape, they can do dark really well. This pilot TV movie is more than deserving of a DVD purchase -- and close attention to the upcoming series.
Battlestar Galactica (2003) is a mini-series that starts rather weakly, then gets a lot better as it moves on, and has a tremendously gratifying action blow-out of an ending - a rarity in movies or TV shows of any kind! I haven't seen any of the old TV series, so I can't compare the two. And actually I'm not sure I would want to, anyway, as I'm usually extremely disappointed with the production values of SF shows from the '60s and '70s (and early '80s). So, despite being a big sci-fi fan, I prefer looking at this as something new and self-contained.Since I rate a lot of movies these days I often find myself considering, during the movie or mini-series, what kind of rating it deserves. As I began watching Battlestar Galactica 2003, I was thinking that this is probably a 5 or a 6, but by the end it had worked itself up to a 7 (Edit: and now, on second viewing, an 8! Edit again: on third viewing a 9!). To me, a 5 rating indicates the kind of average show one can expect from commercial entertainment generally, whereas a 7 rating is well above average, and just short of exceptional. Believe me, the ridiculously over-praised Firefly has nothing on this. This here is real SF, real space opera.The best thing about the show, hands down, is Kara "Starbuck" Thrace (Katee Sackhoff). I mean, wow! When she first appeared on screen I was kind of disappointed with her unrefined looks, but her very next scene makes it clear that this is a character of substance, and a highly appealing one. She's a butch, cigar-smoking, fearless space pilot with more balls than most male action heroes I've seen (and that's not a few!), yet with the unmistakable emotional core of a woman in her early 20s. Her self-confidence is off the charts, she doesn't take any sh!t from anybody. She's the kind of strong, take-charge character that can carry an otherwise weak show on her broad shoulders, and it's really a great shame that she has so little time on screen. Hopefully they'll remedy that when the show goes regular. Even if all the rest of the show was nothing to look at, it would still be worth watching for her sake.


                
Why are so many bashing this mini series? The acting is good<U+0085> all the major characters fill their roles well and some even have quite a screen presence. The writing is good<U+0085> while at times cheesy, it manages to depict interesting persons and plots worth following. The music is at times brilliant and at others atrocious. The CG effects are a means to an end in this production and this is how they are employed<U+0085> the novel way of use and the economy in relying on CG was a good change. While there are some weaknesses in the mini (many have been mentioned in the forum), what remains after viewing is interest in seeing the rest of it. This means the mini did exactly what was intended<U+0085> I for one got interested.


                
I was more than a bit worried when I read about the new cast and the changes to the story. But now I've actually watched it, I found it to be a whole new experience. The new life breathed into the situations and characters is refreshing. The shaky camera work, whilst similar to that pioneered by NYPD Blue does make the scenes come alive and somehow more real.Without adding any spoilers I'd say some tough choices are made by the characters and this is a credit to the writers who chose not to take the easy or clichéd way out. I've loaned the DVD to a few friends and they too were surprised that the story developed the way it did.There are references to the old series and it's fun trying to spot some of them, but I'm glad they made this version the way they did, I don't believe the original is superior, I think that both have their place and I don't regret buying it. My only hope is that the forthcoming series matches the quality displayed here.
I have been a long time fan of Battlestar Galactica.  I remember watching it as a kid and being totally awestruck by the stories and action.  I was originally against the remake until Bryan Singer and Tom DeSanto jumped on board.  Then, when they were kicked off the project and Ronald Moore was given command, I was against it again.Consider me a convert.I was very impressed with how well this series was pulled off.  The original story was reworked in a way that made it relevant to today (with the obvious parallel between the un-detectable human Cylons and the modern hunt for terrorists post-911) while bringing many of the aspects of the Galactica history that we have come to know and love.The splitting of the original Adama's personality of both brilliant military strategist and insightful humanist into the dual roles of the new Adama (impressively intelligent military commander) and the President (very concerned humanist) was a more realistic approach.  The new Adama knows how to defend, and is reluctant to give up a fight, but knows what his real job (defending the survivors) is, and the President is very concerned with her people, but can admit when she makes tactical mistakes (initially refusing to leave survivors, and ultimately realizing that you can't always save everybody).  This is a welcome improvement to the original series.Reworking Baltar is also a nice change.  Instead of an unbelievable villain who is hellbent on subjugating his own species for no explained reason, we now have an egomaniac scientist who refuses to accept his responsibility in the destruction of the colonies and -- while being repentant -- is still very self-centered and concerned with his own life.  This character is considerably more believable than the original.The special effects were top-notch and looked as good as they could be.  I for one thought the camera work on the fight sequences was refreshing and unique.  It gave the audience more of a roller-coaster ride type feel where you don't know where the next turn/attack is coming from until it swings you into it.  It also brought a more realistic perspective of not knowing where the enemy is until you can see them, and then your attention is drawn into them.  Very original.I recently picked up the Battlestar Galactica box set and watched every single episode in it.  I have to admit that time and nostalgia does wonders for some things, as I now find that only half of the original series is any good (the other half falling into the cheesy/mediocre realm).  In that perspective, I conclude that this mini-series is as good as the original BG movie, and I would welcome a new series if one were made.As a final note, I really liked the surprise twist at the end.  I think that if a new series were to be created, this would be one plot point that would create a wealth of opportunity in exploring in a series.


                
I was 6 years old when the original Battlestar Galactica aired, and I remember watching each episode, rapt, at that age.  I even watched (and at the time, enjoyed) the awful Galactica 1980. I was at best skeptical at reports of a "re-imagining" of the series, especially because from all reports, the series was going to be more like a re-hash of "Space:  Above and Beyond" than Galactica.I watched with an open mind, and I am glad I did.  Overall, I found the acting to be excellent--superb in the case of Edward James Olmos and Mary McDonnel--and the story to be compelling.  Ron Moore took all of the elements of the original story and made it work in a contemporary setting without falling back on the cliches which plague sci-fi television; granted, he did employ many cliches which plague other dramas. I felt the spirit of Battlestar Galactica was very much intact.That is not to say it is a perfect piece.  I found the idea that all of the characters were facing some sort of horrific personal crisis a bit much to take.  Isn't the end of civilization enough of a crisis for some?  I thought the humanoid cylon plot was uneven and that in execution it seemed the producers were just too cheap to pony up for CGI cylons.  I thought the Baltar character was fractured and should have been done away with in the pilot, and I found the addition of Boxey completely extraneous.  But these minor details aside I enjoyed the miniseries, and I look forward to the series to come.


                
I'm just coming out of seeing the first series, and then that one, it isn't too bad, not at all. good graphics, very nice new storyline, I liked the characters although...(SPOILER!!!)I find the humanoid cylons a faux pas. it's alright that they all look the same, but why in the hell they do not dress in a different way? however, I liked the idea of the humanoid in a limited number of models, as it reminded me of a PKDick novel. I absolutely hate that to make things different, writers change small details which actually don't need to: why all doors have to be triangular/trapezoidal, and all piece of paper are octagonal. can't they see how impractical is all this (let alone to have printers in a 30th century century spaceship). that really let it down. (SPOILER)these are only minor gripes, though, it was good enough that I watched all of it at once and I'm really looking forward to see the new episodes in the next few days.
I'm just coming out of seeing the first series, and then that one, it isn't too bad, not at all. good graphics, very nice new storyline, I liked the characters although(SPOILER!!!)I find the humanoid cylons a faux pas. it's allrigth that they all look the same, but why in the hell they do not dress in a different way? however, I liked the idea of the humanoid in a limited number of models, as it reminded me of a PKDick novel. - I absolutely hate that to make things different, writers change small details which actually don't need to: why all doors have to be triangular/trapezoidal, and all piece of paper are octagonal. can't they see how impractical is all this (let alone to have printers in a 30th century century spaceship). that really let it down. (/SPOILER)only minor gripes, though, it was good enough that I watched all of it at once and I'm really looking forward to see the new episodes in the next few days.
If I recall, I already commented on this one shortly after it came out. Just perusing IMDb and I decided to see what the postings were on this. Very pleased to see the favorable comments and the much higher rating.Those of you who were fans of the old BSG and rated this poorly and wrote negative comments are people I don't understand. I think you're letting your emotional attachment to the original prevent you from enjoying this very well done re-imagining. You know, that means taking another look at the basic story line and creating a fresh look on it. As in it isn't supposed to be just like the original, guys! I recorded this mini on my Dish pvr and I must have watched it at least fifteen times since it aired. It really is that good. Very taut and tense. Physics in space (to a point). Great sets and fx. OK, acting in the case of Apollo was wooden. Other than that, one of THE best sci-fi pieces in quite a while and a hell of a good war movie too.


                
I have not yet seen the original series, but it is easy to see that they've kept a lot of the essence of what they might imagine the future to be like when the series was made. Even thought some of it now would seem a bit daft it helps bring the dramatic events a bit closer to our own time.The space ships have the feel of current day oil tankers, and act more similar to the ones found in Starship Troopers, rather than Star-Trek, and they've also managed to reproduce an essence of space travel similar to that of Star Wars. They've mixed together the best of everything in Sci-fi and made it work!I think it is a bit far out to call this Sci-Fi, given the fact that there is relatively little science, and quite down to earth fiction. This was Sci-Fi in 1978, but now it is current day technology put to work on a space ship, probably 15yrs ahead of our time (give or take the entire colonization of space, space ships, AI, Aliens attacking... Hmmm) They've even incorporated all this 70's stuff with elegance (exept from the ships they resurrected from the original series, they just look too weird. They look like a combination between the X-wing and those weird looking contraptions from Wing Commander) As I read in an other comment, I agree that this is more similar to 24 than any Sci-Fi series. They've leaned from Peter Jackson, toned down the fancy computer graphics and put their money on what counts.If I were to compare it to anything, It is probably more like Star-Trek Enterprise than any other Sci-Fi series/movie... only a whole lot better!


                
This film is certainly not for the star trekkie nerd talk type who loves hearing how hyper-emulator flux capacitance is preventing the enterprise reaching 88mph but for the down to earth people who appreciate realism.Certainly a gritty show that in my mind has borrowed heavily from modern space based pc games such as homeworld. No doubt however there will be those who resent sci-fi shows minus the nerd speech and relying on real world physics to impart its imagery of space travel and battles. (You wont find inertia from either the star-trek or the star wars universes for example) Things go wrong, machinery breaks down, good people die and life is tough. Characters are imperfect, (unlike the likes of picard) so overall this miniseries gets two thumbs up for a great attempt at realism and a thumbs up for entertainment.A refreshing change from nerd like sci-fi dogma thats been plaguing TV screens since 1966.


                
The Drums that step into to the foreground now and then together with the sounds of the often used weapons deserve the name effects and easily and unerringly lift the atmosphere into the Science Fiction Genre. The Design and the visual ideas, foremost the camera work show some innovation, even in 2005. But they have a hard time standing against the oh so familiar barracks ambiance in which many scenes play.Central and exceedingly rich is the plot and are the characters, though with known elements, they manage to uphold a roller-coaster ride in which the next curve always is a bit steeper than expected.The female characters dare more than usual and also the "freak" in the group of the chief characters keeps up with a Spock or Data, due to his psychological complications and not least because of his independent mind.Although this is the remake of a cheap copy of star wars, we do not have to endure platitudes but tension, which I welcome.But it will be hard for a sequel to keep up with the standards of this pilot, too much has already happened, too much is already revealed. But thus I'm happy with it as a stand-alone movie. Apart from that the awkward introducing seduction scene and the outworn military world leave a bad aftertaste. (I'm not a native English speaker)


                
I think it's a great show! It's as simple and easy as that =) I have yet to see the "original"and I fracking hate people who can't let go of them. (yes, inserting 'fracking' IS a joke and yes my humor is as low as it'll get) Naturally you have to change a movie or series when you remake it, there would be no real point in making it otherwise, now would there?I think the acting is perfectly okay, no Oscars but no spankings either. The set and special effects are actually above my expectations and thus a plus.And you gotta love religious robots! Genius..So love a little, people, or you won't have much fun in your television lives..


                
I'm writing this as someone who did not see the original movie or series.I thought it was absolutely MARVELLOUS. All you naysayers should just go and keep watching your old re-runs, it's all you deserve.As I'm writing this in February 2005 (it's just screened here, the series starts on 23/02/2005) I don't think there are any SPOILERS, but just in case I'll be mentioning plot lines.The plot line was great. The characters are well portrayed. On the Cylons looking like humans - how the hell else would they infiltrate? Those big chrome guys shown at the start and end would be a tad obvious walking around a city full of humans.I did feel the sexiness of #6 was a trifle overdone (and for the naysayer who said he doubted such a beautiful woman would be a scientist and not a model - don't be such a misogynist. Beautiful women can have good brains, you know!). Her interaction with Gaius seemed a bit forced - he's a bit TOO gormless.The storyline is fast paced and the action sequences wonderful. I found the special effects great, much better than 1970s & 80s series which used models and far from seamless pasting. The space battle scenes were believable and 'realistic' looking to me.The characters generally are well portrayed, although I found Starbuck a bit too gung-ho, but it will be interesting to see how she develops in the series. The gigantic twist in the tail showing Boomer is a Cylon left me and my partner literally gasping. The absolutely last 'person' we would have picked as a Cylon. Can't wait to see this plot line development.All in all, a super effort. Can't wait for the series. We'll be glued every Wednesday night, I can tell you.
So I had heard of this remake of the 1978 original series, mostly from commercials for it on TV, and had little to no interest in seeing it. I had seen a few of the original episodes and found them to be rather lame and uninteresting. Then one night when I could find nothing on I ended up watching an episode of the new series on Sci Fi and found it to be a bit confusing but enjoyable none-the-less. With my interest piqued I rented the mini-series the next time I was at the video store and I watched the whole 3+ hours that night.I have to say that this is a really well put together story and while it's obviously not original (being a remake) it is something new and fresh in the world of sci-fi.I am a fan of the sci-fi/fantasy genre and I have to say this mini-series along with the first two seasons of the show (I've seen em all in the month since I watched the mini) are on the top of my favorites list. This show looks and feels like a theatrical release sci-fi movie.


                
