I've lived in Mexico for a few years and grew up watching various anime. For some reason, many of them such as Dragonball weren't as popular in the US and many European countries back then. It's only since the turn of the century that this franchise hit the US. I stopped watching the series years ago. This has mainly to do because I didn't really like the English dub of DBZ with lot's of cuts and a complete new soundtrack. It's just recently that I rediscovered the whole franchise through the internet and my conclusion is that these original series from the DB trilogy are actually much better than DBZ.If you don't like DBZ & DBGT or think they Jumped the Shark at some point, it's probably due to one of these reasons: -The characters grew ridiculously strong and got stronger every minute. -The battles became long and monotonous. -Too much time was wasted in having people stare at each other explaining the plot which wasn't always that interesting.-The villains got too far fetched (Majin Buu is a great example).-Several characters lost its importance.-You don't like these kind of anime at all.Except if it's the last one, I think you're probably going to prefer the original DB cause most of these aspects weren't nearly as exaggerated. This show is in its essence an adventure story based on an old Chinese tale called A Journey to the West. It revolves, in this case, around several martial artists so it does contain a lot of fights. What differentiates this show from its successors is that, since this is where it all began, none of the characters were too Godlike to start with. The fights were therefore not only way shorter (a few episodes at max) but also funnier and more interesting. It wasn't all about who's the strongest one? The reason why I prefer DB above DBZ is almost the same one as why I never really liked the English dubbed DBZ. It really became too over the top at one point and I felt like they tried to make the show cooler than it already was. Another characteristic that DBZ and DBGT lacked is the atmosphere. Most of this anime takes place in a fictional type of China with a plot which belonged to the fantasy genre. In DBZ however, it switched over to science fiction and most of the fights took place in open fields. The last aspect is the characters. Of course, Goku is the protagonist, but this series also introduced a lot more iconic characters with all unique aspects. The antagonists on the other hand were also much more interesting since most of the weren't actually "super villains". At the beginning you had Pilaf who was basically a comic relief followed by the Red Ribbon army containing several kinds of bad guys and ending up with Piccolo Daimaoh who, up to date, is my favourite DB villain.I still like DBZ but sometimes I really wonder whether it would've been better for them to quit much earlier because I was a bit disappointed by the way it ended.One other thing. It's only now when I realize that this anime is definitely not meant for little children, it's meant for everyone who likes anime. Some parts, I enjoy more than I used to because of the mature sense of humour. If you want to watch it, look for uncut versions.


                
I never had an interest in this series or the one that followed it. But after hearing so many good things about it. I decided to watch for myself. I read this is the first series that started it all. So here's what I learn from seeing all 153 episodes.Dragonball takes place in an alternate earth that's nothing like ours. The humans live like we do, only they're accompany by dinosaurs, talking animals, and aliens. And most of the technology is years ahead of us. The whole plot focuses on Goku, a monkey tail boy who doesn't know he'll make a difference in the world. He encounters a teenage girl name Bulma, who is hunting down 7 dragon balls. Goku owns a dragon ball himself, which was once own by his grandfather. Goku didn't know what was so special about the balls, so Bulma told him what the story to it is.The 7 Legendary shinny balls, known as Dragonballs have the ability to summon the eternal dragon when all of them are gathered together. The person who summons the dragon can get any wish he or she desires, and one wish only. Bulma has her own wish plan when she gets all 7 of the dragon balls, while Goku is interested in tagging along with Bulma on her journey. Because Bulma finds Goku to be of some use due to his inhuman strength.During their quest, Goku & Bulma will meet new friends and allies. As well crossing paths with many enemies and those who plan to use the dragon balls for evil purposes. Later on Goku will hope to become stronger than he already is. In order to do so he does some difficult training in martial arts from Master Roshi(his grandfather's friend). Goku is already a born fighter which is yet to be unleashed once he passes the limits of a normal human, and compete in the following "World Martial Arts Tournament" to gain the title of World Champion. Goku is about to experience a journey that unpredictable to anyone.I gotta admit, I actually do like Dragonball now, after seeing this whole series. Even though this is lighter than the following series. But I wanted know the characters, story, and locations more by seeing the beginning than the middle. I was entirely confused with this one and DragonBall Z(the series that follows). Which is probably because I was a little kid who didn't consider anime as worthy as American cartoons.Unlike today, where I do consider anime a pleasure to behold. I regret not getting into Dragonball from the very beginning, but it's never too late to become a fan of a franchise that's been around way before I was born.Enough of my lecturing there. Overrall Dragonball has originality, character development, humor, drama, and suspense that really kept it going. As well as a collection of movie parodies, Chinese related locations/themes, and the whole idea of Sci-Fi combined with Fantasy & Action. I can see why Eiichiro Oda of One Piece was so influenced by this series. Since he and the creator Akira Toriyama are best of friends.After spending 3 months on this series, I'm gonna get started on DragonBall Z which succeeded even greater than it's proceeder.


                
I do not know if my tastes have changed over the years, but once I used to say by far the best incarnation of Dragonball was Z. However, upon watching this entire series on DVD uncut I now have to say that this one is equal or maybe a notch or two above Z. Though I can still say quite easily that GT is the worst of the bunch as while this one needed a continuation, Z did not. This one follows the young boy Goku as it chronicles his friendships and adventures while finding the mythical dragonballs that number seven and when gathered together summon the dragon, Shenron to grant one wish. The show started out as more of a comedy, a comedy with at times quite perverted humor in it. As the show progressed though it would more and more rely on action to the point that near the end of the show it closely resembled Z, most of the pervert nature of the show would be gone near the end. Why? I have no idea, but it would make a reappearance here and there near the end, but nothing like it was in the beginning. In fact, Z and GT would see virtually no humor of this type with the exception of Master Roshii. This show is sort of made up of three adventures involving the dragonballs. After each of these adventures there was a world martial arts tournament story. The first adventure involves a plucky teen named Bulma finding Goku and the two end up going on an adventure to find the dragonballs. They meet Yamcha here as well as Oolong and Puar. They also meet the nefarious Emperor Pilaf who has to be the funniest villain in the dragonball universe. This story would become Goku training under Master Roshii and meeting Krillan during the world martial arts phase. Then the Red Ribbon Army would be next as would be the meeting of Goku and Tien. Finally, Goku would have to face off against the evil King Piccolo in both the adventure and the tournament. Then for some reason the show keeps going on about five more episodes than it really needed to. Still, this one was fun and the fighting would become really cool near the end.


                
I have watched this show and i guarantee its good. Well it may start off a little slow but it gets really good. It's child friendly and adults will enjoy it too. Like Dragonball Z and Dragonball Gt it will keep your interest. The fighting and powers of the warriors can keep children and adults all over the world amused. The show does have a little bit humor to it than the other two series, but thats what it was originally created for. The humor doesn't stop the show from having a good plot. Throughout the show they have great adventures and they always meet new allies and villains. To the last comment, I wouldn't say that your comment wasn't true, but I don't want to say it was true. The creators have made special uncut versions, but those must be bought on DVD or VHS. The edited version airs on television. They just wouldn't put extreme adult content on a show for children. So, what if a few of the characters like girl magazines and one is obsessed with females its all part of the humor. There are no female body parts that are revealed in the show, not even on the uncut versions. So, when i was reading the last comment I figured that the person who wrote must be misjudged. Watch the edited version. If you are not offended by anything enjoy the uncut version which is more adult oriented.


                
It's not an easy thing to do. But the Japanese can do it. Anime is very good in mixing stuff the right way. This is no exception. This anime is based on the popular manga, written by one of my favourite manga writers, Akira Toriyama, author of the hilarious Dr Slump manga. Dragon Ball is partly based on the old folklore tale of "Journey to the West," although I don't know much about the story, except that some of the characters in Dragon Ball were based on ones from the story. That is all I can really say on that.The story revolves around a 12 year old monkey boy, named Son Goku, who meets up with a 16 year old girl named Bulma who is searching for seven mystical balls named Dragon Balls, which when gathered together, will summon the dragon god Shenlong, who will grant you any one wish. Throughout their adventures they meet many memorable characters, such as the perverted shapeshifting pig Oolong, the not so good around girls desert bandit Yamucha, and an old martial arts master, who's technique and strength is only matched by his appetite for pretty, young girls known as Muten Roshi. There are many great stories spanning across 153 episodes, including several Tenkaichi Budokai's (Known in the American version as The World Martial Arts Tournament.) An evil organisation bent on world domination (who cares if it's cliché, you can't go wrong with the classics) called the Red Ribbon Army, An ancient evil known as Piccolo Daimao, and many more. My personal favourite parts of the series were the Piccolo battles, and that's where the tone of the series changed to be slightly more dramatic. It's an excellent show because you also get to see the steady transformation of a gifted, and pure child into a martial arts genius.People who are more used to the non-stop action of its successor Dragon Ball Z should be warned that this series focuses a lot more on humour on most parts, until later in the series. There are many great fights in the anime, they just aren't as frequent as Dragon Ball Z. But if you are a fan of action anime, I would still highly recommend this to you.This show was taken to America and turned into a kids show, which is not how it should be seen. If you want to watch this anime, watch the DVDs with Japanese dialog with subtitles. I'm sure you will enjoy it. Masako Nozawa is great as Son Goku, and captures his personality perfectly. Even if you do want to watch it, you need to watch it on DVD, as the television version edits out anything that is even slightly adult. It's just way too G rated. The original version (mostly in the early episodes) is filled with toilet humour, sex jokes and nudity. I feel that that's the way the series was originally made, and it should have been kept that way, rather than focus on the younger audience. But it is a good thing that they did in a way, as the people who were fans of the dub at the young age can grow up and discover the original version, as I did.The animation is nothing really to talk about. It started in 1986 and it was pretty standard animation for that time, in Japan anyway. There is nothing wrong with it, it's just not something to write home about. But in a way, I find that nice because it has an 80's feel to it. It doesn't take away from the quality in the least. The soundtrack of the series isn't bad, but tends to reuse music a lot throughout the series. I thought the Tenkaichi song played during the Jackie Chun fight was the best of the series, but the opening and closing themes were pretty good as well.Even if you don't like the start I would recommend that you continue watching, as you may find you like it later on, partly because of the way the tone changes a little in later episodes, where it stops a lot of the toilet humour and sexual stuff (not all of it, just a fair bit) and focuses on more serious stuff, like death. All in all, I'd say this is a great way to introduce yourself to anime, or even just if you want something fun to watch. Don't watch it if you want a series that will make you think, because that isn't what this is for. The show is hilarious, and the action is great.Now to bring up the subject of the new American live action movie that's coming in 2009. How do I feel about the concept? I have made no secret about my disliking for the way the American's have handled this anime. So am I excited about the movie? In short, definitely. Do I think it will be a good movie? Probably not. Do I think it will be a good adaption of the series? Bit of doubt there. But do I think it will be entertaining? Now that I can give a yes to. I don't expect quality cinema from the movie, and I don't expect a reflection of Dragon Ball, I just expect a fun movie that shares certain aspects of it, and from the casting work, I think they could do a pretty good job. I look forward to seeing how they do it, and I am definitely psyched to see a live action Son Goku and Piccolo duking it out, hopefully with some epic ki blasts. A huge Kamehameha wave or Mafuba by Chow Yun Fat should be worth the $10 admission fee alone. I can't wait to see it, and I hope it's good enough, and successful enough to be the start of a franchise. You know, I'm the sort of guy who will probably like it anyway.


                
Dragonball is one of the best cartoons ever made. Dragonball Z is a bit disapointing compared to this one. Dragonball tells the story of Son Goku, a kid with a tail(?), who's origin is really explained only on Dragonball Z, and the story is all made up around 7 crystal balls that when all are together, allow you to ask any wish to the Dragon. It doesn't have all those "Super" stuff of Dragonball Z, all characters have different combat tactics and special moves, and they obtain their skills through hard training and not fury or spells. For Dragonball Z fans, if you want to see Bulma still young and more beautiful, Yamcha still an honourable fighter and Piccolo a bad guy, you have to see this!


                
As a fan of Manga and Anime, I really enjoyed the Dragonball TV series, but I thought it could have done a lot better, but before I get to that, let me just explain one thing about the show.DRAGONBALL IS NOT A KIDS SHOW! Some of the content of the show is not suitable for children, particularly the uncut Japanese version. The English translation does try to clean it up a bit, but it still contains some things anyone under 10 shouldn't be exposed to. For example, one character (Oolong) attempts to "have his way" with another while she sleeps (although in the English version he was just after the Dragonballs) and in several episodes we see some of the male characters nude.OK, that's cleared up, so what's the show about? The series is based on the manga by Akira Toriyama, which was based on a Chinese legend, and follows the Adventures of Son Goku, a child with incredible powers. Goku meets Bulma, a 16 year old girl, who is looking for the Dragonballs, magical relics that, when all 7 are united, can summon Shenlon (Shenron in the English versions), who can grant 1 wish. Goku agrees to give Bulma his Dragonball (which he calls "Grandpa as it is the only thing he has that reminds him of his Grandpa, Son Gohan) only if he can join her. But they are not the only ones after the Dragonballs.While Dragonball offers some entertainment (although it does get better as it goes along), the Manga was far better. This maybe because the manga series was just straight-ford, while the anime goes of the track a bit with pointless episodes that weren't featured in the manga. That and the extra scenes that try to develop the characters we don't really care about.Apart from that, the series is fun and never takes itself seriously. Any Dragonball Z fans who haven't seen Dragonball should do so.


                
Dragonball is the king off all anime.One of the best animated series of all time.An anime for all kinds of ages,being both gentle and violent.Although dragon ball z is even better,everybody needs to start with the early years of the most iconic anime character of all time,Goku,the tenacious warrior with a heart of gold.You follow Goku on his quest to find the dragon balls as he grows to be a strong warrior while making friends and enemies through the years.The plot gets better as Goku grows older and the stories are getting more and more interesting with stronger rivals and more information about Goku's life and past .You get to know all those enjoyable characters that so many kids grew up with and loved.The show gives out strong messages to kids about loyalty,friendship,hard work,having dreams and never giving up.I watched the show when i was 8 and i still watch it now,almost 20 years later,with the same excitement.It is pure gold and i recommend it to everyone.


                
I do not know if my tastes have changed over the years, but once I used to say by far the best incarnation of Dragon ball was Z. However, upon watching this entire series on DVD uncut I now have to say that this one is equal or maybe a notch or two above Z. Though I can still say quite easily that GT is the worst of the bunch as while this one needed a continuation, Z did not. This one follows the young boy Goku as it chronicles his friendships and adventures while finding the mythical dragon balls that number seven and when gathered together summon the dragon, Shenron to grant one wish. The show started out as more of a comedy, a comedy with at times quite perverted humor in it. As the show progressed though it would more and more rely on action to the point that near the end of the show it closely resembled Z, most of the pervert nature of the show would be gone near the end. Why? I have no idea, but it would make a reappearance here and there near the end, but nothing like it was in the beginning. In fact, Z and GT would see virtually no humor of this type with the exception of Master Roshii. This show is sort of made up of three adventures involving the dragon-balls. After each of these adventures there was a world martial arts tournament story. The first adventure involves a plucky teen named Bulma finding Goku and the two end up going on an adventure to find the dragon-balls. They meet Yamcha here as well as Oolong and Puar. They also meet the nefarious Emperor Pilaf who has to be the funniest villain in the dragon ball universe. This story would become Goku training under Master Roshii and meeting Krillan during the world martial arts phase. Then the Red Ribbon Army would be next as would be the meeting of Goku and Tien. Finally, Goku would have to face off against the evil King Piccolo in both the adventure and the tournament. Then for some reason the show keeps going on about five more episodes than it really needed to. Still, this one was fun and the fighting would become really cool near the end.


                
Dragon Ball is a very in dept anime that i can get into (which i did i bought every season) but it has very lovable characters and very good animation detail that can make you go AWESOME! so it basically revolves around Goku which he is one of the few people left from the sayan race which was wiped out by an enemy by the name of freiza but thats all I'm going to say about the story so *NO SPOILERS* so if you are wanting to get into anime but don't know where to start i would without a doubt suggest Dragon Ball it has a easy to follow but in dept story great voice acting all though i would suggest the original Japanese version with subtitles but the American voice actors are great and the illustration is great and i think everyone should give it a chance.


                
The original show is the best one!  While the manga version of "Dragonball Z" is good, that show simply just kept dragging out fights!  That's all it was!  Fight, fight, fight!  As for "Dragonball GT", it was fun, it was better than "Z", but not nearly as fun as the original.  This one had it all!  Action, humor, odd characters, fun adventures!  Accept nothing else!


                
Dragonball is an amazing show. Which is exciting, humorous, and stylish. The characters are nicely developed and the fighting sequences are nicely choreographed too. And while I haven't seen the original Japanese version, the censored American version is still fun and exciting to watch.


                
Goku lives in the woods by himself he has a tail his life turns around when Bulma comes to his house looking for his grandfather (gohan) dragonball. Dragonballs can grant you wishes if you find all seven and summon the dragon. Bulma wants to find all seven to get a boyfriend when she convinces Goku give her the dragon ball but for exchange goku goes with her to find the rest on thier journey the find new friends and enemy's who wants immortality after the summon the dragon nobody really gets their wish from the dragonball but from making wished come true by themselves like the story ,story to the west. Then after Goku trains with master Roshi who was His grandpa Gohan teacher he meets his mini rival and his best friend Krillin they train together and at the end get to go to the martial arts tournament they each other Goku beats Krillin by a little. Then he faces and old man who really is Master Roshi in disguise Roshi wins and wins the tournament.
It is based on the Journey to the West story but it is masterfully funny, crude, silly, violent. It is everything you want in an anime. The story of Goku begins with the quest to find the Dragonballs. Yes it was made in the 80s so some of the content should be controversial to today's standards but it is excellent. Goku is so adorable and you will be cheering for him every time he fights.


                
This anime was so nostalgic, I read all the Manga and then I watched all the anime. For the time of this anime I think its animation is splendid. The story of the anime is pretty good but the filler was bad I just skipped the filler most of the time. The anime was action packed and full of fight scenes all the fights where amazing but my favourite would have to be when Kakarot/Goku fought with Vegeta and the massive fail of "over 9000", in the Manga it was "over 8000" and in the original Japanese version it was "over 8000" although they did fix it in the remakes and it went back to "over 8000". I think this anime deserves it place in history and our hearts nothing can beat the original. 9/10
DRAGONBALL REVIEW* NOTE: SPOILERS AHEAD; I STRONGLY RECOMMEND WATCHING THE SHOW BEFORE READING THIS REVIEW: For a few months now, my friend and I have been watching all sagas of the original Dragonball anime. I cannot describe how much I love this show. This show has memorable characters, morals, themes, great character arks and a truly immersive world. I love how the sagas revolve around one objective/ark that is attainable. I love how each saga ramps up the scale, stakes, villains and overall world.I love that the characters are a twist on the classic characters from the hero's journey tale; for example, Master Roshi (the wise sage) is expected to be pure and incorruptible like Gandalf. He turns out to be a pervert. Another example is Yamcha (the rouge) who is expected to not be afraid of anyone. Yamcha turns out to be afraid/shy around women. I love the tournament sagas, especially the first appearance of Jackie Chun. Without spoiling this part, what he does on stage before his fight is so hilarious and organic for him that it's great. And without spoiling Jackie's true intention, his intention is both reasonable and gives a great moral about humility. I love the Red Ribbon Army ark, especially when Goku has an objective to help another in saving the person's father's life. Apart from Master Roshi, Korin (Karin) is probably my favorite character. The buildup of this character and his first appearance is done so well. What happens afterwords is very exciting and is so satisfying to watch that I won't spoil it. In all honesty, I didn't really care for the cornel antagonist, I thought the tower saga was great filler, with the exception the development of one Goku's pivotal characteristics, mercy.I thought General Blue was all right, though I was shocked and on the edge of my seat when Blue actually had a way to gain the upper hand from Goku via psychic paralyzing power. Goku really never overcame it. At the times he did escape from Blue's powers was because of chance and assistance from other characters. However, things really kicked off again in the Red ribbon Army Saga when Mercenary Tao comes in. This character, with the exception of Piccolo (Sr. and Jr.), is the most threatening character in the original series. They make this apparent by the way people react to him and the way he deals with his enemies. What I love about Mercenary Tao is that he is really the one to physically and to a point, mentally defeat Goku. He is the equivalent of Bane (Batman) in the Dragonball universe (at this point). The way the Red Ribbon Army is defeated, after all the buildup, is so satisfying to watch. The leader of the Red Ribbon Army, Commander Red's intention with the Dragon balls is something that I dare not spoil because I honestly think you should watch it for yourselves; and for those who have seen the anime, then I say that it was definitely something that took me completely by surprise. To watch Goku's main objective in the Red Ribbon Army ark be completed is very much one of the most emotionally satisfying moments of the show.The fortuneteller Baba saga is mostly entertaining filler with the exception of the final duel, in which, Goku is fighting someone, without spoiling who it is, familiar. Needless to say, the fight leads into an emotionally heartwarming moment that wraps up one of many character arks Goku goes through throughout the anime. The next tournament is thrilling and keeps you guessing but is only a prelude to the most dramatic, serious and saddening saga in the entire anime. WARNING: FULL ON MAJOR SPOILERS! I STRONGLY RECOMMEND WATCHING THE SHOW BEFORE READING! YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED!I am referring to the King Piccolo saga, in which the first thing we see of this saga is the death of Krillin, one of the main characters of the show. What's even more shocking is that an old enemy of Roshi's is responsible for Krillin's death. King Piccolo, who is essentially the Devil in this show (Yes I know there was a Devil Man in the previous saga, but really, Evil incarnated would be Piccolo). Not only that, King Piccolo and his children have temporarily defeated Goku, and exterminating Martial Artists left and right. Roshi also sacrifices his life for a failed attempt to capture King Piccolo. Jaw doesn't stop dropping yet, as King Piccolo wants to reclaim his former strength by wishing for the Eternal Dragon to wish his youth back. He succeeds. Not only that, after her succeeds, he uses his newly restored power to kill the Dragon, the only one who could possibly reverse this. With the exception of filler at the end, the rest of the remaining sagas are basically about how Goku deals with the death of his friends, the threat of King Piccolo (and his legacy), the origins of Piccolo, and the objective of salvation. Needless to say, it is all handled wonderfully with great execution. One great aspect about the show is that it keeps you guessing on how the conflict will be resolved; and every time it is resolved, it is very satisfying. I love this show and I cannot wait to see Dragonball Z Kai. GRADE: Classic LETTER GRADE: A NUMERICAL GRADE: 10 OVERALL OPINION: This anime has great characters, fantastic character and story arks that keep you guessing endlessly until it is resolved in a satisfactory manner. I highly recommend it.
I thought that Dragonball was a great anime. When I started watching it on Cartoon Network's "Toonami" line-up, it instantly became one of my favorite anime's. Finally, an anime that's a little different because it's not exactly serious but even so, the plot of each episode is quite well developed. As much as I like Dragonball, the second series, Dragonball Z, is the series I liked better but Dragonball is good too because it focuses more around humor.To really understand Dragon ball you need to see Bardock: the father of goku that explains the sayian race and a little about vegeta and nappa. once you have seen Bardock: the father of goku u see how goku was named goku and how gohan is gokus step grandfather so after you see Dragon ball and under stand it you need to Go to Dragonball z which is more of gokus fatherhood and adulthood The there's Dragon ball Grand Tour or GT that explains about Goten trunks, and new player Pan.


                
When I first saw the add for this, I didn't know what to think, I mean Dragonball Z was one of the greatest animes of all time, but Dragonball GT just spoiled the whole thing, so I didn't know if this show was going to be any different.This was a big mistake as Dragonball is an awesome show. It tells the tale of Goku, a boy with a monkey/sayian (if you've seen DBZ) tail, who has lived alone in the woods after his grandfather died. He then meets Bulma a young girl searching for the mysterious Dragonballs, seven orange stones that when brought together, can grant any wish asked of it. At first these episodes don't appeal very much at first, but when Goku meets master Roshi and learns the Turtle Hermit style of martial arts and enters the tournaments...that's when the show gets REALLY good.The fight scenes are fantastic and well animated, the show marks a another time when as a child Goku didn't restort to continuously using mountain destroying fireballs and his opponents were slightly more realistic, in fact he has a whole bag of techniques we never even saw in DBZ. Also if you saw DBZ first (which I recommend to get used to the DB universe) then you'll feel right at home as all the plot twists and Soap opera style cliff hangers are here at their roots, and the show always drops little hints about what's going to happen next.So in conclusion I'd say if you want a slightly more realistic martial arts anime, then go with Dragonball...but see DBZ first otherwise you may find it a bit bizarre.


                
I raised as a kid watching Son Goku with my friends. I remember when an episone was to begin, we ran home and see it and after it ended, we were looking forward to seeing the next one. Now, as a grown man, I'm still watching dragon ball super and super dragon ball heroes and I still love them. This cartoon always reminds me about my childhood and proves that we always feed our inside kid. Thank you producers for your great job. I will definitely show the cartoons to my children.


                
Ah, the simple joys of childhood. Ignorance was bliss and one of my favorite anime of all time was DRAGONBALL. I watched Dragonball back in the 90s long before i saw Dragonball Z(which only showed here in 2000), and it soon became one of my favorite shows on TV. I proudly paraded my Dragonball school bag in front of my classmates, owned dragonball key chains, even had a dragonball water bottle.Fast forward a full decade to 2007. In lieu of the announcement of a live action Dragonball movie(do check out my other review of Dragonball Evolution), i decided to pick up the remastered DVDs of the classic Dragonball anime series(which was going cheap, so how could i resist).2 episodes into it and I was sadly asking myself "what the hell was i thinking?". Checking out the rest of the series on youtube did not help either.I cannot believe i used to like such an absurd, silly and bizarre show! It is more like a badly handled satire comedy than an action adventure that i initially thought it was. So many outrageous elements are thrown into the mix like weird talking animal characters, anthropomorphic people, Goku's monkey tail, characters with outrageous hair. The show can't seem to decide if it wants to be a fantasy story or a sci/fi story. We have fantasy elements like magic, flying clouds and fantasy landscapes together with futuristic cities, hover cars, alien races and other science fiction technology. There are even pop culture references like Master Roshi disguising as "Jackie Chun(Chan)" Oh and did I mention the characters? Though highly interesting for all their quirks and allowed to develop well over the course of the show, they often fall into pre-set anime stereotypes. Goku is your typical arrogant kid main character, Bulma is the typical temperamental screaming female lead, Roshi is the usual "lecherous old man" and "Ancient kung fu master" stereotypes in one character, the list goes on. Oh and the NAMES of the characters are so nonsensical when you actually think about it. The creator was probably really hungry when he thought up those names as a lot of them are named after food.Examples include "Bulma Briefs"(a brand of underwear maybe?), "Yamcha"(which means "to drink tea"), "ChiChi"(which is an adjective for "trendy" or "chic"), "Piccolo"(a tiny woodwind instrument), Puer and Oolong(different kinds of tea) and Pilaf(a rice dish).There is absolutely no end to the bizarreness of this show.On the plus side, the characters do have their enduring moments and the story does advance at a good pace. But more often than not, it gets bogged down in lame jokes and funny moments, hardly ever taking itself seriously. The animation itself is standard low budget 80s fare with nothing special at all.If i suffered from selective memory like so many fans out there, I would have gladly given Dragonball 10/10 based solely on a fleeting childhood memory from the good ol days of ignorance. But being objective here, I can safely say that while the story, setting and characters are funny, quirky and interesting at first, it soon becomes really boring and starts to grate on the nerves.The look and feel of the show is highly juvenile but the writing is definitely NOT FOR KIDS. There is a good deal of nudity and sexual jokes here. Some are fine, but it does tend to get overboard just a little bit. The violence, naked scenes, dirty humour, all make this show highly unsuitable for a younger audience. However, any adult with half a mind for decent storytelling would immediately be put off by the child-like simplicity of the plot and the absurdity of the characters.This seems to be made for the same audience that adores silly spoof shows like Scary Movie and Meet The Spartans. Dragonball is at most a homage/spoof/satire/ of the action/adventure/sci-fi(hell its every single genre yet none at all) genre of Japanese anime.


                
The original Dragonball series premiered in Shonen Jump in 1984.  Akira Toriyama's sci-fi martial arts soap opera of good vs. evil became popular, so it was obvious a TV show would soon come out.So why isn't it as good as the manga?You see, both came out once per week.  While the anime was a whole 30 minutes, the manga usually was just 15 pages, reading time sometimes 5 minutes.  So, to increase time, the TV producers made up a whole bunch of stuff that didn't happen in the manga.  The insulting part of this was that most of the time, it would completely alter the events in the classic stories, butchering them and rewriting them to appear on a television format.  Yes, DBZ does this as well, but at least the made up anime events are a bit more respectful to the manga and most of the time features more of what makes DB the best:  the fighting.  All in all, an insult to Toriyama's beloved series.BOTTOM LINE:  Read the manga instead.


                
Dragon Ball is one of the most popular anime titles of our time, when ever you look up at message boards where someone starts a topic about which anime should be broadcast on TV again, this title is bound to be mentioned. I myself have no clue why. Watching Dragon Ball is like watching a Steven Segal or a Chuck Norris action flick: an endless array of fights, the main hero always wins. There are no surprises here, everything is predictable, everything is the same... And worst of all, it goes on and on. This show has no common sense to end the story at least in a fair amount of time, to qualify for a guilty pleasure. No. Instead it sets itself to become one of the longest soap operas ever, an epic garbage. Imagine a Sergio Leone epic without Leone's sense for style, measure and weight, and you have Dragon Ball. The first, original season had 153 episodes, the second one, Dragon Ball Z, had 291 (!), and if that weren't enough we have another 64 episodes of Dragon Ball GT, and - I kid you not - another 98 episodes of Dragon Ball Kai. But do not be fooled, folks. This is no Tolstoy, not by a long shot. Sheer quantity over quality can easily become an overkill.Here on IMDb, Dragon Ball has a rating of 8.6 out of 10, but Segal's movie Out for a Kill has only 3.1 out of 10. Why the discrepancy when both are of equal merit? I have to ask the voters who gave Dragon Ball a 10 (or even a 7) the same question as one of the protagonists posed to writer David in Ingmar Bergman's tragedy Through a Glass Darkly (1961): "What life truths have you done in your work?" The questions seems almost ridiculous for this show: it has no truths about life, not a single one. When you encounter a problem, what are you gonna do, perform a kame-hame-ha? When you have to train, are you seriously gonna copy Son Goku's moves? The experience you take away from this show is nonexistent, it is just some guys fantasy about beating up stronger people around him stemming from his frustration. I enjoy a few humorous moments involving Bulma and Kuririn, and that's why I give it two stars. Other than that, I do not want to waste my time on such a long and bad show that is just one huge wrestlemania (and not a good one, at that, either. Compare this to One Piece, which has much more style, imagination and capability of crafting great fights and showdowns). I know I am gonna get hate mail after this, but I don't care, it is irelevant. I enjoy trash and cheese when I want to relax, but I am never gonna say that trash is something great. If you want to spend over 100 hours of fights to get nowhere, enjoy Dragon Ball. If you really want to grow up and realize there is so much more to life, do yourself a favor and watch some epics that nobody heard of, but are classics of wisdom and intelligence, like Legend of the Galactic Heroes, Evangelion or Steins Gate.


                
Sincerely, I did not think this series is such a good series, this series is completely unrealistic, boring, full of scenes and characters irrelivantes, super weak and drawn animation, completely stupid and super stupid episodes.
Honestly, I could not see the whole series, it started up quite well, but after a few episodes, it was completely stupid, I always found the animation weak, but it got worse and worse. It could even be a good anime, but it was only getting worse, I honestly do not know why I saw pretty much everything about "Dragon Ball".
Would not recommend anything !!


                
Dragon Ball is a Anime based on a Manga by Akira Toryiama (say that 3 times fast)Unlike it's sequel it Actually has quite the charm Goku,Yamcha,Tien,Krillin,Roshi,etc are all likable characters and that's why it's so enjoyable! The fights are also a high point in this show I love the fight with the final villains (not gonna spoil it) and how it makes you feel for the characters is amazing!However despite all that good listed above there are many flaws for example The plot isn't the best it's better then the one in the sequel but is fairly simple If you came for a good plot then this isn't for you.Another one is well in the grand scheme of things in anime it doesn't even come close to many other Shonenes such as ''Naruto,One Piece'' or non anime's like Avatar the last air benderHowever this show is worth checking out and I recommend it
