I've lived in Mexico for a few years and grew up watching various anime. For some reason, many of them such as Dragonball weren't as popular in the US and many European countries back then. It's only since the turn of the century that this franchise hit the US. I stopped watching the series years ago. This has mainly to do because I didn't really like the English dub of DBZ with lot's of cuts and a complete new soundtrack. It's just recently that I rediscovered the whole franchise through the internet and my conclusion is that these original series from the DB trilogy are actually much better than DBZ.If you don't like DBZ & DBGT or think they Jumped the Shark at some point, it's probably due to one of these reasons: -The characters grew ridiculously strong and got stronger every minute. -The battles became long and monotonous. -Too much time was wasted in having people stare at each other explaining the plot which wasn't always that interesting.-The villains got too far fetched (Majin Buu is a great example).-Several characters lost its importance.-You don't like these kind of anime at all.Except if it's the last one, I think you're probably going to prefer the original DB cause most of these aspects weren't nearly as exaggerated. This show is in its essence an adventure story based on an old Chinese tale called A Journey to the West. It revolves, in this case, around several martial artists so it does contain a lot of fights. What differentiates this show from its successors is that, since this is where it all began, none of the characters were too Godlike to start with. The fights were therefore not only way shorter (a few episodes at max) but also funnier and more interesting. It wasn't all about who's the strongest one? The reason why I prefer DB above DBZ is almost the same one as why I never really liked the English dubbed DBZ. It really became too over the top at one point and I felt like they tried to make the show cooler than it already was. Another characteristic that DBZ and DBGT lacked is the atmosphere. Most of this anime takes place in a fictional type of China with a plot which belonged to the fantasy genre. In DBZ however, it switched over to science fiction and most of the fights took place in open fields. The last aspect is the characters. Of course, Goku is the protagonist, but this series also introduced a lot more iconic characters with all unique aspects. The antagonists on the other hand were also much more interesting since most of the weren't actually "super villains". At the beginning you had Pilaf who was basically a comic relief followed by the Red Ribbon army containing several kinds of bad guys and ending up with Piccolo Daimaoh who, up to date, is my favourite DB villain.I still like DBZ but sometimes I really wonder whether it would've been better for them to quit much earlier because I was a bit disappointed by the way it ended.One other thing. It's only now when I realize that this anime is definitely not meant for little children, it's meant for everyone who likes anime. Some parts, I enjoy more than I used to because of the mature sense of humour. If you want to watch it, look for uncut versions.


                
I have watched this show and i guarantee its good. Well it may start off a little slow but it gets really good. It's child friendly and adults will enjoy it too. Like Dragonball Z and Dragonball Gt it will keep your interest. The fighting and powers of the warriors can keep children and adults all over the world amused. The show does have a little bit humor to it than the other two series, but thats what it was originally created for. The humor doesn't stop the show from having a good plot. Throughout the show they have great adventures and they always meet new allies and villains. To the last comment, I wouldn't say that your comment wasn't true, but I don't want to say it was true. The creators have made special uncut versions, but those must be bought on DVD or VHS. The edited version airs on television. They just wouldn't put extreme adult content on a show for children. So, what if a few of the characters like girl magazines and one is obsessed with females its all part of the humor. There are no female body parts that are revealed in the show, not even on the uncut versions. So, when i was reading the last comment I figured that the person who wrote must be misjudged. Watch the edited version. If you are not offended by anything enjoy the uncut version which is more adult oriented.


                
It's not an easy thing to do. But the Japanese can do it. Anime is very good in mixing stuff the right way. This is no exception. This anime is based on the popular manga, written by one of my favourite manga writers, Akira Toriyama, author of the hilarious Dr Slump manga. Dragon Ball is partly based on the old folklore tale of "Journey to the West," although I don't know much about the story, except that some of the characters in Dragon Ball were based on ones from the story. That is all I can really say on that.The story revolves around a 12 year old monkey boy, named Son Goku, who meets up with a 16 year old girl named Bulma who is searching for seven mystical balls named Dragon Balls, which when gathered together, will summon the dragon god Shenlong, who will grant you any one wish. Throughout their adventures they meet many memorable characters, such as the perverted shapeshifting pig Oolong, the not so good around girls desert bandit Yamucha, and an old martial arts master, who's technique and strength is only matched by his appetite for pretty, young girls known as Muten Roshi. There are many great stories spanning across 153 episodes, including several Tenkaichi Budokai's (Known in the American version as The World Martial Arts Tournament.) An evil organisation bent on world domination (who cares if it's cliché, you can't go wrong with the classics) called the Red Ribbon Army, An ancient evil known as Piccolo Daimao, and many more. My personal favourite parts of the series were the Piccolo battles, and that's where the tone of the series changed to be slightly more dramatic. It's an excellent show because you also get to see the steady transformation of a gifted, and pure child into a martial arts genius.People who are more used to the non-stop action of its successor Dragon Ball Z should be warned that this series focuses a lot more on humour on most parts, until later in the series. There are many great fights in the anime, they just aren't as frequent as Dragon Ball Z. But if you are a fan of action anime, I would still highly recommend this to you.This show was taken to America and turned into a kids show, which is not how it should be seen. If you want to watch this anime, watch the DVDs with Japanese dialog with subtitles. I'm sure you will enjoy it. Masako Nozawa is great as Son Goku, and captures his personality perfectly. Even if you do want to watch it, you need to watch it on DVD, as the television version edits out anything that is even slightly adult. It's just way too G rated. The original version (mostly in the early episodes) is filled with toilet humour, sex jokes and nudity. I feel that that's the way the series was originally made, and it should have been kept that way, rather than focus on the younger audience. But it is a good thing that they did in a way, as the people who were fans of the dub at the young age can grow up and discover the original version, as I did.The animation is nothing really to talk about. It started in 1986 and it was pretty standard animation for that time, in Japan anyway. There is nothing wrong with it, it's just not something to write home about. But in a way, I find that nice because it has an 80's feel to it. It doesn't take away from the quality in the least. The soundtrack of the series isn't bad, but tends to reuse music a lot throughout the series. I thought the Tenkaichi song played during the Jackie Chun fight was the best of the series, but the opening and closing themes were pretty good as well.Even if you don't like the start I would recommend that you continue watching, as you may find you like it later on, partly because of the way the tone changes a little in later episodes, where it stops a lot of the toilet humour and sexual stuff (not all of it, just a fair bit) and focuses on more serious stuff, like death. All in all, I'd say this is a great way to introduce yourself to anime, or even just if you want something fun to watch. Don't watch it if you want a series that will make you think, because that isn't what this is for. The show is hilarious, and the action is great.Now to bring up the subject of the new American live action movie that's coming in 2009. How do I feel about the concept? I have made no secret about my disliking for the way the American's have handled this anime. So am I excited about the movie? In short, definitely. Do I think it will be a good movie? Probably not. Do I think it will be a good adaption of the series? Bit of doubt there. But do I think it will be entertaining? Now that I can give a yes to. I don't expect quality cinema from the movie, and I don't expect a reflection of Dragon Ball, I just expect a fun movie that shares certain aspects of it, and from the casting work, I think they could do a pretty good job. I look forward to seeing how they do it, and I am definitely psyched to see a live action Son Goku and Piccolo duking it out, hopefully with some epic ki blasts. A huge Kamehameha wave or Mafuba by Chow Yun Fat should be worth the $10 admission fee alone. I can't wait to see it, and I hope it's good enough, and successful enough to be the start of a franchise. You know, I'm the sort of guy who will probably like it anyway.


                
Dragonball is the king off all anime.One of the best animated series of all time.An anime for all kinds of ages,being both gentle and violent.Although dragon ball z is even better,everybody needs to start with the early years of the most iconic anime character of all time,Goku,the tenacious warrior with a heart of gold.You follow Goku on his quest to find the dragon balls as he grows to be a strong warrior while making friends and enemies through the years.The plot gets better as Goku grows older and the stories are getting more and more interesting with stronger rivals and more information about Goku's life and past .You get to know all those enjoyable characters that so many kids grew up with and loved.The show gives out strong messages to kids about loyalty,friendship,hard work,having dreams and never giving up.I watched the show when i was 8 and i still watch it now,almost 20 years later,with the same excitement.It is pure gold and i recommend it to everyone.


                
I do not know if my tastes have changed over the years, but once I used to say by far the best incarnation of Dragon ball was Z. However, upon watching this entire series on DVD uncut I now have to say that this one is equal or maybe a notch or two above Z. Though I can still say quite easily that GT is the worst of the bunch as while this one needed a continuation, Z did not. This one follows the young boy Goku as it chronicles his friendships and adventures while finding the mythical dragon balls that number seven and when gathered together summon the dragon, Shenron to grant one wish. The show started out as more of a comedy, a comedy with at times quite perverted humor in it. As the show progressed though it would more and more rely on action to the point that near the end of the show it closely resembled Z, most of the pervert nature of the show would be gone near the end. Why? I have no idea, but it would make a reappearance here and there near the end, but nothing like it was in the beginning. In fact, Z and GT would see virtually no humor of this type with the exception of Master Roshii. This show is sort of made up of three adventures involving the dragon-balls. After each of these adventures there was a world martial arts tournament story. The first adventure involves a plucky teen named Bulma finding Goku and the two end up going on an adventure to find the dragon-balls. They meet Yamcha here as well as Oolong and Puar. They also meet the nefarious Emperor Pilaf who has to be the funniest villain in the dragon ball universe. This story would become Goku training under Master Roshii and meeting Krillan during the world martial arts phase. Then the Red Ribbon Army would be next as would be the meeting of Goku and Tien. Finally, Goku would have to face off against the evil King Piccolo in both the adventure and the tournament. Then for some reason the show keeps going on about five more episodes than it really needed to. Still, this one was fun and the fighting would become really cool near the end.


                
It is based on the Journey to the West story but it is masterfully funny, crude, silly, violent. It is everything you want in an anime. The story of Goku begins with the quest to find the Dragonballs. Yes it was made in the 80s so some of the content should be controversial to today's standards but it is excellent. Goku is so adorable and you will be cheering for him every time he fights.


                
DRAGONBALL REVIEW* NOTE: SPOILERS AHEAD; I STRONGLY RECOMMEND WATCHING THE SHOW BEFORE READING THIS REVIEW: For a few months now, my friend and I have been watching all sagas of the original Dragonball anime. I cannot describe how much I love this show. This show has memorable characters, morals, themes, great character arks and a truly immersive world. I love how the sagas revolve around one objective/ark that is attainable. I love how each saga ramps up the scale, stakes, villains and overall world.I love that the characters are a twist on the classic characters from the hero's journey tale; for example, Master Roshi (the wise sage) is expected to be pure and incorruptible like Gandalf. He turns out to be a pervert. Another example is Yamcha (the rouge) who is expected to not be afraid of anyone. Yamcha turns out to be afraid/shy around women. I love the tournament sagas, especially the first appearance of Jackie Chun. Without spoiling this part, what he does on stage before his fight is so hilarious and organic for him that it's great. And without spoiling Jackie's true intention, his intention is both reasonable and gives a great moral about humility. I love the Red Ribbon Army ark, especially when Goku has an objective to help another in saving the person's father's life. Apart from Master Roshi, Korin (Karin) is probably my favorite character. The buildup of this character and his first appearance is done so well. What happens afterwords is very exciting and is so satisfying to watch that I won't spoil it. In all honesty, I didn't really care for the cornel antagonist, I thought the tower saga was great filler, with the exception the development of one Goku's pivotal characteristics, mercy.I thought General Blue was all right, though I was shocked and on the edge of my seat when Blue actually had a way to gain the upper hand from Goku via psychic paralyzing power. Goku really never overcame it. At the times he did escape from Blue's powers was because of chance and assistance from other characters. However, things really kicked off again in the Red ribbon Army Saga when Mercenary Tao comes in. This character, with the exception of Piccolo (Sr. and Jr.), is the most threatening character in the original series. They make this apparent by the way people react to him and the way he deals with his enemies. What I love about Mercenary Tao is that he is really the one to physically and to a point, mentally defeat Goku. He is the equivalent of Bane (Batman) in the Dragonball universe (at this point). The way the Red Ribbon Army is defeated, after all the buildup, is so satisfying to watch. The leader of the Red Ribbon Army, Commander Red's intention with the Dragon balls is something that I dare not spoil because I honestly think you should watch it for yourselves; and for those who have seen the anime, then I say that it was definitely something that took me completely by surprise. To watch Goku's main objective in the Red Ribbon Army ark be completed is very much one of the most emotionally satisfying moments of the show.The fortuneteller Baba saga is mostly entertaining filler with the exception of the final duel, in which, Goku is fighting someone, without spoiling who it is, familiar. Needless to say, the fight leads into an emotionally heartwarming moment that wraps up one of many character arks Goku goes through throughout the anime. The next tournament is thrilling and keeps you guessing but is only a prelude to the most dramatic, serious and saddening saga in the entire anime. WARNING: FULL ON MAJOR SPOILERS! I STRONGLY RECOMMEND WATCHING THE SHOW BEFORE READING! YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED!I am referring to the King Piccolo saga, in which the first thing we see of this saga is the death of Krillin, one of the main characters of the show. What's even more shocking is that an old enemy of Roshi's is responsible for Krillin's death. King Piccolo, who is essentially the Devil in this show (Yes I know there was a Devil Man in the previous saga, but really, Evil incarnated would be Piccolo). Not only that, King Piccolo and his children have temporarily defeated Goku, and exterminating Martial Artists left and right. Roshi also sacrifices his life for a failed attempt to capture King Piccolo. Jaw doesn't stop dropping yet, as King Piccolo wants to reclaim his former strength by wishing for the Eternal Dragon to wish his youth back. He succeeds. Not only that, after her succeeds, he uses his newly restored power to kill the Dragon, the only one who could possibly reverse this. With the exception of filler at the end, the rest of the remaining sagas are basically about how Goku deals with the death of his friends, the threat of King Piccolo (and his legacy), the origins of Piccolo, and the objective of salvation. Needless to say, it is all handled wonderfully with great execution. One great aspect about the show is that it keeps you guessing on how the conflict will be resolved; and every time it is resolved, it is very satisfying. I love this show and I cannot wait to see Dragonball Z Kai. GRADE: Classic LETTER GRADE: A NUMERICAL GRADE: 10 OVERALL OPINION: This anime has great characters, fantastic character and story arks that keep you guessing endlessly until it is resolved in a satisfactory manner. I highly recommend it.
I raised as a kid watching Son Goku with my friends. I remember when an episone was to begin, we ran home and see it and after it ended, we were looking forward to seeing the next one. Now, as a grown man, I'm still watching dragon ball super and super dragon ball heroes and I still love them. This cartoon always reminds me about my childhood and proves that we always feed our inside kid. Thank you producers for your great job. I will definitely show the cartoons to my children.


                
