I never had an interest in this series or the one that followed it. But after hearing so many good things about it. I decided to watch for myself. I read this is the first series that started it all. So here's what I learn from seeing all 153 episodes.Dragonball takes place in an alternate earth that's nothing like ours. The humans live like we do, only they're accompany by dinosaurs, talking animals, and aliens. And most of the technology is years ahead of us. The whole plot focuses on Goku, a monkey tail boy who doesn't know he'll make a difference in the world. He encounters a teenage girl name Bulma, who is hunting down 7 dragon balls. Goku owns a dragon ball himself, which was once own by his grandfather. Goku didn't know what was so special about the balls, so Bulma told him what the story to it is.The 7 Legendary shinny balls, known as Dragonballs have the ability to summon the eternal dragon when all of them are gathered together. The person who summons the dragon can get any wish he or she desires, and one wish only. Bulma has her own wish plan when she gets all 7 of the dragon balls, while Goku is interested in tagging along with Bulma on her journey. Because Bulma finds Goku to be of some use due to his inhuman strength.During their quest, Goku & Bulma will meet new friends and allies. As well crossing paths with many enemies and those who plan to use the dragon balls for evil purposes. Later on Goku will hope to become stronger than he already is. In order to do so he does some difficult training in martial arts from Master Roshi(his grandfather's friend). Goku is already a born fighter which is yet to be unleashed once he passes the limits of a normal human, and compete in the following "World Martial Arts Tournament" to gain the title of World Champion. Goku is about to experience a journey that unpredictable to anyone.I gotta admit, I actually do like Dragonball now, after seeing this whole series. Even though this is lighter than the following series. But I wanted know the characters, story, and locations more by seeing the beginning than the middle. I was entirely confused with this one and DragonBall Z(the series that follows). Which is probably because I was a little kid who didn't consider anime as worthy as American cartoons.Unlike today, where I do consider anime a pleasure to behold. I regret not getting into Dragonball from the very beginning, but it's never too late to become a fan of a franchise that's been around way before I was born.Enough of my lecturing there. Overrall Dragonball has originality, character development, humor, drama, and suspense that really kept it going. As well as a collection of movie parodies, Chinese related locations/themes, and the whole idea of Sci-Fi combined with Fantasy & Action. I can see why Eiichiro Oda of One Piece was so influenced by this series. Since he and the creator Akira Toriyama are best of friends.After spending 3 months on this series, I'm gonna get started on DragonBall Z which succeeded even greater than it's proceeder.


                
