This is a fantastic movie because no matter what side you're on in life, this movie shows them all, good and bad, right or wrong. I also agree with the point in the movie that proves that people can change for the better and straighten things out in their head to do the right things in life. Yes, things in our world have changed, some for the good, some for the bad, but just because you might not agree with some of it, doesn't mean you can play God and try to make things "your way" and this shows exactly what happens when you try. This movie talks about all walks of life and the struggles we all have in what beliefs are right and wrong. Yes this movie is brutal and violent, but also truthful to the past and unfortunately still sometimes the present. This movie is about race, but not only 1 race is singled out and fed to the dogs, they all are. So, go into this movie with an open mind and your mind will come out full.


                
I have been wanting to see this movie for a long time, since my English teacher mentioned it in our class in grade ten. Gosh I wished I wouldn't have waited all this time to finally watch it, although maybe it's a good thing cause I would have probably been a little bit more traumatized at 14... This movie is exceptional!!! Makes u think, makes you frustrated, makes you wanna scream and even makes you cry! Edward Norton is just phenomenal playing the role of a freak skin head and even more so playing this skin head who finally realizes how stupid he was and tries to protect his younger brother. Edward Furlong also does an amazing job!!! This film is moving in so many ways...I can't even describe how real and heartfelt it felt. I definitely think Edward Norton should have won the Oscar for his performance, cause he was absolutely terrific! I can't get why they didn't gave it to him... This movie will surely stay on my mind for a while now... just thinking that some place in the world things like that still happen...it crushes my heart. This is a wonderful movie that every single person should see at least once in his life... Watch American History X, it totally worth it!


                
American History X is a movie of its own. It has a little bit of everything in the way it touches you. This of course making it a very though provoking film. There isn't a genre you can place this film in because it is a not a crime story, action or even a simple drama instead it is a humanistic thriller. What it is about, is the battle over ourselves.Who better than to display these wild but common complexities within people than Edward Norton. The range he shows here is astounding in only his fifth movie. Norton plays Derek Vinyard, a skin head that realizes through cruel yet necessary events in his life that he has gone down the wrong path. When he comes out of jail he attempts to stop his brother played Edward Furlong from going down the same road he had done. Through all his efforts though some things just prove to be inevitable. Avery Brooks also gives a great performance as Derek Vinyard's former teacher and now principal of his former school. His words may not be of the most inspiring but his actions and messages sent across are subtle yet strong and to the point.Norton's performance though wasn't just about range but exploring different dimensions of life. Whether it proved to be psychological, social or even political on a certain level. It is a transforming performance revealing something mind blowing and eye opening. That we, and this includes anyone, can take a devastating turn in life no matter how intelligent we are or thoughtful. That the person that determines the outcome of your life is yourself whether it is good or bad. Norton's realizations aren't through teachings such as the ones that got him in jail but they are through the events in the time he spent in jail. He saw the truth for himself realizing then what is false and what is real.The screenplay written by David McKenna is about as versatile as the performance Norton gives. Not only because of the Derek Vinyard character but because of the characters involved in his life. For example the root of his evil did not come from the murder of his father but rather his father himself. Through just a conversation at breakfast did his negative thoughts get really embedded eventually then leading to them dramatically taking over his mind and way of life. Only when his father got killed did these negative thoughts seem justified. The way this screenplay and direction was able to display this message in just a plethora of other underlying tones was spectacular.What makes this movie great though is that you can truly find yourself in the messages delivered. As much as the main character might not seem relevant or connected to many people it his emotions and functioning of his mind that all of us are able to connect with. Yet what makes a movie great is not simply the message or messages sent across but how powerfully they are delivered. American History X delivers its multiple and intertwining messages about as powerfully as I've seen from a film.


                
I was expecting a kind of a moralistic movie with an overly present, almost preaching like message. The movie however turned out to be extremely powerful mainly due to the professionalism it was made with.The movie its story is told 'beautifuly' in black & white and color. The quite original directing from Tony Kaye gives the movie a nice visual style and certain atmosphere. The story itself isn't that complicated or extremely original on its own and perhaps at most points even predictable but the way the story is told is phenomenal. This is not a movie with an happy ending or a movie that provides a solution to the racial discrimination problems. It shows what is NOT the solution to the problems and that everything that is occurring is like a vicious circle. The movie does not give a hopeful message but instead shows the dangers and pain you're causing to yourself and your close environment when you're thinking as a white supremacist.As an anti Neo-Nazi movie this movie works really powerful. I think that its a really good and important thing that this movie is often shown in classrooms.Edward Norton is truly fantastic in his role. He is very well believable as a Neo-Nazi as well as the reformed person he later turns into in the movie. It's almost like he's playing 2 different characters and he does that so extremely well. Also really good was Edward Furlong who we all long had not seen in a big production. Furlong and Norton are both acting well together in their scene's are highly believable as two brothers.Also surprising good was the musical score by Anne Dudley who had already won an Oscar for "The Full Monty", the year before.This was a movie that surprisingly impressed me. As a movie its extremely powerful and important.10/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
American History X is one of the most powerful movies released in years. Not since Schindler's List has the subject of racism been so potently presented. The use of black and white cinematography to portray painful flashbacks is amazing, and the settings, while not necessarily pretty, fit the story flawlessly. Derek Vineyard's (Edward Norton) transition from a white supremacy leader's protege to a gang leader himself to a changed man is shown mainly through a series of flashbacks to the time before he was sent to prison. The character development and story are amazingly well done, and this is largely a factor of the high quality of the acting. Edward Norton especially, but also Edward Furlong, Beverly D'Angelo, and all of the rest of the cast down to Avery Brooks as Bob Sweeney, the African American high school teacher who comes up with the term American History X, and Stacy Keach as the wonderfully hateable Cameron Alexander. Keach, by the way, would have been the perfect choice to play Francis Dolarhyde in Manhunter, the film the precedes The Silence of the Lambs, but oh well. Unfortunately, despite the fact that American History X is one of the best films in years, it is horribly underrated. Much like Norton's last film, Primal Fear, which was also a great movie, this movie did not get nearly the recognition that it deserves.
I honestly don't think I have ever seen a better movie than American History X in my entire life! I may only be 14, but I have seen a lot of movies. I am an avid fan of them, and this one just takes the cake. Edward Norton is just unbelievable. He is the most talented actor I've ever laid eyes on. His performance in the movie is phenomenal. He delves so deep into his character that he can convince the whole audience easily of his neo-nazi role. The look on his face as he walks back from killing one man in the first seen is purely horrifying. The entire move was dramatic, intriguing, and powerful. It really is moving and emotional as well as scary. It is so true to life, and provides the viewer with such insight into the life and events that create a monster such as Derek Vinyard. It answers many questions I have long awaited an answer to such as what could possibly make someone act as Derek did in this movie, yet left open-ended many others that people such as myself may have. Almost every single scene in the movie was extremely captivating. I can't even go on to say more about the acting, other than if Edward Norton does not win best actor this year, I will go absolutely nuts. It's bad enough he lost it to Cuba Gooding Jr. when he was in Primal Fear, which was yet another incredible performance by him. Edward Furlong, the little kid from T2 is astounding as the confused brother of Derek. I was stunned walking out of the theater after seeing American History X, and I don't think I will ever have the benefit of seeing another movie as good as this one as long as I live. I recommend anyone with a good tolerance for violent and graphic depictions go see this movie. I am bewildered as to why director Tony Kaye would ever want out of this success. If I were to rate this movie, as I often do for others in reviewing them for school, I would give it an A+ with all of my heart.


                
Powerful portrayal of Neo-Nazi movement in America. Told in series of flashbacks. Flawless acting by Edward Norton. Does its best to make the point that no one is ever right aand no one is ever wrong. I have a friend who was a Nazi and a racist. But upon walking out of the theater after this movie he hung his head in shame. This is why the film industry began.


                
American History X really opened my eyes to the world of racism and how cruel human beings can be sometimes. This story follows a violent extreme skin-head (Norton) that spends three years in jail for killing two black people and how he changed through jail. He then tries to help his younger brother, who idolizes him, not to go down the same path he did. You really can't find a more powerful movie than this. This movie forces you to open your eyes through harsh realism and although some things are disturbing, it makes you take notice. Everything about this movie is so incredible I can't even find words for it. All I can say is that if you have not seen this movie, it really is a must to see because it teaches you something and is really powerful.Norton's best performance and a must for everyone.
This movie, got to me! I mean got under my skin got to me. It is so effective, the performances were just perfect. We have Edward Norton and Edward Furlong, two fine actors, they play two skin head Nazi racist brothers who are very violent. We start off at a very disturbing scene where we see how Edward Norton's character is put in jail for killing an African American very violently. When he comes back, he has just learned so much that no school, no white man could ever teach him: self respect, respect for others, respect for life, for his family, and knowing that "We can't live our lives p*ssed off". He is touched when he learns that his brother's teacher is asking him to write a paper about racism and how it effects today's society called "American History X". But when Eddie just gives a wrong look to the black kid in school, some things go terribly wrong.First off, Ed Norton's old "friends" turn on him because he wishes not to be part of their very racist gang. Even his own brother who followed his footsteps hates him for turning on the gang. But Ed Norton takes Eddie and tells him his passionate and harrowing experience in prison. Eddie seems to start to see the light, but there is an extremely powerful ending that will make even the toughest guy shed a tear. I highly, very much highly, recommend this movie for everyone. Even for the kids, though you might want to turn them away for a few scenes, but that's how powerful this movie is. Trust me, this movie should not be missed and it sends a message.10/10
In just a short career, Edward Norton has emerged as the best actor of his generation. 5 films, 2 oscar nominations, and the best performance I have ever seen turned in by a modern actor. In this film, Norton plays a skin head who goes to Prison for brutally murdering two black men who are attempting to steal his car and comes out reformed only to find that his brother (Edward Furlong, turning in a fine performance) is headed right down that same route.Yes, the "hate is bad" message is overplayed and by the end of the film you've been hit over the head with it. The scenes, as well as the story, are minimal and the "shocking ending" is predictable, but it all doesn't matter. It's all more of an actor's piece than any one else's and Edward Norton turns in the  most amazing performance I have ever seen captured on film. No longer, the sweet innocent psychopath he was in Primal Fear, Norton bulked up considerably for this role and it pays off.It is, hands down, the most powerful American film in decades. I'd give it a 12 out of 10 if I could.
The story is about the brothers Derek and Danny who are both smart and trying to questions things like in the society. When their father who's a firefighter goes into a black neighborhood trying to extinguish a fire he's shoot down by a drug dealer who happen to be a black person. Before this happened the father had told Derek about his racial opinions while they were eating one time. After the murder of his father Derek seeks to join a skinhead gang to avenge his father's death. one time later 3 black guys tries to jack his father's car from their front yard one night , Derek catches them and shoots one of them and brutally stomps on one the other guy's head killing him. Derek is convicted of manslaughter and will serve 3 years in prison.After the 3 years in jail Derek is a changed man. He has grown back his hair and become a loving and caring person , tolerating different people. Because of all the horrible things that happened in the prison.When he comes out he discovers that his little brother is going down the same path as him. And he desperately tries to save him.Why I like this movie is because that its shows us that hate only leads to suffering and despair. After his father is murdered, it's like it is his duty to stand up against the blacks in society. He joins up with Cameron and starts a skinhead gang, telling people to join because of the black and Mexican gangs who bully people. He seeks identification, he joins a side. But this is the a dead end I mean. Really good movie! top's notch!


                
One of the reasons I like the film is that the racism isn't shoved down your throat. It's subtle and believable. There's no characters standing around screaming about "Those goddamn Mexicans, I don't want THEM changing my locks so THEY can rob the place with their little essays!", right in front of them. The acting is great all around, and Edward Norton gives one of the best performances of all time. I can't believe he didn't win best actor. While I haven't seen Benji's performance, I doubt he was half as good as Norton. The film is also highly inspirational and moving. How is it that this wasn't even nominated for best picture, while Crash was AND won? Crazy.This should be shown in schools.


                
Edward Norton's compelling and powerful performance of a highly misguided neo-nazi convict is a gripping and highly convincing one, and alongside Edward Furlong, this is an unmissable but hauntingly true interpretation by Tony Kaye that really brings home a message that's stuck with me forever.Whether it was just a cleverly written script, a good director or an excellent cast, I'll never know but what ever it is, it works and it works very well.Both Edward's reflect their prime ability to act with their portrayal of a fractured background and how it's influenced their behaviours and attitudes. It's an emotion evoking display from all the cast and a classic, classic film.


                
When I first came across the movie American History X it was while I was looking through Edward Nortons films on his profile. Having seen Primal Fear and Fight Club just a few weeks prior to this I was intrigued to see what other roles he could take on. Furthermore, I was a huge fan of Edward Furlong in Terminator 2 and was happily surprised to see him on this cast list as between 1991 and 1998 when this was released, he did not have many major roles.The story is told through switching from present to past and the way it is done is simply outstanding. The flashback scenes are in black and white to firstly make it clear when the time period is and arguably also to show the darkness that was consuming Edward Nortons character when following the neo-nazi way of life that he did for so long. Edward Norton himself also adds to this effect and his performance makes it seem like he is playing two separate characters. His brother in the movie 'Danny' is played by Edward Furlong who gives a very gripping performance as we see his character change his ways completely in front of our eyes. The time period of only one day also adds the severity of this change and in a very powerful way shows the effect of influence that one person can have on another.For people that haven't seen this movie it is without a doubt one of the most powerful movies I have personally seen and one that I believe everyone should watch. Because of this, I have not given away many details of the movie and I believe that words cannot convey the true message that this 'masterpiece' conveys.10/10. Cinematic Brilliance


                
Let me begin by saying, this was not an easy film to watch. It was highly confronting surrounding aspects of racism in American society, as well as the unspeakable reality of prison. Although this is exactly what made this film great. I have not seen a film be this courageous in tackling issues that occur in society. Issues that people would rather be oblivious to, are completely exposed in this film. A large number of people steer away from films like this, and prefer to watch meaningless, poorly made films, as its an easy watch. And to a certain extent, light hearted movies are perfectly enjoyable. But "American History X" is the true purpose of film. As to why it is, can be described through various elements which make up and form this masterpiece.The first element is the cast. 'Edward Norton', as Derek was incredible, to say the least. His character possessed so much depth, which was slowly revealed to the audience as the film went on. He progressed and behaved so realistically, I no longer saw an actor playing a character. Furthermore, the casting of his entire family was perfect, in particular his younger brother Daniel played by 'Edward Furlong'. He portrayed a troubled teenage kid in the most realistic way. At times I was trying to pick flaws with aspects of his character that weren't as refined or polished, only to realise that these imperfections are true characteristics of any average kid. The history teacher, Dr. Bob Sweeney, played by 'Avery Brooks, also did a spectacular job, in trying to solve the complicated situation. The second element is the screenplay. This is how a screenplay should be written. Take a simple story-line, and execute it in the most complex way possible. This screenplay takes you on a journey, by firstly showing the situation at hand as a uninformed outsider, but then slowly gives you context and background as the film progresses. This was done so coherently with brilliant flashbacks, which by the end of the film, made you look at each character in an entirely new light. This was what made the film so engaging. The fact that I was curious to see what events shaped these characters, made the flashbacks feel very much anticipated. Also the dialogue between characters was sharp and gripping, especially in scenes where opposing ideas and opinions were battling against each other. It really built the intensity and tension in the film. The final element is the cinematography. The camera movement, and editing was exceptional. The way in which flashbacks were presented in black and white, gave past events much more power and intensity. I particularly liked the way in which there was a constant focus on water. The slow motion shots of dripping water in the shower, made you really feel the exhaustion and fatigue felt by the characters.Overall, the general reason as to why 'American History X' is the purpose of film, is due to the fact that it exposes its audience to confronting aspects of our world. It is able to inform people who may live sheltered lives, much like myself, about the racism and violence, which is a constant reality for many till this day. This film provides its audience with a wider view of the world, contributing to our worldly knowledge and awareness. This is all achieved due to the perfect execution of the elements in the film, discussed above, which all assist in making this film a true masterpiece.


                
this is a movie that shows you both sides, it makes you think and changes the way you look at life and judge others. I consider this to be one of the best movie Edward has done. I remember the first time i saw it it changed how i looked at people taught me to never judge a book by its cover!


                
I'm so happy that our teacher made us watch this in school otherwise I would probably never have watched this movie!It's a really powerful movie that shows how it works in a lot of places around the world. You get to see the seriousness of racism and it throws you back a bit when you realize the truth. After watching this movie I was stunned and the entire move was dramatic, intriguing, and beautiful. The actors were amazing and I absolutely recommend this movie to EVERYONE!As an anti Neo-Nazi movie this movie works really powerful. I think that its a really good thing that this movie is often shown in classrooms.


                
American History X is my all time favorite movie. Edward Norton was unbelievable in this! I first saw it when it came out many, many years ago. I actually watched it a few weeks ago. It's a classic. A must see. You have to understand that there are parts that will make you want to close your eyes. Just know, it is worth watching. Edward Norton is an incredible actor, actually they all are. It's a real movie, because sadly it is happening. Let's all put an end to Racism. I love everyone! People are beautiful, culture is beautiful.


                
American History X also has one of the most shocking endings ever. But its ambiguity is what makes it more dreadful. It's an ending that can make you question the protagonist's fate, and that's more than horrifying!


                
Amazing movie. The concept of this film is so relevant today. Not only is the movie entertaining and introspective, it displays a heavy dose of the nasty reality people from all backgrounds live through. The character arc of Norton's character throughout the film is so well executed. This was just a great film.


                
Derek Vinyard (Edward Norton) returns from prison to discover that his younger brother, Danny (Edward Furlong), has been following in his footsteps, living the neo-Nazi life of racism and violence that landed Derek in prison. However upon Dereks return from prison, his fellow Hitler-worshippers notice a change in his behaviour and realise that Derek is free from the hatred he harboured for the people 'invading' his neighbourhood. The task that lies before Derek is to convince Danny to see the errors of his ways before it is too late. An awesome movie delivered by an excellent cast, a definite classic. There is quite a lot of violence... a lot of people object to the curb scene, but it is not particularly shocking, and not a film to miss because of it. This movie has one of the best endings you will ever see, it will bring you close to tears!


                
This is a very powerful movie which shows what can happen when hate, anger, and ignorance combine.  Some of the images within this very disturbing movie will linger with you for a long time.


                
Never have I seen a movie that was so raw and powerful. Edward Norton's performance was so good it was frightening. He definitely deserved the best actor award. I will be recommending this movie for a long time.


                
American History X is the most provocative film ever made. It will make you think, it will make you cringe, it will make you cry. Dealing bravely with issues of supremacy and racism, American History X goes where few films ever attempt to go, and it does it perfectly.Edward Norton gives his strongest dramatic performance, playing a very believable, supremacist older brother reformed by experiences in prison. His character is one of the many in this movie that are brutally convincing and real. Edward Furlong plays an equally realistic, impressionable younger brother.If you can see past the swearing and violence, which is SUPPOSED to leave you feeling dirty, then you can see the real message of this fantastic film. I cannot stress enough how important this movie is to modern day America.A+


                
By complex I do not mean mindf***, I mean that it got a lot of layers of story and character. The story of how Derek Vinyard (Edward Norton) tries to get his younger brother Danny (Edward Furlong) out of the neo-Nazi life is multi-layered, intelligent and emotional. It kept me interested throughout the entirety of the runtime and it even made me a little heavy on emotions. Not only is the story great, the performances in the movie are phenomenal, especially Edward Norton. The guy should've won the Academy Award for Best Leading Actor back then. The dark and haunting score helps lift the atmosphere of the movie to new heights. And the way it is directed (cinematography and such) just adds to everything. The way they use grey scale for Flashbacks is something I just simply adore.This movie is fantastic in every way possible. It is definitely one of my favorite movies and I highly recommend it. DISCLAIMER: This movie isn't always easy to watch.


                
