If you like to watch a women who experienced the sickest violence ever  being tortured and raped by her own son in prison, who became a mass  murderer, before raping her for 15 years, this movie is for you. Of  course, the mother sends her two children (the result of this rape) to  look for her father as her last will, just to get them in for a  pleasant surprise. ............ If you think all that sick nonsense  makes an intellectual movie, watch it. If not, stay away. ...........  How this movie can get such great reviews is absolutely beyond me.  Do not watch----
Though a well produced film, the material source is that of propaganda. Do your own research to find out that this film is merely a tool in creating one of the most untrue stories ever told during one of the most difficult times in human history. The author of this story is Muslim and apparently in his story his characters live in an alternate universe were there are no Muslim terrorists instead, a very small minority, namely Christian Maronites are terrorists who cease another's life for out of wedlock pregnancies and are busy running rampant throughout the Middle East committing mass murders.Please check out the Damour Massacre where 582 Maronite Christian civilians were annihilated by Arab/Palestenian refugees residing in Lebanon. These perpetrators, an army of thousands (Muslims including PLO refugees) attacked and killed these Maronite Christians reportedly stating during their attack that they were offering a hollocaust to Muhammad. Nice!I am all for freedom of speech but producing a film based on the writings of such screwed thinking is a jagged pill to swallow. If this is possible perhaps there will be a film in the near future exonerating Hitler and depicting him as some sort of persecuted victim. Well made film are not, some seriously perverse thinking going on here.
Having just watched this abomination of a film I felt it my duty to write a review from a Perspective of Sanity !! This Film presents itself initially with Poise grace and soul ... However the twists & turns of the convoluted plot, which appear to promise a truly great finale' Deliver a body Blow of disappointment !!! Sucked in by the emotional trauma of the protagonist, which appear initially Plausible, the credibility of the entire production is neutralised by the most idiotic and ridiculous "Twist" at the end as we are finally privy to scripted plot. The Long Lost son, Turned Torturer, Rapes His Mother, (not knowing Who she really is) whilst she is imprisoned (& is the father of her twins !). Only to then turn up half way around the world 20 years later, standing right in front of her at a swimming pool with the one Piece of evidence that would show her his true identity; A tattoo on the Heel of his right foot, placed there at Birth .. Seriously !! What the Hell where you thinking !!! I feel Utterly Insulted !!
I mean what is this movie about? It starts already with a theatrical mysterious will of the mother setting protagonists and us unfortunate viewers on a quest to uncover the MYSTERY. Of course, the quest into the past of the family brings our heroes to what seems like Lebanon and here the second story line starts telling about the HORRIBLE FAMILY PAST during of course the tragic events of the Lebanese civil war. But the second storyline twists and turns and wherever it goes it is just one boring unbearable scene after another. The massacres, the rape, family violence, hatred between the Muslims and Christians,- all this abounds in the movie but what lacks is actually any attempt to look deep into the conflict, to what caused it. Why did Christians and Muslim communities start the war? Who were the actors, who benefited from it, how did this madness happen? I mean, if you decide to touch upon this particular historical event, which is so traumatic for Lebanon, why not actually try to look at it deep, see the different sides, pick up some real drama/ I am sure any documentary about the war is much more satisfying in showing the psychology and the devious mechanism that drives people to start such atrocious conflicts.But instead we are treated to the mind boggling i nits perversity family story that is just so ridiculous and grotesque one can't get anything out of it. I mean, it's gore pure and simple, and is created solely for shock value. There are no nuances here, no real dialogs, no complex interplay of emotions. There is an attempt to say war sucks, but we all know it and there has been a gazillion of better movies on that topic. What we want is something original, fresh, subtle, personal.
First of all i have to say sorry for my perhaps bad English, but hope that you will understand my meaning anyway.I just saw this film, and im feeling most violated and stained from the experience and added to that a total disappointment.This is a movie that has the potential to be really great. For almost the whole movie i thought this was going to be a story about religion hate violence and in the end that it was going to leave me devastated with sadness but still with a hope that those who believe in love how painful the journey yet may be, it would leave you with the possibility to heal and knowledge about something very important.I would like to write more because im feeling so sadly disappointed, but i will not i just want to warn you going to see this story that it ends with a sick twisted story about a son raping his mother without knowing it and who give birth to twins trying to find out about their history after their mother has died. How could you destroy this movie in times like this when people are trying to understand the violence of terror, with all those people trying to find a lasting understanding about the meaning of life, their are so many people that are suffering from situations in their life and i think that you let them down. This is not a movie this is just a big disappointment.
The high scoring of this film makes me really lose my faith in human kind as it is a direct reflection of how numb and tolerant people are to mindless, brutal violence. Child murder, mass slaughter, sons raping mothers - who wants to tolerate that sort of barbaric behaviour??? Not only is the storyline so extremely fetched,physically and emotionally violent and so sick and twisted that you can't actually believe what you're watching, but there is a really dangerous religious message to the story too. There are a lot of annoying things about the film too, like where are they? Why do they fight? which time are we in? It keeps going back and forth in time. Why does the son look about 40 when he was meant to be abput 19 and then doesn't recognise the woman he raped systematically? Why are the "twins" supremely intelligent being a product of their brother and mother- surely they would have some birth defects being so closely related? Why do none of them age in appearance throughout the film, making it impossible to gauge what's going on? And what on earth is the 1+1=1 about???I pity the person who's troubled mind could even make up such a story...
This will be a short review, since I've lost enough time already watching this awful movie. This is the worst made up and depressing story I've seen in my life, honestly. Got completely tricked by 8.2 IMDb rating and can't believe I watched it until the end. Stay away!This will be a short review, since I've lost enough time already watching this awful movie. This is the worst made up and depressing story I've seen in my life, honestly. Got completely tricked by 8.2 IMDb rating and can't believe I watched it until the end.Stay away!
