It started well, though. Mysterious last will and testament with missions to accomplish... Adorable french Canadian accent (I'm french, I love what our cousins have done with our common language ). A Quebec thriller, yeah !Rapidly, first eyebrow raisers... What Arab place are they talking about like everyone should know about it ? Never heard of it...Then you realize the Arab country they are going to is just an archetypal Arab country, non existent. A caricature of many seen-on-TV Arab countries... OK, why not, I suppose Americans (as people living on the American continent) have a lesser history burn with Arab countries than Frenchs, for example, do, and have no problem building a make-believe Arab country just for the sake of... what? At this point, I supposed the filmmakers wanted to make some point about Arab or religious wars... or terrorism... ? Since they are Canadians, not Unitedstatesians, I was hoping maybe for a not so obvious / good vs bad kind of story... But I was really wondering what was the purpose of all that.The story goes on, civil war, religious war, slaughter, all fake, all archetypal, OK, but to what end? What's the point?And then, you finally get the answer, at the end of the movie, with one unforeseen big plot twist.And then you realize the Arab story is absolutely irrelevant. The same plot could have been set in any archetypal place with a credible history of violence and torture... South America? Former Yugoslavia? Caucase? Heck, actually, since the prison/torture part is altogether sufficient to hold the whole movie, the very same movie could have been set just about Guatanamo (and viewers would then believe for one hour they were watching a anti-US movie, only to realize at the end the total irrelevance of all that)At the end of the movie, you get that astonishing plot twist, which makes you realize the vast vacuity and uselessness of all the side stories you have been watching for the past hour. But, OK, what next ? What to do with that extraordinary situation ?Well, nothing. Movie ends here. Tadaaaa.And loopholes appear : there's obviously a wrong choice of actors : one of them should really look like twenty years older that what he looks like. The lawyer, since he wrote all three letters, should have understood much earlier the whole thing: it never shows that he knows more than the others participants to the quest. Weird.Good acting. I loved the actresses. The boy is deliberately annoying, and he does annoy me, so I guess he is a success too.On the whole, a waste of time, the feeling of having been cheated, using a deceitful setup for a story that could hold in three lines.I do suggest, instead of watching this movie, reading the Robert Heinlein 1953 short story "All you zombies". On the same kind of twisted plot, that gem makes this movie looks... petty.
Rarely have I been so disappointed by a movie as I have been by 'Incendies'. I've been a member of IMDb for 12 years and most of the time the ratings on here kind of show me whether a movie is good or bad. Not so with 'Incendies'. It is rated 8,3 and is in the top 250, I can not see why that would be so. There is absolutely no depth to any character, no motivation, no background. The problems in some unknown unspecified middle east country are black and white. The only reason why you would make it so is that you do not want to do any research to make the situation believable. But the nail in the coffin was the unbelievable (literally) story. How did the writer get away with such a plot? At least when you read Sophocles you know there is much more to it than just the plot. This was embarrassing, all the more because it is in the top 250.Maybe people don't know what a good movie is anymore, there aren't many made nowadays that make it to most movie theaters. But go to the library people, or some online service. Many great movies have been made with fantastic plot and real characters, with scripts that have been written by adults.


                
I was expecting a lot more especially after all the awards the film has received. I was curiously zoning out in the middle act - the movie wandered about in the desert (literally)and I did not feel engaged by the characters at all.There seems to be some sort of ying-yang morality tale going on judging by the ending, but it lacked real emotional punch. I felt manipulated by the story. This was an extreme situation and maybe it was just too hard to suspend my disbelief. Given the source material, I'm not sure they could have done much.Having re-watched the Hurt Locker the night before I saw this film, I found that the cinematography lacks the clarity and point of view that Kathryn Bigelow's film does. I'm surprised that this film won the Genie award for editing and cinematography - it must have been a slow year in Canadian cinema.I found Villeneuve sliding into some Gus Van Sant territory - deliberately infuriating shot setups meant to imply something greater than whats on the screen.


                
The story dreadfully drags on for a good hour at a false rhythm favourable to boredom, the plot then accelerates in the last 35-40 minutes, but unfortunately this regain of interest is completely annihilated by the highly improbable aspect of the outcome.The narrative structure therefore turns out very blurry and this feeling is emphasized by a very confused editing alternating past and present, for example you get the mother and the daughter mixed up, especially at the beginning, because they resemble too much, and the temporal referential isn't very clear so you never now which period it is or how much time has passed.Moreover, and more importantly, nothing is explained regarding the historical context in Lebanon during the 70's, we're offered raw data that isn't supported and unless you're aware of this civil war episode, the movie tells nothing on that subject even though it occupies a primordial place in the story.Therefore, it's hard to understand the enthusiasm for Incendies and the raving critics it arouse since the content is so weak and hardly compensated by a rather catchy photography and seamless direction.


                
Don't believe all the very good reviews. I guess this movie was given extra credit because: it is a "author" movie, and it is about a harsh Arab tragedy.The story and actors are not bad. The cut of the movie is.The director needs to cut its movie so the story can really flow. In Incendies many scenes are long with unnecessary still picture, or traveling.The "Author" would say you need time to convey a story with feelings. BS. With a normal speed the story would have had more strength, and avoided boredom.


                
INCENDIES-- If you can watch the film right through, you will be properly horrified by the inhumanity of man to man, and the fierce grimness of life, for simple people in a barbarous middle-eastern wasteland of destruction. But first you will be baffled and frustrated by the breaks in continuity, in location, and in action... A swimming pool,empty--then suddenly with one glamorous female swimming under water, (used no doubt for "artistic symbolism"); then oddly populous; then a hospital scene. Incoherence, and grimness, are the keynotes.The "twins" introduced near the outset, are given a heart-rending puzzle to solve when their mother's strange will is read out. Jump cuts offer no help to the viewer trying to follow this trail. But the prevailing mood of tragedy, danger, hostility pervades.Against the film-world hype and "glamour" of the award (director's interview among the Extras), I find it to be artistically self-indulgent, the director drawing on the pathos of tragedy in order to display his originality and talent.


                
MAJOR SPOILER
The movie was solid, not very memorable until the end. A plot twist at the end made me laugh so much that I found it fascinating that someone would make such a horrible decision in ending this heartfelt story. It was unnecessary, no positive emotional reaction was awakened in me. It's not that my disgust towards incest makes this review so negative, it's just that it was really really really unnecessary. The ending, simply put, was unbelievable - and not in a good way. A high quality movie, with a high quality plot, ended like a parody of itself.
