I decided to watch this movie because I have read many excellent critics and because this book is used in Quebec's "cegeps", some kind of a post-high-school, and my girlfriend talked about it with me. Indeed, I am very happy to have seen this intense movie. It is really a great and close to perfection. Even though I have even seen one or two better films this year, this movie is at least the best drama I have seen in the last five years.This movie is absolutely convincing. It has very intense images and words and has a very slow paced and sad atmosphere. The movie begins very calm but the tension raises very fast and you really feel more and more with the tragic characters. This movie makes you cry, it makes you angry, it shocks you. Once again, it is a Quebecker movie that is cut into pieces and may mix you up a little bit in the beginning. You see scenes from the present where Jeanne and Simon are first parallely looking for the truth and trying to fulfil her last will, you see scenes from the dramatic past of her mother at different stages of her life and you also see scenes from the past of her family. The movie shows not only a couple of interesting and diversified characters (played by mostly unknown and indeed extremely talented actors), but also magnificent and intense landscapes, shocking crime and war scenes and insights of a foreign culture and the clash of the generations and ideologies in the past and the present. The movie is much diversified and very intellectual.Many people were surprised by several twists and a very intense and dramatic ending. It is true that the development the movie takes is really shocking but I have seen a few things coming and wasn't that surprised in the end, but that almost does no harm to the atmosphere and tension of the movie. The movie tells in a very philosophical way about the irony of fate, peace and war, love and hate, vengeance and forgiveness, saints and sinners. It is uneasy to watch the movie and you still think about what you have heard and seen for quite a while after the movie.Almost everything is perfect in this movie. There are two minor reasons why I don't give the best note. First of all, I was somehow able to predict some of the punches at a certain point in the movie and I have already seen more intense and shocking dramas that very even more uneasy and heavier to watch than this one, for example "The pianist". Second, some scenes in the beginning of the movie are not done very well by the camera man. In the scene where Jeanne is in her mathematic class and when she looks for some accessories in her room, the camera is disturbingly shaking and moving all the time but not to create an effect of uneasiness, because there are no similar scenes later in the movie during way heavier scenes. Those two scenes (that would not have been complicated to produce or film again) are just not well done and the director should have seen and corrected that before sending the final product to the festivals and cinemas. In a perfect and intense masterpiece, this little detail is really something that could harm the reputation and professionalism of the whole brilliant work. The next time, they should be more concentrated on the movie's perfection and keep their eyes open or invest the money in a good camera director instead of some war scenes.But all in all, I think that we can really talk about an extremely good movie here! It is surely worth watching it and I agree with those ones who would like to see this movie represent Canada at the Oscars.


                
In Canada, the sixty year-old immigrant secretary Nawal Marwan (Lubna Azabal) passes away and the notary Jean Lebel (Rémy Girard), who had been her employer and friend for seventeen years, reads her will to her twin son and daughter Simon (Maxim Gaudette) and Jeanne Marwan (Mélissa Désormeaux-Poulin), who is a mathematician.Nawal requests to be buried naked with her face down and her tomb without a gravestone; further, she leaves three sealed envelopes addressed to the twins' father that they believed had deceased in the Middle East; to their unknown brother; and the last one to themselves to be opened only after the delivery of the other two. Then, they may put a gravestone on her tomb. Simon is reluctant to respect his mother last wishes, but Jeanne decides to find her biological father and brother.She travels to the Middle East to track down the past life of her mother and she discovers who she was before moving to Canada. She feels disturbed with the revelations and asks Simon to come to the Middle East to assist her in her journey. Simon discovers who his father and his brother are and concludes that one plus one may be equal to one."Incendies" is an intriguing film about the journey of two twin siblings that travel to the Middle East to fulfill the last wish of their mother and end discovering the disturbing history of their family.The screenplay is very well written and discloses in parallel to the journey of Jeanne first and Simon later, the brave history of their mother in an unnamed country in the Middle East. The plot point in the conclusion is totally unexpected and heartbreaking. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): "Incêndios" ("Fires")
Incendies (Babelfish tells me this means Fires) is good, but a bit formulaic. It aims very high, but I think it falls short of what it could have achieved. I think it spends too much effort on atmosphere and not enough on plot. Maybe tighter editing was needed. Still, I was impressed, and it's undoubtedly one of the better Canadian films, improving on Polytechnique.Early on, there is the reading of a will, and twins are left with the tasks of locating their unknown father and brother.This takes them to ... somewhere in Palestine, which I took to be within Israel. Other reviews have noted this is supposed to be Lebanon, but looks like Jordan. I have no idea. People familiar with the history of the area seem to think that certain facts of the film mean it could not have been in any particular country in the Mid-East, because the places and dates make it impossible. But because the film never claims to be a true story (or I never saw such a claim) I'll forgive it. Still, it would have been more satisfying if it could have been set in a real place and time.From there, the film follows an almost mathematical formula, which itself is an enjoyable mini-theme of the film. One part of the math was ruined by the English subtitles. Euler's (ridiculous) quote actually was "... (a+b^n)/n=x, hence God exists ...", which I think was presented on screen as "... ©, hence God exists...". I can't tell which version is closer to what was spoken by the character, but I doubt the word "copyright" was used. The original quote strikes me as typical of the obfuscation and confusion used to con people into accepting various beliefs. It's nice to see that referenced in this film, particularly given what happens. It's a rare, believable, and complex representation of all-too-common religious violence.I found the film painfully slow at times. While this did serve to accentuate certain scenes which were very effective as a result, halfway through the film I wasn't sure I wanted to watch the rest of it. If I had been at home, I may have turned it off, and I would have missed a good film.I was impressed by the acting, which is to say that I didn't notice it at all. I believed the characters completely. Also, I found the use of sound helped to draw the audience into the story. The silence is silent. Noise is noisy, but in a real way, not Hollywood.I will only half-spoil the ending. For those who don't guess it, they do tell you what's coming, just before it happens. I'll hint at it here, so consider yourself warned.There is a particular question raised by one character, regarding what "1+1" equals. This can legitimately be interpreted (in electronics) as an inclusive disjunction rather than addition, giving a correct answer that is not 2. Some might see this as a trick, but I think the film is emphasizing that we should be careful about our assumptions and interpretations.
As two teenage siblings are making the funeral arrangements for their prematurely deceased mother, their faithful notary informs them of a very peculiar request that she has left to be completed before her burial. Her children are suddenly told that they have a brother and a father who are still living, and that they are to deliver a secret letter to each of them on her behalf. This situation is succinctly communicated in a very effective opening scene of exposition, and indeed the difficult search of these young adults to find their lost relatives remains the central focus throughout the entire film. A niggling weak point of many critically-acclaimed European films is a frustrating ambiguity in storytelling and a lack of a properly paced narrative, both of which seem to have a certain sadistic purpose about them, as if the intention is to make things as hard for the audience to follow as possible. However, the early firm grounding of plot present here assists greatly with the accessibility, and so is far less discriminative.The scenes making up the body of the piece proceed mostly with a masterful grace, coherence, intrigue and sophistication. The sister, Jeanne Marwan (Mélissa Désormeaux-Poulin) is by far the more willing of the two to carry out their mother's dying wishes – her brother, Simon (Maxim Gaudette) merely responds with a moody male temper to the words in the will – and so, at least initially, we follow Jeanne, being shown extended flashbacks of the events from her mother's past that she discovers. In these scenes, we see Mrs Nawal Marwan fighting endlessly to survive in a world fraught with terror and violence, being the horrific religious and political conflicts in the Middle East of the 1970s. The challenges she faces make this one of those remarkably engrossing and poignant stories of hope bravery and love that are cinematic gold.The final discoveries and revelations are again satisfyingly comprehensible, but definitely not for the faint-hearted viewer. Still, even if one finds the overall conclusion distastefully grotesque, there is still something to admire in the most apt direction from Denis Villeneuve and a splendid performance from Lubna Azabal as the mother. With a cast that also includes Rémy Girard, Allen Altman, Mohamed Majd and Abdelghafour Elaaziz, Incendies ("Scorched") may have the occasional patch of sluggishness and over-exaggeration, but you still owe it to yourself to see it.
Don't miss this great movie. A very tragic story about war. The story-line is a little slow, but you should wait to the end of it. Some nice movies aren't famous, this is one of them.


                
Though sometimes it seems as though information is given to us slightly too early, this often leads to some decent dramatic irony and does 'distract' from - and thereby make all the more impactful - the flick's big, blindsiding final reveal which is essentially as shocking as it is sickening, a harrowing revelation for both the audience and the picture's principle characters that has massive repercussions for both, and serves to recontextualise everything that came before it in a significant yet suitably subtle way, mostly making up for the slightly slow pace and occasional meandering that had marred the piece before. Once you've settled into the strange pace and presentation of 'Incendies (2010)', you're treated to an increasingly dark exploration of a woman you know to be dead, whom is still as strong a presence as any other character, and the children who slowly learn about her life alongside us, as we both inch ever closer to an ending that will haunt our memories for days, a tragedy of Greek proportions set against a backdrop of tragedies that all meet that same standard. As each new revelation ratchets up the suspense and plumets us in to increasingly dire territory, an unexpectedly grim realism begins to perforate the entire piece, steeping it in an often unspoken sadness and a thick air of mystery. It's this that gets under your skin and pulls you in deeper, never letting you go until the last frame finally lets you slump back in your seat and release all your emotions in one gut-wrenched gasp. It's an ever-escalating devestation of our expectations. It isn't darkness for darkness sake, rather an exploration of the characters within these situations. It's also the rare film that rests upon withholding information that would seem fairly simple, yet doing so for legitimate narrative reasons, and providing it in intelligent, usually exposition-light ways. While the tragedy exists for a reason, it is indeed tragedy. Blindsiding, unflinching tragedy, at that. The film knows when to show and when not to. All in the aid of making each moment the most impactful it can be, making you feel like you are the child of this poorly-treated, mysterious mother as you learn of her past. You'll often find yourself asking: how can things get worse? Trust me... they do. It's brilliant. 8/10


                
If you liked Clint Eastwood spaghetti Westerns, this is the film for you -- it's very slow, with lingering shots of unimportant symbols, mentions moralist truisms at the end that have nothing to do with the movie, highlights desolate scenery, features endless graphic gore, turns on revenge, and celebrates stone-faced acting.Plus, in the film, women are good and men are bad. In Lebanon, Palestinian refugee camps were good and Christians were amorally ethnocentric in trying to uphold traditional values. War is bad, except when it is the topic of a film, in which case it leads to self-discovery, which is good.


                
Incendies is like a series of shocks. It's as if there is a aeroplane circling overhead, with each circle pulling back a curtain over time, and on each circle dropping yet another bombshell on the viewer. Wonderful cinematography, rich colour, many panoramic vistas of the Middle-East, for this alone the film has power. As the tale swept over me during it's length I could see the honourable statements the filmmakers were making about war. I took a point off for the ending, which, for me, strayed off message and was one bombshell too many. It did explain the two parallel stories however, so, alas, I am forced to take another point off the score for that as well. For me just the story of the mother was all I needed to see, and except for the last ten minutes, that is what is deserving of a 10. Wonderful movie, but too much.


                
Great movie. Tranquil but not boring. It good to see it. Recommend. Happy. Great. Nice story. Happy. Stylish
Lets come to the end of the movie-> What??? Can you think? What a fairy-tale. After the first shock about the revelation, that the brother is the father and the torturer, I was asking to myself, how is it possible? the 1st baby was born when Nawal was.. maybe 20? OK, then she went to an uncle, an university and to a guerilla group. Overall it seems like maybe 5-10 years passed. In the jail she was raped by someone who looks like 25-30... We re thinking again from another perspective: Abou Tarek became a good sniper, it means, he should be about 20-25 and then he get caught and was trained to become a torturer and went to the prison. So at least he should be 25. Then he raped a woman who should be about 45-50, isn't it? And she became pregnant, while her body was being tortured? She even punched her stomach to loose the embryos...With another ending I wanted to give the movie a 10, but the end is a fairy-tale.
This is a very intriguing story. Most of it takes place in war-torn Lebanon.The plot concerns the will of a mother for her twin children – a boy and girl - both raised in Montreal. They must return to Lebanon to fulfill this will and in so doing, they unravel parts of their family past they were never aware of. The story weaves back and forth between the life of the mother growing up in her native country and the daughter during her first sojourn to Lebanon. It was somewhat difficult for me, at times, to distinguish between mother and daughter in these alternating scenes.This is a film that does require close attention. It starts off rather hesitantly in Montreal and slowly develops into a full-fledged story with many rewards. But there are excruciating scenes – not a film for young children. One very potent scene is when the daughter returns to the village of her mother. The village women, upon finding out her identity, refuse any further communication with her. This sets the stage for the many layers of the puzzle needing to be resolved. And there is resolution at the end.All and all a most worthwhile experience.
This is a fine story of love, war, and unfortunate circumstances with great potential to be a great movie. Although the story is the story of the civil war in Lebanon ( yet the country not ever mentioned) the film is filmed in Jordan with Jordanian actors and locations.. wich is for me (an arab) was very irritating for the notion I was given that this is a story of some war that took place in Jordan (which is something that never happened).. at first I thought it's about the (Black September) then I was just confused and started searching.
Lebanon is much more developed when it comes to movies and cinema which puzzled me and I kept asking myself as to why did the producers chose Jordan not the country of the story and the country with more sophisticated film industry. 
I believe reading the novel should've been my go-to choice not the movie.


                
Just finished watching incendies after reading so many good things about this movie..honestly this film has left me a bit disturbed...completely shakes you as a viewer....the screenplay, writing was so seamless... so was the direction and the excellent performances from the actors..the quest of the protagonist to find her brother and her father is simply phenomenal. i am surprised how this film didn't win Oscar.. it's a great film...really moving and disturbing..very difficult to make a film like this indeed and also to act in it.. Hats off to the makers..


                
When you watch the French Canadian director Denis Oscar-nominated filmIncendies -- and it is worth watching – prepare for something long, literally dark, and shocking. The film, adapted from a play by the celebrated young Canadian-Lebanese playwright Wajdi Mouwawad but expanded into a film rich in Middle East location (and in Arabic as well as French dialogue) delves deeply into the hidden past of a family of Lebanese origin. A mother from Lebanon, Nawal Marwan (Lubna Azabal) dies at 60. Her twin son Simon (Maxim Gaudette) and daughter Jeanne (Mélissa Désormeaux-Poulin ) go before a notary for whom their mother also worked, Jean Lebel (Rémy Girard) and they receive instructions in the form of two sealed letters, one for a brother and one for a father. This is incredible news for the twins. They thought their father died a heroic death and they knew nothing of a brother. Nawal also requests that she be buried naked in the ground, face down, without a coffin. Simon is angered by all this and rejects it. Jeanne wants to comply with their mother's wishes. What follows intermixes flashbacks to the early life of Nawal with sequences about Jeanne's quest, which Simon eventually joins. For reasons not entirely clear to me, the name "Lebanon" is never mentioned, though it is clear that violent fighting between Christians and Muslims and a country where educated Arabic-speaking people also tend to speak French mark the setting as Lebanese. (Actual location shooting was mostly done in Jordan.) Here it is meant to be a fictional country called "Foad," though it could still have been universal, at least for countries of long war and savage factional conflict, without the fiction that it was not what it plainly is. Rape, torture, genocide and dislocation dominate this world, whose distance from the experience of Jeanne and Simon we can only guess at. Incendies is powerful and absorbing and while the images of war are familiar from many films, what holds them together is the detective-story trajectory that we cannot reveal and is a discovery even Nawal herself comes to until shortly before her death.Eventually we see the deceased protagonist watch her lover shot in front of her, then gives birth to a child who's immediately taken from her, then is the sole survivor of a bus shot up by Christian militiamen, later is imprisoned and repeatedly raped. It's all a bit much, but it's so stunningly staged and shot that you rarely question it. You only wish the two siblings investigating their mother's secret, violent past were more interesting or more involved.One of the first flashback sequences reveals what the twins will only realize later: that the heroic father who died in a moment of strife, a Muslim refugee despised by Nawal's Christian siblings, was actually the father of their older brother, not them, and that older brother was taken away from Nawal because born out of wedlock, but tattooed with three dots on the heel so she may recognize him one day. Those dots will be connected. I wish they hadn't been.More flashbacks show Nawal going in search of her lost son, sent to a Christaian orphanage burnt in reprisal by Muslim militias, but the orphans were saved -- somewhere. Nawal volunteers with a Muslim militia in hopes of finding the boy, and is jailed, for 15 years, where she is known as "the woman who sings" and is so resilient no cruelty, including rape, causes her to crack. Informants' accounts to Jeanne alternate with images of Nawal herself. I couldn't help being reminded of Ana Ularu, in the Romanian film Outbound, just seen, who also is a spare, stony-faced young woman in search of a young boy who's been put in an orphanage. But Nawal must endure greater tests. I can well believe the assertion of Peter Debruge in his Variety review that Villeneuve "excises entire blocks of text" in the transfer from play to film. Instead there are many striking images, often in a soft semidarkness that underlines the mystery the twins are unraveling. Debruge further suggests that Villeneuve lets us draw our own conclusions and speak our own words where the playwright Mouwawad spelled everything out in long monologues. Whatever one may think of the thorny tragic and tendentious plot whose final revelation strains credulity, and however excessive the measured pace of the 130-minute film is at times, Villeneuve has realized the play on film in a bold and richly cinematic manner and his accomplishment has already gained festival kudos and the justified admiration of cinephiles.Incendies could have been a better film if it allowed itself to breathe and curbed some of its drawn-out and less necessary sequences. Perhaps it could have taken a moment to smile, yea, even in the world of near-biblical suffering. Ultimately the source play shakes you up while lecturing you and the film does the same. One is fascinated by the plot twists and can see their poetic justice without consenting to believe them all. Some of the truths of war and sectarianism might ring truer if not all so neatly tied into the detective-story search for family origins. I think often in this kind of context of Claire Denis's The Intruder and Arnaud des Pallières 2003 Adieu, multi-level films about family and wrongdoing whose failures to connect all the dots make them richer and more memorable and perhaps more truly cinematic. Perhaps only a disturbing and never-explained opening sequence in Incendies of boys having their head shaved to the tune of Radiohead's "You and Whose Army" has that quality of boldly evoking inexplicable but dangerously real worlds. Seen and reviewed as part of New Directors/New Films, the series co-presented by the Film Society of Lincoln Center and MoMA, New York March 22-April 3, 2011.


                
Loosely based on events which occurred in the Lebanese civil war of the 1970s (although the actual country is never named), Incendies takes the viewer on a very emotional and personal ride spanning decades; showing how the actions and events of an instant affect generations of people into the future; who are most likely unaware. The film brings home the horrors of war, the dynamics of family and gives insight into Arab culture...much of which is unknown to the west. Some of the view-points and events concerning the sectarian violence were very one-sided and inaccurate (hence why they did not exactly name this as taking place in Lebanon), but if you can overlook this, you will undoubtedly be rewarded with a gut-wrenching yet masterfully powerful film.


                
Incendies is one movie that leaves you the punch of sensation in the stomach, besides the great Plot Twist at the end of the film, something that Denis Villeneuve did in some his films, Denis Villeneuve was simply flawless in this film, the cast is good, especially Lubna Azabal that great in his role, in my opinion the best movie of Villeneuve is the Prisoners, more Incendies is not far behind, the soundtrack is good, photography is great, has shocking scenes, such as the scene that reveals big Plot Twist, is also very beautiful moments, such as the pool, Incendies is very good, so shows that Denis Villeneuve is one of the best director of the film, and here it shows for the first time what he would become what it is today, Villeneuve want more movies. Note 8.6


                
I knew about this movie because it was one of the nominees for Best Foreign Language Film at this year's Oscar Awards. "Incendies" (or "Scorched" in English) is from Canada, with the dialog mainly in French and several Middle Eastern languages. I am thankful that this movie got that Oscar nomination, or else I would have missed a very well-plotted and executed dramatic film.This movie starts very slowly with the reading of a very strange will. Upon her death, a mother instructs her twin children to deliver mysterious two mysterious letters to their father and a brother they never knew. Only upon accomplishment of this request will she allow a tombstone with her name engraved to be placed on top of her grave. This quest brings the twins Jeanne and Simon out of the comforts of Montreal, Canada into the harsher world of Lebanon as they discover the intricately tragic life their mother had.Despite the slow pace, the story is very compelling as the story shifts from the present into the past and back following the life of Nawal Marwan, and her children's quest. You will intently follow the progression of the story as facts unfold piece by piece until the jaw- dropping major revelations towards the end. The Director handles the story with much control such that the audience's interest and attention are held to the very end. This story was told in the best possible way.An excellent film! Compared to the eventual Oscar winner "In A Better World," I would say that this film "Incendies" was a better film.


                
This movie moves you completely.It is a very intriguing movie that got me glued till the end. Every scene in the movie is important and has linkages to what happened earlier / what will happen later in the course of the movie. The movie depicts background of Palestine at the time the war broke and how it linked many characters in the movie through one woman.It is a first movie of Denis Villeneuve i have seen but it made sure that I would research and see more of his work.Lubna Azabal is totally into the character that she plays. She doesn't have verbose dailogues. Yet her fantastic facial expressions and her emotions speak volume about what she goes through in different phase of her life. Mélissa Désormeaux-Poulin and Maxim Gaudette also do justice to their roles in the sense how their perspective on their mother changes and how the respect towards her only grows more and more as they come closer and closer to the what happened to their mother. All in all a great movie to watch. However this movie is not for a mass audience. If you like and intellectual movie with a strong serious storyline then you can definitely go for it. I give it 8/10.


                
Intriguing drama, nominated for the Best Foreign Language Film Oscar in 2012. Hard to get into at first, as it starts very slowly and without a clear direction. This can be quite off-putting, as it looks like it is going to just be 2 hours of drifting.However, from a point it becomes a very intriguing mystery. Plus, it becomes an exploration of religious intolerance and the effect of civil wars on the civilian population. No punches pulled, the war scenes are searing and graphic.The conclusion is quite incredible in terms of unexpected, perverse twists.Not perfect though. As already mentioned, the start is slow, and feels padded. More importantly, some parts of the plot, especially towards the end, seem a bit forced and contrived. Not 100% plausible, ultimately.Still, a great movie. The intrigue just builds and builds.


                
The film is a masterpiece by Denis Villeneuve. Right from the cast, cinematography, acting everything is perfect and timely placed in the movie. A lonely war prisoner is setting her twins to find their father, which turns out to be a disastrous discovery for father and children both. A truth that proves lethal for the mother as well. The film is very well scripted and directed both. Women and children the most common victims of wars have been sincerely pictured in the film. The violence and crime runs in the background but is never obvious at front. The climax is disturbing but a must watch for a class of viewers<U+0085><U+0085><U+0085><U+0085><U+0085>
This film has some strong scenes but these scenes aren't ordinary, these are too original. I think French director Denis Villeneuve made a perfect movie because the scenario of the Incendies hasn't got any mistake. The scriptwriters of the Incendies are thinking everything about this movie. Make- up, quality, fluency are great. The prison scenes are complete. The bus scene is too pathetic. The question "Does 1+1 equal to 1?" is the summery of this movie, it tells everything. Jeanne and Simon's brother and father is the same human, it is amazing and frightening. I think if you wanted to watch a great movie, you would watch Incendies.
'Incendies' the Oscar nominated entry from Canada as the best feature film in a foreign language however, 'In a better world (Denmark)' won the Oscar. Incendies is a shocking drama set in the backdrop of war in Lebanon. The movie starts with a mother's will with envelopes being handed over to her twin children. The will says to establish the existence of their father and brother and give the envelope respectively. Consisting the twist and turns, this movie ends with a shocking climax.It is based on the Play by Wajdi Mouawad and has been adopted wonderfully. The scene are crafted wonderfully by showing in back and forth, the story is poignant and filmed with brilliant cinematography. The Outlying areas of Jordon captured beautifully and this gives a big canvas to the screenplay. The war scenes display a distinctive feature to a heightened degree magnificently. The acting, direction and character development is at its best.It is somewhat disturbing and can shake the moral ground of anyone.This is an essential cinema for open minded movie lovers. this is highly recommended because it is the one of the best movies of the decade.
"Incendies" (meaning "Scorched" in English) is a Canadian mystery-drama and is as intense as any film I've seen. The story begins as brother and sister twins are read their mother's last will, a disjointed, delirious and despairing appeal that they travel to the Middle East to uncover the dark secret of their family history as a condition of fulfilling her last wishes. We're never told exactly WHERE the mystery story which unravels as Nawal's life takes place; at least no specific countries are named: all military raiment, weapons and vehicles are either generic or anonymous (best as I remember, even the university is simply "The University"). On the other hand, the bus massacre is conducted by AK-47 wielding "Christian rightists" (the Phalange, if we assume a Lebanese parallel), the off-camera destruction of the orphanage at Kfar Khout was committed by "nationalists" (movie code for Lebanese Arab Nationalists) while Nawal's son was "mercifully rescued" by the Muslim warlord Chamseddine.OK, we get it. Even without naming a specific country or political cause, there's little doubt who's the off-camera bad guy whose regional presence provokes the conflict that is the movie's backdrop. But this is a movie review, not an exegesis on geopolitical policy or regional prejudices. Just be aware that a socio-political narrative exists, and accept that the film assumes secondary evils emerge from a primary source ... without directly saying so. The adult twins' quest quickly becomes a passionate and exhausting peregrination into the cycle of violence too often dismissed as endemic in the Middle East. Our persistence for staying with Incendies through to the climax is rewarded with the revelation that the incestuous consequence of personalizing anonymous violence to become internalized and incarnated into retributive action is the birth of an even greater and more loathsome lusus naturae: when we incubate malevolence and evil we risk becoming the wellspring of the evil confounding us.Although described as a masterpiece by some critics I have no desire to see Incendies again nor can I think of a good reason to recommend Incendies to casual viewers ... not because of excessive gore, gratuitous violence or sensationalized sexual content (Incendies is probably modest in this regard, given the film's setting) or because Incendies is a bad film, but because Incendies so effectively immerses its audience into the emotional horror and wretchedness of despair without extending a commensurate glimpse of either redemption or restoration.
This kind of movies are not needed to be discussed too much. Instead I would recommend you to watch the movie.If you watch this film whose content and focus are risky to be too much political, which I think dangerous sometimes because while watching an interesting politic story or similar sort you without intention got yourself focused on the "issue" not the art and cinema, and your brain use the movie as a weapon against the thoughts you are already against. But movies are not weapons. I always believe cinema must be a very useful short path to criticize, feel, live as you are in the action and it is valuable, more importantly it is immortal. This movie does not exploit your politic ideas or sensation. The script uses a good story of a woman who's been tortured for years without giving up her strength and energy she instills and shows us how can an idea may feed the bond between your soul and life or love. Another aspect of the story is that her ability of standing up against the torture was not some kind of skill that she trained. This is the energy whose source is love. And the idea derived from love. In this work I think camera seems cool, creative ideas, sounds and cleverly prepared actions are what you can expect. It always can be better. Acting in this movie had the chance to be better. More colors could be added. However this is not a negative comment. In this form they did a very good job. It is a manner of choice. I think the director chose that way. As a result and short expression: if you want to hear about an extraordinary and shocking story which occurred in North Africa watch this film.


                
Twins Simon and Jeanne Marwan are given instructions at the reading of their mother's Will. They are to deliver letters to their father and a brother they know nothing about. Simon dismisses their mother's weird wishes but Jeanne decides to discover the truth. In Lebanon, their Christian mother Nawal Marwan had an affair with Arab Wahab. Her family killed Wahab. Her grandma saved the pregnant Nawal. The baby was given to a mysterious woman. Narwal would go off to look for him.Director Denis Villeneuve delivers some compelling images. It's a dark murky tale of religion and family set in the middle of a sectarian war. There is a point in the middle where the story double down and make this a true Greek Tragedy. I have a small problem with the dying nurse telling the twins about the babies born in prison. They should be able to figure that part out by themselves. The last half is stretched out a bit. By the midway point, I wish the movie picks up the pace to get to the big reveal. Nevertheless, this is a brilliant tragedy.


                
