When people watch the Oscars, they don't usually care about the Best Foreign Film nominees. Incendies provides so many reasons why people should actually get to see those nominees at all costs. Incendies is the kind of film that one walks away from feeling emotionally drained, one where it stays in the viewer's mind for days on end. Like an intense personal experience, it takes a lot to come to grips with the film's story, a moving plot full of twists and catharsis. At the New Directors/New Films Festival in New York, at which I saw this last night, Denis Villeneuve explained that he has made four films in Canada, but this is the first one to be released in America. Right now, I see no reason why Villeneuve, or any of the actors for that matter, shouldn't have a great future ahead of them.Based on the play Scorched by Wajdi Mouawad, Incendies follows a non-linear plot that spans two generations. In the present day, Jeanne and Simon are twins who have lost their mother, Nawal. Nawal has stipulated in her will that Jeanne and Simon must return an envelope to the brother they didn't know existed who is currently living in a fictional Middle Eastern country. Only then can the twins give Nawal a proper burial. Jeanne feels obligated to return the letter, so she goes to the Middle East, only to realize some of Nawal's nastiest secrets. As Jeanne uncovers more about Nawal, the viewer is shown Nawal's story. The film builds up to an unforgettable ending that is sure to rock any viewer.Incendies already had great source material. I've praised the plot enough, but one thing I must add is that the play is apparently four hours long, according to Villeneuve. It's impressive that this movie succeeds so nicely because I can't imagine that anything was cut. But to back up that source material, there's some really great acting. The entire cast plays their parts with such an emotional vigor that it seems impossible that this work of art wasn't autobiographical.Furthermore, Villeneuve has made a film that relies on great filmmaking to impact the viewer. The cinematography is beautifully bland, surely a nod to some of the deserts in the Lebanon- like land where the movie takes place. Color scheme is also used to Villeneuve's advantage to show the parallels between Nawal and Jeanne's lives. Villeneuve seems to love working with extended zoom shots that shock the viewer with their overwhelmingly long silences. Why Villeneuve didn't receive critical acclaim (in America, at least) before Incendies is a mystery.There are many movies about the Middle East. Some have failed miserably in their attempts to strike an emotional chord with critics and viewers alike (Redacted, Rendition), but others have been extremely successful (The Hurt Locker, Lebanon). Incendies could very well be one of the best films ever made about the conflicts in the Middle East. It has its flaws which keep it from being a masterpiece (maybe it could've lost five or ten minutes), but it is that rare type of film that really resonates beyond the initial viewing. Hopefully, Incendies will be remembered for years to come as the little, brilliant film that spawned the great fame of Denis Villeneuve.


                
"Incendies (Scorched)" opened in town this Friday, just days before it made the short list of nominees for Best Foreign Film for this year's Academy Awards. It played in the Vancouver International Film Festival 2010, but I missed it then.Fortunately, it received theatrical distribution; this devastating film on the horrors of conflict and its enormous human costs simply must be seen. Denis Villeneuve's searing work, his fourth feature, is based on the celebrated play of the same name by Montreal native and artistic director of the French Theatre at the National Arts Centre in Ottawa Wajdi Mouawad. While there is no doubting the immediacy and impact it must have had as a piece of theatre, "Incendies" benefits from the transition to the larger canvas of the big screen, appropriate for the epic themes and emotional conflagrations it tackles.When their mother dies and her will is read, twins Jeanne and Simon Marwan are stumped by its bizarre burial instructions. Nawal Marwan states that she must be interred naked and facing away from the sun in an unmarked grave, until the two letters she has left with the family notary are delivered on her behalf. One is addressed to the father the twins believed dead, the second to a son whose existence comes as a complete surprise to them. The will makes the twins realize that they did not know their mother at all. They have not had an easy relationship with her, and are understandably reluctant to comply with her terms.The daughter Jeanne moved away and found refuge in the abstract realms of pure mathematics. Her sibling Simon, who remained at home, had the more complicated relationship because he dealt daily with Nawal's strangeness. Jeanne agrees to deliver the letter that was left to her, and embarks on an odyssey of discovery, in search of the father she has never known. Later, she convinces Simon to join her.Although the Middle Eastern country is never named in the film, Wajdi Mouawad ascribes the inspiration for his play to Soha Becharra, a woman who was imprisoned for six years in Khiam, southern Lebanon. In an interview with the Montreal Gazette, he explained "For me, the success of this play and the film is a way to give back some life to a woman whose life was taken away from her." The cinematic endeavor is hugely, powerfully successful: as Jeanne scours an alien land for clues of her mother's past, we see Nawal's tough life in flashback in the same locations that her daughter visits for the first time. Sectarian strife, tribal and religious warfare, family blood feuds, and honor killings have been the blight of the Middle East and areas as far as Afghanistan and what is now Pakistan, and parts of Africa. Bloodshed and violence have been a way of life; each side claims to be justified in killing to avenge earlier injustices. While humankind has not lost its baser urges—we just have to recall the recent incident of the young Afghani woman whose nose was hacked off, or the countless rapes in present day DR Congo—the film is a plea for reconciliation and forgiveness to bring about the much needed change.Nawal barely escapes an honor killing due to her unwed pregnancy, gives up her baby son for adoption, and spends the rest of her life looking for this lost child. Along the way, she takes sides in the violence and is imprisoned for fifteen years for shooting a political leader. Upon her release, she begins life anew in Canada with her infant twins, the outcome of brutal rape at the hands of a torturer. Regardless of the change in geography, she remains haunted by the past and her unending quest for her lost child. How does one look for reparation and justice, when the perpetrators frequently flee the country of their misdeeds and seek asylum elsewhere? As she has not kept her word to her son to return to him, she feels unworthy of a proper burial. A character in the film wisely observes that death always leaves its traces, and Jeanne and Simon finally get to know their mother from the relics of her life.The Belgian actress Lubna Azabal's heroic performance brings Nawal to awe-inspiring Brechtian life. Undefeated by each dehumanizing blow, she stoically navigates a war-crazed world devoid of any sense, her driving force is the need to reunite with her son. Mélissa Désormeaux-Poulin and Maxim Gaudette do excellent work as the siblings who gradually begin to understand their mother. Rémy Girard and Allen Altman, playing the Canadian and Middle Eastern notaries respectively, guide the siblings through their search, while Abdelghafour Elaaziz makes an impact in the small but important role of Abou Tarek the torture specialist. The rest of the characters are brought to life by a talented cast of unknown actors; in their hands, even the smallest roles acquire great significance. Denis Villeneuve's film honors the stories of these people by rigorously avoiding directorial excesses. Events and stories this powerful do not require embellishment, and Villeneuve's spare, dispassionate directorial style maximizes impact.Someone remarked that "Incendies" is the closest contemporary approximation of Greek tragedy, and I agree with this assessment: the crimes and consequences are universal and timeless, and if a film holds up a mirror to question our capacity for barbarism, it is reason to applaud. Regardless of the outcome at the Academy Awards, "Incendies" is a major achievement for Canadian cinema.
This film is extraordinary on just about every level. The script is terrific, the actors are perfect, the direction and cinematography are all you could hope for. I recommend it without hesitation.Anyone who has seen any of Villeneuve's previous work--or Andre Turpin's Zigrail--knows that these filmmakers have bodies of work that are almost without peer in contemporary cinema world-wide and are unparallelled in the history of Canadian cinema (until seeing Incendies, Maelstrom was my favourite Canadian film). Incendies does not betray that "legacy". You should absolutely see it.In a film as stunning as this one it's odd to single out one aspect, but I must say that Lubna Azabal's performance is among the best I've ever seen. Though I've watched a few films that she's been in in the past, she never really stood out for me. She is devastatingly good in this picture.I do hope that this film gets submitted to the AMPAS for Oscar selection as it is definitely the best film I've seen this year and a shoe-in for the foreign picture Oscar.My only complaint about the film was the use of music by Radiohead, which took me out of the film each time it played. The rest of the music cues were spot-on and quite excellent, but Thom Yorke's voice belonged nowhere near this film.


                
During the reading of the will of their mother's, a twin brother and sister learn of some unusual last wishes. Amongst other requests, two envelopes need to be delivered to respectively the father of the two and a brother whom are both unknown. The quest leads the twins through the Middle East where they slowly learn of the horrific tales which is the life history of their late mother.The movie tells a very graphic but endearing story, perfectly shot and acted allowing the viewer to get fully immersed into the journey and findings of the twins. Through flashbacks we learn about the hardship of the mother and, eventually, the fate of the father and brother. As a treat, there is a great twist at the end which is really the icing on the cake.Highly recommended.92/100


                
Incendies (2010)Scorched is a good translation of the French title. That's how you'll feel by the end.This Canadian movie, based on a play by a Lebanese writer, is set mostly in Jordan and is a tale of a twin brother and sister (son and daughter) looking for their roots after the death of their mother. It's quite amazing.Don't think this is some feel-good flick. What it shows first of all, better than almost any movie I've seen, is the reality of life in wartime in the Mideast (pick your country). The ruthless, bloody, sectarian violence is made intimate in the worst way, or best way cinematically—you hate it, and feel it. This is the huge strength of the movie, giving light to the dilemmas of ordinary people trying to survive, literally, the mayhem.Equally important is how the daughter's view of her mother changes as she learns more and more about her. The daughter is forced to do this because of a request in her mother's will, but she takes it on, in a more recent Jordan, with utter determination.The movie is divided into two time periods. The first belongs to the mother in an ongoing series of harrowing flashbacks. The second belongs to the daughter, and eventually the son, as they look for surviving members of the mother's past. The steely force of will of the daughter turns out to be a mere shadow of the strength of her mother, and you droop in admiration and sympathy for all of them.The huge, dramatic hook of the movie, which you only learn as the characters learn it at the very end of the movie, isn't something I can talk about here. But for outrageousness it puts Shakespeare to shame—and it was for me also a distraction. Your jaw drops and you think, oh how awful (and more)! But a part of my brain was also saying, this is too much, it isn't contributing to the truth and emotional depth of these characters.It might even undermine them slightly, reminding us this is a stage play, an artifice.But that's a nagging quibble. This is really a powerful movie, beautifully rendered, and acted with unusual intensity. It's rough (realistically violent) in a few spots, but it's worth it. Wow.


                
The first seconds are enough. I mean, they were for me. They are able to capture you. And of course it continues for the whole movie. You know you were blessed with a good film. But I particularly like the way in which this movie begins; I believe this is my favorite part of movies. Hearing Radiohead song "you and whose army?" and watching this little boy's sight; the way in which he looks us. Two eyes that are full of anger, passion and pain. These few seconds are the perfect taste of what will be coming up next. A great opening for a great (and tough) movie. A story about family, courage and sacrifice. I recommend this film if you want to get real.


                
This movie isn't intellectual, let alone "falsely intellectual", as some claim it to be. This movie is just a powerful message against war, and I'd say against religion, as well. The author cleverly did not place the story into a particular country, cause the story is universal - war over religion makes no sense anywhere. Because religion doesn't make sense either, to start with. Sure, movie has a flaw or two, I'd say the greatest of them is the terrible cast for the role of brother, who couldn't probably act even in his high school, but miraculously ended here.I can't decide if the movie should have more "pathetic" and "emotional" in it, which could be done just by adding classical music. From the artistic point of view, it's probably needless. However, maybe it would reach more people, "pathos" would probably create greater emotional response, and the message would get farther.


                
The story begins with a will, which Nawal (Lubna Azzabal), a Canadian expat with Middle Eastern origins, leaves behind for twins Jeanne (Mélissa Désormeaux-Poulin) and Simon (Maxim Gaudet). The will consists of two sealed envelopes with instructions for delivery listing Jeanne and Simon's supposedly late father, and their recently discovered older brother. From that point forward, the twins embark upon an adventure in a war-torn country, with the sole purpose of unlocking the mystery left behind by their mother; a mystery providing a gateway to their homeland and origins.The magnificent prologue of the film speaks volumes, with a beautiful, seemingly serene hilly landscape tricking the audience into a false sense of security. The camera then slowly sweeps across a room full of young boys either with clippers shaving their heads to a military standard, or receiving terrifying looking arms. The camera pauses on one boy with piercing eyes, looking at us in a moving combination of fear, anger and resentment as his hair falls on his shoulders, rendering him bald and ready. In the background, Radiohead's 'You and Whose Army' hypnotises us, imprinting the powerful image in our memory – one which will strongly be recalled later on in this film. This scene alone is worth sturdy artistic praise.Face down, naked and without a memorial is the burial instruction left behind by the apparently tortured Nawal, with a haunting quote noting that, "<U+0085>childhood is a knife in the throat that you can't easily take off". The children realise that a gravestone can only be added when the puzzles of their mother's past are unlocked with the delivery of the letters within the cryptic will.Based on a play by Wajdi Mouawad,'Scorched' which I am not familiar with, but one could feel tell that the screenplay adaptation turned Mouawad's work into a respected and admired, multi award winning picture. The film garnered international attention, with twenty wins in total at various festivals, including an Oscar nomination for Best Foreign Language Film. 'Incendies' was also one of the most highly praised films screened during the second edition of the Doha Tribeca Film Festival (DTFF), encouraging further exploration into its appeal.Can war be poetic? With Villeneuve, this is possible. It is also romantic and ruthless, combining the most extreme of human emotions, leading to radical choices like the Christian Nawal's recruitment by Muslim militia. The poetic narrative exposes idyllic sceneries that the director focuses on often, revealing shortly after the truths of a raw, harsh and poignant reality. .From the moment Jeanne lands in the Middle East we are transported to stories from her mother's history. Although the country's name is fictional, the historical details fail to belie the nation in question is in fact Lebanon. Every location she visits is alternated with a parallel memory from her mother's past, featuring ferocious battles, both as just a woman and also as a political activist. As soon as Jeanne infiltrates her Nawal's hometown, she is exposed to the complex hatred that society continues to struggle with, even years after the war has ended. The villagers blatantly refuse Jeanne assistance upon discovering she is Nawal's daughter, without any mention of her mother treated like a taboo.While Simon is resisting his mother's enforced wishes, it is Jeanne who initially takes the solo initiative to seek closure. Throughout her adventures, we learn that this same, unfriendly village appears to be the basis of Nawal's struggles upon falling pregnant with a Palestinian man who was brutally murdered by her own brothers. Drowned in the shadow of disgrace by everybody in the village due to falling pregnant, Nawal delivers a boy who is taken away from her upon birth. With a tattoo marking his shin, Nawal had vowed to find her child at any cost, only to be driven out of the village for fear of persecution and even death. This is when she takes drastic decisions out of anger, resentment and fear, just like the boy at the opening of the film.The war is not just the context but explains – regardless of one's political stance – that there's more to what people choose to practice and preach than mere ideals. Nawal's decision to join the militia was primarily born out of despair and the injustices she suffered. In the style of a mythological Greek tragedy, the plot then cleverly reveals key information within every step the twins' detective efforts reaped. After years of absence, it becomes obvious to them that war had never really left all of their mother's past protagonists, but lived on and festered within them.Although the children had considered their mother as nothing more than a neurotic, unstable character, the journey they embark on honours what is in fact a valiant woman, also known as "the woman who sings". The past was too painful to be easily forgotten, and it seemed they had never really understood their mother.The film is picturesque, memorable in every scene, surprising, tense and mysterious in parts. Villeneuve portrays a vulnerable and curious vision from Nawal's viewpoint, one that is applicable to any person regardless of religion and political parties, but sharing the same circumstances. For someone who is unaware of the conflict of the Middle East, the narration carries no judgment as to innocence and guilt, or what may be considered right or wrong. As with war in general it is a personal perspective which highlights how one's worst enemy can also be a precious part of oneself. It is the story of struggling women, star-crossed lovers and suffering mothers and the personal journey of a life, and family legend, tainted by war and society.


                
Incendies is quite an extraordinary film. Whilst I did find myself with wondering thoughts at the start, it tapers off into something that is so engaging and riveting that you just begin to flow with it. Possibly one of the best films I've seen from French-Canada, this film may very well blow your mind.Incendies offers a new twist and turn every chapter up until the end. It is very hard once you get started to take your eyes off of the captivating sequences that are held before you. Not only does this film do a good job at storytelling, it also holds incredibly well as a commentary of war, religion and family.


                
I'm in a chasmic lost for words. Incendies was...goodness gracious. Villenueve. Villenueve, never leave us. Please. Never, ever leave us. You are a god.Abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz, okay, I think I'm sturdy now. Incendies is a rare film that manages to be an invigorating political thriller about violence, war, religion, and hostitily, while simultaneously, be a malevolent, nail-biting mystery-noir thriller. There are so many sequences in this bruting, cloak-and-dagger mischief-maker that will stick out to you like an imperishable parasite. It is crushing.The only reason why Incendies doesn't earn a 5/5 from me-for now-is because the pacing at first glance wasn't all too keen at times, there's admittedly a plateful of coincidences that materialize, and the character, Simon, was a bit of a nuisance virtually every time he emerged on screen. I'm sure though that after a rewatch in the near future, I'll end up fine-tuning notably more to this deviously harrowing exploit. Nonetheless, j'ai adoré. (Verdict: A-)


                
Blown away by this one. Grown twins are tasked by their late mom, as part of her will, to track down their real father and their heretofore-unknown older brother. The trail leads to an unnamed Middle Eastern country. Early Villeneuve (Arrival, Sicario) is just masterful; I particularly loved the technique of focusing on a character's face as they experience what is happening around them. Doing so gives us a chance to read their emotions of the moment. Strong acting, and a twist ending that I for sure never saw coming.


                
There is a stark beauty to this film - as with other Villanueva films (Prisoner, Enemy, Sicario), the mundane and the curious alike are framed like realist paintings. It's quietly mathematical in its story-building, reaching a solution to its equation that is, well, both the only answer that makes sense as well as the most incomprehensible. The performances by both lead women are a revelation. This movie is now 8, going on 9, years old - but like a Hitchcock, fails to age because of its mastery in showing and telling.


                
One of the movies that makes you realize the reality of the world through a journey about war, love, oppression and human evilness and weakness. 
I was captured by the movie's surprises and plot twist, along with the sad realities that it presents. still it depicts human reality more than ever, behind the cells, beyond country borders, and beyond humans themselves.
highly recommended


                
Excellent storytelling and early feature film by Denis Villeneuve , renown for reinvigorating the mystery/thriller genre (Enemy, Prisoners, Arrival) .. Incendies was an early first before his bigger hollywood budgets
----------------------------
Story follows two directions, one past one present, of two twins tracking their mother's footsteps to uncover the mysteries of her past. The twins of a dying mother are given two tasks to fulfill before they bury her in a "tradition grave": to find their father and brother. They believe their father has died in the religious wars waging during their mother's time, but the notary suggest they to search deeper. The son holds resentment in his heart, but the daughter wants to complete her mother's wish and learn about her family history. This leads her on an adventure through the middle east as she tracks various stomping grounds of her mother (including childhood village, university, prison) hoping to find the whereabouts of her father and brother. The secrets to their identities are shocking disturbing.Meanwhile the story transitions into the past of their mother's life: her love for a muslim refugee, the politics of religious warfare in the area, the search and discovery of her adopted son, and all the various people who's heart she touched during her lifetime.
Early masterpiece from the legend Denis Villeneuve, bravo


                
I'm meant to provide at least ten lines according to IMDb - Yet this film only needs one word, 'Profound' - I could use a thousand and still not describe this MONUMENT of a film ......let's try.....engaging, hypnotic, beautiful, deep, shocking, chilling, honest, disturbing, emotional, original, soul destroying, uplifting, tear invoking, truly 'human'. No 'spoilers',or 'clever clichés' are needed ( I don't think there's a single cliché in the whole two hours) - I've waited a long time for a film like this - After writing the effect it had; just to get my thoughts down while still fresh, I'm going straight to my best mate and fellow film lover's house with a glorious yet modest DVD case and demand he watch it - "right now, Dave, right now! Put that kettle down, your coffee will go cold anyway, JUST WATCH THIS!!!" - And I know he'll thank me for my obstinate insistence. Thirst will mean nothing, the 'bathroom'? You'll learn to hang on, hunger? It won't occur. Very rarely will you encounter such a masterful telling of a story, trust me - yet don't allow anything to distract you, and when you think "the subtitles aren't working", you're not meant to understand.....it's from the main character's perspective and they don't speak Arabic either, a clever touch that you'll learn to get. Monsieur Villenueve, if I ever win the lottery and write the script that's in my head - YOU will direct it after rewriting it. I'll pay you anything and give you free reign - pure Dogme with subtleties of touch and inflection that very few of us will ever have but can only dream of thinking once in our lives. IF THE Oscars WEREN'T SO 'EXCLUSIVELY ANGLO' AND INCLUDED FOREIGN FILMS FOR BEST PICTURE ETC - THIS WOULD HAVE WON A HALF A DOZEN. Bravo, again, Msr Villenueve, BRAVO!!!!! Wajdi Mouawad - you gave us this play from your heart - I hope it's not you're own life story - if so......go with God, peace brother.


                
Were it not for the fact that the plot is tied in too neat a bow at the very end, "Incendies" would be a perfect movie. Told in both the present and the past, the film traces the efforts of twins, Jeanne (Melissa Desormeaux-Poulin) and Simon (Maxim Gaudette) to carry out the wish of their dead mother (Lubna Araval) to find and deliver letters to their father and lost brother. The twins go to Lebanon -- Jeanne with conviction, Simon reluctantly. They don't quite know where to begin. The brother, their mother's illegitimate son, was sent to an orphanage. That much is quickly established. But from there on, the film follows the search and also plays back the events in the Lebanese Civil War which separated their mother from her child and from the father or the twins. Once the search was fully under way, this viewer was initially bit confused as to which parts were present and which parts were past because Ms. Desormeaux-Poulin looks at times much like Ms. Araval, so I didn't always know whether I was witnessing the search by the daughter or the war time travails of the mother. It's a minor problem because, soon enough, the two elements -- the search and the war -- diverge and the context identifies daughter and mother. The two women each handle their roles superbly. Simon is a necessary player but M. Gaudette is no more than adequate in the role, which is, in any event, subsidiary to that of mother and daughter.I won't reveal the ending. However, the war time scenes are depicted with convincing brutality, and the indifference to suffering that characterized the Lebanese Civil War is as appalling on film as it might have been if one had actually been there when it happened. In addition, the cameras are focused on the bleak landscape outside the villages and towns, which adds to the sense that this is as close to real life as it is possible to get.As suggested in the beginning of this review, I found the ending too pat and much too convenient, but it is certainly dramatic -- and others may find it more convincing than I did.


                
One achievement of this excellent film is that it makes you think about war. It makes you think that many people who migrate to the West have complicated personal stories that influence their lives today. And that what we see on the TV news is a woefully inadequate representation of the actual human impact of war. The intelligent woman at the centre of the film had the bad luck to have been born into a brutal, inhuman time in history, even into a brutal family, and she tries her best to survive. You've got to empathise with her on some level. The film has many twists and turns in its plot, and even as I left the cinema I wasn't sure I'd understood which side she was on at a particular time and why she responded as she did. It made me want to know more about Lebanese history. It's a beautifully made film and well recommended.


                
This movie is beautiful to view, but emotionally brutal in the end via its heavily contrived plot. There is a cinematic treasure here, to be invited innocently, first-hand, to view the ravages of a civil and religious war on an otherwise normal society - all played out within its stunning rugged countryside. We are walked through scene after scene with our central character guide to view the realities of war - how people suffer and learn to hate. This does not exclude the central character; even she responds to terrorism with a focused retaliative vengeance. But this is only the upper level of the story - the second level down is far, far darker: it is the Oedipus Legend on steroids. The analogy could be made that the central character, by turning to violent revenge as a way to compensate her loss, is instead herself revisited horrifically by her own decided actions. As a shadow horror, her offspring parallels and even exceeds this downward spiral track of malice. That what happens in this movie _could ever happen_ is truly a dramatic stretch, exceeding even the Greek myth makers. Therein, I had to balk.Furthermore - the loving - even transcendental deathbed reconciliation enounced by the main character, "To be together is everything..." seems, no matter how many times I try it out in my normally wildly idealistic mind, too idiotically simple to cover what travesties have befallen in this tale. Can we swallow a forgiveness more Christlike than Christ?


                
My husband and I were both very impressed and emotionally engaged throughout the whole film even though we had seen the play Scorched which we both considered the best play with deep meaning we had seen in years. Let me recommend the play, too, whether or not you've seen the movie. Someone said the play is 4 hours long. It may have been but I don't remember a boring moment, though I remember parts that aren't in the movie. The movie, nonetheless, is whole and complete.The characters of the mother and her twin daughter and son are all extremely sensitively portrayed by the actors. Without flashbacks to the emotionally distant and confusing parenting they received from their mother, you are able to imagine the wounds they received, compounded by a complete lack of knowledge of the reasons. The daughter, Jeanne, seems to have dealt with this by becoming a student of pure mathematics. The professor to whom she is a TA welcomes the students to the world of abstraction and solitude. Her brother Simon simmers in rage.After their mother's death, they embark on a journey of discovery their mother stipulates in the cryptic and startling instructions in her will. The journey leads first Jeanne and eventually Simon to Lebanon. They discover the origins of their mother's wounds, little by little, as they learn of her difficult (an understatement)life as a young adult in a country with unforgiving moral standards for young love relationships and at war with itself. As the viewer, you see this difficult life of the mother through flashbacks of her coming of age in horrendous circumstances, as her children in the present day learn of her tortured life and of her determined strength.The movie, as does the play, provides the audience an opportunity to see what may lie hidden behind the face of distance, withdrawal, or rage in others. It encourages compassion for ourselves and others whose demeanor is simply a survival mechanism to deal with wounds which you may not know or understand. It also lets one experience vicariously (thankfully)the horrors of war, especially, war based on revenge for personal and "tribal" atrocities. All of this makes us more whole, more compassionate, and less quick to judgement of good or bad in a very complicated world.


                
Greetings from Lithuania."Incendies" (2010) strength lies in its powerful and hardly forgettable story, which at the end left me speechless - literally. This movie is also wonderfully crafted - cinematography was amazing, it should have been nominated for Oscar in that category. Acting was good, especially by the lead who played Nawal Marwan. Directing was very solid by now famous Denis Villeneuve - he was a great guide in this at first kinda tough story. There are many names and places in this movie, but what matters most is what it tells at the end, which i definitely won't even hint at. Sure, the coincidence is one in a million, but this is a movie, and a very powerful one.Overall, "Incendies" is a highly recommended drama / mystery / war. It has very solid movie craftsmanship, but its biggest strength is the story - a hardly forgettable one.


                
An amazing movie. I have been going through the top 250 watched almost half and I can say that this movie is in the top 10. Why though ? Personally I love flashbacks in movies but the whole storyline is amazing. Although it is a foreign film with subtitles it had me hooked from the first few scenes. It is a film with its own unique storyline and I hope people don't judge this movies by its cover or language. Its simply just great. Throughout the movie events just get more entertaining and the end of this movie is defiantly one to watch. Absolutely enjoyed the movie, deserves a higher rating, was done amazingly.


                
Incendies Directed by Denis Villeneuve is a foreign film with one of the most intriguing stories I've ever come across. So the film begins with two twins mourning the death of their mother, trying to sort out aspects of her will. They become incredibly distraught after finding out their mother wishes not to be buried traditionally until a letter is sent to their brother and father. The twins were unaware that they had a brother and a living father, therefore leading to an investigation in order to complete the task. Everything in this film is phenomenal. Every single performance is outstanding. The realism depicted by these actors blew me away. Denis' direction, as usual is perfect. He captures moments of horror so well, utilising close ups and big wide shots when necessary. There are so many moments in the film which look incredible. Incendies has one of the most insane ending revelations I've ever experienced in film. Although it isn't pretentious or cheap due to the phenomenal writing. I was so compelled by this movie for the entire runtime. The story rarely has a dull moment, due to the uneasy and suspenseful plot. Incendies should be seen by all. Don't let the English subtitles discourage you. This movie is amazing, so therefore I give it a 9.


                
As a fan of Villeneuve's work, it was imperative that I experienced his earlier work. To cement the accolades and acclaim that he receives, not just by me, but the film industry. He is rapidly rising to be one of the most influential directors working today. So, Incendies. His big breakthrough before Hollywood snatched him up and blessed the world with his talent. I set myself ridiculous expectations. Quietly hoping this would be a masterpiece. And as soon as the credits rolled, sitting there in absolute silence, I gently closed my eyes. The overbearing pressure dissipated and my body was overwhelmed. This. This is cinematic gold. An undisputed classic in the making that relishes in the brutality of civil war and religious hatred. Two Canadian twins travel to their mother's home country in an attempt to uncover her hidden past, where they must find their father and long-lost brother.It's a tragic tale of love, loss and life amidst a brutal civil war, caused by the opposing ideologies of Christianity and Islam. A family who believed their mother to be mentally unstable, uncovering her shocking past at her last behest. It portrays the idea of redemption, even at death. The journey that these twins go through in the present day equals that of the harsh experiences that their mother encountered during the civil war. Villeneuve ingeniously integrates these two timelines to perfection, each separating chapter introducing a pivotal character or place. The meticulous pacing envelops you into, not just a broken country, but a broken family. We witness the flashbacks of the mother's past life, and it is savage. Honestly, the unembellished acts of violence she went through completely shook me to the core. Villeneuve does not shy away from children getting shot in the head or innocent Muslim refugees getting massacred on a bus, and it grabs you. The sheer power and ferocity of the blazing imagery takes hold. Unable to let go. Brilliantly elegant, yet audacious.The minimal amount of characterisation surprisingly works in the narrative's favour. The twins are not investable characters, and they shouldn't be. It's the mother. A screenplay with an intricate amount of depth to her character, leaving small breadcrumbs for the final revelation. And what a reveal that was! I gasped, put my hands towards my gaping mouth and widened by blood-shot eyes. Too much of a coincidence? Perhaps. But what it does do is solidify the tragic life that Nawal had the misfortune of surviving. And despite the outcome, it made her who she was til her death. A loving mother to her children. Played exceptionally by Azabal whom of which did not garner enough acclaim for her performance. She was able to show vulnerability within her stone-cold exterior, conveying the amount of loss she had experienced with just one gaze at the camera.Villeneuve's directing style, as always, is masterful. Dartonne's editing, especially splicing the two timelines, was near-perfect. The right amount of time is spent on each scene, such as the blazing bus, to conjure up an emotional connection. And Turpin's cinematography was gorgeous. The landscape shots of the war-torn unnamed middle eastern country (heavily implied to be Lebanon) were both stunning and devastating. To put it simply, Incendies is a masterclass in technical excellence. In fact, the film is a near masterpiece. A few pacing issues here and there, which could've been alleviated with a tighter runtime. However that does deter from the overall sprawling devastation that Incendies brings to our screens. It is a heart-breaking tragedy, and one of Villeneuve's best.


                
At the end of this movie, dots connected with dots and it turned to be a line. This is the movie moving your emotion. You should watch in preparation.


                
We can say that movie is heart-breaking,shriking and shocking.I say this movie includes reality only. When we look at the seperation reality and fiction,Villeniueve chose reality.The Middle East includes so many pain and war or crime. If we looked from this perspective we can say "Yes this is not only movie,this is reality."


                
