Overrated and ridden with plot holes.The episode with a countdown and ens with the countdown not yet completed! Talk about a let down.


                
Please don't watch it, its just a show which is overhyped by indian audience because of Netflix making it. It is not near to any of the great epics like narcos etc. Just a cheap trick to make an indian narcos which totally failed, instead of having such a great cast and crew.


                
The reviews are likely fake or from folks who like only Cheap Profanity and Nudity. Typical Anurag Kashyap stunt. Is the story compelling - no
Are there any high points or moments when you go wow - no
Is there nudity - plenty of
Is there usage of profane language - in plentyThat is it in nutshell. Filth of the lowest level.


                
We were fooled the series doesn't worth the rating that it had


                
The series is boring. I stoped watched it after 4 episodes. No idea why people are giving it 10 stars. May be their standards are too "high"


                
It looks like their Click-Marketing Team has bulk-purchased Fake Ratings in thousands with hundred or so Fake misleading Reviews, to give this below average thing a head start the fake hype. Such a shame... unreliable... Beware. >:( After reading some deceptive reviews here, I just finished watching first 2 episodes; and such a time-waste. It was average at best, if not below average. They just wanted to make it look like old and gritty, all cliche looks of typical indian gangster-like movies, constant blunt narrations, and hardly anything extra-ordinary as the manipulated reviews/rating/hypes try to suggest. It deserves 4-5 out of 10 at best. But to balance out, I'm giving a 1 for now. I'm sure their Click-Marketing Team will thumb down my this early warning review for others as well, in bulk to put it down. Disgrace!!


                
I gave this a 1 not cuz I really think it's a one more like an 8 1/2 ish but the show is sooo overhyped. 9.1 for an overall rate is misleading as hell. Actings great, direction is great everything's great but it's based off a book and nothing mind boggling for the viewers.


                
This is just an over-rated Indian series, maybe due to some people not having seen such nudity or violence on any Indian show so far and are super excited about it. Otherwise, its just a typical bollywood story funded by the underworld mafia and the so-called 'liberals' for making a series depicting all Muslim characters as innocent victims and all Hindu characters as evil. Not a balanced viewpoint at all. The story could've been shown without bringing in each characters' religion and spreading hatred as well as hurting sentiments of communities, but I guess, a controversy would help them gain more publicity. This series just shows the biased mindset of the director and his team.


                
Waste of time and simply one word 'overrated'. If you really want to watch something watch something worth of your time don't waste it with this!


                
Profanity can't save this sickular pantomime. Avoid.


                
Anurag Kashyap must have really made his masters happy, with this piece of propaganda disguised in the form of a web series.Just another attempt to malign the image of Hindus and indeed a very pathetic one.
We people believe in trend and This season is one of them.Just like foreign TV Show FRIENDS, this is surely an over rated show. Doesn't deserve much.


                
Sacred games is one of the worst and highly overrated series I have seen in recent times. Really disappointing and not at all a world level web series. India really need to work hard at this arena. Goofy and silly points:
The names of the characters are so inconsistent in different episodes. "Bunty Shinde" becomes "Bunty Sharma" in later episodes. "Trivedi" also becomes "Sharma" as stated by "Anjali Mathur" in 7th episode of season 1. What was the Director smoking?The protagonist "Sartaj Singh" is caught by gangsters/mafia around 3-4 times and every time they leave him alive... lol. the very same Villains who are killing everybody so that their mission is not jeopardised leave "Sartaj" alive or take him a a prisoner in a delicate wooden box used to pack fruits and vegetables, amazing. In 8th episode, Malcom Murad who killed Anjali Mathur in split second, was playing daring games with "Sartaj" by chopping of his thumb as he felt the Audience need "Sartaj" alive, so he played games till the police comes to rescue him.. Strange...Why did Gaitonde did not saved himself by hiding inside the bunker which was built under his hiding place. The bunker was not discovered even after a week of the discovery of the hiding place. So Gaitonde would have enough time to sneak out of the place to some other safer place. When Sartaj was ordering the bulldozer to make way for the police to enter, Gaitonde was requesting Sartaj not to do it as he wanted to tell him the story. SO why didnt Gaitonde saved himself and completed the story.Who was narrating the story to the audience even after Gaitonde's death, Gaitonde ghost probably. laughable. The director should have covered this with some pre recorded audio tapes in some safe or banklocker, maybe. A ghost telling his story is a bit spooky and ridiculous as the story was started by Gaitonde when he was alive and then his Ghost picked up when he died... lol..season 1 of the series is complete but nothing came up why Megha and Sartaj are seperate? poor direction. when the main story has nothing to do with that, why the complex relations are introduced into the plot and then no explanation for the relationship. What Character flaw or perfection the director wanted to point in Sartaj by this breakup.Even if this is briefed in season 2, How will it help as the character of Sartaj is already built in Audience mind and this loose end of the story has nothing to do with the main story plot.LOL, why did RAW need to evacuate a person in this fashion from the hiding. There were Cars and jeep all around the house where Bunty was hiding and still they were moving on foot to evacuate Bunty. Hilarious. What was the need for 3-4 impersonations. They could have called the vehicle outside the house and should have sanitised the surroundings.These and many more.. The series is riddled with loosed end and silly directions and flawed story... This is a highly overrated and foolish web series created by a novice director.
Sad to see this.. small minded biased series .. old way to get cheap publicity


                
Very predictable story with poor acting from sub-standard actors like Saif, Radhika etc.


                
Foolish cops and wasted my 5 hours
suspense is not worth to watch 8 episodes
tv series ratings are not the the reflection of content
not going to believe in future


                
The series start with a bang. But then goes down hill from there. The story is intriguing but the execution becomes dull and doesn't grab your attention through out. Its also slow in pacing. Coming to the main cast. This is like the millionth time Nawazuddin Siddiqui is playing a character who is poor have daddy and mommy issues. Which starts effecting him mentally and he becomes a psychopathic mafia/killer. So he looks and sounds like every other character he has played in his career. Saif Ali Khan however is the only actor who keeps the series interesting. When ever he was on screen the narrative becomes interesting. There are other great actors in the series (Radhika Apte, Jatin Sarna, Rajshir Deshpande) all play there part to the T. But nothing is outstanding or extraordinary. Most of them are just sulking all the time or cursing each other rather than taking any action to help story go further. The narrative is very similar to Narcos. If you have seen similar series on Netflix before then you can skip this one. In comparison to what Netflix series have deliver in US this is average and not worth binge watching


                
Most of the things were unneccessary...... Likes like the directors watched many english shows. Streched very long till.second last episode then suddenly paced at end. I need to watch new series now to refresh my mind.


                
It is one of the most violent shows I have ever seen anywhere with a language so foul, not worthy to be heard


                
The show starts off with a dog being thrown off a building and then shown smashing the ground.NO THANK YOU.


                
Bad portrayal of Hindus and India- Hinduphobia- very bad portrayal of hindu


                
Making everyone speak english from beggar to havildar in a flat monotone was a major turnoff. Pathetic direction, expected better.Looks like badly made political agenda being peddled with the usual stereotypes that Bollywood peddles.was expecting better.


                
I do think that the show deserves something around 6-8 stars but it so over rated that it needs to be bring down to its level


                
Unnecessary nudity and sex scene just to create a buzz. I would not recommend any Indian to watch this series with someone whom with you do not share a very frank relation or you will find yourself in very awkward situation. I cannot believe were Indian media is heading. I want to enjoy shows with my loved ones not alone. Shame on the maker of this show to ruining Indian culture.


                
I hope Endians come out of this Pakistan Hysteria.


                
