This is first Indian netflix original series directed by Anurag Kashyap and Vikramaditya Motwani.First 30 seconds in the first episode and you'll get to know that this series is going to be dark, edgy and controversial. This series starts with bold statements on religion, and then continues with same on political figures like Rajiv Gandhi to a lot of cuss words, violence and drug use. If you're a person who gets offended very easily then I advise you to keep yourself away form it. 
Sacred Games is just an example of what Anurag Kashyap is capable of. This is his real potential. Now screw CBFC. I maybe am a bit biased towards Anurag Kashyap or Phantom productions in general. The whole cast did a great job, while we saw Saif Ali Khan in a good role after Omkara and Being Cyrus. Radhika Apte has a quite short but impressive role. In my opinion Neeraj Kabi, Jatin Sarna and Nawazuddin are the backbone of the series. Hope we are going to watch the second season soon because Season 1 is all about initial 13 days of the warning given by Ganesh Gaitonde.


                
First of all, hats off Anurag Kashyap and Vikramaditay Motwane, how did you manage to put this together is an amazing feat. I am saying this because they both have directed the show but for different characters (Anurag for Nawaz Storyline and Vikram for Saif's). The performances are amazing and Varun Grover deserves all the applause for writing down street smart dialogues. With every character having a grey role in the show, all the characters have layers of sketch going into it. Eagerly waiting for Season 2!


                
At last India have it's own tv series to compete on an international stage


                
Having fallen in love with the book 10 years ago, I had a lot of reservations of how its screen adaptation would be. In the book, Vikram chandra had explored each character in so much depth with different layers that to make a 3 hour Bollywood Flick would have been foremost a daunting task and secondary an injustice to the plot.Enter, Netflix. Having changed the Tele scene world over, no other production house would be more suited and daring than Netflix to take this Plot head on and do justice to it. And no other duo of Directors than Anurag Kashyap and Vikram Motwane to direct it with such finesse, style and daring.The series is gripping, fascinating, dark, thought-provoking, chilling and so much more. It is also very relevant in today's India with its tense social and religious under-current. Every actor is top-notch. The role is Bread & Butter for Nawazuddin Siddiqui and he owns every scene he is in. How badly I wanted Saif Ali Khan to prove himself once more after 'Langda Tyagi'. He is not only superb but you feel the amount of efforts he has put in the role. Also the actor playing 'Bunty Sharma' is the best among all the sub-characters.The series is truly Binge-worthy and shows what can be achieved without the CBFC 'Big Brother' role. I am however quite sceptic of how it would be received by majority of the Indian audience who have been spoiled with mushy romantic genres and action for them is a muscular middle aged guy beating up 30 under-fed rowdies. I sincerely hope that this series results in a commercial success for all involved so that we can get to see more and more epic like this from our filmmakers.


                
Never watched better pilot episode than this. (Narcoss pilot can give somewhat competition).
Acting wise: Unarguably Nawazuddin Siddiqui is a gem that Indian Cinema have gotten. You just look into his eyes and you will forget that it is some actor performing a role.
The way he narrated the story I don't think anyone could've done that iñ place of him. 
I was not expecting much from Saif Ali Khan but Ohh Boi he has suprised everyone. Best acting of his career.
RadhikaApte has kept it balanced, not overdoing or underdoing anything.I am a huge fan of Kashyap's cinema. And this time too he didn't disappoint you.Background scores will give you chills.Writing is top notch. You know when Varun Grover is involved in the writing then dialogues are gonna be lit. Writing is of that level that if it has to be released on TV then Indian political parties won't let it.Kudos to Anurag and Vikram's team to let India stand with Head held high in the biggest digital platform of the world.India's debut couldn't have been more lit than this on Netflix.
With this show Netflix has really changed the game of television and storytelling in India. Bollywood now really has to step up and stop making brain dead movies just for commercial success. It is directed by Anurag Kashyap and Vikram Aditya Motwane and trust me there are no other directors in Bollywood who could have done justice to this show. It has that same rawness, realism and intricate storytelling like Gangs of Wasseypur and Dev D by Kashyap and Motwane.Acting is suberb and top notch by a great ensemble cast with Nawazuddin channeling his Faizal Khan from Wasseypur with more emotional layers to it. Radhika apte, Saif Ali Khan, Neeraj Kabi, Jitendra Singh also delivers strong performances. Kubra Sait delivers a heart warming breakout performance like never seen before.This is a must watch for anybody who likes watching stories that keeps you on the edge of your seat. Also must watch just to see how Mumbai becomes a character in a story like none other told before. Really can't wait for the next season. Need it like yesterday.10/10


                
One of the finest actor in Marathi Film Industry grabbing the opportunity .Amazing Performance Saheb !


                
Sacred Games is definitely one of the best thriller shows that I have seen. This is no ordinary story of a cop and a gangster, it has a twist.The show is very well written and the screenplay is amazing too . 
It truly lives up to its title Sacred 'Games' as the episodes are in themselves a type of puzzle each with a different name and a symbol that the viewer is trying to solve since the very first episode. 
Nawazuddin Siddiqui, Saif Ali Khan and Radhika Apte have done an exemplary job . The title song truly adds life to the show as it gives a sense of mystery to the viewer. I also really like how the show has this amazing narrative and the flashbacks of the 20th century Bombay .
It's definitely a must watch for anyone who loves a great story!


                
A masterpiece truly. Congratulations to Netflix and India on this amazing Drama Series. Based on the book by Vikram Chandra, this show slowly reveals it's dark secrets just like reading the book. Nawazuddin Siddiqui is truly a gem and his portrayal of Gaitonde is bang on. Saif and Radhika have done justice to their roles but it was Siddiqui who stole the spotlight. Finally a TV series to be proud of. There are some really great dialogues which I will not disclose so you should watch it for yourself. The depiction of Bombay is such that it feels like it's a character in itself. Dark, mysterious and thrilling!
A must watch.


                
Finally , 10 thousand times better than sass bahu serial , 
Baap of crime patrol


                
Amazingly directed and extraordinary performances. Classic Anurag Kashyap and Nawazuddin combo. Saif Ali khan and Radhika Apte were great too.


                
They have successfully managed to keep it grounded while not loosing its cloak and dagger momentum. 
This is historic moment for indian TV viewing experience. Beautifully done.
A promising Season 1.


                
Loved every bit of it! Superb screenplay and direction. Saif Ali Khan and Nawazuddin Siddiqi at their very best!


                
A very nicely narrated story. Good direction and script. The unfolding is brilliant and the end is Worth the wait. 
The sequencing of events and the easy flow of the story makes it a must watch for people who like crime and drama.


                
Gripping story with amazing overall story . Impatiently waiting for season 2 .
Highly Recommended.


                
I don't usually review anything on IMDB but after watching the first three episode I am compelled to review this title.Its safe to say that this is the best TV show to come out of India.India has talented people but Saas Bahu serials has just ruined everything.I urge people to have a subscription on Netflix and you all know its free for the first month.So you definitely can take the subscription.If this show becomes a hit than I am quite sure Netflix will take over the Indian Television industry in the next five years or so.Please if you can watch it in the Netflix app instead of downloading from some pirated site.If this is the direction Indian shows takes than we will have great movies and good shows.Give it a watch.Highly recommended.


                
Compelling story, Superb Acting, eagerly waiting for next season


                
Anurag and Vikram got all the freedom to show their talent on netflix which they didnt get on silver screen. What a direction, screenplay and on top of all the acting from nawaz.


                
Truly a masterpiece. Nawazuddin did an amazing amazing job. I loved the storyline. I can say that this is the series i can watch in a single sitting without eating or drinking anything.


                
Superb Show. Fantastic Story. The Plot and Story Development is Great. Actors have done outstanding job in presenting the situations. Anurag Kashyap and Vikaramaditya Motwane did an Amazing Job by keeping the audience interested in The Episodes. Awesome Series. Highly Recommended To Watch.


                
What a show!!Such rivetting adaptation. What performances!!Nawaz and Kubra Sait killed it.I just couldn't stop watching. I hope Netflix presents us with the rest three-quarter of the book.


                
I feel there is more to the story.I didn't get the end though.Saif Ali Khan was brilliant.Jitendra Joshi as Constable Katekar was too good.
Vikramaditya Motwane and Anurag Kashyap together can't disappoint you.
I just wished there was more to see about Pankaj Tripathi's character.There can be a Season 2 as the end didn't explain a lot.
The start is pacey but it slows down a bit in between.
Picks up in 7th episode.
Slowing down is due to the reality based circumstances that cops can get stuck on some cases with hard minded criminals.Still a lot of questions yet to be answered.
Brilliant start to Indian content by Netflix.
Must watch.
Review karte waqt lagta hai apun ich bhagwan hai xD


                
The Biggest strength of this show is, the authenticity and the un-compromised raw presentation of events that the country encountered in the past 2 decades. The clever weaving of real events with the core-plot of the story makes it interesting and the brilliant performances of lead casts (except Saif ali khan with a bit of moody presentation himself) makes this series as one hell of nail biting thriller. Nawazudin as Ganesh Gaitonde,.. a slum don to underworld king pin (closely resembles the life shades of real Don Arun Gaawli) makes to look his previous works (in Gangs of Wasseypur, Badlapur...etc) as just his practice ground. His real game as a raw performer is right here...Sixers for every ball thrown at him...Its too early to call it as Indian "Breaking Bad" or GoT, but it certainly has all the potential to be one and i'm sure its gonna make on hell of a TV show and the whole nation gonna crazy about it for each season...!!!Must watchhhh... and restless Binge watching Weekends are ahead...!!!


                
Great acting and finally an Indian TV series to feel proud of . Eagerly waiting for next season


                
