Very overrated full of underworld cliches. No depth Anurag Kashyap and Vikramaditya Motwane didn't try to go into the psyche of the characters and complexities of the environment that those characters set in. the complex political and social anxietes that we as a nation is feeling since 90s that this show try to deals with. But instead of being honest about those important issues they trivialise those issues. The show is set in city of Mumbai which is popularly called lifeline of India and economic capital of India. The show deals with history, politics and underworld of Mumbai. And how it shaped current Political and Social atmosphere of not only the city but entire nation. It could be an important show because it deals with some of very important issues . But the Show turned into a Simple Hollywood Style Mafia Entertainer which lacks the depth to deal with those issues . The story and the screenplay feels unreal and caricaturish the characters are strange but paper thin caricature. The show turns some very relevant political and social issues that India is still facing such as crime in politics, corruption and communalism into a simplistic and shallow generalising . the political commentry that made in the shows through characters instead of being nuanced and subtle it more and more feels like simplistic political sloganeering. The Showrunners didn't give the story and the treatment necessary depth and honesty that is required in any show which deals with such important issues.Violent scenes Abusive language and nudity in the show didn't feel real but feels forced it feels like it is being used in the show to make it more accessible for the Streaming audience. Only thing that is good about this show is performance of Neeraj Kabi and Aamir Bashir despite being given short role and Limited Scope by Writers and both the directors they shines in there respective roles. Nawazuddin Siddiqui is one of the best actor of India today. But somehow I feel in this role he really turn it into a caricature . This is not the same Nawaz that we used to see that gives us some of the finest movie performances in recent years . The whole show is a disappointment inspite having such talented team that includes Anurag Kashyap who has made a Fantastic film that I feel is one of the best of Indian cinema Black Friday (However I don't like his recent films) and Vikramaditya Motwane that made his debut with a brilliant Film Udaan and recently made a very fine film Trapped and group of very talented actors and writers are there and ofcourse Netflix. But sadly the show is turned into a shallow and lazy work which is simplistic and full of cliches.


                
First of all a grand salute to those, comparing this series with Breaking Bad and Madman. This series is utterly boring, acting from the main cast is repetitive. Nawazuddin Siddiquee seems to be coming straight from the sets of Gangs of Wasseypur and did not realize that this is a different flic. Now for the Story adaptation and editing. Pretentious. They have screwed the story from the Novel. Its almost a pain to watch the events unfolding. This Series lacks depth.Direction is average and not at par with GOW aur Udaan. All in all this is just all about marketing tactics from Netflix to create a fake buzz. Dont waste the 8 hours of your life on this.


                
This is higly overrated web series. It has got only 10% of actual story line, rest 90% is full of unnecessary characters, violence, nudity and foul language. Not even 2 hrs of storyline is dragged to 8 episodes, such a waste of time.


                
Starts off really well in first episode and you know you are in for a thrilling ride but its all downhill from there !! 
Loads of unnecessary filth without any real connection to the story line. Characters like kuckko, Trivedi are sheer waste and could have been avoided. The language used between Bunty and his sister is simply aghast.. Even if one tends to show reality, I don't think such conversations happen in any culture , let alone Indian slums. 
I am huge fan of Gangs of Wasseypur, where every dialog, scene happened for a reason, but Anurag Kashyap himself can't recreate such content now.
Absolute time waste and sheer crap for me. But unfortunately, since it is a hit, many such replicas will surface now to please a certain audience for whom this is cool !!


                
Both the directors are my favorite and I normally watch english series and movies so when I heard of this project, I had high hopes that there will be a good or close match in Hindi language. That is sadly not the case. They have gone overboard with few things here. Sex, violence and curse words add to the practicality of a story but only when they are parts of a much more important concept- the story. Seems like they just made the series for these things and added a bit of story here and there for support. Except for the episode 6, this series has been a huge let down for me.


                
