Average ., But over rated by publicity and ads , 
Very boring middle episodes . Something diffrent but not attractive. Far better movies and content created before by bollywood. This scared games is not for comman man . The aim of such type content is rich and high level maintaner users who will watch this for their status in friend circle not for entertainment bcoz they also want to be a adjust them self in friend circle and they all are inspired by each other and this game is produced by netflix. 
And planned. Only masala. Spice of abuses and nuditity mixed in so called gunda mawali story.


                
Sacred Games got the hype from the Indian audience to be something original and India's answer to Narcos. But the facts remain that it is badly adapted, lot of scene ideas lifted from other shows and movies, lot of characters poorly done. Saif, Nawaz and Jitendra Joshi do commendable acting. Others are not to the point. Radhika Apte plays the same character in all movies, don't know why, even if you see her old movie called Sant Tukaram where she leads with Jitendra Joshi, she's acted the same. The series lacks a lot of pace,and is not that gripping. Also, the book is quite old and lot of ideas have already been done by now, so nothing new and great in this series. The main plot of the story starts in the beginning, and then is no where mentioned till the first season ends.


                
I only saw the pilot - but was not motivated to watch any more of this. Here are my main reasons:1. The acting. Saif is barely acceptable, and has all of 2 expressions: angry angst and mild bewilderment. 2. The story. From what's in the pilot, it promises long-drawn convolutions for the sake of convolutions, but does not draw you in at all to find out what it is all about3. The details. Attention to detail SUCKS, people. I guess if you are used to the typical Bollycrap then this will not be a factor but for anyone with half a brain and used to the usual Netflix quality, the lack of attention to detail and taking viewers for granted is really appalling. Examples: (A) A man is killed by having his skull bashed in while in a river. As he floats, no blood visible in the water. (B) The main character who is supposed to be a cop, appears to be so badly trained in basic police procedure that he walks in front of a lit glass wall without crouching below the line of sight, when there might be an armed suspect behind it.Overall - don't waste your time with this rubbish.
The show is over hyped at best. Unnecessary foul language and sex scenes thrown in which doesn't help the narrative in anyway. Oh and there's lot of hindu basing. I guess it's the flavor of the season.Comparing it with Narcos or any other Hollywood top shows is utter nonsense. At best it can be seen as breaking INdian TV stereotypes. Giving 9 or 10 rating is just ridiculous.Indian shows has a long way to go before they can be called world class and watched all over the globe. Not just by Indians who are happy to give high rating just because something is produced in India.


                
Super stars also cannot help as the storyline and direction ... and a complete absence of that one character which can carry the show. The character build up is absolutely pathetic. Very soon , when this is a thing of the past , Anurag will talk about the reasons which killed the show. 
Some of the supporting characters though have done a great job.


                
Show is not people are looking for no proper story , they try to make narcos of india but is not 10% of it. it is better to watch breathe of amazon original.


                
I loved the book and really wanted to like the series. The book had excellent pacing and had me captivated from start to finish. I made it thru the 3rd episode of the series before I gave up. It is style over substance, boring and illogical; huge sections that just don't make any sense. However, it does have me interested in re-reading the book.


                
