The first original Indian series from Netflix; had a lot of expectations. I can safely say that most were adequately met, even exceeded. While admittedly the story has nothing new to offer, this Bombay gangster series is stylishly shot and executed with finesse. Bombay becomes a character in the series and the chasm between the classes which is so in-your-face in Bombay is captured beautifully. All major cities have class differences but none of them are as stark and apparent as they in Bombay. I was also happy to see it called by its old name of "Bombay" in English and "Bambai" in Hindi -felt authentic. The story itself is a cat and mouse game involving a variety of characters - mob bosses, religious figures, a gender-neutral character, corrupt cops, the inevitable honest cop, a female cop from a central police agency. While stereotypes are rift, there some funny touches. The nick names given by the female CBI officer to store numbers on her cell is an example as is the track of the police constable trying to get an intimate moment with his nagging wife. The ending leaves plenty of scope for a sequel - I do not wish to get into spoilers but what is a thoroughly satisfying series seems subject to an abrupt end. Saif Ali Khan is top notch and quite unlike an Indian hero for he keeps getting beaten up with alarming regularity but his character is the moral compass of the show. Nawazuddin predictably owns every scene he is in - it is an extension of his character from Gangs of Wasseypur. How you miss Manoj Bajpai though. A great thing about Anurag Kashyap is that he is able to find character actors who leave such a strong impression on the screen. And "Sacred Games" is no different.
All the character actors are uniformly excellent. I tried listening to the track in English and it is atrocious. Not only does it take away from the authenticity of the proceedings, it is also badly dubbed. Imagine watching Narcos in English. Whoever took a decision to add a dubbed English track needs to given some counseling. If you want a better experience, watch the show in Hindi with English sub-titles. Vikram Chandra's novel "Sacred Games" was a critically acclaimed book, but it was a commercial failure. The writers have done a good job salvaging what is a middling novel at best. How I wish these same writers would employ their considerable skill to a nice World War era Indian thriller.I look forward to more original Netflix Indian series soon.


                
So I seen that this show is getting the ratings compared to game of thrones, breaking bad, ext. so I had to check it out. After the first episode it caught my interest so I continued to watch. The show stayed consistent and was good a little boring at times but in NO WAY does it deserve such a high rating. I was disappointed watching it because I expected so much more with a 9.4 rating!!!! It is a GOOD show BUT not even close to a GREAT show with a 9.4. I use IMDB all the time and is usually very accurate with the ratings, but in this case it is WAY OFF.


                
This show is unlike any other Indian TV show. There's plenty of swearing, graphic violence and sex scenes.It's very gritty.However that does not mean that the show is good. It's very slow moving, I'm 4 episodes in and still there is no clue as to what the big threat to Mumbai is.If you primarily watch Indian shows and movies then this will be something new and exciting but otherwise it's nothing special.


                
I seriously don't think the amount of violence and sex in the series is justified. At times, it seemed as if the scenes were forcefully included to invite more edgy audience. That being said, I think Nawaz deserves some serious applause for his role. The atmosphere that Nawaz creates around him in all 8 episodes makes me stumble in the thin line between script and reality. I wouldn't mind being occupied with anticipation for the next season.


                
Do not go by the 10 star reviews, majority of the Indians here have given the 10 star rating and have started comparing it to Narcos, GOT and breaking bad and even calling it a breakthrough in Indian cinema. I am an Indian too but it is disappointing to see some of the reviewers have given high ratings coz it is on Netflix and the considering the origin of cinema instead of the strictly reviewing the title. Agree that the show is bold because of no CBFC certification but just because there are abuses in every second dialogue does not mean its brilliant. The show is a decent watch, dragged a lot and I am guessing they have planned 3 seasons at least for the show. Overall 7/10


                
It's a good series. But not a very good one. It's a typical bollywood gangster movie. With long in the duration. Gangs of Wasyepur flavor is all over. You can also see Bombay velvet and once upon a time in Mumbai style in this. The actor who plays bunty is not at all suited in the role. And OMG why Radhika Apte for RAW agent? She is looking and behaving like a 3rd grade journalist of a local newspaper. 
Nawaz is Nawaz for these kind of roles. Saif did very good job.
Everything is very good in the sacred games #acting #direction #sound etc.watch it guys.


                
First episode and I was like "wow this is a revolution for Indian cinema"
Second episode and I was "for sure it is a revolution"
.
.
Fifth episode (in as many days), now I have started using my head and not just the heart .. and then it comes to me .. (after seeing bunty's ding dong) .. that may be just may be Sacred Games has been made in this intention of giving people a feel of revolution becoming ..
And by the end of it I felt that there were one too many scenes which could have been avoided to be equally as good and still leaving a room for imagination.
People might argue that it is based on a novel but I bet, anything you want, not more than 5% of the viewers knew this before the series.Mind you guys .. I am a young Indian with the capacity of almost the same number of abuses as Mr. Nawazuddin (gaitonde) in a day .. and I am okay when he says "maa ka bho***" in a typical North Indian way .. though he is "gaitonde"
I am okay to see boobs and intercourse and all 
I am okay to see Bunty's posterior .. but his ding dong ?? .. oh there was just no need. And if someone says it is for the direction .. Man !! you need help.
Similarly, showing the organ of the third sex rather leaving it for imagination .. nope .. the other way round could have been even better.
These are those few of the few reasons where Sacred Games is more like a 7 for me.Closing this review and I might draw a lot of flank here, in all honesty I feel that albeit Sacred Games is a really nice watch there are a few over the top things which, knowing Anurag Kashyap, are expected.
And then how the public has a part of cattle's herd for quite a few years .. and just binge watching it .. there is no wonder it is 9 point something and not 5 point something :)


                
Whenever I used to watch international tv series, I always thought how this would look if the backdrop was Mumbai, Sacred Games is the answer to that, good cast and great characters


                
Good show but very poor sound. Volume very low. Have to watch with subtitles because one can't hear


                
Sacred Games is a decent watch though the 9+ rating is undeserved for the series as a whole. The weakest part of the series is the story is all over the place, it tries to do too much and you don't really care for the most part what happens to the people involved. With that said, the series is directed very proficiently, the cinematography is excellent and though it's not extremely high budget stuff I have absolutely no complaints on the technical front. The strongest thing going for Sacred Games is the multiple stellar performances. Siddiqui is brilliant and so damn charismatic. There's no amount of praise that could suffice for Radhika Apte's performance. It's worthy of an Academy Award, I have seldom encountered any actor, male or female, give such a natural performance. Saif, to his credit, doesn't come off as a flashy movie star and gives a solid performance as a humble cop. Did they have to dress him up in skin tight clothes for every scene though? In any case, it's an endearing performance, he was one of the few characters I empathized with. Even the actor who plays Saif's deputy gives a brilliant performance, there is literally no bad or unnatural performance to be found, even the bit actors are good. Another strong point is the action, interesting events occur throughout and no episode is boring. I have no problem with vulgarity or gore but at times found that these things (especially the swearing) was used as a crutch in a misguided attempt to keep things spicy and "realistic," when you do too much of something it kinda loses its impact. Sacred Games is a decent watch, not bad for a weekend binge, but that's all it is. A coherent, more interesting and focused storyline, carried by such a brilliant cast could have been something exceptional. But it's heartening to see the level of proficiency the Indian film industry has reached. The future is bright indeed, laudey!


                
In my opinion it is overrated bcz there is many better shows than this without nudity and slang language


                
People are comparing the show with Narcos. What a stupidity!!! Yes it is good but not comparing to Narcos. I think you'll have to give it a time.


                
Though it is a good start in bollywood, with a different plot but I feet it has used very abusive and bold scenes which was not required and that is just to compete with international series like GOT.


                
It is a good show at best. It does not deserve 10/10 and definitely not as good as narcos or breaking bad .People are review bombing it with 10/10 score and these are the same people who think race3 is awesome . This is a good show with good acting from everyone with a lot of hinduphobia shown by the director . The show has a gangs of wasypur feel to it but it is really not that exciting.


                
Nawazuddin is the backbone of this series well supported by Saif Ali Khan. Radhika Apte is okay. The series falls short in terms of screenplay. The entire Cuckoo plot seems too bollywoodish, almost hundreds of the movies have copied it. RAW is not potrayed in good way. Direction of Anurag is good and Vikram somewhere falls short. Saif is a good actor and ge should do roles like this. Political commentry is good and dialouges are okay. It is nowhere close to Breaking Bad or Dexter or Nacros but it is a good begining. It is Gangs of Wasseypur 3 with Nawaz as Faizak Khan of Mumbai. High Imdb ratings don't justify as this website also has given high ratings to crappy movies like Sanju. Watch and decide.


                
Little late but saw Sacred Games. Had a lot of expectations (IMDB 8.9). Tbh, I found it slightly overrated. Acting is top-notch & script flow is nice. But I feel we have seen better thrillers with surprising plot twists. Hoping next part of novel in Sacred Games 2 raises the bar


                
Pilot episode and season finale superbly written and directed, everything else in between kind felt unnecessarily stretched and little rushed sometimes. It's not bad or perfect but the subtle clues they've put into all over the episodes makes the finale interesting. It's like reaching the end of a Good thriller Novel "you know the ending but it still shocking". After a very long time I picked something to watch Bollywood produced And it's Good.


                
This series is awesome. This same as narcos, steve murphy - sartaj singh , pablo escobar-ganesh gaitonde , columbia -mumbai city. This series takes Indian cinema to a very darker tone.


                
Ok, done with Sacred Games. So much hype created over this show made me feel stupid not watching it. Had to check for myself what was the hype all about. In my opinion, the hype is real when it comes to the technicalities of cinema. The acting is purely unmatched with the likes of Nawaz, Saif, Radhika and Jatin (Bunty) and Jitendra (Katekar) showcasing the depths and study in great character work. I personally think that Saif outdid Nawaz in this. He was plainly breathtaking in his embodiment of Sartaj's character. Direction and cinematography are unprecedented or at least rare coming out of the Indian industry. Vikramaditya and Anurag are two juggernauts of two different aspects of direction. Anurag with his human conflicts and emotions, while Vikramaditya with his settings and realism. It is just mind-boggling, grotesque, beautiful, unapologetic, filthy and valiant all at the same time. The beautifully extravagant but uniquely understated music adds to the experience of the audience which just catapults the show to the top-notch leagues.What I found most inspiring was that the freedom from censorship which came with Netflix did not budge the directors from using this freedom responsibly. The nudity and violence while graphic, are not used for meaningless gimmicks to attract audience unlike Game of Thrones. The nude scenes as well as the violence have been dealt with very responsibly and with great effect whilst not distracting from the storytelling. What I found a bit peeving were the slow arc of characters, and sometimes even slower progression of the story. The second and the third episode especially seemed like a long thread to connect the main overarching storyline. This many a times loses the attention of the audience. As we finish halfway through the series, the episodes begin to tighten and feel more crisp. Little clues hidden in a non-linear structure of the show were masterful and keeps the audience at the edge for being clever to connect them. Lastly, the story while enigmatic and loaded with socio-political undertones, still did not seem mind-boggling for an otherwise exhilarating ride. The characters, their dogmas, their insecurities, their relationships, their ambitions, their lives, they all overshadowed this supposedly great story. Perhaps it is because this series is only the first act of an ambitious four season show, as we all know that only the first quarter of the book has been adapted in this season. Or perhaps, the story actually does not compare to the fine character-work which has been showcased by these maestros. As I haven't read the book, this conclusion is just based on my viewing of the series. Perhaps someone who has read the book could give a hint. But I still feel that this backbone of an imminent gargantuan threat is not unheard of and not something unprecedented in a story. I hope I am wrong and I hope the story is much more intelligent than what I am currently making it out to be. Surely, Sacred Games is a phenomenon in itself and a great leap for Indian cinematic prowess on the world stage.#BasTrivediBachJayega
#SacredGames


                
