First of all, if you're not from India, please do not watch the dubbed version, it's not necessary at all. Subtitles will do fine, and the unfamiliar tones of languages spoken in India only add to the amazing feeling of the show. I've heard people say the show is confusing and they couldn't follow the plot - try a little harder. Map out the characters if you must, replay a scene if you didn't understand. Most likely you were unable to understand because (sadly) western people are not used to Indian names or faces: it takes a little more effort to remember who is who. Take that effort. It's more than worth it. After a few episodes, I had no trouble following the storyline. I hope Netflix will create more shows from places all over the world, and that in time, this won't be an issue anymore. Some reviewers say Sacred Games can't be compared to Narcos. I think it can. Enough twists and turns, just the right amount of violence, engaging, political, touching... Characters are not good or bad, they're in between, and you're not sure whether to love or hate them. I truly cared about some of them, which I can't really say about the characters of Narcos. Gaitonde is a man who killed more people than you can believe, but the show still makes you love him, all credit going to the great actor Nawazuddin Siddiqui.I didn't rate it a 10/10 for three reasons:
I did not always find Anjali Mathur's performance convincingKukoo's story was dragged out too long in my opinionThe final episode seemed rushed, although I'm glad they gave us somewhat of an answer


                
If 'Crime' is the name of the dish then Anurag Kashyap is the masterchef in India. Simply WOW!!! Excellent performance by the whole cast. Can't wait for season 2.


                
Finally a matured, bold and raw content from indian cinema. Sacred games shows that what is anurag kashyap is capable of. He has the guts of telling and showing the dark side of indian, is appreciable. I loved the visuals and music that are superbly blend with the series. Ganesh storyline was quite a roller coaster ride for me, never disappointed me. The story was quite unpredictable anyone can die at anytime, anything can happen to anyone. For me involving epic stories like ramayan references for series is a smart move, I enjoyed those portions. Some scenes and dialogue are really need special attention, hat's off for anurag Kashyap. For pilot episode was too good and rest are good but I felt like it was missing something. This series was doesn't show many characters deeply inside so, we can't feel or connect the characters, which doesn't have the impact when they died. Overall, the story doesn't end, it will continue for next season and many things are left untold. Overall it was a good series not the best, but a benchmark to make many bold series in India. Highly recommend for watching.


                
The adaptation by Mr Grover has been fantastic. The combo of Kashyap And Mr Motwane working in tandem with the direction has yielded some fabulous results. Credit is due for the casting dept as well. Aniruddh Mehta has brilliantly done the artwork.Siddiqui holds his sway and it was expected. The work of Ms Apte and esp Mr Joshi get a special mention here. How crucial a capable director is to a project, that has been amply depicted here. The audience get to see (after Being Cyrus and Omkara), a good performance by Saif. I would have preferred more 'normal' moments to either build the scenes, or for allowing the audience to gradually slide into the tight settings of this show. The storyline has been adapted to modern times than the original novel's for better relevance and the effect shows.Indian audience has been lapping up international shows since quite sometime and the sanskaari/aadarshvaadi CBFC has failed to keep up with times. Infact, During its formative years, India had THE most liberal setup. For a country that had prolly the most liberal set up, strangulating the content AND the makers has only been damaging. I also hope that the content makers do not go overboard with the 'freedom' and bring up content which can work nicely even if the words/scenes have to be 'sanitized'. That ll help broadcasting esp on the reg cable network. Hopefully all this will expedite the much delayed maturing up of the approach.Coming back to the series: The direction has been tight and actors have done a real good job here. Season 1 has covered around 1/3 of the novel, hence looking forward to the second (and maybe even a third season).


                
'Fear Of Missing Out' - the curse of the millennial generation propelled me to watch Sacred Games after it's massive success. 'Gripping, engaging right from the Pilot episode, this is a Mystery that will keep you hooked. The script, the cinematography, the performances, the casting, the direction - there's nothing that you would not like - it's not exactly Cinema considering it's a series but it's one of Indian Cinema's finest works in the recent times. The only thing that bothers me about such content that despite it's niche nature, it blatantly objectifies women. In the world of 'Sacred Games' the woman is supposed to fulfill mostly two roles - have sex or motivate the guy so he can have better sex with her. In addition, God forbid if you're one of those feminist types, chances are you might get triggered, screw up and end up dead because women have absolutely no 'good luck' whatsoever unlike the luck that men in the same situation are blessed with. On the other hand, the script is a good refresher in political history and religious commentary for Millennials most of whom were about to be conceived, either just born or were less than ten years old when events of massive influence plagued our nation. The parallels drawn and the saying-it-all-without-actually-saying-it was a treat to watch. In fact, there's literally a jaw dropping moment when the 'Salman-Katrina' relationship reference hits you. Looking at the treatment of the story - the strong symbolism, the layers of 'new age' metaphors and the story telling - all fit in perfect harmony. It's not like the former overshadow the latter, it actually adds another fresh layer to an already intriguing tale provided you can decode it. It's a great watch provided you can bear through profanity and some nudity. Will be tuning in to season 2 to see what happens to 'Teesra Baap'.


                
Nawasidiki and saif are amazing waiting for the 2nd part, something like this in hindi has never been seeing hope we get more entertainment like this


                
Beautifully produced, great acting, great dialogue, great gangster story from Gaitonde's perspective. I like the commitment to subplots that don't really intersect the main story; it adds realism and gives the filmmakers a chance to say a few more things worth saying while they have our attention.As for our hero, the inspector; by the third episode, I started to view his story as more of a comedy, which helped. He's a mediocre cop thrown into a situation for which he is completely unprepared; he can't tail anyone for more than five minutes without getting caught, and he never has a plan after that happens. His whole shtick is looking at bad people until they feel guilty enough to kick him a few times and let him go. But once you stop expecting a badass, or even a competent everyman, Singh's tale becomes an amusing fish-out-of-water story (with some extra blood).
Cast was excellent, story line complicated but coherent and enjoyable. The music and sound effects were wonderful but sometimes would step on characters lines making the pace and accents incredibly difficult to keep up with. Kudos to most of the voice actors but for United States distribution it would have been a more pleasant experience if American accents were completely used.


                
Never expected this from the Indian cinema industry.


                
Anurag and Vikram have done a very good job in showing each and every character , to perfection !!! A must watch series


                
"Do you believe in God? God doesn't give a damn."Any series beginning with that monologue and a dog falling from a building is not going to be one marked by subtlety. Based on Vikram Chandra's 2006 novel of the same name, the plot revolves around an honest, low-ranking cop Sartaj Singh (played by Saif Ali Khan) and a resurfaced notorious crime lord, Ganesh Gaitonde (played by Nawazuddin Siddiqui) whose tip-off to Sartaj through a mysterious phone call about the city of Mumbai (called by its older name of Bombay throughout the series) being in danger sends him on a series of discoveries of a criminal empire that spans Bollywood, Government and even his own Department. As Sartaj follows the trail of evidence that Gaitonde leaves behind, a series of flashbacks showcases Gaitonde's rise from having a troubled childhood to one of the city's biggest organized criminals. The story follows a pair of parallel timelines, one showcasing Gaitonde's ascendance through the mid-'80s, and the other where Sartaj, in the present day, with the help of RAW (Research and Intelligence wing) agent, Anjali Mathur (played by Radhika Apte) tries to unravel the truth behind the impending danger on "Bombay".Although, with some clear flaws (the plot cliches for example), Kashyap and Motwane (Makers of the series) seem to have broken the dry spell of lack of quality in Indian cinema and TV content. 
Siddiqui's performance, having become a master in executing shady roles, is crisp and up to the mark. Saif's portrayal of Sartaj is balanced and controlled, contrasting to most of the roles he has done and outshining most of them as well (excluding his role in Omkara as 'Langda Tyagi').Overall, with respect to Indian audience, it is regular Gangster-cop chase with more profane, gruesome and accurate way of storytelling. It is completely worth binge-watching,' leaving you with a lot to desire and new secrets to uncover for second installment of the series.
.......... Is the season 2 is coming soon?..............
The Mumbai underworld has been a favourite of Indian directors. It has all the elements - ruthless, hungry for power gangsters, corrupt police, a cop with a vision, chaotic chases, etc. Add to that, highly explicit language and boobs, you've got yourself a hit. 
What makes this show different is that the cop (Sartaj Singh played by Saif Ali Khan) gets caught more than the criminals, as opposed to Indian action flicks where one guy can take down a whole gang without getting hurt. 
I've seen too many doomsday plots to find it innovative, but this one manages to keep you hooked with it's rapid pace and it's detailed, intertwined plotting. It brings up questions about the rise of Ganesh Gaitonde, greedy politicians, Sartaj's father, and slowly unravels the answers. Leaving some unanswered for Season 2.


                
Watch it.. Its worth.. Every scene is a masterpiece thing


                
Its an out and out Nawaj series. He outshines all the starcast put together, the storytelling, the emotions are well portrayed


                
Amidst all the rubbish stuff growing around the Indian TV shows like Bigg Boss, Nagina this sets benchmark. A series revolving around plots, tricks, forgery and murders this portrays the real life situations in the criminal world. 
Actors like Nawaz-Ud-Din add stars on one hand while Saif and Radhika also do original and excellent job. 
Direction is commendable and so is the storyline. 
A little seems to be inspired from Game of thrones series like the plot, music and this plays down the show largely. yet, this is the beginning of the new era in the Indian TV shows. With the freedom of liberty comes the true empowerment. Moreover, the truth cannot be distorted the originality needs to be shown in its true form. The concealment of facts and events cannot help solve the issues. 
The most interesting was the blow the religious dogmas that flout the minds of the innocent believers into corruption and crime. A much needed series for social and religious reform through enlightening of the truths around hidden around the large banners. 
The ending forces you to desperately wait for the next season.


                
I loved this show because it's not censored. In India where movies get so many cuts that they lose the plot this show is well ahead of them. The name of episodes, background music, cinematography and dialogues, they did a lot of work to put all this together to complete this season.
The writing is up to the mark for this show and hence the directors did their respective jobs well.
The possibility of next season gives something to cheer!!!
Every character did the job well so eventually casting was amazing.


                
So all it took Indian directors was a good crispy script,liberty to actors to perform and an international production house give the right motivation that's needed to break the mould from saas bahu and outshine the rest and be at par with global standards.
A job well done finally
Saif could still have a different expression time and again i


                
50% of the show is Nawazuddin, 30% goes to the editor Aarti Bajaj who has done a remarkable job and rest 20% goes out to Vikram Chandra for a great story and plot.....overall Vikramaditya Motwane and team has accomplished what they set out to achieve quite accurately......cinematography and treatment is pretty much consistent to Anurag Kashyap productions and nothing new.....would be interesting to see something refreshingly new from Anurag Kashyap productions


                
Initially i want to appreciate the effort to make a series out of a book and it is very rare to occur in Bollywood. When the story as anyway in connection with the real world, that is the most intriguing thing for a viewer because it enables to spot and connect the dots in the real world. The casting is simply brilliant and the directors' treatment is another bonus. I am telling that because it could be an another "CRIME THRILLER" series just as a handful of those "ENGLISH SERIES" available in NETFLIX.But the directors' decision to stay true to the story and so with the treatment what this series standalone. I could be just me but i felt a little bit of "GAME OF THRONES" influence here and there in the series apart from the nudity,I thought the "CUTTING AND SCREAMING" reminded me of that. HEY it may be just me I am looking forward to why that had to happen in the upcoming season. It is definitely a must watch thriller.


                
But not the best one. 
Story line is good. Acting was very good all actors except the role of RAW agent Radhika apte. She was complete misfit with ordinary acting without making any impact. Locations are good. Some characters like kuckoo doesn't make any sense. There was no need for that role at all. Also the nude scene was unnecessary. It looks like to give international touch they have unnecessarily added the nude scene.


                
Good show but the main inspector cant sneak around to save his life. He just walks around all willy-nilly with his super tight jeans, thinking people cant see him at all. Dude you are standing right under a street light and night. They can see your butt for sure dude. Skinny jeans don't make you invisible. Find cover!


                
It's been a good start of Netflix to introduce an indian tv series with sacred games...
This series has many breathtaking moment,smaching dialogue,and with great acting of our indian actor make the series remarkable...
There are some moment which lag the series but overall we can say our indian cinema is at it's best.....
Rating=7.8


                
For Indian cinema this is something special. For cinema in general: not so special. It gets a high rating because of all the Indian(related) IMDB members. Anurag finally cut ties with the Indian certification system. This is a huge and important step for free speech in Indian cinema.


                
Take Bollywood , Strip Away the Item Numbers , Actors with wodden expression , pointless Gravity Defying Stunts and add a story and talented Cast and you get Sacred Games.
Having Stopped Watching Bollywood for about 5 years , this was a breath of fresh air . 
Gave 8 Star Rating , Because Still Not Of Game Of Thrones or Breaking Bad Quality.


                
