I tried to watch this show when it was on and just could not stand watching a bunch of whiny, selfish, dysfunctional 30 somethings complain about the happenings or not of their pathetic lives(I had enough of that in my life). I have since caught a few episodes in reruns, unfortunately. This was never a funny show. The comedy club spot at the beginning was weak with jokes being delivered as if Jerry was practicing in front of a mirror, instead of speaking to a supposedly educated audience and the situations were improbable with everyone having no type of common sense at all. The show was poorly written and each episode was about nothing at all. I just don't understand the appeal.


                
I can't believe anyone liked this show. Seinfeld sucked. Jerry, Kramer, Elaine and George were all unlikeable losers. I watched several episodes and found nothing funny. All just incredibly lame crap about "man hands", Jerry holding a pez dispenser, George not being able to hold down a job and Jerry and George talking about stupid topics like buttons. Not to mention Elaine trying to dance.It just goes to show that some people will laugh at ANYTHING. Some people think it's funny to see a guy get kicked in the groin or for people to be humiliated on those talk shows, so it doesn't surprise me that there are people out there who actually liked this stupid show.Why TV Guide put this show at the top of its greatest shows of all-time list shows you that the people at TV guide couldn't distinguish between a television screen and the window on a microwave oven.
What's all the fuzz about this sorry show? So many people who praise it and... well, I have seen several episodes. Research, you know... I not even SMILED ONE DAMN TIME.Either the series is not funny at all, or I am one of those 2% of the worlds population that just doesn't get it.No, I don't think so... I like other series that ARE FUNNY.Apart from that ALL the characters are whiny, annoying and plain uninteresting, there's not even ONE JOKE in there...I always waited for something funny to happen... instead, one of those @$$#**es goes somewhere, something bland happens and he/she makes a problem out of that incident which is then "carried out" by the rest of the dumb bunch...This show is worthless.I want my time back....


                
Ah, Seinfeld. Where do I begin with my dislike for thee? Well, let's start with the four main characters.Jerry: The leader of the four and the main character. He is an unfunny rather wimpy character, who somehow earns a living as a stand-up comedian. I have seen funnier comedians at open-mike nights at my college. Mr. Seinfeld seems to think that saying something in a whiny voice will make it funny, but he just comes off as a whiny little punk.George-A gloomy Gus who seems to take pleasure in complaining about everything in his life. When he lands a soft job with the New York Yankees he moans and groans as if he is be asked to handle live cobras. Perhaps because of this he has an inability to keep a job, yet somehow he gets to go out with gorgeous women. His parents are obnoxious, especially his father,with that kind of home life growing maybe it's no surprise George is the way he is.Elaine-A woman who can never find the "right guy" , which seems to be a cause for much amusement in the Seinfeld universe. Elaine is steadily employed , and she is the character that grates on my nerves the least.Kramer- A puffy haired dope who acts like he is on crack. A guy who does absolutely nothing and yet always seems to have money, he lives across the hall from Jerry. Some people find Kramer to be "quirky" i find him to be an obnoxious cad. Kramer is the sort of guy who, if you encountered him, would make you call the police or a mental hospital. Instead when people meet him, Kramer is regarded is royalty or some such thing.He is good friend with the obnoxious Newman a mailman who's only function is to get on everyone's nerves. Well here the writers hit a success, Newman, like all the other characters is annoying as all get out.
I was excited to begin watching Seinfeld, the great ratings, the reputation, the quotes, everything around me was giving the impression that I'm about to watch the greatest sitcom ever, the I'm about to experience an hours of non stopped laughs.. But what happened was something unexpected, at all.. I watched the first three season with absolutely no smile at all, and before quitting the show i watched the highest 2 rated episodes on IMDb , but nothing changed ! It was childish, annoying, the acting was the only thing that is funny because it was so primitive.. i watched Scrubs, The Office, Friends, Community, Parks and Recreation, these are Comedy, Seinfeld is just something annoying that his success is one of the mysteries that cant be solved..


                
I watched Seinfeld intermittently during it's original series run in the 90's, mostly because the people I happened to be around back then loved it, as did most everyone else it seemed. At the time, I found it to be somewhat amusing at best and headache-inducing at worst. Over the years, the show's popularity has remained intact for whatever reason. For me, "Seinfeld" does not hold up, and the majority of episodes lack any sort of social commentary or edge which could have somewhat compensated for the series' overall lackluster content. It's not surprising the infamous "contest" episode remains the show's high-water mark, and only instance when the series attempted be ground-breaking or risqué in any respect. The character of Seinfeld is grating. Whiny, wimpy, and one-dimensional. And he never does really say anything funny. Asking: "What is the deal with airplane food?" is not at all meant to be a hysterical joke. But the way Seinfeld delivers the line will cause people to double over in laughter for whatever reason. And then we have Michael Richards with his Ed Norton Honeymooners impersonation. Kramer enters a room like a crack-addicted meth head and the audience laugh track gets turned up to 11. In real life, an oddball like Kramer would get dumped on continuously by society. But in the world of Seinfeld, Kramer is the toast of the town and a hit at every gathering. Cue the laugh track again.And then we have George Costanza, a short, overweight, bald, middle-aged sack of worthlessness. George is a neurotic Woody Allen type, who complains about everything. If he sees a piece of lint on the floor, George will begin bellyaching about it incessantly. He has no problem getting dates with beautiful women and has a sweet job for the successful New York Yankees organization where all he does is sit in an office and collect a nice paycheck. Rather than feeling grateful and blessed, George insists on complaining nonstop about the most irrelevant aspects of his life. His parents are like nails on chalkboard, with his father yelling and screaming about obsolete and utter nonsense at every turn.Then there's the character of Elaine, who just can't seem to find the right guy. She is not even worth getting into since I have never heard even Seinfeld fanatics act as if they particularly cared for this character. Nor do I recall any of them reminiscing about their favorite "Elaine" moment. She was pretty much to the show what Ringo was to the Beatles. No disrespect, Beatles.For me, the most hilarious Seinfeld moment was the one that took place many years after the show thankfully ended. It was on David Letterman, with Michael Richards apologizing for his racial outburst at a comedy club caught on phone cam and leaked to the internet. Seinfeld was a scheduled guest Monday night the weekend after the video made rounds, and was plugging a season of the series being released the following day on DVD. Richards awkwardly appeared in the middle of the segment via satellite to deliver a heartfelt apology, which was greeted with hysterical laughter by the Late Show audience. Seinfeld scolded them, angrily shouting: "Shoosh, It's Not Funny!!" The fact Seinfeld needed to inform his audience it wasn't a bit proves they were never doing anything funny in the first place.


                
Comedy is subjective, it's why I love it as a genre so much.However for me Seinfeld isn't funny. I know lots of people will dislike my review now having said that, but it's the truth. I don't find the set-up, or the characters funny.It was a cult hit in its day but here in the UK it didn't really air much and is more of the sort of show you think you should like but really can't get into.The less said about the rubbish series finale the better. A fine example of how to wrap up a show.But then again, comedy is subjective.


                
When they say this is a "show about nothing" they mean it. There is nothing here, nothing at all.The facts from previous episodes are ignored and contradicted not just once, but often. It has no internal consistency.It gets plaudits and awards, despite wholly predictable and stereotyped characters, nonsensical plot lines, poor performances and humor that isn't actually funny.This is a show about living in New York, aimed at New Yorkers, but largely ignoring the fact that most Americans aren't from New York, don't actually care about New York and would not be seriously concerned about New York.


                
I will never understand how Seinfeld gets so much praise from people. I especially will never understand why TV Guide ranked it at #1 on their list of the 50 Greatest TV Shows of All Time. I have tried watching the show on several occasions and I've found problems with it: Seinfeld is not remotely funny, the writing is of poor quality, the characters aren't likable, the acting is fairly poor (then again, the quality of acting is mainly dependent on the quality of the writing) and instead of a plot, it has a poorly-conceived concept. I believe that a truly great show should have: high-quality writing, acting, directing, production and story lines--qualities that Seinfeld lacks. Maybe I'm in the minority, but I prefer shows that actually have plots and story lines to them rather than just a bunch of random scenes thinly tied together. For those people who enjoy Seinfeld, good for you, but I think it's overrated. I prefer serialized dramas where things actually happen. When I want a laugh, I prefer almost any comedy over Seinfeld.


                
Never understood the appeal of this show AT ALL. Shows like this prove once again just how dysfunctional society has become. None of the characters on this show were funny. This has to be the most overrated show of all-time. I remember watching an episode at a friend's house, and this show was annoying as hell. I guess it becomes the "in" thing to say you're a fan. People will watch and enjoy whatever the network decides to put on. Only reason junk like this becomes a hit is because some rich business people with a lot of money see to it that this crap gets heavily hyped. People mindlessly follow whatever the trend is and will but whatever is out there. Not funny, not even a chuckle.


                
I just don't get it. Here is the way I assess Seinfeld's popularity. There are 3 reasons, none of which have anything to do with it being a cleverly written show. 1) They have good actors/actresses who had great chemistry together. 2) They were a bunch of smart asses who fit into a smart-ass society (this show does not transcend time) 3) They benefited from what I call the placebo effect. What do I mean by that? .. people, newspapers, etc, told them it was great. sometimes shows just take on a cult following and it snowballs with little foundation.the characters are amusing, and the plots are semi enjoyable, but I want to see clever writing out of a comedy show. I want to laugh, and think to myself, 'that was a clever way to deliver a 'punch line' (so to speak).... what do you get from Seinfeld? characters who pretend they have a funny script and say things in funny ways and of course much of America goes gaga over it. the next time you watch it, notice the very things you are laughing at. I mean like the gang being at the restaurant and one of them offering a bite of a ice cream cone and the other saying "you are just offering me something so I will offer you something" and the audience laughs?or shrinkage at the pool? when I was 10, my friends and I would laugh about that.'you want a piece of me'? really? this is funny?? this is clever? Larry David is considered a 'genius'. wow! how standards have dropped. if only our society were more sophisticated. if you really want to see clever comedy writing, check out David Angell and David Lloyd of Cheer's fame.


                
After seeing the complete first season and some of the series of the second one, I must admit that it is not ELR or even "Friends" that's the most overrated sitcom of all times, but it is Seinfeld instead. Really why everyone (in America) thinks this is the best thing Hollywood Gods has created since Adam & Eve is truly beyond me. This is the most unoriginal, putrid and unfunny thing created since WW I. I am stunned, I really am. It happens once in a while to have some laugh, but never ROTL. And don't you dare to compare it to classics like Fawlty Towers or Benny Hill or mister Bean series. These have so much in common as the lamb and the lion have - they are both animals, but that's about it. Why do Americans use to laugh on something not even particularly funny is also beyond me, but still I can relate it to the (lack of) American culture. Europeans do not need to see this sitcom. You _HAVE BEEN WARNED_.P.S This show has good side, too. It is slowly and painfully coming to an end. On Jan 5, 2008 the very last episode will be shown here.


                
I cannot believe somebody found this show worthy enough not to be yanked five seconds through the pilot. In a world where brilliant TV shows are canceled in a matter of weeks, this piece of utterly demonic *garbage* ran for nine years!I do not dislike "Seinfeld." I am appalled by it. The very idea of watching mere seconds of this "show" makes me beg for sweet deliverance... something along the lines of fleeing this mortal coil, maybe! Jerry Seinfeld is probably the world's worst comic. Jason Alexander, who was so deliciously bitter and evil as the voice of Catbert on "Dilbert," is worth nothing here. Julia Louis-Dreyfus comes across as some kind of winky, loopy, flighty nightmare who always gets the short end of every episode (not as though there's a long end). Michael Richards is unbearable... I never found him funny! And the dreadful misuse of Wayne Knight is absolutely disgusting.The writing and situations are terrible. The photography could have been mimicked by any unconscious beluga whale and be improved. *Vastly.* And all the running gags come across as cheap efforts to win over an audience. Which they are.So don't allow this monstrously vapid pariah of a sitcom to insult your intelligence under the guise of entertainment. To see some great NBC sitcoms, look to the witty "Friends," the interesting "Frasier," and the tragically short lived genius of "Joey" and "Four Kings." And I implore any fans of... well, humanity to *not* watch this in syndication. Send the right message for a change! Don't contribute to the televised spawn of evil.


                
Though many (essentially the English-speaking world) view 'Seinfeld' with absurdly reverential awe, I hold that it is the most rebarbative and flat situation comedy of all time. For me, it is worthy only of the most vitriolic of criticisms and the most disdainful of regards. Since when, exactly, have profuse amounts of inane banter calamitously attempting to masquerade as witty repartee and chronically dull characters made for good comedy television? Has there been some type of comedy schism to which I have paid no heed?The thing I cannot stand most about 'Seinfeld' is the obnoxiousness of every single character in it. From television executives to octogenarians, reprehensibility remains their single common property. Most people like to think of this as Seinfeld projecting a misanthropic view of humanity onto the show, but I beg to differ. True misanthropy is to take umbrage at humanity for an extensive range of faults. If someone was to hold contemptuous sentiments toward man because of perceiving a collective fault in the species, they would be terribly misguided. While many people are obnoxious, there are some that are humble. Indeed, there are some whose humility is not conceived solely for the purpose of ingratiation. However, while they may be virtuous in regard to their self-image, they almost certainly will be infuriating in some other respect. They may be bereft of erudition, or they may be unbearably dependent. So, while they are neither egotistic nor narcissistic, they are still intolerable. This is what 'Seinfeld' seems too afraid to recognise; it would rather portray everybody as obnoxious to facilitate the viewer's process of perceiving the show as 'edgy' and irreverent. It is, in a sense, cheating.Of course, a select few of 'Seinfeld's' installments can irrefutably claim to bear some comedic merit ('The Soup Nazi', 'The Rye', etc.), but hardly to a degree that validates its prodigious stature. The show is nothing!


                
Why everyone thinks this show is so great is beyond me. This show consists of some very shallow people in New York pointing out others flaws when they got enough of their own so basically it is very very very very very very very very stupid pointless and unrealistic. It is not the best show ever made so TV guide should just forget about it. Yep you heard me don't watch this show it is a disgrace to all Television. It is about some ugly guys dumping women for no good reason when it is ridiculous that they would even go out with them. So I'm glad they don't make more of this show. I really hate it. I guess their were a few funny things most of the stuff was just stupid.Watch a much better show like friends for instance because that is a good show.


                
This sitcom is painfully bad. I can't understand its massive success. I've only watched the first few episodes and I don't see anything good about it. All of the main characters are repulsive - the most unwatchable of any sitcom I've ever seen. How are the viewers meant to care about, root for, side with or like any of them? They're selfish, arrogant, brash, dishonest people who talk too loudly in exaggerated NYC accents. If their repulsiveness is what's meant to be funny, then that's just one bad joke repeated over and over again - which I don't want to see or hear on my screen.There seems to be somesort of unofficial rule that you're not allowed to criticise this show or its characters. It's somehow considered 'sitcom royalty' -and praising it is perceived by many people as proof of being intelligent and classy.


                
This has to be the unfunniest sitcom ever made. I cant believe it got so popular and wellknown. it's so boring and depressing and empty that it's utterly painful to sit through it


                
Seinfeld is boring. It is not the least bit funny. Thank goodness no new ones are being made. Showing the lives of these whiny, self-centered, pathetic adults is not what I consider to be entertainment. I do not understand why other people find this show so funny. It's more entertaining to watch mold grow.


                
This has got to be the most boring, lame TV show to have ever aired. It is not the least bit funny. Having a gut-wrenching case of the flu is a lot funnier and more entertaining that this poor excuse of a show. It is about a bunch of whiny 30-something people who live in New York City and they complain a lot. They have the common sense of a ball of dust and the intelligence of a hunk of scrap metal.The main dude, Seinfeld, does somewhat of a stand-up comedy routine at the beginning of the show and is painfully boring. There's some lady in the show that is ditzy and fusses all the time. There's this really pathetic guy with glasses who whines and complains non-stop and his parents are just as bad. There's this guy named Kramer who's weird but is sometimes a little funny.I just don't get humor of this show. What is so freaking funny about someone called a "Soup Nazi?" It's a jerk who's rude to his customers. The episode where the bespectacled fellow eats an item from the trash is just plain repulsive, especially after I had to deal with stinky garbage at work that day.Thankfully, this show does not make new episodes so we only have to deal with the hideous reruns of this awful series. A lot of people find the series hilarious and good for them but I found the show to be a boring waste of time.


                
I dragged myself through the first two seasons hoping that it would get better but boy was I wrong. It's the same old stuff each and every episode and very predictable jokes which make you grin at best.Skip this show if you're trying to find something funny.


                
