SEINFELD exerted a direct influence on other sitcoms over the years, most notably EVERYBODY LOVES RAYMOND and KING OF QUEENS. The latter even featured a SEINFELD actor, Jerry Stiller, in a supporting role not too far removed from his SEINFELD character. SEINFELD was subversive, in that we came to like these four unlikable characters: the emotionally detached Jerry Seinfeld. the incredibly insecure and vindictive Elaine Benis, the deceitful, self-proclaimed (and proud of it) loser George Costanza, and the bizarre, dopey Cosmo Kramer who probably should have been institutionalized a long time ago. It's somehow fitting that these four ended up in jail at the end of the series. They formed a loose-knit family, since none could maintain a relationship for more than 10 minutes. So many great episodes, so many quotable lines. They even gave us a Christmas alternative, Festivus, celebrated with an aluminum pole, gripe sessions and wrestling matches among the males. You can feel the strong influence of co-producer Larry David, whose own show was SEINFELD without censorship and not nearly as funny. I recall Seinfeld admitting years later that he felt insecure working with such a talented cast. So it is interesting to note that "Elaine," "George" and "Kramer" have not had much luck in TV post-SEINFELD. Ah well, we have nearly a decade of SEINFELD episodes to keep us laughing and happy, and they play very well in syndication. You can watch any episode repeatedly and pick up something new each time. My one wish: to see the show minus the fake and obtrusive laugh track. I'd also like to know why the show's makers decided to portray George as an Italian and Elaine as a "shiksa." Were they afraid that four urban Jews would turn off the audience? I don't think it would have mattered, even in the corn belt.


                
When the show first came out, I admit I didn't like it much. Over time, though, I have grown to like the show. The four main characters are such social climbers that you can see that Larry David is satirizing the shallow materialism of the last 20 years. I think that Jason Alexander (George) is the funniest character. He is such a hypochondriac with such low self-esteem, that you can identify his character with people you know. Seinfeld is okay as a comedian, but really fits in well on his own show better than he has at anything else. Julia Louis Dreyfus is funny. She is the only one I am not sure is a true New Yorker. I heard that she grew up in Chicago, but I may be wrong. Richards is right in tune as Cosmo Kramer. Sometimes, he is the most irrational and annoying of characters. Overall, it is a pretty funny movie, that looks at shallow people who value money and attention over decency.
A lot of comedies owe a lot to Seinfeld. So it probably will depend if you watched any comedy show before going in to watch Seinfeld. Of course there has been an evolution and another TV show has been at least as influential (Friends). Overall time will tell what has made an impact. Think of Stanford and Son or even the Bill Cosby show (if you can separate the Show and the actual human being in the latter case).But back to this: A show about nothing as it proclaims very proudly. Now of course that is not entirely true. But it is true that it's about everyday life, about relationships and about being human. Flaws and everything included. That does not mean that you don't have a coherent story, actually there is something of a line. And at the end we do get some flashbacks to what happened so far. It is really funny and as with the Cosby show, hopefully you can watch this without having that incident in mind Michael Richards was involved with.I'm only saying this, because you might not be able to enjoy the show otherwise. Especially because Kramer was a favorite. Kind of like a male Phoebe, but with way more crazy in him. A good comedy show, with ups and downs, like real life ...


                
It is the last of the great comedies. Way before the reality shows and talent shows, we had the last of the great comedies. As really after the show left NBC, it was about the beginning of the end for the Peacock Network.Jerry Seinfeld really stars as himself but despite being a comedian. He is there to play the straight man routine for his crazy three "friends!" George(Jason Alexander), a lovable loser who can't manage a job, much less a girlfriend. Love struck on again and off again girlfriend Elaine(Julia Louise Dreyfuss), and side stealing lanky everyman, Cosmo Kramer played with wit,(Michael Richards).Show about nothing really was something as it left a lasting impression and reruns of the show still going strong in syndication!
Seinfeld isn't a popular sitcom particularly in my country. Anyway, I decided to give it a try, considering it's one of the most famous shows ever. I liked it from the beginning, because it was a one of a kind show. I especially liked that it wasn't dramatic at all, something I haven't seen in any other sitcom. I like Jerry Seinfeld as a comedian, but my personal favorite was Julia Louis-Dreyfus. She's unbelievable, I am a woman and I still can't resist her smile and her voice. I liked the other cast members too, but she really topped my chart. I didn't like that sometimes the actors were too dramatical and the story was a little too much to handle. It was so far away from reality, that it annoyed me a little. I liked that a lot of things happened for only 20 minutes, but still from time to time I didn't enjoy the ending. The best thing about the show is that you can see anything in it. And I really mean ANYTHING. It's like the writers don't give a damn about anything and they just use the first thing that comes to their mind, which is incredible, because, after all, they create a story out of nothing. And the story isn't boring, because nobody has ever tried to tell it, because it's so simple. And still it makes you wonder. That's what this show's magic's all about. You shouldn't think too much about the story, you should just enjoy it.


                
Seinfeld is definitely a television comedy for our times. Jerry, the neurotic comedian, is surrounded by a wonderful cast, many of whom show that neurotic desire as well.I just saw a wonderful episode where the gay life-style is depicted. After a woman, accidentally hears a conversation with Jerry and George, she jumps to the conclusion that they're both gay. The rest of the show is dedicated to them trying to prove otherwise. When they finally accomplish that fête, they make a mistake and it's back to the drawing boards once again.Naturally, to show political correctness, even though they're not gay, they keep apologizing to the gay community.A very sincere comic attempt to depict a social phenomenon for our times.
Seinfeld is fondly remembered as one of the best TV series of all time, though it won the Emmy for Outstanding Comedy only once; for most of its existence it stood under the shadow of Frasier. It's frequently funny, but I think of it as a standout in one regard only: it's a unique and sometimes smart experiment of having humour with no storyline. Rather, it prides itself on being a "show about nothing"- finding humour in ordinary conversations and ordinary events like waiting in a restaurant or going to the movies- despite the fact that it's about a stand-up comedian, not the easiest profession to relate to. And while storyline is usually pretty crucial to constructing good television, here we have the exception that proves the rule.On the side, this was a show about failed romances. Relationships are broken up for all sorts of reasons ranging from weird quirks to a woman's "man hands". People are categorized- are you a close talker or a loud talker? Additionally, there is value in the characters- the cruel but clean Jerry, the oddball Kramer, the lovable loser George, and everybody loves Elaine. With an often cynical view of life, Seinfeld offered humour that wasn't corny or cheesy, though there was little deep meaning. If you don't fall in love with the show, you still can't deny its quality of most of its episodes.


                
