If this had been written and played as a straight-out dark comedy - and if it had been at least half an hour shorter - perhaps it would have passed as a run of the mill movie. But since it has been presented as a serious mystery, it has committed the cardinal sin of filmmaking - that of disrespecting the intelligence and/or perspicacity of the audience. For us, the film represents a significant achievement in that it contains more and larger plot holes than any other movie we have ever seen - and we've seen many! This was even worse than Babel! That said - and a warning that reading further will take you deep into spoiler territory - the following is by no means a comprehensive list of the major holes in the plot. So ladies and gentlemen, start your engines and drive your semis straight through an impressive array of plot stupidity: 1. Amy buys a car listed on Craigslist for cash so there's no record of the purchase. How about title and license? Where does she keep the car until she needs it? How does she get to it when she needs it without being seen? 2. Amy buys lots of tech toys and crams her sister-in-law's shed with them. How does she get into and out of the shed without her sister-in-law (who doesn't like her) noticing? 3. The shed is where her husband sometimes has liaisons with another woman. They don't notice the accumulating gadgets? 4. The gadgets are bought online. Who is signing for them? 5. When the gadgets are investigated, whose fingerprints will be all over them - if there are any? 6. Desi is supposed to have broken into the house, beat her bloody and kidnapped her. There's blood all over the kitchen, but none where she would have been dragged out of the house? 7. As he supposedly leaves the house with an at best barely conscious Amy, Desi picks up her diary, takes it to her father-in-law's place and attempts to burn it in the furnace. Why? 8. How does Desi know where Amy's father-in-law lives? 9. Several days elapse from the time of the supposed kidnapping until Amy winds up at Desi's lake house. Can nobody attest to Desi's being at home during the time he was supposed to be kidnapping Amy? 10. What will be made of the video cameras at the lake house not showing anyone there for the first several days? 11. Desi was supposed to be holding her prisoner. Did nobody at the casino notice them there - including the man who thought she looked familiar? 12. Where does Amy's car wind up? 13. Phone records I: Amy makes the anonymous phone call tipping the police off to the contents of the shed. No record of that? 14. Amy scores a hole in one at miniature golf and jumps up and down for joy - which causes her money belt to fall off. This apparently was an Acme money belt on loan from Wile E. Coyote. 15. A couple robs Amy of all her money. Being the psycho she is, are we to believe that she is going to let them get away with it? 16. Phone records II. What is going to be made of Amy's phone call to Desi? Sure it was from a pay phone, but isn't it going to raise any flags? 17. Amy self-inflicts wounds - supposedly in the bathroom out of sight of cameras - to make it seem as though she has been bound and raped. Yet wouldn't the cameras show her entering the bathroom without wounds and emerging with wounds? 18. Amy winds up in the hospital upon her return. They put wristbands on her and one guesses they examine her - but they don't bother to wash the blood off of her. 19. Do they also fail to notice that there is no evidence of the injuries that would have occurred had she lost copious amounts of blood at the initial kidnapping? 20. Nick knows that Amy tried to set him up for her murder, thus opening him up to a possible death sentence. He also knows that when her plan blows up, she elects to murder someone who has never wronged her (other than being male) in order to cover up her actions which, until that point, may have been criminal - but not capital - offenses. Why does Nick elect to live in the same county as this woman, let alone in the same house? I could go on, but I realized before the movie was halfway over that I had already wasted too much of my life on it.
I'm only writing this review because I noticed this appears in the top 3 of IMDb's "Top Movies of 2014" at the time of writing. This in itself was enough to make me p*ss my trousers, but I then went on to read some of the reviews, after which I completely soiled myself.I'm all for suspension of disbelief, especially when watching Hollywood fare, but how is anyone buying this bullsh*t - and people are making comparisons with Alfred Hitchcock!? It's as if the second half of the movie forgets the first half had happened. Let's look at what unfolds:Psycho woman fakes own murder and plants enough clues around to implicate her husband. All the clues are so contrived that, for a short while, even the detective suspects all is not what it seems.Meanwhile psycho wife has skipped out of town and disguised herself by dying her hair slightly less blonde and smacking herself in the cheek with a hammer, presumably to look like some trailer trash victim of domestic abuse and consequently giving her an excuse to wear Jackie Onasis sunglasses. All of this is keenly noted by the perceptive woman she moves next door to, yet despite watching her story on the news every day, her actual identity completely illudes the observant neighbour.Despite psycho woman's meticulous planning and care, everything unravels when she accidentally drops a money belt (how does this happen?) with all of her cash in it, whilst, wait for it, playing crazy golf thus tempting said woman next door to rob her, which she does with the aid of her hick boyfriend. Calculating psycho woman sits by and does nothing at this stage. Instead choosing to call up an ex boyfriend and potentially throwing her entire plan to the wall. Luckily (phew!) her ex boyfriend is so obsessed with her (no-one knows why at this stage, or even cares) that he puts her up in his lake house with security cameras everywhere for her safety. He is quite happy for an innocent man to be sentenced to death it appears, despite having a visit from the guy in which he implies that there may be more to his wife than meets the eye. He does have very expensive sheets though.Meanwhile, despite their best efforts, animators fail to make the Ben Affleck model appear in any way emotional or human. Not even CGI has any effect, so they just give up an go home. By now, no-one in the audience cares and Ben is replaced with a peace of plasticine that was left over when Tony Heart created Morph. Nobody, not even the supporting actors, notice.Just when you think things couldn't become more contrived, psycho wife ties a ribbon round her ankle and throws some wine down her top to emulate the fact that she has been raped (?), or had a miscarriage, or just, I don't know, "Was that her favourite top she threw wine over, because she looks very upset in front of the porch camera." She then has what clearly appears to be (for the sake of the cameras), consensual sex with her ex, before cutting his throat with a box cutter and making a dramatic return to her husband, without so much as a call to the police. Falling into her play-doh spouses arms, she is then rushed to hospital, where she convinces local detectives and the FBI that she was abducted and held as a prisoner, by her ex, this whole time. Detectives and FBI suddenly suffer from complete amnesia and forget entirely about the murder set up. If she was abducted by her ex storming into the house and whacking her with a club, why does she have no injuries, is she some kind of self healing salamander. She'd only been gone for just over a week. Why did no'one notice this altercation, or the ex-boyfriend appearing in the middle of the day - after all, the neighbour noticed the door was open? Where did the several pints of blood come from on the kitchen floor? Why was the lounge area staged? Did the ex-boyfriend leave a slightly charred copy of her diary in her husband's father's oven? Even window-putty Nick has the sense to ask "Erm, how did she cut his throat if she was tied up all the time as she claims?" "To which the uninquisitive police response is, wait for it, "Can't you just be happy your wife is home?""Yes, of course, we should invite Bundy, Manson and the Wests around and celebrate"It's good to know that all you need to do, to hoodwink the FBI is act like a damsel in distress, wrap some rope around your wrists too tightly, and re-enact a scene from Big Brother using a champagne bottle for them to forget any evidence that may implicate you in murder or conspiracy to pervert the course of justice. I'm sorry but even as some sort of metaphor about domestic bliss or mass media, this film fails on so many levels. Total sh*t.
One of the most ridiculous spectacles of bad storytelling I have ever  seen in my entire life.  "Gone Girl" gets its title I think, from the fact that she was supposed  to be done away with (murdered and disposed of) but is really "gone"  psychologically<U+0097>she is a pure psychopath.  The movie tries to tell you that she is highly intelligent, and  meticulously plans to fake her own murder and frame her husband for it.  Here's the pathetic execution of her plan:  1. he leaves the house one morning, and she springs into action.   2. she breaks the glass coffee table, pours about a half quart of her  own blood in one puddle, in front of the kitchen sink. That much blood  from a violent attack would be all over the room.   3. she flees, leaving the front door open.   4. A nosy neighbor notices the door ajar and calls the husband (somehow  the neighbor knows exactly where he is.) But no one saw the wife leave.  5. The husband comes home. He has not a scratch on him.   6. he is totally co-operative with the police.   7. They eventually find her diary In a wood stove at the husbands  father's house. The wood stove door is ajar and the diary is only  partially burned; it really makes you wonder how that played out<U+0097>that  the husband put the diary in there to burn but just left it singed, all  that work, cleaning up the blood at home, but not to burn the book, as  if he needed to make a special trip to his dad's house to dispose of a  stupid book. and the only thing incriminating that she wrote was on one  page which he could've simply torn out.   8. When the wife runs away, she only changes her appearance slightly  and then, instead of secluding herself, she makes friends with some  low-lifes, with whom she sits and watches her story unfold on TV.   9. she murders the Neil Harris character in an attempt to switch the  blame to him. That would then imply he was the one that drained so much  blood from her back at her home, he cleaned it up and he put her diary  in the wood stove (?!)   His car wasn't seen at her house.   He then kept her a prisoner, starved and raped her.Yet she found the  opportunity and strength to kill him, but didn't call the police from  his house to come rescue her. rather she jumps in his car and drives  all the way home.   10. upon returning home she has no wounds consistent with the  bloodletting at her original house or at the hands of her alleged  kidnapper.   11. There is no visit to or investigation of the alleged kidnapping  crime scene<U+0097>house on the lake.  12. The hospital sends her home in a nurses uniform, underneath which  she is still caked in blood.  This movie is just about the lamest piece of S**** I have ever seen.
Just seen the film Gone Girl. I really struggled with the book and found it incredulous so never finished it but the film was getting good reviews so I thought I'd give it a go.What a pile of crap!Two and a half hours of my life wasted. The story is just unbelievable. Neither character makes you like them or hate them. They are just bland and, well, unbelievable. By the end I just wanted someone to firebomb the house and kill the pair of them. I would have stood up and cheered. As it happened it has a really lame ending.A waste of my life. Utter tripe!
Please do not waste your time or money on this nonsense. Oh boy where do I start. OK for me the worst thing is when she gets back and tells everyone that Neil Patrick Harris "kidnapped" her (Rosamund). He did this by bludgeoning her and she lost a large amount of blood which he cleaned up. Then he takes her diary to her husbands fathers house to burn!!!!! (how does he even know of this location)?????? But he makes such a p!$$ poor attempt to burn it which would take 5 min to do properly as opposed to the 30+ to clean the blood. and no one questions this even once!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! No one even looks for any wounds or asks about her wellbeing and she is not treated for any wounds. Oh and the hospital sends her home covered I mean a copious amount blood. No flipping way, the hospital would clean her looking for wounds especially with this much blood.I could go on and on but just read the other truthful reviews they will point out most of the other glaring mistakes and downright intelligence insulting nonsense. I really wish IMDb would have a 0 or negative review number as this does not even rank a 1. I give this -5 for utter bull$h1*.
I guess one thing this movie is really good at is getting people to just roll with whatever happens. Well, it's also beautifully shot and well-paced. But if you are intent on watching 'Gone Girl', I dare you to stay critical. Think logical. Because if you do, the plot is almost insultingly bad.Plot: (spoilers)Woman fakes her own murder and tries to frame her cheating, violent husband for it (a divorce wouldn't do?). In the movie you're presented with the framing plot around the 1-hour mark (or far earlier if you see it coming). So what happens for the rest of the movie? A train- wreck, is what. -The GOAL was to have her husband killed. As soon as she loses ALL of her runaway money (what was her plan once her husband was jailed, anyway?), she flees to her obsessive, creepy high-school sweetheart (who, mind you, was already similarly framed once before). Once he turns possessive (who'd have thought!), she KILLS him rather than try to flee, and manages to drive home, fully blood-clad, without alerting anyone along the way. Home, to the husband she wanted dead... right?-Upon arriving, she gives the police a terribly contrived story where she explains to have been kidnapped and raped day after day (doesn't really match with the security footage) until she (mercilessly!) killed her alleged captor. What she says hardly makes sense (interrupted several times by the one investigator who still has a brain), yet she is simply sent home. Still covered in blood. Yes, really.-There appears to be no further investigation in the past scheme of framing her husband: the countless credit card purchases stored in the shed, the diary which was conveniently left only slightly burned, the POOL OF BLOOD which was cleaned up in the original murder story (her kidnapper did all that??). The other ex-boyfriend who she had charged with statutory rape, surely he could help prove her extremely manipulative and utterly insane behavior?-Despite all this, there is apparently "no way" to come up with any concrete evidence of her crimes. No, we're not even given a remotely satisfying conclusion to this mess of a story. SURPRISE: his sperm from the fertility clinic was somehow stopped by his wife from being destroyed (even though she wanted to kill him the entire time?) and she manages to get pregnant with it (without him, her husband, being alerted of this at all).And then the credits roll, and I'm left thinking "how come so many people actually like this movie".
i got pulled in at the start it turned out like any other mystery, action movie all the clues and other attributes etc...but there was so many thing that just are so IDIOTIC that it pisses me off. I have had so much tension on this from the book thinking it will be amazing but it all went away half way through the movie.Spoilers: The part when she actually tries to make up the part of rape and when she puts wine on her skirt and whatever was so STUPID, WHAT ABOUT THE BLOODY CAMERAS YOU IDIOTS. And if you're going to say she disabled them, the what about the actual fake rape scene. she sucked his dick and was wearing lingerie for gods sake who wears lingerie randomly. if they looked at the cameras to watch the rape then what about the dick sucking and shirt tearing and pulling him in on you, then pulling a knife out from under the pillow. But what finished it for me was the ending. WHAT MAN LIKE HIM IN THEIR OWN MIND WOULD STAY WITH A MURDERING BITCH LIKE THAT AND STILL LOVE HER. This was my opinion you don't have to agree but i just found it so stupid.
Thought this would be a good thriller, but ultimately it was draining and depressing. Would think any man who sees this film would never want to have sex again......it portrayed woman/women as being monstrous and men as passive, sex-crazed zombies. The story had so many loose ends and unbelievable scenes, such as where she returns home covered in blood.....then she's at the hospital - there had to be an exam, then giving an interview to detectives, then comes home still covered in blood....how much time elapsed during these scenes, and who would allow her to drive around, carry on, covered in blood for all that time? With great emphasis on crass words for women, violent sex scenes, and a score that sounded like a synthesizer importing screeches from an airport runway, this was one depressing film. The only place it was believable was in its depiction of the media and how they revel in tragedy and perversion. If this becomes our prime form of entertainment we are in big trouble. Need to watch a pre-1960 film or musical now.
Actually a good well acted movie till the end. Ben Affleck was excellent and Rosamund Pike had me 100% convinced she was evil incarnate. Carrie Coon as Ben's twin sister and Kim Dickens as the lead detective also gave excellent performances. As for the story, I can deal with sad endings where the hero dies like Braveheart, Cool Hand Luke, and endless others. When the credits came up on Gone Girl, I could only regret spending over 2 hrs to watch a movie that left me that angry. I would have preferred she had just killed Ben Affleck and gotten away with it. Assuming the book had the same ending I would have thrown it across the room upon finishing it. I enjoyed the movie up till the end but that completely ruined it for me.
Never again will I trust the Metascore. Big fan of David Fincher, but let me tell you this movie was spectacularly bad. The score was ham handed and clashed with the film itself and I was embarrassed for the actors at some points that they had to say the ridiculous lines in the terrible script. I felt every single minute of this 149 minute movie. At one point my husband turned to me and whispered "this is really bad" and we started laughing. Then we started rewriting the story and recasting. For example, Ben Affleck could have played his own twin sister and it wouldn't have made the movie any more ridiculous. You might love it. I really, really did not.
As I read through the reviews and view the scores given to this movie by my fellow members I wonder if there is something deeply wrong with my perception. Or if others are drawn in by the ultra hype some movies are given before release and with that expectation start off viewing with rose coloured glasses.i.e. I saw almost everyone who acted in this movie on almost every talk show before its release. There were rave reviews in news articles both on and offline, on social media sites etc.I enjoyed parts of the movie even if I felt some of the characters did not have a good fit with others and most scenarios were not plausible. The story was interesting enough and fast enough paced to keep the viewer wanting more, but wanting is the key word here. The full air of mystery did not exist. Many areas did not leave much to the imagination and one was able to draw conclusion long before it played out on screen.Finally the ending failed miserably. Almost as if the writer reached a peak, ran out of thoughts and threw something together for a quick finish. I was very disappointed. I would have given a higher score if not for the movie's lack of a fulfilling end and the many unexplainable loopholes. Bottom line I was surprised after all the hype this movie turned out to be so very, very bad.
I wish I could rate this movie with a 0 Maybe the first part, is OK, before anything happens. When the action starts, you see that the acting, the plot, everything starts to go down the drain. I must say that in general the acting is very bad, and there are very stupid moments. Like when the wife returns after killing her ex-boyfriend, she is interviewed at the hospital were she arrived covered in blood, telling the story that she was raped. Well nobody cleans all the blood of her in the hospital, and she is in a room with at least 10 FBI agents that look goofy, a lot of local police, plus husband, lawyer etc etc. Then she leaves with her husband that was accused of murder and they go home together. Then I walk out, maybe 10-15 minutes before what I understand was a awful ending.How can IMDb give such a high rating?????
I've always considered David Fincher to be one of the greatest directors of all time (though 'Zodiac' was a mind-numbing, energy-draining train wreck, and 'Fight Club' is one of the most pathetic excuses for brute-masculinity-worshiping, apocalypse-craving, self-righteous, pseudo-philosophical, sexist-in-both-directions garbage I've ever seen, and possibly the most overrated film of all time, though there are certainly a few other contenders for that title). Still, Fincher was also responsible for 'Se7en', which is, by my index, one of the most powerful, engrossing, genre-defining films of the last few decades, not to mention his relatively recent direction of the brilliant 'The Social Network', his previous stewardship of 'The Game', and his laudable work on 'House of Cards'. So I was relatively certain, especially given its largely stellar reviews and a personal recommendation from one of my best friends, that after I went to see 'Gone Girl' this evening, I would have, at the very least, moderately enjoyed it, if not referring to it as a "modern masterpiece". In the end, what I enjoyed most about it was the pervasive running criticism in my head.I am locked in the throes of the biting emotional disappointment and vitriol this film just inspired in me, so my feelings are probably influencing me to go overboard with this particular slaughter, but I'm going to say this anyway: THIS IS ONE OF THE WORST FILMS I'VE EVER SEEN (and no, I'm quite sure that that is not an exaggeration)! It's not quite in my bottom 10 or 20, nor will it be, but it lives merely inches above them on my list (in Size-10 font), still swirling the soil at the bottom of the toilet bowl. It is an insult to whatever audiences it victimizes. It is, to borrow a word from one of my intellectual heroes, Daniel Dennett, a cavalcade of "deepities", as if a bad soap opera graduated to the big screen and suddenly got a little better at passing itself off as important and hoodwinking its viewers into swallowing its not-so-well-veiled insults at modern culture, marriage, men, women, logic, and law enforcement. Don't get me wrong: these are all things which are imperfect, and which often have aspects which beg for condemnation, but said condemnation for its own sake, or for the sake of uniqueness or political correctness or rebellion or ostentation, and built on a quagmire of its own obvious narcissism, doesn't convince, but rather sickens. And for all the moments it could have had in its Brobdingnagian duration, it found no honesty in any of them. SPOILERS AHEAD (though they might not all be well-understood by those who haven't seen the film)1. First of all, nobody in their right mind would believe Rosamund Pike's character after she "comes back from being kidnapped and raped" and gushes about her "loving and misunderstood husband", a story that most everyone in the general public (and the FBI, in one of the film's countless absurdities) seems to fall for, 'Gone Girl' equating the American general public and the FBI with Charlie Brown, and Pike with Lucy.2. I really do wonder if Ben Affleck has ever had a single truly honest moment in front of a camera, whether in interviews as himself (one quite recently with Sam Harris and Bill Maher, among others), or in his ridiculous movies playing wooden characters ('Daredevil', 'Jersey Girl', 'Gigli', 'Pearl Harbor', 'The Town', and now 'Gone Girl', to name a few). He is somnolent and one-dimensional, with rarely a hint of color.3. I know a film is bad when my absolute favorite thing about it, not to mention the most convincing thing, is a character played by Tyler Perry. What a joke.4. This film tries to convince us that all or most men are lascivious, shallow sex-pigs who only care about women into whom they have a chance of inserting their penises, and into whom they wish to do so, and that all or most women are manipulative, vindictive, masterfully-controlling, mind-reading femme-fatale-potentials, who are always putting on a face for everyone, who are so complex and misunderstood and deep and brilliant, and who only want husbands who are completely spineless and too afraid to stand up to them, and whose love of anyone but themselves is not but a well-crafted charade. Such notions are not only adolescent stereotypes (and pathetically tired and pedestrian, even for that age group), but bear little, if any, relationship to reality. Reality is far more nuanced, more interesting, and more pleasurable, with many more twists and turns. And both men and women are aggregates that consist of mostly very good people, despite many examples to the contrary. Norman Bates really isn't that common in real life.5. Neil Patrick Harris' character (the worst-cast character in the whole story) made no sense. It is not believable that he would side with Pike after everything she put him through before, when she set him up similarly to the way she set Affleck up, and it is not believable that he would keep in contact with her or let her into his house. The film is just littered with increasingly-laughable implausibilities.6. The scene where Affleck and Pike meet is one of the worst-written scenes of dialogue or human interaction I've ever witnessed, far more absurd than anything from 'Titanic' or 'Dawson's Creek' or 'Twilight', and far more nausea-inducing. I expected so much more from David Fincher, though I guess the dialogue is Gillian Flynn's fault. Still, he should've fixed it.To conclude, I beg of everyone who reads this: please don't contribute money to this film! Seriously, you could inevitably be doing something far more valuable with both your time and said money, and films like this should stop being made.
Gone Girl had the potential for a great plot and movie, the plot was given away very early on as you knew he didn't do it because of the bar scene with his sister, then I sat there bored with a couple of moments of interest. Seemed to have some resemblance to the Lacy Peterson case, in other words lost some otherwise originality. So you know what is going to happen what you didn't know was all the details of why, which found dull, I like more of a traditional mystery/drama. Personally didn't see any academy award acting. The ending was way to far fetched, just absolutely unbelievable that 3 law enforcement agency would just take a position of "Oh Well", the group grope to interview her was totally unrealistic, I really was wondering if this was such a low budget film they just didn't have enough funds to complete the movie and they had to jam multiple plots in a single scene. I think the hype this is getting is why people believe our entire world is contrived, we can't all be crazy. The movie was a loser.
SPOILER!!!I read the book, I watched the movie, let me tell you something: This is the dumbest s***storm they ever tried to sell me as good.Just one thing, and it will say it all: Is this good??? NO! I read the book and I thought it was the most unrealistic s**t I ever saw in my life (especially the Amy and the FBI part where they believed everything although the whole story was screaming I'M A F****ING LIAR!) the movie was the same... it's a huge disappointment both the book and the moviethis whole thing is dumb. the girl is clearly a psychopath, they try to sell her as mastermind who thinks about EVERYTHING. They try to show the police as stupid bastards who will believe every coincidence just because the woman was raped
Big spoilers in this review! From the off this movie was slow, slovenly written, tediously directed with some half decent acting. I just could not connect to the characters, which were just there to be manipulated by the writer(a theme of the film). Plot - wife disappears, apparently killed by her husband, who becomes increasingly under pressure to be arrested (media and a rent-a-mob crowd holding banners!). Suddenly big twist as wife reappears to tell her story, and the film drags itself to an unsatisfactory conclusion with the odd pot shot at the amoral media (TV actually). The plot of the first half owes itself to 40s noir with all those pictures with Barbara Stanwyck and Lana Turner in - now regularly revisited in made-for-TV movies. Then the second half turns into 'Basic Instinct' with buckets of blood, and the will she - won't she get away with it trying to drum up some vague tension. We even get a sex scene, where the wife's panties never move but she is being entered by a right schmuck. Another case of the star actress does not flash but earlier a minor actress goes topless in a fumble with the husband!Awful rubbish and a waste of two and half hours of my life. Certainly not the intricate shredding of marriage as an institution by everyone using facades/manipulation to merely survive that the press reviews trumpet. It is unbelievable because the characters have stepped out of an author's head and not anything remotely resembling real life. The only problem for reviewers was a lacklustre final third which some have tries to explain away as satire.The day after I saw the movie, I was still mulling over that problematic final third, when it struck me that the whole thing built into a savage condemnation/diatribe at FEMALE EMPOWERMENT - something the Liberal Intelligentsia could never approve of, even if they noticed it1 Let me explain. the wife (Rosamund Pike who is OK) is upper middle class and well educated, but also a psychopathic, manipulative, uber-bitch. The two female TV anchors are well spoken, manipulative bullies and control freaks. The working class robber from the motel (don't ask) is a manipulative, vicious, controlling bitch. In fact, out of the six female characters in the last third of the film, only two are likable - one, the twin sister, loves her brother (Affleck) unconditionally, while the other, the detective, has treated the husband with outstanding even-handedness. And the non-moving pantie scene takes on another meaning - it is a visual which tells you that a man does not really enter an empowered female! But all you liberals will be screaming 'no.' So how is it Ben Affleck yells out - 'God save me from female empowerment!' Or did I hear it in 'Midsomer Murders' later in the evening!? Yes, well done, Mr Fincher, you really have slipped in a crafty anti-feminist movie right under their noses!A last point - shouldn't the final scene have been of the two robbers in the motel recognising the wife on TV and saying to each other 'Now we can make some real money!' Pity the movie did not star Reese Witherspoon herself (given a producer credit here) and her husband had been played by ex Ryan Phillippe. Now that would have made for a really engaging and creepy movie!
After reading the book I wasn't expecting much (the book is awful too) but I absolutely did not enjoy watching this film. The lead actress was terrible and her voice overs were simply annoying. She and Ben affleck had no chemistry what so ever. I didn't enjoy the book but this film....it actually made the book worse (originally I rated the book a 2, after this, it's a 1). Save your $10 and Don't SEE IT! First words out of my friends mouth when it ended? "Thanks for that, that's 2 1/2 hrs of my life I can never get back" to which I wholeheartedly agreed.Apparently to submit a review there is a minimum of 10 lines. As I've said what I needed to say I am now just taking up space.
I didn't always vote on IMDb but if my two-cents could warn people not to let their hope up on this movie or not waste their time watching at all, I would. However, if you like a lousy crime thriller film wanna-be, this one is your very choice.I am wondering why Gone Girl is getting a pretty good score here. 8.4, huh? Are you kidding me? Are people not seeing that NOTICEABLY FAT PLOT HOLE? I had raised my brows at how cops in this movie worked since their first appearance. The writer had no knowledge how the system worked but he dare try to write a crime fiction. He used many wrong imagination. So, what we got and paid for is this piece-of-s--, I mean, art.Gone Girl tells a story of a manipulative lady who got a bunch of idiots around her, so, compared to them, she was real smart. One day, she thought she'd set her cheating husband up for a murder, so she sent him out and drove her evil plan in motion. She drew out her blood, threw it around the house then cleaned the house, not knowing when her husband would come home and discover all of it. Luckily, he didn't come home before she got away. For her, everything was perfect timing and a piece of cake.As the film went on and on, everybody believed what she said and ate what she served without any doubts in their mind.This sounds very 'Mary Sue' to me.Every cops in the writer's world worked like an amateur. They worked fast (too fast) but use no brains. They didn't work the evidences or traced any phones. They used only what she fed them. FBI wouldn't do anything about a bloody murder even though the feds had the murderer sitting in front of them soaking in blood, confessing and not even feeling freaked out although she told the cops that she had been kidnapped and raped. And then, the cops let her husband drive her home, still soaking in blood. (When I saw that scene, I was going to fall apart.)That's it. That's the whole story.Tell me she used some kind of dark magic, that would be more reasonable than everybody in the world being an idiot and listening to this Mary Sue's words regardless.This movie was disappointing.
And I don't think it's me. If you want to know specifically what's wrong with this flick look at some of the other 1* reviews. It's been spelled out in detail. What I want to talk about is how this dumb movie has an 8* rating with over 200k people rating it.The first thing that comes to mind is what I read about another new release, "The Interview" which had a high rating and lots of positive reviews within 24 hours of it's release. Someone pointed out the statistical aberrations of those numbers suggesting IMDb was getting bombarded by false accounts with an addenda to deceive.For this movie I don't think that's the case so I'm wondering how so many people can be so uncritical in their thinking. Well, about half the voters in the USA voted to re-elect George W Bush, so that explains a lot.For those of you who gave this movie high marks and didn't vote for Bush's second term, please consider this for the future:There are movies where we are presented with a made-up reality from the start. Like time travel for example. Or unreal mental states like in Tron or The Matrix. With those you say, OK, it's bs, now entertain me.But when a movie takes place in the world we know and live in, there is a higher standard. As the story progresses, it must be logical. It can't defy gravity. It can't do things that are not gunna happen in real life. Those are the 'holes' in the story. In GONE GIRL there are so many holes and those holes are so ridiculous, you gotta ask yourself, "Do they think I'm stupid?" I guess the answer is yes. I guess they are correct. I guess I'm now a minority. The dumbing of America is happening.
What a massive pile of crap! This is literally one of the worst movies I have ever seen. The story makes no sense at all and I couldn't care less about any of the characters. The acting was good but the characters were just empty,lacking empathy Fincher could have killed them all at the same time, would make no difference. And my god those police officers where incompetent, a five year old child would be able to see that there was something wrong straight away.She was supposedly assaulted and kidnapped, people notice an open door but no one saw her leaving or someone getting inside the house, even better drag a person outside put the person in the car in plain day light.The amount of blood that she extracted from her body in such a short period would lead her to faint, but no she had the energy to clean the place and drive for hours!!She claimed that she was pregnant and she had analysis to prove from someone else urine.Even is she had suffered an abortion a few medical investigations would show the reality.She claimed she was raped once, used the exactly same method a second time and no one thought , wait this is a little bizarre!!Left her place looking exactly the same and no one saw her, even with her face all over the news!!I have no words just horrible
The mumbled and unintelligible dialogue lost me for the first ten minutes, but I gave it a second chance as the mystery developed. The boring characters were just about bearable as the plot began to twist and turn. But Affleck and Pike were so cold and mysterious, even with each other, that it was hard to like either of them. So where was your emotional engagement here? Only Margo was remotely interesting. This film also had some of the least erotic and downright odd sex scenes ever filmed. This was a film of two parts. The first part ran through all the clichés of the detective thriller. But we were cheated in the second part when the villainess inexplicably got away with it. In Agatha Christie books, when the killer makes a mistake and has a sudden change of plans this is usually their undoing. As things planned for the original crime stand out like sore thumbs in the adapted scenario. Then they get caught. End of Story! In this particular tale it was the diary. Why would Desi have taken it to a house he didn't know existed, and fail to burn it properly, when he could have burnt it in seconds in the fire at the crime scene ? The cops would have seen through that in seconds, and then the rest of her contradictions would have unravelled. What about the attempted purchase of an illegal gun ? The purchase of the car, the credit card purchases of the electronic toys, the puppets, the Treasure Hunt clues ? None of which could be attributed to Desi, so someone else must have organised or staged them. And just who was supposed to have tipped off the cops to the woodshed ? All non – sequetors that made no sense in the end. Columbo would have had her in the slammer long before the final reel. But the cops just let her off ! The non – examination by the medics of the blood covered Pike was utterly ridiculous. This hospital must miss lots of wounds as they simply don't look for them. Don't let me get taken to this sloppy hospital if I get run over ! She would have had none of the injuries from the initial kidnapping, but a mysterious venepuncture wound on her arm, both of which would have lead the cops once again to think the kidnapping had been staged. We also got treated to homages to Fatal Attraction and The Hand That Rocked The Cradle were the female lead had to be totally insane, not just confident and calculating. This is the old 'male gaze' all women are evil psychos drivel being rehashed for a new generation and we can do without it.
It is very difficult to describe how angry I felt after sitting through nearly 2 hours. I felt like some smug a**hole who thinks he's smarter than everyone just kicks me in the head, spits in my eyes and then call me names. I have never felt so insulted by a film. But then again, I had never bother to watch the Star Wars prequels.The plot is full of holes and the twists and turns are hardly plausible. It is true that here are instances good acting can be a saving grace for a bad movie but there is precious little of that in the film. The lead characters are unconvincing and tedious bores. Ben Affleck... well, he's Ben Affleck. Sometimes, he does decent work, but only sometimes... The biggest disappointment is Rosamund Pike. I know she is no Maryl Streep but she is usually not this bad. First of all, her American accent. She Talks like she is in some black and white movies from the 50s. Fine, so may be she is channeling some heroine from a Hitchcock film but who talks like that anymore. Okay, I am being a nitpicky here. My bad. Her character was supposed to be highly complicated but there was no depth. She couldn't even do a half-way decent mimicry of a damaged person. It's down right pathetic.All the supporting characters are awful. All except Kim Dickens. She IS the saving grace of the film if there is one. It's wonderful to watch her as the lead investigator of the case of missing wife and the only thing that keeps the movie from flying away like a kite in a wind storm. She held on as long as she could, all the way until near the end when David Fincher ran out of time. Alas, she cannot save this hot stinking pile of garbage. Somebody please give Ms Dickens a better position in her career. She deserves it.The worst one is probably Neil Patrick Harris. What happened there, Doogie? I cannot talk about what is wrong with his character without going into a tirade and spill too much beans so I will stop there. Doogie, stay with comedy please.I am glad that not everyone is fooled by this American Beauty-esque bull doo doo. Frankly, I did not go in with too high an expectation. I saw the high rating on IMDb but I also heard grumbles that it was not that great. The bar I set was in the middle and I still gets crushingly disappointed. That is how bad this movie is.
This is a thrillingly boring movie. It is cliché ridden, its plot is an insult to the average intelligence of the audience. You can only wonder how good actors and actresses throw largely implausible domestic arguments at each other as they do in this movie. The only role that adds some credence to the murder story is the one of the detective who doubts that the husband was the murderer of his wife and that the wife was not the murderess of her pretended rapist. In short, you are faced with a poorly constructed plot which in my view would make a successful commercial for lingerie cut to less than 10 minutes and lingerie would provide more thrills than diaries. What a cheek!


                
I wasted two and a half hours of my life watching this awful film. I didn't enjoy the plot, which was completely pointless and it had a terrible ending. I like to be moved by a film in some way, the only emotion I felt after watching this was annoyance that I had wasted a good Friday evening. Also, the dialogue was very quiet and difficult to follow at the beginning, a trait in film making which I dislike a lot. The film was recommended by two other people - I shan't be listening to them again! All in all this was one of the most disappointing films I have ever seen and I would not recommend it to anyone. Another couple had the right idea - they walked out after an hour!


                
When the movie finally ended, the audience was quiet. Nobody clapped, only silence. It was as if everyone realized at the same time that they had just wasted good money and valuable time that they could never get back. How terrible it is to walk out of theater feeling insulted by a film. The sheer stupidity of this film frustrated me to no end. I read so many glowing reviews, making me wonder if maybe I saw the dumb downed version? Please, please, please. I didn't know if this was a comedy or a thriller. What was it??? The producers of this film should be ashamed. Give your audience some credit, we are not stupid. We will not accept holes in a story just because Ben Affleck is the star. Did anyone read the script? Why didn't anyone stop and ask some questions before shooting? A laughing attorney, a Fargo like female investigator, the sarcastic yet loving sister, the cold distant wealthy parents, the creepy stalker, the dumb stay home mom, the list goes on and on. I just want to thank the makers of this film for the worst movie experience I have had in a very long time.


                
