I have always been a huge admirer of David Fincher. He is undoubtedly one of the most consistent and masterful storytellers in modern cinema. I also think when it comes to dark, disturbing thrillers, there is very few who can match the directorial skills of Fincher. Like many of his previous films, Gone Girl is a very long film, but in a true Fincher-esque fashion, it is as engaging as possible without any scope for the viewer to feel bored. The pacing is perfect. The scenes have a dreamy style to it, which brings the dilemma of "whether this is a true account of things or has this been made up by the narrator." The theme of the film is the fact that humans at the basic level are all actors and pretenders. Very seldom do we decide to be our real selves. Generally all of us put on a mask to make ourselves look good in front of the general public and also to pretend to be the person that our nearest and dearest want us to be. Gillian Flynn's screenplay based on her own novel is brilliant and it is also a damning indictment of how media can shape and mould mass perception and it is also a cynical account of the institution of marriage.Ben Affleck is good, Tyler Perry is good, but this movie from an acting perspective belongs to Rosamund Pike. She owns every scene that she is in and delivers an Oscar-worthy performance.Fincher has once again has made a fantastic film. The last 30 minutes might not be completely logical, but it is still symbolic. If you are about to get married,stay away from Gone Girl.


                
It's a mistake to recruit the author to do the screenplay - they are too emotionally invested, and if they aren't known for writing scripts the disparity in quality can be obvious. Take The Exorcist III for example. Or Gone Girl.The Gone Girl novel was a lavishly praised exercise in cryptic dialogue, high school prose, and incompetent storytelling that defies conventional formula. Unfortunately, you can only defy the formula and get away with it if you are very good. Gillian Flynn just isn't. Her characters speak with bizarre, hyperactive energy that made me feel breathless just from reading it. It's like listening to someone recall a fond memory at a party - a memory that nobody else cares about. It's inexplicably cryptic. It's not how people talk, and you can tell that on screen Ben Affleck and Rosamund Pike don't really know what to make of their lines. Their sentences are too long, too wild, too verbose. They talk like stage actors fresh out of drama school. The supporting cast are also similarly lost - the two detectives especially. The female cop is just a frustrating "loose- cannon-independent-woman/symbol-of-women's-suffrage" poster girl. She talks fast and drinks coffee - black, no doubt (Yawn). Her male partner just seems to follow her around like a lost dog and nod agreeably with everything she says - three cheers for women's rights! Down with the glass ceiling! You might as well slap a domestic violence advertisement in the credits.The lack of tension evident in Flynn's writing translates well to the screen. Your nails will not be bitten to fleshy stubs watching Gone Girl. More likely you'll end up filing them into neat, buffed arches out of boredom. Fincher can't elevate the inherent drabness of the source material. He, like the rest of the cast, seem to misunderstand the script. They just "don't get it." Gone Girl is one of those wrongly-praised cause celebres. People are too keen to jump on the bandwagon after learning about the *gasp* "shock twist" in the final act (that is hardly shocking, original, or interesting). Re-watch some of Fincher's better work instead. If you've already invested money in the novel, take solace in knowing it is the perfect size for a doorstop, and about as entertaining.
Gone Girl is directed by the mastermind of David Fincher. Amazingly written by Gillian Flynn whom wrote the novel the film is based on. Starring Ben Affleck as Nick Dunne and Rosamund Pike as Amy Elliot Dunne. On the day of their 5th wedding anniversary Nick's wife, Amy disappears out of nowhere, and this crazy, intense and haunting journey begins. David Fincher and Gillian Flynn's intelligent storytelling trough out this fantastic journey will keep at the edge of your seat from start to end. The soundtrack and score is also very intense and haunting, and has huge impact on the film. The performances from all the actors, especially Rosamund Pike are top notch which really helps the element of the realism stand out in this film. Gone Girl is easily the best film I have seen this year so far, and I have to give it a 10/10. It is also one of the best films from David Fincher in my opinion. I strongly advice everyone to go and see Gone Girl, it is one thrilling ride.
"Gone Girl" is yet another gripping, tense, carefully crafted film from the one and only David Fincher. He's one of my favorite directors and like most of our modern-day Greats, you know when you're watching one of his movies. You know it's a Fincher movie when you get a dense, slow-burning, meticulous effort that stuns you with it's growing sense of dread. You get the same thing with "Gone Girl", which is the adaptation of Gillian Flynn's bestselling novel (Flynn also wrote the screenplay) about the media circus Nick Dunne (Ben Affleck) goes through once his enigmatic wife, Amy (Rosamund Pike), disappears and he becomes more and more of a suspect.Now, let's get to the story. I just need to say that some of these one-star reviews really miss the point. I don't want to spoil this thing too much for you. I didn't read the book before I saw the film and it's better to remain surprised. All I will say is that Amy is certainly not as innocent as she appears to be. And all of the so-called "plot holes" are intentional. Even a few of the characters in the film point out that "things don't add up." That's the point! That this woman's story is full of holes YET the media and the police are all willing to overlook that because this whole fiasco has become an incredible story. It harks back to the Scott and Lacey Peterson case; one of those national-news dramas that everyone's talking about and everyone has an opinion on. The media and the police have invested too much into this whole thing for them to not get the story they want. So, they overlook the holes, highlighted in a very telling scene near the end that also shows just how differently this all could've progressed if Amy was a man (something that Pike herself interestingly pointed out in an interview). Basically, the Internet is full of people who love to complain and trash what's popular. A lot of it is just unimaginative nitpicking. So, don't let the negative reviews disparage you. Fincher is still at the top of his game. It might not be on a "Seven" or "Fight Club" level of resonance. But, I found it incredibly entertaining, from beginning to end. Flynn stays true to her novel, retaining a cynical and disturbingly realistic ending that matches perfectly with Fincher's nihilistic outlook as a filmmaker.The performances are uniformly excellent. Affleck has never been the greatest of actors. Yet, he seems tailor-made for the role of Nick. Effectively callow, distant, and fumbling, you don't know exactly what to think of him until the halfway mark. Carrie Coon is a lively, relatable presence as Nick's frustrated yet loyal twin sister, Margo, and provides some comic relief. As does Tyler Perry, who surprises by breaking away from his usual Madea shtick to deliver a straight-on, confident, coolly composed portrayal of a slick lawyer, Tanner Bolt, who Nick enlists for help. Neil Patrick Harris is mostly believable as Amy's creepy, obsessive ex-boyfriend, Desi Collings, but you can sometimes feel his comic archness slipping through a bit too much. And Kim Dickens rounds out the supporting cast as Detective Boney, who alternates between doubting Nick and wanting to trust him.But, make no mistake: this is Rosamund Pike's film. Though, at first, she seems to have a bit less screen time, you eventually realize how she's always controlling this entire show, whether she's on-camera or not. After years of noticeable supporting parts, Amy Dunne was Pike's leading-lady coming-out party, nabbing her a much-deserved Best Actress Oscar nod. She is downright chilling in this role. Not only does she nail the stone-cold calculation and focus of Amy but she understands the range that is required to play this role. Amy is so manipulative and such a role-player that Pike is called on to be charmingly sophisticated, laidback, and vulnerable, as well. And, looking back, we realize the insincerity of such moments. And then there are times where she's flat-out dangerous and unsettling, revealing the depths of her psychopathy. Pike's voiceovers, narrated through her so-called diary, will also get in your head and stay there. An extended montage where she reveals her entire plan, set to the haunting score of Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross (working with Fincher for the third time), stopped me in my tracks and is bound to become a classic.Pike alone makes this film worth a watch. She's like a female Hannibal Lector or a new-millennium version of Glenn Close in "Fatal Attraction"; a very memorable movie psychopath. But, in my eyes, this is also a very solid, gripping film with some interesting things to say about our media-driven, image-obsessed culture.
Twisted is all I can say without giving anything away, great movie one of my favourites of 2014 ,Big fan of Ben Affleck (Good Will Hunting,The Town and Boiler Room)Rosamund Pike only seen her in (Jack Reacher.)And is crazy in this one.One to watch twice for sure , OK so the ending might make you mad, but the movie will throw you curve ball after curve ball till you get tired of presuming who it may be. This film is full of thrills chills and suspense, which you wont forget after its of over, it will make your heart beat , it made my wife's for sure lol,its not what your think, so get ready for a roller-coaster of a movie you will like this one.
"Gone Girl" has Ben Affleck as a man who becomes the central suspect in his beautiful Ivy League wife's ghastly disappearance from their upscale Missouri home. What happened to Amy Dunne? If you've read Gillian Flynn's book or have seen the film, then you already know the story, but I'll spare the details just for the sake of spoilers.David Fincher has a penchant for making films that are stylistically rich, masterful in many ways, though not always exactly thematically profound. "Gone Girl" falls somewhere in-between, heavy on visual slickness with some profoundly interesting ruminations on marriage, celebrity, social status, and the all-seeing spotlight of 21st century media bleeding into our lives at the most inconvenient and horrific of moments. These are obviously transferred from Flynn's novel, but Fincher's treatment of the material is apt and his vision is stunning.The sinister quiet of suburbia echoes throughout the film's open spaces, and an unusually haunting aesthetic is carried with it. The million dollar house tainted only by the smallest speck of blood; a wife who may or may not be in a danger; curbs alight with news vans and paparazzi. The universal hysteria and obsession we have with murder and crime is fully realized here, and the nightmarish situation is brought to life in a way I've never seen on film before. Flashy modernist photography accentuates thematic elements while juxtaposing with the film's more classic narrative roots, and to great effect.Needless to say, the performances here are incredible. Even as someone who is not a Ben Affleck fan, I found his performance to be truly admirable, walking the line between innocent small- town guy to deserved hex object. It wasn't until halfway through the film that I realized just how nuanced Rosamund Pike's performance was— she is so good that I was fooled by her banality, and the role becomes almost metonymic as the film unravels her throughout its narrative. Carrie Coon is wonderful as Affleck's spunky and supportive sister, and Tyler Perry and Neil Patrick Harris somehow work here despite my skepticism of their casting. The film eventually unveils its absurdist thriller roots about midway through, and unfolds in a way that is Hitchcockian in both style and substance, with shades of "Vertigo" bleeding into the frames. The film's conclusion is of similar Hitchcockian proportions— unbelievable and yet wholly tangible. No matter how absurd it may seem to be, we do not question it because we really aren't allowed to.Overall, "Gone Girl" is a solid thriller through and through, and is one of the best movie-going experiences I've had in recent memory. Like all the greats, its narrative has all the appropriate twists and turns and is consistently engaging, but rather than simply doing that and taking the route of imitation lone, it's very aware of and engages with its sociohistorical locus. 9/10.


                
Gone Girl was one of my most anticipated movies of 2014 and surely, this latest effort in Fincher's career did not disappoint. This gripping drama follows Nick Dunne as a husband who's wife went missing and the case is on to find out what really happened. Based off the novel of the same name, the screenplay written by the book's author, Gillian Flynn, is a well executed script for a big screen drama.Speaking of writing, Gone Girl utilizes the usual cliques you would expect from a typical drama and twists them around in directions one might not see coming. The script for this movie is excellent and well worth the possibility of an Oscar nomination for best adapted screenplay. The dialogue feels very natural and compelling, the structure for the story is solid all-around, and the pacing flows very smoothly despite the lengthy run-time. Overall, the movie has a fantastic script that will keep you engaged throughout the story.The performances for the most part are fairly solid across the board. Even though I'm not a big fan of Ben Affleck as an actor, I do believe that he puts on a great performance as Nick Dunne. Tyler Perry also puts on a surprisingly great performance and I would like to see him be in more dramatic roles outside of Madea. However, the real big standout is Rosamund Pike whose excellent performance as Amy Dunne takes the main spotlight. As for Neil Patrick Harris, well, he isn't bad, but lets just say he's just good and not great like the rest of the cast.The cinematography is also one of the film's strongest assets and David Fincher certainly knows how to set up a shot. They're steady and smooth from scene to scene in order to give you a clear shot of the characters at hand. Most of the editing is properly well-done; although a few transitions during certain scenes could have been executed more smoothly. The score is also great and Trent Reznor, once again, showcases his musical talents with the music choices being used for each scene.Overall, I think Gone Girl is one of David Fincher's best works to date and its one of the better movies to come out in 2014. An excellent script, great performances, and solid visuals makes Gone Girl guaranteed to be worth your time and money. I highly recommend that you go out and see this great movie and I going to give it an 8 out of 10.


                
This is just an example of awesome filmmaking! Everything worked for this movie! The acting was impeccable, every actor did their job beautifully, and each character was so complex in the film. Everyone had two sides to them, or at Least you come to find out. Rosamund Pike was amazing as our lead actor, very well deserved Oscar nomination and Golden Globe nomination. And let's not forget Ben Affleck our other star. He did a great job of playing the somewhat disturbed and confused husband. This mystery thriller had soo many twists and turns throughout the whole thing! That is what I love, surprises!! I was very shocked to see tyler perry involved in this, but he did very well with his material, and so did Neil Patrick Harris! Warning: if you get unsettled at rough violence or sex, this probably is not the one for you, the whole story is very eery and somewhat dark. Oh, and the ending is mind bending!! Very exciting ending!


                
My Rating : 9/10Cunning. Clever. Sharp. Twisted. Dark.
The way thrillers should be made. Gone Girl is surprisingly good. I loved every minute of this masterpiece.
These types of movies come once in a while and I treasure them immensely. Here's a mainstream movie that's actually REALLY good!
Gone Girl is the $h*t!


                
It's a complicated, ploty thriller. You have to pay attention to understand how good this movie is. I don't think the people who don't like this movie must not have a long attention span or are not abundantly blesse a three-digit IQ. It's complicated, twisted, and very well done, and displays Ben Affleck's talent. It is long but if you have the ability to pay attention it is really good.


                
Gone Girl [2014] is a drama/mystery/thriller (directed by David Fincher) which follows Nick Dunne (Ben Affleck) as the disappearance of his wife, Amy (Rosamund Pike) creates massive national media coverage to decipher whether he's guilty or innocent. No spoilers. The movie trailer gives nothing away. So rest assured the mystery stays intact as you press play. As the story unfolds and more details are revealed concerning their tumultuous relationship, the more you'll switch from one side to the other. It's in the subtleties at first, then the big reveals. We are first the news audience, knowing only what is shown on the surface. Fincher slowly feeds us behind the scenes knowledge and creates an uncomfortably close for comfort intimacy with the characters. Great casting. Rosamund Pike gives a highly captivating and haunting performance as the missing wife, Amy Dunne. A performance so solid it has earned her a Golden Globe nomination. Let's hope she wins it, because it would be richly deserved. Tyler Perry (yes, that very one) appears in a minor but visibly valuable role, as Tanner Bolt (Nick Dunne's attorney). Perry provides the comedy relief in what is a tense and disturbing film. Neil Patrick Harris plays Desi Collings, an old boyfriend of Amy, whom is painstakingly pivotal to the morbid goings-on in Gone Girl. Side note: Desi lives in divinely beautiful house. Impressive original score. Now to tie in the acting, story, directing, is the wonderfully composed score by Atticus Ross and NIN band member Trent Reznor. It is the perfect accompaniment to the morbidly mysterious tale. It's a heavy watch. No doubt a thick and foreboding cloud of deep thought will linger above your head after the film ends. It stays with you awhile. A shocking, intriguing, morbidly engrossing ride for the whole one hundred and forty nine minutes.


                
Gone Girl took 10 minutes to make me forget I was in a theatre. The characters are personalities oozing with depth, and the film reveals all of their details as it progresses, adding more and new significance to the overall story and to the events that happen without making them look unrealistic. While it is certainly a thriller that shows bombastic acts (for a non-action-oriented film) it never demands the audience to believe something they would normally not without giving enough background and logic to the events that ensue. The cinematography works perfectly with Reznor's and Ross's soundtrack. An Ambient score that resembles Nine Inch Nails' Ghosts I–IV. They're gloomy, elegant, and jump between relaxing and disturbing without giving up their dark nature. There was not a single weak performance, everyone is genuine and credible with constantly development that always made me feel interested in these characters. My only complaints may be that Pike's voice sounded a bit over the top in a particular scene in a restaurant. She is speaking with a distinctive tone, then Affleck comes in and she says "it's you." With the exact same tone that didn't feel natural. Another thing is that there's another scene that exposes one main plot point to the viewer, and while it was necessary to be explained, the way it was edited seemed like it was trying too hard to impress me. Other than that this is a gripping, beautiful, thoughtful and fascinating film from David Fincher.


                
I read the book and it was EXCELLENT I absolutely love her writing when I heard it was coming to the big screen I was worried about the casting but I think Rosemund Pike was an absolutely PERFECT choice ! She was amazing ! The way the movie was presented had all of the suspense and surprise of the book, you literally never see each part coming, the first half you are SURE he did it then when it goes through the account step by step of how she basically planned it all perfectly until she made the one mistake your mouth drops open ( for someone that hasn't read the book) I think it was an excellent adaptation and I hope they do another of Gillian Flynn's books!
This is an amazing film, it keeps you on your toes from the start all the way until the end. I would suggest it for anyone to watch, although it's 2 and a half hours long, not once was I bored! I would suggest this film to anyone, it really is amazing!It's Amazing, Gripping, Thrilling and highly intelligent!It has a superb twist and you never expect what happens, this film is exciting and I'm so glad I got to see it.For once I'd also suggest watching the trailer as it doesn't ruin the film although most of them do, I would happily watch this film over and over as it's surprising but yet it is still interesting!


                
I have a huge amount of love for Gone Girl, it helped to re-ignite interest into a genre of films that had really started to die off, the mystery. I firmly believe Gone Girl inspired the likes of Girl on the Train to be made, another great book in its own right, but Gone Girl showed that a mystery could be made into a movie that would pack out cinemas.I read the book and loved it, I loved the film too, I thought the characterisations were superb, so my words are based purely on the film.You'd think they're the couple that had everything, she's successful, beautiful, wealthy, charismatic, the perfect wife. He's handsome, funny, with a jaw line you'd kill for, but not all is at it seems.The plot is awesome, the misdirection is excellent, an hour in, and you realise that what you thought was happening isn't necessarily so.Terrific, great music, well acted, humorous, it's a cracker. 9/10


                
The movie Gone Girl is about a man named Nick Dunne whose wife Amy is missing on their Fifth Wedding Anniversary. Then a while later they Suspect that Nick Dunne Killed his Wife. The Movie is Excellent and Oscar worthy especially for Rosamund Pike and David Fincher. The movie is the best Thriller of all time in my opinion it grabs your attention thanks to Screenwriter and Author Gilliam Flynn. The movie has a great cast with a Brilliant Story that is Suspenseful. The Theme of the movie is Dark and Creepy to intense more people throughout the movie. This Movie should be number 1 of the top 250 movies of all time it at least needs to get to 9.5/10.


                
I have been really looking forward to seeing gone girl and I finally have and I must say that this is a fantastic film. The premise of this film sees a husband come home one day to find his wife missing and as the evidence piles up the question becomes did nick dunne kill his wife?. Ben affleck is one of the best directors in Hollywood today there is no doubt, but his acting sometimes gets overlooked because he was fantastic in this film. You see this damaged figure who is clearly upset about his situation but it makes you curious about him. He really is a complex character in this film and makes me even more excited to see him as batman. Now every performance in this film is great but this is truly the Rosamund pike show and is the best thing she has ever done. She was superb in this movie because you really got to see her character develop and learn stuff about her. She wasn't your simple damsel she has a real edge about her that I loved. Tyler Perry's plays afflecks lawyer and this is the best thing I've ever seen him in too. He was funny and likable but also a serious character that you liked. Neil Patrick Harris is good in this movie because he plays a really different role in this film then usual. He was nice when he needed to be and creepy when he needed to be. I also liked the character of afflecks sister who added allot to the film as well. I loved the mystery element to the story as you follow the investigation with the characters and the twists and turns that follow it. However, there is a twist about half way through the movie that took away allot of the tension for me and also I thought the ending was a little weak. The script was fantastic with the characters all having real serious moments blended with really good humour to make them feel like real people. The style of the film is great, it looks beautiful and the tone really works. I also loved the use of flashbacks to expand on the story in this film. Overall gone girl is a fantastic movie that if you like these types of films it is a must see.


                
English is not my mother tongue, please excuse any errors on my part."Gone Girl" is my favorite movie of this year. It is a good thriller and it is perfect in almost every possible way. I really love the female character played by Rosamund Pike. She really convinced me that she is an evil incarnate. I also love Ben Affleck and Neil Patrick's performance. This movie get me to think about the true meaning of marriage. Do you really think you know about the person who sleep beside you every night? Obviously Nick Dunne of this movie don't know all about his wife like he thinks he does. I believe they really love each other at the first several years of their marriage. But as the sweetness and passion of love wear off, they begin to realize that the person they married is not the person they used to love anymore. Amy think Nick is lazy and Nick find Amy to be mean and boring. But Nick still thinks that they can go on with their life even when there is no love between him and Amy. He is terribly wrong. After Amy finds out that he is having an affair with another woman, she become furiously angry and come up with a evil plan to fake her death and frame Nick for it. She thinks Nick deserves to go to prison for being dishonest to her. Nick, on the other hand has no idea what is waiting for him when he wakes up on their anniversary. when he come home later that day to find his wife missing, he is confused and reports Amy's disappearance to the local authority. The police come and he is very cooperative at first. But when all the evidences point to him, he finally realized that he is being framed. In my own perspective, though Nick is the victim, I think neither of them is innocent. Their irresponsible and selfish behaviors killed Desi Collings and wasted a lot police resources which could be put into good use. The ending was really shocking. I can't believe Nick still decides to live with Amy after everything. A lot of people think it is unrealistic, but I think it is also irony. It's just a movie, it doesn't have to be like real life all the time. I think the movie is just trying to tell us that in real life there are a lot of couples like Nick and Amy who go on with their marriage even when it is just full of unhappiness, dishonesty and resent.Once again, I apologize for any mistakes in my English.
I had heard SO much about this film. It lived up to it's buzz. The movie is clever, funny, suspenseful, erotic, and heartbreaking at times. Rosamund Pike deserves all the reviews that she received for this film. She chews up the scenery. While Ben Affleck is often miscast in films, he is perfect here. It has been a long time since I have enjoyed him in a film. The second and third acts really give him material to sink his teeth in. The movie had so many twists and turns, which I love in movies. Gone Girl is one of the best movies I have seen recently. David Fincher takes you on a ride that will stay with you long after the credits end.


                
I'm not exactly sure what to think of David Fincher as a director. Two of his movies I thought had poor endings the first time I saw them: Fight Club and The Social Network. On second viewing I loved Fight Club, kind of giving the ending a pass, and liked Social Network the second time I gave it a chance, still unsure of the ending. Now after viewing these movies a number of times I understand the significance of these endings, but do not believe they are great resolutions. For Gone Girl, the ending left me amazed and creeped out how the Rosamund Pike character won, but it doesn't make perfect sense that she got away with murder.I think some of the writing towards the beginning of the film is a little strange; I'm not sure exactly what it is, but there's something "off" about it. This isn't really important in the grand scheme of things, but you know how Amy's life is improved upon through her parents' book series "Amazing Amy?" 1) Why would a book series about such a perfect girl be so popular, and 2) What kind of parents do that? As Nick states: a**holes do that.The dialogue before they REALLY get into the investigation of Amy's disappearance is highly based in riddles, which are included when Nick and Amy flirt in flashback sequences. I mean I get that both of them are writers, but do they really need to be that smart all the time when they talk?Let me stray from negative criticism to say the sequence which reveals the twist of the movie is among the great sequences which Fincher has directed. In this "montage" of sorts, the music is on- point, Amy's internal thoughts revealed in voice-over is haunting as hell, and the editing is simply perfect.The strongest aspect of this film is the performance Rosamund Pike gives by playing Amy - one of the most maniacal psychopaths I have ever seen on film. I am so glad she got an Oscar nomination for this film since she made me hate Amy so much - it's impressive when actors can get you to feel extremity of any emotion towards their character.Flaws in her not getting caught? There were cameras all over the house of the Neil Patrick Harris character that he said were recording all the time. I get that Amy fakes getting raped for the camera cleverly by biting the man's tongue and pulling down his pants so it looks like he is cleaning up after that as he exits. And I get that she poses for a camera like she was tormented. But what about the rest of the cameras in the house? Are we to believe they are only covering the perimeter of the house? Also, I forget why they can't get Nick to wear a wire around Amy - she prevents it once by talking in the shower, but is she going to be on guard the rest of her life? Highly unlikely.The fact that they make it very hard to determine whether Nick murdered Amy or not before the huge twist in the film is brilliant, making the end of act 1 and most of act 2 very strong, though the film has a weak opening and a flawed - but extremely creepy - ending. The mystery aspect and Pike's performance make this a very strong film, but it could have been improved if some content was cut and the film was more of a character study.
I'm not overly surprised (as people like to hate on things, especially online) but I do feel for those who rated the movie 1/10. That rating seems a tad extreme as it certainly deserves more than that. I've never really understood why some viewers seem so fixated on realism. It is Hollywood for goodness sakes. Does everything need to make perfect logical sense? Does life itself make logical sense? If you look for reasons to hate on a movie you will surely find it. Without question there are some things in the movie that don't add up but why not focus on all that the movie offers? I knew nothing about the movie going in and I did not expect Amy to be alive. Throughout the entire movie I was continually surprised at the extent she would go to maintain her... insanity! The horrific scene that anyone who watched the movie will know what I'm referring to haunted me for days afterwards. So too did the idea that a sweet and innocent "Amazing Amy" could engage in such callous actions and decisions. What haunts me still is psychopaths like that exist!! Terrifying.Movie had a long running time but I was captivated from the get go and didn't notice. Not knowing anything about a movie helps in that regard. It was unique, chilling, and certainly entertaining! I hope people don't see the negative reviews and as a result avoid the movie.
Even by watching the trailer you get a sense of suspense and this can be felt throughout the whole film. It was brilliantly made and edited. One thing I did not like though, was the numerous black screens. Probably it added to the atmosphere of the film but the cut-offs really bothered me. Also from the trailer, you get a sense of intrigue and want to find out more. Let me warn you, the reviews might tell you that this is not a normal film, but it will far exceed your expectations. This was crazy.I'm not even sure if I liked it all that much, and might be a bit mind-blown at the moment, but I do have to admit regardless that this film was incredible. The way it managed to manipulate the audience's views and feelings at times was exquisite. Not many films are able to do that. Plus it's such a (I was going to say psychotic which wasn't what I was going for, but somehow fits the film) psychological film. I've always wanted to watch more of those, for example Inception, Now You See Me, which are both favourites of mine. But this was almost too psychological. Too much so that after the film everyone in the cinema was silent. Take it as a good or bad sign but it certainly was an accomplishment.The acting as well was superb. Ben Affleck played his part really well making the audience wonder if he really did kill his wife or believe that he did not. But the real master in this was Rosamund Pike. It's really surprising how the trailer shows almost nothing of the movie, but that's a good thing. Anyway, Pike was beyond brilliant and I certainly will view her differently now. I would spoil it if I revealed more. Neil Patrick Harris was pretty creepy in this too though I don't know why. His character doesn't seem like such a bad person.One thing that I do have to say, is that they have a bit too much sex scenes going on. OK, I know I'm not a fan of R-rated stuff (violence, swearing, sexual scenes) but there was too much in this, and I'm not even sure if some were necessary. I admit one or two of them is crucial in telling the story and making more of an impact<U+0085> but do we really need so many?In conclusion, whenever I think of this film both my hands go up to the sides of my head and extend forward with my fingers spread in a gesture that implies being mind-blown.Read more movie reviews at: championangels.wordpress.com


                
What else do you need ???....what I love the most About this movie is that u don't know...on which side u really are.......there are very few movies out there which keeps u pushing....towards the ending......again and again wants to see the end.....
9/10 because I don't like the end.....


                
Im not much for thrillers, but this movie was so well written and the casting was awesome that i must say it's great. Ben Affleck is quite good, and Rosamund Pike is great. The whole plot keeps you guessing and on the edge of your seat. Overall, a great movie. I highly recommend! Great to watch with significant other, not so much for families.


                
I really thought cinema had stopped making movie like this. I've come a little late to watching, but what a gripping film this was. We have so much in this film to talk about and praise.Great actors, gripping cerebral story, multi-layered issues, great camera work and colours.We have the story of a man who comes home to find his wife has disappeared in mysterious circumstances. He calls the cops and starts unravelling a whole set of revelations which will startle and amaze. It's quite a satire as well on modern society which makes it interesting too.I can't praise this enough, it's been a long time since I've since something of this quality to praise so highly.Very highly recommended.


                
