I get why people love The Wire. It's realistic. It has interesting characters, and It has very good writing. The only problem is it's severely overrated. I had a hard time getting through the first season, and finally had to stop watching after the first episode of season 2. I even tried to watch season 4 after reading it was a lot of people's favorite season,but the show just never really grabbed my attention.I would compare it to when Bret Easton Ellis said Breaking Bad was the most overrated television show in the history of television. I disagree with him, and am a big fan of Breaking Bad, but I compare his feeling toward Breaking Bad,with my feelings towards the Wire.In conclusion,I think the Wire is a good,but not great show, and that it should definitely not be considered one of the greatest shows of all time.rating 7.3


                
I find it surprising to see everyone likes this show so much. Sure, the cast, direction, camera and writing are outstanding; definitely some of the best on TV, but I found the story to be lacking the entertainment value. I found the praised realism of the show to be too... real, to really be enjoyable. For a person who was in the army or police or had dealings with other uniformed organizations, the show just reaffirms what they already know. State organizations are indeed mostly governed by people doing each other favors, protecting their asses and doing as little of what is required as possible, while appearing to be doing their job. To a person who has little contact with uniformed organizations, the workings of the police department portrayed in The Wire seem realistic but unbelievable. While the acquainted person probably yearns to see another way to do things, the unacquainted hopes for the despicable vision to be finally dispelled. Not only does this not happen, but the last season shows that even people with the best intentions get corrupted and broken and the only way to manage to do something right is to lie and cheat while at it.I resented the show for giving me no closure, no satisfaction of seeing at least some improvement to the world resulting from pained efforts of the positive characters."A life, Jimmy, you know what that is? It's the sh*t that happens while you're waiting for moments that never come." - Lester Freamon. That quote summarizes the show for me. Those moments I was waiting for never came. Moments where I would think things could be different than I expect, moments where I would learn something new.I can recommend The Wire to people who want to get insight into how governmental organizations work. When having a beer with friends, if people ask me how it is in the Police or the Army, instead of explaining, I can tell them: "see The Wire, it shows that perfectly".


                
It took me four times to get through the first episode it was so boring. That said, once I started caring about the characters at around episode five or so, the show was actually pretty decent. It tends to be very slow for a while and then picks up dramatically at the end of the season. People compare this to Breaking Bad and honestly, I don't see it. Breaking Bad had a lot of realism, but it didn't sacrifice the story for it. The wire is as real as it gets, and lord if it doesn't feel like I'm actually working as a cop trying to bring these drug dealers down, from Barksdale to Marlow. The only problem is I'm not getting paid for it. Now, calling The Wire the most overrated show on television doesn't mean it's not good. It was mostly worth a watch, but it's not even close to being on the same level as some of the other shows out there. Breaking Bad, the 4400 and several other shows are leagues away from the wire. But hey, go ahead and watch it. With all the publicity you might wind up convincing yourself that it is the greatest show ever and become one of the countless wire nuts out there.


                
Rarely has there been such a highly rated show which I have taken so long to view, and so during a week off of work with an injury I took in every season consecutively.It was pretty good and I was entertained. It also struck me as having a gritty realism absent from a lot of shows but it is certainly, in my opinion, overrated.This show is heralded by some as the best of all time, yet it is not remotely in the same league as The Sopranos. Other American crime shows like The Shield and Breaking Bad are I believe more entertaining and gripping than The Wire; as well as British shows like Sherlock, Cracker and Luther.This show had a more authentic feel than most, and had the unique angle of telling the story from both sides of the law equally. That said, the biggest indictment I can level at it is that if I had to stop watching half way through a series and never go back to it then (possibly excluding the fourth season) it would not have bothered me much. I could not say that of any of the other shows I have listed.


                
I've enjoyed all seasons episodes as the storyline, the plots, the directing, the sound, camera-angle where all very impressive. I can hardly understand why the show is discontinuing or didn't draw as much audience or positive reviews as the much compared Sopranos.Taking a closer look I feel that there are some significant differences with the Sopranos. There, the show had a whole range of heavy duty actors like James Gandolfini, Edie Falco, Aida Turturro or Michael Imperioli. The Wire starts out with mostly unknown actors, not all of them I found a very good choice.Wendell Pierce was one of the most outstanding guys for me. Fantastic character, all the right lines, tones and wit. And damn funny. Michael K. Williams unforgettable as Omar Little. Wood Harris and Idris Elba where also entertaining to see. I also enjoyed Felicia Pearson as Snoop. I don't think anyone couldv relayed the script so good with street wise talk as she.But The Wire is being pulled by Dominic West as the main man. And im not convinced of his capabilities as an actor. Its the little details that reveal he is not born in the USA. His script delivery, in contrast with Pearson and Pierce, is unconvincing. The times he has to act he is completely drunk is laughable at times, so silly and unbelievable.Lance Reddick as Cedric Daniels was also very badly casted. The man has only one look:the empty stare. His movement and walking is like robocop so wooden and hokey. His lines spoken in an unconvincing way. No emotion, just nothing. Corey Parker Robinson, Dominick Lombardozzi, Larry Gilliard Jr., Jamie Hector as the new kingpin...they where dreadful, wooden and uninspiring.The other problem with the actors, with the gangsters specifically, is their looks. Everyone of them look like they just came off the catwalk so fresh, good looking, toned with good dental care. I don't mind a few good looking actors but 90% of them? Being grown up in tough Gettos? That doesn't come over as very realistic. Is it by chance the guy with a huge scar (Michael Williams) or fat Proposition Joe (Robert F. Chew, fantastic!) get the most positive reviews over their fellow cast members? In the Sopranos, the casting was done superbly, with wise guys weared out by the tough life, portrayed by actors who have proved their mettle.Then there are a few continuation mistakes, like the homicide unit around the breathing(!) corpse of Stringer Bell. If you fast forward or rewind with view its very funny to see his stomach going up and down.Or the sloppy plot around Omars supposed killing of a woman inside Old Face Andres shop in season 4. Kima reported the shop had "high end surveillance cameras". How come the detectives didn't review the tapes of those to see who killed who? And all Omar had to do to counter Andres allegation, is come up with a witness such a Renaldo, to prove he wasn't there. End of the case, the locking up, and the plot. I do hope David Simon makes a new series, and I hope to see Wendell Pierce in many productions. But for a continuation of The Wire I hope they leave Dominic West and all other pretty boys at home, and get some real actors. In the end, The Wire is good and very entertaining TV, its up there with the best, but its not as good as The Sopranos, period.
