The Wire, in its totality, was depressing in a rage-against-the-machine kind of way. It was an exploration of the drug scene in Black communities in a way I haven't seen since New Jack City, but even more gritty and raw. The Wire showed a side of Baltimore that you pray is dramatized. And when the series concluded there was a gaping hole where hope and optimism used to be.The main focus of the show was drugs--the dealers, the users, the suppliers, the cops, the politicians and those directly and indirectly affected by it all--while various other stories were a supplement. That was the back drop for the series. The players changed but the game remained the same. Affixing itself to the drug sphere were politics, politicians, the justice system, the police, the docks and dock workers, the kids and the Baltimore Sun (Baltimore's main newspaper).All of these entities were on display just to show how far the tentacles of corruption and seediness can reach. Everyone is part of a game of some sort but only the dope dealers admit it and only the dope dealers' game has only two conclusions: prison or death. Everyone else's game can end in promotions, recognition, pay raises and retirement, but in the dope game there are no such luxuries. At my job we have a saying: "Screw up to move up." That saying was born because so many screw ups have found a way to move up the ladder whereas on the streets that would never happen. The dope dealers openly say, "this is all part of the game," whereas as the politicians, the brass, the various titles in the various professional fields were all running game without voicing it. They have slightly different rules, slightly different risks and slightly different goals, but they all were scheming and running game.The series wrapped up leaving me despondent. It left me with the feeling of: this machine is too big and running too strong to stop it or even slow it down. The more things change the more they stay the same. One corrupt politician is replaced by another, one dope fiend by another, one dope dealer by another, one puppet commissioner by another, one lost child by another. Very little was offered by way of hope and progress. And when a glimmer of hope began to shine we found out that it too was false.As a whole it was awfully depressing, but such is life. Those you root for to win don't always win and those you root for to lose don't always lose. It's funny because each episode began with a printed quote from one of the characters and although I read them, I never tried to tie it to the story. The final episode had a quote from Snoop; it read, "Deserve ain't got nothing to do with it." Boy was that true and on display in caps, bold, italicized and underlined. Does doing the right thing deserve to be punished? Does corruption deserve to go unpunished? Do liars deserve to be rewarded? Does honesty deserve to be chided?A big part of the appeal of The Wire was its authenticity. And it's that very same authenticity that would prevent me from letting my kids watch this show. Even if we took away the language, the violence, the drugs and the nudity; we were left with a very bitter message: it doesn't matter if you do right or not, the game is rigged. Don't try to fix it, you'll only be destroyed in the process and the cycle will continue. My children would glean a very morbid message from this show and an idea that the path to success lies in treachery, deceit and underhandedness. There were few characters I genuinely liked, there were mostly characters I hated and those I didn't hate as much. Occasionally, I'd root for one character I loathed to eliminate another character that I loathed more. Of course things didn't work out that way. This was no movie with everyone getting their just deserts in the end. This show was about a broken system with no one with the courage to fix it, and those that did have the courage didn't have the power. Put that in your pipe and smoke it.


                
It took time and energy to grasp this series in full, but for better clarity and smoothness, I decided to watch them in chronological sequence. It was a right thing, as many later events and motives had their roots in prior actions reflected in prior series.Drug trafficking has become a serious issue in the Western world, but often its use is depicted as a glamorous party component, elevating your mood and abilities. The real world for most is totally different, full of misery and danger, what is well seen in The Wire, where even those committed to do something about it, in spite of their job or background, run up against lack of several things: will, money, opportunities, rights... Desperate times call for desperate measures, but you never know how all it will end, and usually there is no ending, just a temporary relief or standstill. Thus, all the series is harshly realistic: there is no general win, drug business has not vanished, but one could call it a victory when someone (particularly a young person) finds his or her way out of this often vicious circle.Its broad ensemble cast is evenly strong, there are no (at that time) internationally famous persons stealing the show and requiring additional fee... Every character had its meaning and place, but, in some series, Detective Jimmy McNulty (Dominic West) was too limited time on screen, plus I often mixed up younger Black drug dealers - their nickname, faces, and gang affiliation. But all in all, they were all enjoyable to follow, as there were very few fully good or bad types - even many of those dealing of killing daily felt compassion in some other spheres, and the police included many rather dubious persons.Thus, a recommended series, although I understand them who claim that it provides an inclined and questionable overview of Baltimore - "decent" neighborhoods were almost not shown. Well, but big cities are full of ghettos and seclusion, and the target audience was hardly meant to be all-inclusive tourists.


                
My Rating : 8/10If you want fancy storylines, plot twists, cliffhangers, big-budget blockbuster-level shows there's Game of Thrones, Breaking Bad and Mad Men which will ample please you. 'The Wire' is slow-burning, gritty and real as reality can be. It's about how the system has failed : Politics, Education, Police, Media. It's about how our society is flawed and a complete failure to the poor and minorities.This may be too slow and boring for some (I found S2 and S5 really slow and I believe younger viewers will find the technology outdated) and I indeed didn't enjoy it very much but it's not something to be enjoyed per se. It's something to understand for all of us.'The Wire' is an absolutely brutal slow-burner drama (oftentimes painfully slow) that succeeds in the social message it wants to send out to our society.


                
The Wire tells the story of the Baltimore crime/drug world from multiple perspectives. The casting, acting, script writing, and shooting locations are excellent. However, only season 1 was intense. The intensity and thrill plummet beginning season 2. The show also follows the same formula every season so it could become predictable by season 3 onwards. The story is slow-paced, which is not good for the attention-deficient 'yungins of today. The Wire will blow your mind back in 2002, but with all the great shows that we have been exposed to nowadays, The Wire is just worth an 8 or 9 at best. But don't get me wrong-- despite my many negative comments, this show is still a masterpiece-- a quite dated masterpiece.


                
First and foremost, I would have to say that I like this show, and it is definitely worth a watch if you're channel surfing and looking for a good solid hour's entertainment. The show has a good basis, the dialogue between various characters, the slow build up to the plot conclusions (usually at the end of each series) and the character is development is very impressive.My main criticism of this show is that it doesn't take that extra step to really shock and blow the audience away (i.e. the easiest bit of a television show). As I stated, the slow build up in the show is brilliant, and it's almost as if I'm expecting that stand-out scene which is going to leave me speechless, but sadly it never comes. After watching shows like 'Breaking Bad' and 'Game of Thrones' which leaves whole nations distraught after a single scene, the standard for entertainment has been set very high. The wire fails to offer those heart wrenching, or adrenaline fueled moments which completely turn the series around. Even when one of the long-running characters was killed off there was no sense of drama, emotion or suspense.On a side note, the show definitely suffers from a lack of soundtrack...just a sad song when a beloved crack dealer dies, or a hip- hop montage showcasing inner city Baltimore would be all that is needed to add that bit more emphasis and energy.I find it interesting to compare it with another modern day series: The Walking Dead. The Wire trumps the walking dead in character development, acting, plot and dialogue. However when it comes to entertainment on the whole, the walking dead wins every time, due to the fact that having a a bit of zombie gore, danger and general 'action' keeps the audience on their toes. It actually frustrating, knowing that just a couple of scenes each series where we see a shocking revelation/character death which will really get the audiences heart's pumping would transform this show from an 8 to a 10 out of 10, no doubt.


                
This is the best show I've seen since prison break !!
The only reason I'm not giving this a 10 or 9 is because it was a bit boring especially when they where showing the police side of the show ...


                
