There is nothing quite like the Wire on TV. It is a show that often get's put somewhere near #1 for the best TV show of all time, and hence often get's dubbed 'overrated' by people who don't understand it. Quite often we see it compared to other great shows like Breaking Bad and The Sopranos, when the reality is that it is nothing like either and hence can hardly be compared.The Wire is after all, at least in my opinion, a documentary of sorts. While every character in the series is entirely fictional, the MAIN character is not. That character being the city of Baltimore. The Wire masquerades as a cop drama, but in reality it is not. It is essentially a documentary about the city of Baltimore, and while describing life in that city, the Wire also explores every aspect of life in the United States.Unlike Breaking Bad or The Sopranos, The Wire only sometimes tries to keep you entertained. It's mostly concerned with teaching you, informing you, forcing you to think. Each season deals with a different aspect of the city of Baltimore, but the overarching theme (at least in my opinion) is that of institutions vs. individuals. Clearly the writers of this show have little respect for the system that runs our society, frequently comparing it unfavorably to the drug organizations.That said, there IS entertainment. A lot of it, in fact. Each season has a plot that wraps up nicely at the end, with a lot of drama, clever dialogue and surprises throughout. And the characters, oh the characters. The Wire no doubt boasts the best collection of characters ever seen on TV. Stringer Bell, Omar Little... MAN, TV will never see such awesome characters.However, I have to admit that if you just want to be entertained, the Wire is NOT the show for you. Or to put it in another way, if entertainment was the only thing I based the rating on, I would give the Wire a 7 or 8. Far too often the show gets bogged down by it's desire to be authentic. It doesn't cut corners - it wants to show you EXACTLY how cops catch the bad guys, and what sort of obstacles the bureaucracy throws in their way. IT doesn't go easy, well developed characters in the drug trade will suddenly get shot because that's what happens in the real world. Therefore, I can accept that this show isn't for everyone. Heck, it isn't even my favorite show, but it is the one that I would consider the best due simply to it's sheer importance.10/10


                
"The Wire" is widely considered as one the best series ever, and by many critics as the best. Despite its title, its topics are much more varied than wiring criminals and fighting drugs: criminality in general, law, ethnicity, crisis, politics, education, media, etc.On all these issues, the tone is pessimistic. First about narcotics: the war on drugs is useless; new dealers replace those who are imprisoned; kids are enrolled young in illegal activities; addicts are not really helped out of their dependency. Other problems are numerous: murders, human trafficking, corruption, poverty, foreclosures, etc. The depiction of Baltimore is representative of decaying post-industrial cities, even though the entire series was shot before the 2008 crisis<U+0085> As such, it exposes the failures of our so-called modern societies.Echoing the grim context, individual lives are generally not joyful. We rarely see couples and families enjoying themselves together; they essentially argue. Happy scenes, if any, are short. None of the jobs is really exciting; professional relationships are regularly tense. Having a good time is usually getting drunk.Regardless, "The Wire" has many qualities, some of which are briefly described below.*** WARNING: CONTAINS SPOILERS ***The series adopts a convincing documentary style, based on factual experience and extensive research: actual events, overlaying plots, linear stories without flashbacks (only two minor exceptions), authentic settings, credible characters, great attention to details (notice for instance the constant realism of background noises). Important and/or charismatic characters are purposefully eliminated, because plot consistency is more important than role continuity.There essentially is no soundtrack, accentuating the documentary genre. However, at the end of each Season summarising the main characters' fates, music climatically emerges with an all the more compelling impact.It shows appearances are misleading: knowledgeable and apparently respectable persons can be felons. Levy skilfully uses the law to protect murderers he knows are guilty. Stringer follows business classes and develops a legitimate business to launder money. By contrast, D'Angelo has values despite his limited education and crimes. Additionally, the series progressively evolves: for instance the honour code respected by the Barksdale clan and the co-op falls apart when Avon and Stringer betray each other, then explodes as Marlo imposes terror.It highlights ethical ambiguities and compromises. McNulty uses Omar's false testimony to convict a killer (Season 2). Bunny reduces crime by creating Hamsterdam, a drug heaven<U+0085> or hell? (Season 3) The school improves education by segregating students (Season 4). Symbolically, policemen and criminals present many similarities: they speak the same language with numerous f-words; they sometimes interact like accomplices; officers go undercover in the streets; they have resembling activities (drinking, loitering, assaulting, meetings with a chairman, pressure to improve results, trailing suspects).It is not Manichean. First, there are "villains" in every category of the population: inhabitants, policemen, felons, politicians, etc. Also, main characters are complex. Dedicated policemen usually have a flaw: McNulty is arrogant; Daniels has a shady past; Carver steals money; Herc eventually helps Levy. Most guiltlessly beat up suspects. The police hierarchy is cunning but cynical and manipulative. Conversely, most criminals have class, notably Stringer and Omar. Bubbles is friendly but pathetic. Carcetti is greedy but wants to improve the city. Editor Gus is bullying but righteous. At the very end, Marlo fights: we understand he is not just a show-off, but grew up in the streets. Characters evolve, notably children in Season 4 who have very different outcomes in Season 5.It illustrates the struggle between individuals and the system: how mostly decent people are oppressed by economic conditions and heartless organisations, of which hierarchy is only the visible part. Money is a persistent issue. To react, individuals sometimes go rogue. Dockworkers smuggle to compensate for the lack of activity (Season 2). Policemen use tracking devices without authorisation. McNulty and Freamon forge evidence to increase resources (Season 5). Eventually, nothing changes: the powerful and corrupt are rewarded (Carcetti, Nerese, Davis, Rawls, Valchek, Templeton, Marlo, Levy); the powerless and virtuous are punished (McNulty, Freamon, Daniels, Bunny, Gus, children). To carry on, the system requires truth to be manipulated, not exposed.To partly offset the permanent tension, humour is omnipresent. Dialogues feel at the same time real and to the point. Some are quite philosophical, even in unexpected places (e.g. the literary club in jail in Season 2, Episode 6).The series develops a powerful overall structure. Each Season is dedicated to a topic (respectively drugs, docks, politics, education, media) and integrates as well previous topics (except the docks which are specific). This culminates with Season 5 which condensates them in a final climax. The last Season also loops with the first: Season 1 showed a code-breaking wire that failed to indict the Barksdale clan; Season 5 shows a code-breaking wire that succeeds in capturing Marlo's gang. Yet at the very end, we go backwards: Valchek is the new Burrell; Michael is the new Omar; Duquan is the new Sherrod with another Bubbles; Marlo is loose; Levy will protect other criminals. The only good news are Namond succeeding and Bubbles being accepted by his family.-----The limits of "The Wire" are those of most series. Action is sometimes repetitive, since it runs for hours, and a few events are far-fetched, to maintain attention on the long term. Mostly, editing is fast, which is paradoxical for such a long series: instead of fully developing a scene, it frequently switches to another one; even in the same scene, shots are brief. This is somewhat an easy solution to maintain pace. The fact there were 27 different directors for 60 episodes probably did not help: it sometimes feels as if they wanted to stick to a set style instead of developing a personal vision, which partly relies on creator David Simon who wrote 51 of the episodes.Nevertheless, "The Wire" is now a major classic among series. Not a feel-good watch, but definitely engrossing.
I've read a LOT of great things about this show. It is almost always included in top 10 T.V shows of all time lists and is generally regarded as one of the best show ever made. I finally decided to watch it and it was a one hell of a viewing experience. Unlike other famous series, The Wire has a HUGE main cast, and it keeps on growing as seasons move on. Because of this, it always takes time to get to know the rhythm of the show. And some mind find it way too slow paced but believe me when I say this, it becomes extremely pleasurable to watch this show once you get pass the initial introduction phase. I don't think I have ever seen this level of all round awesome acting in a series before. And it is even more outstanding considering there are dozens of main characters and even more secondary characters. Everyone just feels so natural. Once you get to know them, it just becomes awesome to watch their daily lives and such as the writing is outstanding. Almost everyone gets a lot of time for character development and you get to see all sides of the story. There are a lot of characters that you will love. You will laugh out loud when they are messing with each other and you will be sad when they are going through a tough time etc. There is some really good humor in the show too. My favourite characters were McNulty, Omar and Bunk. The show also has a VERY realistic feel to it and it actually shows the detailed workings of how cops and other stuff work etc. Paperwork, stake out, surveillance etc which is most of the times skipped out in other cop series/movies. It might seem as a cop/drug scene drama but it is MUCH MUCH more than that. Going into specifics will be spoilerish so I'll just leave it at that. The show being very realistic and all, there is a trade off to it. It can be some time very anti-climatic. Also, some of the stuff introduced in the later seasons, mainly Season 4 and Season 5, just wasn't that interesting to me as compared to the first three seasons. Not that it was written or acted poorly, it was still top notch in that department. Also, I did wish at times that some of my favourite characters in the show got a little more screen time. The biggest thing I didn't like about the show was probably:A mature series for mature audiences. It is an HBO show after all. Will be wise for young audiences to stay away from it. They will not like it anyway. Definitely one of the best series I have ever seen and without a doubt the best series about cops/drugs scene. 9.8/10


                
The first time I heard of "The Wire" was on some forum discussing TV shows. After checking out some clips on Youtube I wasn't all that impressed. With nothing left to watch I decided to give it a go. And I must admit that this show is very rewarding on many different aspects even if it can be relentless and it doesn't hold back one bit. Don't expect any mercy from this show. And I mean none since most of what you see happening to these people on the screen is true to life (at least the core of it). You will learn to appreciate the characters even if they aren't really likable. And here lies the strength of the show. There is a wonderful story present but is not something you haven't seen before. The attention to detail however is. This show has a depth that is not present in other crime dramas. "The Wire" shows all the sides and aspects involved in (mainly) drug trafficking. We will follow the police,the criminals,the politicians and the victims of the drug trade. While the overall tone of the show is meant to be serious and educational,it doesn't mean that there is no room for entertainment. I can't remember another serious crime drama where I laughed so hard as I did with this show. "The Wire" is filled with the most funniest scenes you will ever see. And considering the context you will not see these jokes coming. It has been a while now that I have seen this show and I still think about it. If that isn't a sign of a true classic than what is.


                
Like an all time classic album, it takes a little while to get into. After 4 or 5 episodes your hooked, like a drug fiend hunting red-tops. You start to consume more and more of the wire, maybe skipping work, playing less with the kids, leaving the housework. After four gruelling seasons it spits you back out, but your sitting alone, rocking back and forth wanting more, waiting for the re-up. Lost and 24 are ruined forever, they cant come close. Now you call your kids youngns, and your constantly reaching for your whistle........In Season 5 of the Sopranos, where the opening scene in the first episode mirrors the last scene of the series, I thought TV couldn't possibly get any better.I was wrong.


                
English isn't my native tongue, so I'll keep this brief (allthough keeping it brief ain't exactly my strongest suit): I'm 37 years of age, I've seen a lot, lived a lot: Never have I seen a series so realistic, so full of...everything: No heroes, no beautiful people , not one Hollywoodian cliché. Briefly (like I said): to paraphrase a comment someone already stated; "This is the best book I've read in years... ." PS: I've read on IMDb that The Wire will have a fifth and final season: Too bad the fifth will be the last, 'cause given what we've seen in 1,2,3 & 4, I figured there could easily be a sixth. Ed & David, do you copy? Or should I say: "Do you feel me?" Or like Isaac Hayes sings while Andre is visiting Proposition Joe, in order not to get whacked: "Don't leave me this way!"
In the beginning,David Simon was a writer for the Baltimore Sun. Teaming up with Ed Burns who used to be on the police force, Simon developed a handful of characters based on stories and people he wrote about. Together he and Burns designed what is perhaps the smartest piece of television in history along side the SimpsonsThe Wire is all about the drug wars going on in the roughest part of Baltimore, and what goes down on either side of the law. What makes the show so special is the way it is presented in an objective unbiased way. When the media or network drama show crime in the world, the material is always dumbed down or dichotomized, meaning broken down into a two sided issue (good vs. bad). The Wire does not do this, it shows the big picture. For example, there are frequent times when some of the criminals are likable, and the cops are not. There are no easy heroes, or villains, there are no clichés or gimmicks, and there is no illusion to what we see. It is real. In season one, a mismatched handful of police officers from two departments (homicide and major crimes) are brought together to become a special unit with one objective. They are to monitor the drug criminals using a wiretap until they have enough evidence to bring down the operation. It is harder than it sounds, way harder. The smartest of these cops is Detective James McNulty, an eager, sharp-thinking cop, who leads a wreck of a life, (part of which has to do which his drinking problem). His team is also dedicated and hard working, but in the police department, the chain of command makes it hard for them to do their job. Sitting in the big chairs are people who are more interested in their jobs and good publicity rather than running expensive slow operations like wiretapping drug drug lords, which doesn't result in frequent arrests.On the other side of the law, the head honchos are ruffians who are only interested in business, but the pawns in that game (the ones who sell the drugs on street corners) are in a very disturbing and sympathetic situation. A lot of them are just kid, youngsters who say no to an education. Some of the ones we meet are only grade school aged! They do drug dealing to make money which barely keeps them surviving in the harsh world they live in.The complexity and grittiness and anger of the show has resulted in a lack of commercial success, but anyone who likes good television, will not only love The Wire, they will praise it. There is a world here that most of us will never understand unless we watch.


                
A slightly more pragmatic and efficacious attempt to deal with the drug problem. Brilliant dialogue,if highly profane: "You're the perfect bait. They will view you as conflicted, you're homophobia is so visceral." "See that. I haven't even walked in the place yet and you're already calling me a c********r." To paraphrase Barry Sheene,you have got to give them points for that. Hard,sharp and dark(noirish)and the downside of a clever police officer's actions,which came at the risk of his career,was turned into a positive at the political level,as it was suggested that his unorthodox approach could be suggested as a new initiative to combat the drug problem by the elected police hierarchy. Clever stuff.


                
This show was absolutely amazing and the first of its kind. Breaking Bad, Narcos, and Sons of Anarchy all had not come out yet. This show was the first to give an in-depth look into the world of drugs and how people are affected by drugs or how people become involved. The world of drugs is explored through multiple avenues involving the boat trade, politics, police, and the criminals themselves. The Wire shows drugs as a character and how it affects people's desires, ambitions, and thoughts. The city of Baltimore is a character as well. The show uses the city well to its advantage. Using the port of Baltimore to show crime as well as showing the corruption among cops being paid off by the drug lords. This show was the first to introduce me to the world of corrupt cops. At 12, that is when I first learned how brutal cops can be in interrogations and how slimy they are when they want to climb the ladder. This show has a beautiful arrangement of characters that are very funny, cruel, and only at times, kind. I learned a lot from this show and most certainly suggest it.


                
Another top notch show in HBO's arsenal. I'm not a big fan of the Hill Street Blues, hard core cop kind of show but it's impossible not to enjoy this series. You get plenty of material from the bad guys as well. You get a really good, realistic (in my amateur opinion) look at what it's like to be a homicide cop and it's rough. You also get a decent look at the other side, the hierarchy of people who commit the crimes. Does a really good job of spreading the story around, covering all the bases. Some seasons were better than others - I enjoy watching the drug trade more than city officials bickering with each other - but the acting is spot on across the board. If you're an HBO show fan, this series is a must-see. Right there with the best of them.


                
If you like TV series with slow plot builds, developing characters and a lot of grit and realism, The Wire is it. I just caught Season 1 on DVD and can't get it out of my head. It had me feeling a ton of emotions rarely emoted from TV. If you don't like swearing (I don't and it's the one thing that I hated about the series) don't watch, because there is a lot of it. I think the F-word is overused. But if this doesn't bother you, you'll love the series. It truly is my only complaint. The story telling is great, the characters are great and it seems very real. I can't speak for more than Season 1, but this is in my top 5 all time favorite TV shows.


                
Just got done watching all the seasons over several months and have to say I don't think in my 30 something yrs. of life I can say I have seen better television!! This show has tremendous hype by fans and critics and it does not disappoint. Not sure if it is realistic as I don't live in the hood, but can say it tackles SO MANY issues regarding violence and drug use from the crack heads who use, the sellers who treat it like a business, the police whose job it is to shut it down and everyone else around who is affected.The show takes a serious and no hold look at the great and the bad among all the characters. Some of the time u end up detesting the police and politicians and end up feeling bad for the low level criminals.If u like crime drama or just like good storytelling u gotta check this out. My only rec. is give it an honest shot (4-5 episodes) before judging. Trust me it will hook u!! Also, don't worry about trying to remember every character and detail that his not what the show is about.Best compliment I can give for this show is it is like a work of art. U watch it and u may not understand the full meaning, but u appreciate the talent that went into making it.Job well done!!


                
Like a lot of people, I had watched a couple of random episodes on HBO and thought of "The Wire" as a pretty good, but not great, show. A couple weeks ago however, I saw the first season at Blockbuster, and started watching from the beginning, which greatly altered my opinion.I've read a lot of rave reviews about "The Shield", but I've never really warmed up to that show. "The Shield" often wallows in gratuitous sleaze and frat boy humor which doesn't do much for me. Plus, Vic and his amorality make him a hard character to sympathize with. I sometimes wish they'd just get the goods on the SOB and lock him up.On the other hand, McNulty and associates may be cynical, but they're still professionals that stay as focused on the job - as the shows stays focused on the plot, which is its greatest strength. There aren't a lot of side trips into the personal lives of the characters besides McNulty, and those are mercifully kept to a minimum. If there's one cliché on this show that bugs me, its the obligatory troublesome ex-wife. I've seen this character too much, and it only bogs the show down. Other than this small flaw, the show is addictive and endlessly fascinating. Watching the drug dealers, you really feel you're down in the hole with the devil. Guys like Stringer and Omar are truly scary people.For my money, the best cop show I'd previously seen was Season 1 (and the early part of Season 2) of "NYPD Blue". These were the episodes with David Caruso and Amy Brenneman. But I'll probably give the edge to Season 1 of "The Wire", based on what feels to me like a more realistic portrayal of life on the streets.For what it's worth, I would not rate this show quite as high as "The Sopranos" as a DVD purchase. Because "The Wire" is so plot driven, with an immense story arc, I'm not sure I'd want to watch it over again for a while, and it's not the kind of show where you'd pick out one or two episodes to fill a couple hours. Nor does it have the humor or symbolism that makes me want to watch almost any episode of "The Sopranos" several times.Those small criticisms aside, this is a terrific, intelligent show and I highly recommend it.


                
I started watching "Gran Torino" starring Clint Eastwood but left in a huff 30 minutes in because its inner city characters were laughably simplistic compared to the twisting, wonderfully nuanced lives in "The Wire". Only after watching the Eastwood flick did I realize what a rare accomplishment Simon et al. have achieved - characters who aren't redeemed or martyred when they sacrifice something or do good things, the small heroics (and the big screwups) that go unnoticed, the interlocking pieces of a community or organization that sustain or fail to address problems. I'm guessing I'll be experiencing this irritation at such films until David Simon's next project arrives. I'll read books in the meantime.


                
Not coincidentally brought to you by Clark Johnson, who both played Detective Lewis in the best cop show ever (Homicide), and also brought you "The Shield" on FX, another solid show. The Wire, like other HBO productions, is a little more gritty and down to earth than network shows. While I'm a "24" addict without apology, I do like less over the top fare on occasion. The Wire has realistic dialogue, excellent actors (at least as far as cop shows go), and the writing so far is real good. Worth a look if you like realistic crime/cop dramas. Lots of interesting characters. The Lead actor in the show is Det. Jimmy McNulty played by Dominic West. He is really good in this role, a very reserved and understated performance for a lead role. Unlike Jack Bauer in 24 or Detective Vic Mackey in The Shield, McNulty's character seems to internalize more, less outward aggression than is usually on display by our favorite lead cops. He plays the role with his eyes more often than not. I'm only into season one on DVD, I usually like watching shows a year or two after they debut, no commercials and all. Here's hoping this show doesn't drop off after the first season. HBO's second fiddle to The Sopranos is well worth your time.


                
A great modern drama, sensitive and made full of passion in the details, great characters. Nothing ever changes in this life, but there is optimism. G.O.A.T


                
When a series is as widely praised as 'The Wire', it might be useful (from a British perspective) to compare it with our own top cop shows. And in terms of strength of characterisation, it gets only a middling mark. The characters are all strong, but you can never altogether escape the sense that they've been designed to fill a role, and some of the dialogue is just a little too crisp for real life. Watch my own favourite police show, 'The Cops', and you'll see how, for all 'The Wire's much-feted realism, there's still a faint coating of gloss on the grime; and no single character is as interesting (or as well-played) as Jayne Tennyson in 'Prime Suspect'. But this does not mean that 'The Wire' does not deserve praise. 'Prime Suspect', in spite of pretending to be a police procedural, in fact used all the usual hackneyed plot devices of televisual thrillers. 'The Wire', by contrast, tells a highly plausible story, and maintaining this single story over 13 hours without the slightest resort to melodramatic cliché is a fine achievement. The program also deserves credit for attempting, within the scope of fiction, to seriously explore the dreadful state of America's neglected, and often ignored, underbelly. This makes 'The Wire' a rare, and serious, program; but also a fine drama whose tension mounts if you're prepared to wait for it.


                
This show is really good. I really wanted to like it while watching but I just couldnt, and that is because of the meanless policetalk and unnecesary scenes and storylines. This was more like a book as some say. I mean there a scenes of mostly every character in the show even tho no one cares and wants to watch it. But the main storyline was really good, so I still gave it a 10 but I wanted to give it a 9 because of the Boooring scenes. I mean if you would bring togheter every meanless scene you would literally make a whole season. So this show couldve have only 4 seasons.
But I still recommend it.


                
One of the great TV series, The Wire is an exploration of crime, policing, corruption, and politics. Seasons tend to focus on particular investigations, but they are more about exploring the nature of an aspect of Baltimore and its struggles. The first episode focuses on the drug trade, the next on corruption and compromise on the loading docks. The series takes long looks at the school system and the nature of political compromise.One interesting thing is that nothing ends. Characters jailed in one season are followed into prison in the next. Cops that lose their jobs are followed into new professions. It is as though the shows world simply keeps growing, constantly growing new roots that reach into new areas.The series also avoids the typical cop tropes. Cops are frustrated when the law slows their progress, but they don't make speeches about how if the government would just get out of the way they could get stuff done. Instead, cops generally accept that there are rules they have to follow because that's just what the job is.The Wire is unrelentingly honest about the Sisyphean task of the police. The first episode follows the successful hunt for a drug kingpin, but the last episode shows that, with him off the street, the drug market still flourishes. It is a message given over and over.The Wire isn't perfect. I found the early episodes of season 3 less than engrossing, and the final season was rather ridiculous, although still reasonably entertaining. The final of the drug bosses was its least interesting. But these are minor complaints about a show whose fully-drawn characters, gritty realism, and intriguing stories make it one of the great series of the modern age of television.


                
I've seen GoT season 1 Sopranos Lost Breaking Bad season 1 Mad Men and probably other high rated series that I can't think of right now, but The Wire remains my top rated show.The Barksdales, the dock workers, the kids, the politicians, the press... every season was different and chance-y and they all worked! Each season was intriguing and compelling and funny and frustrating and infuriating and impossible for me to look away from. Yes there are a few things that could have been done better but I don't care. It's as close to perfect as I've seen so far.As I write this 8 years after the series end it bares noting that it's still relevant and holds up really well. Too well. Far too much of this series set in Baltimore is playing out on a national stage. Doesn't distract from the series itself though - The Wire is a masterpiece!


                
The wire has all the right ingredients- relatable character sketches, amazing Character development and a decent plot line. It has lots of buildup with multiple story lines working in tandem. There is a lot of foreshadowing with many iconic scenes and conversations. The city of Baltimore itself feels like a character which is alive and thriving, with its many facets like drug trade, docks, city governance, the school system, and the media just waiting to be explored.With all its positives, there are some negatives too. It feels too realistic for its own good which inevitably leads to a less thrilling and exciting ride as compared to other TV shows. Still, quite hard to find other shows like this.


                
This series tackles drugs in the US from different perspectives from the dealers to the politicians. It's a refreshing and novel approach. In saying this, not all seasons are created equal.


                
Watch because you want to truly see something outside of your own life.


                
I myself am a very big fan of many different TV Series and have already watched and loved Heroes, Lost, Prison Break, 24, Weeds,OZ, SVU and a bunch of others. After I had finished watching Season 6 of Lost, I had nothing to watch so I went through all of my available options and came to the conclusion that The Wire had higher average User Rating than anything else, so I decided to watch it. It wound up being one of the biggest mistakes I've made in years. I am currently on Episode 6 of the Second Season and I have yet seen an episode which I had liked. It is bland, boring, slow and I have yet to care about a single character on the show. I can go on and on about how miserably terrible this show is, but I won't do that. I will simply tell you that there are many Paid Programming shows on TV that are better and more exciting than this show. Be smart and stay clear.NYtoCALI


                
Some years ago, 'The Wire' was on repeat via 13th Street, but unfortunately I missed the first season. Recently I have watched this again, this time the whole shebang. Though a second run is never quite the same (read: as fresh as the first run), it was still a pleasure of the seldom kind.Season 1 turned out to be (of course) quite important in laying out some groundwork for the later seasons, but it's not my favorite. 'The criminals' and 'the cops' are the two main groups that return in every season and then there are a few groups that appear for only one or two seasons; for instance, one of my favorites is the harbor gang, which only appears in the second season (except for a few very, very short bits later on). All these 'gangs' make it that the show seems to wander at times, but it all concerns the city of Baltimore and its confrontations with, mainly, drug-related crime. And even though there are my favorite groups in this, there is nothing in it that I really didn't like. The least of it all would be Carcetti and his gang and some of that political stuff going on, but I can't deny it's all crucial to the story.One of the biggest strongpoints of 'The Wire' is its cast; a great bunch of actors who inhabit the screen with fierce charisma. And in mentioning Bubbles, Omar, Bunk, Cutty, Rhonda, Frank, Bodie or Herc separately, I'm only addressing the fact that one will have his or her favorites - I might as well have copy-pasted the whole list of characters.The story of a city. The city of Baltimore. Okay, not every side gets the spotlights, as for instance it could have been interesting to have a hospital setting in this, but you can't have it all. And though the story is not told in the usual way, like 'good guys vs. bad guys' or something, there is a lot of (sincere) sentiment in it and certainly 'The Wire' shows a big ol' soft spot for its characters (and Baltimore) at times... but does not refrain from being ruthless as life itself will be as well.A wonderful show that deserves watching, and I'm pretty sure I will watch it again to discover and understand even more about the characters, their motives and how everything ties together. 9 out of 10.
