Never has any show in the entire history of television been as overrated, overpraised, and over-hyped as The Colbert Report. This show does nothing but annoy. The lead character, played by Stephen Colbert, is supposed to be a parody of a conservative newscaster. Unfortunately, Colbert does not so much succeed in mocking such conservatives as he does in becoming as annoying as they are. He is not funny or enlightening or remotely interesting. The media goes on and on about Colbert's talent and intelligence but how much talent and intelligence does it take to play the same character and the same tired comedy bits over and over until we stop watching. That is not talent, that is consistency. And to be consistently annoying does not lead to a long career, even in the fake news game. My roommate and I gave The Colbert Report a fair shot, coming on as it does after The Daily Show, one of our favorite shows. We now turn off The Daily Show early so we don't catch Colbert's promo at the end of it. That's how bad this show is. We can't even stand the promos.


                
Stephen Colbert is a one-joke comedian who has worn out his welcome. The character he endlessly portrays is unfunny, smug, irritating and cannot be watched at length by anyone with an IQ above room temperature without the desire to disinfect one's psyche with a steam generator.This is the Disney Channel for particularly dull-witted adults. There is simply nothing funny about the man and he clearly appeals to those who do not possess the ability to think on their own. His snarky visage and limp political jokes are designed for mental slackers who are watching from their parents' basements. Their kneejerk agreement with the America-hating Colbert in his unremitting leftism is an example of the weakling mindset that gave 20th century nations leaders like Hitler, Stalin and Mao.In other words, the viewers of this fetid non-comedy are entirely incapable of cogent thought.


                
The reason the Colbert Report won Emmys is because the show was NOT Ror X rated. Since winning Emmys recently, the writers must have gone mad!!! Every other word or gesture is obscene, lewd and offensive!You don't have to be dirty to be funny---get back to the way it used tobe before the awards swelled your head tobursting with indecencies. The show is so disgusting and in worse thanpoor taste now, that my husband and i just turn it off towatch "anything!" else.How about hiring new writers----or is Mr. Cobert the writer himself??Get back to the basics of satire and humor---don't trash it down to smut and offensiveness!


                
