The show Billions is so bad. I couldn't be more disappointed. How in the world did they get Paul Giamatti, Damian Lewis, and David Costabile to agree to this lackluster, forced, awkward show with one dimensional characters?It's like a bunch of wannabes who have never set foot in a Wall Street trading firm got together and wrote down every cliché of what they think it would be like to work in that world and then turned it into the script for the show. Then, they threw in some cheesy BDS&M, U.S. Attorney's for Dummies, and Real Housewives of the Hamptons. Ugh. It. Is. So. Painful.


                
great actors...should have followed the "Big Short" style on reality. seems like they tried to dumb it down way too much. It would be like equating Gordon Gekko with Martha Stewart. In reality, Damian Lewis' hedge fund would have been out of business after one year. His insight were at most banal. I hoped this would be the next great drama, but it was reduced to insider trading 101. Sort of like doing a drama on AIDS, and saying it is transmitted by toilet seats. I would have preferred to see them delve into the Hedge funds use of industry consultants, where the hedge funds get the information. Particularly important for tech and pharma, not some idiotic..aluminum wheels are in oversupply?...no hedge fund wastes there time on something so idiotic.


                
Here we go with another show about how America glorifies the rich and powerful and their complete lack of morals. Yay! Rich person A Bobby Axelrod (pathetic name) is a super intelligent business genius who has taken control of some unimaginative corporation because all of the board died in 9/11 and surprise! Knows how to talk BS to get out of any situation when confronted with 'lesser (poorer) people' who voice any kind of opinion against him.Powerful person B Chuck Rhoades is the super intelligent US attorney who God forbid is just a US attorney and therefore can do his job, no, because he is powerful he has to like being tied up and have a dominatrix urinate all over him so we can't see that coming back to bite him on the rear......And this is without me going into rich person A's predictably pretty yet nasty wife (who he married because she's as nasty as he is) and powerful person B's butt snorkeling side kicks who will do anything to support him to further their careers.We've seen House of Cards people. Try more than 1 degree of separation.
I almost didn't watch this show because it looked like a shallow, networky, campy attempt to attract the sheeple with shiny things. It is rare that you can get "The bonus," where a show or movie is so incredibly casted, written, acted, directed, and even scored, that you actually sit back, and think, or even say out loud, "Wow..... This is incredible" ("The bonus" in that you can actually watch a scene not just for the story, but in admiration of excellence in itself, like De Niro and Pacino's scene in Heat, two masters giving us a lot more than just the story). There are some pretty great shows and movies, but few that go beyond their great stories, actually inspiring awe in addition to their stories. This, I believe, is one of those. I kept spreading the episodes out into pieces because I didn't want it to end. EVERY character is interesting and special, and EVERY actor knocks it out of the park. The writing so tight, NOTHING is wasted. Every second grabs you tighter, and sucks you in deeper. I put it up there with The Soprano's because of the quality and characters, two benchmarks I feel were the difference makers with that groundbreaking series ("quality" in terms of how deep and thorough the characters and stories were). I put it up there with Breaking Bad and The Wire because of the intensity and complexity of the stories (the good kind of "complex," where the pieces put together are greater than the sum of their parts, as opposed to some shallow, stupefying, drama with "empty" action, violence, affairs, etc.). But, unlike The Wire, I feel this show could also be enjoyed on a more shallow level (like BB, it can appeal to both the cerebral and more visceral types). The con (and it's a big one): I've now got to wait eight months for Season 2!!!


                
So, a billionaire financial hedge fund wizard plays dodge-prison with a ruthless and equally corrupt prosecutor hell bent on sending him to prison. Good idea for a gripping series, and a cast of excellent actors.
Sadly, the wooden acting, unbelievable script and ludicrous plot lines make this a yawn-a-minute series, loved and loathed by many in equal measure. I deliver a poor rating because the line-up of talent would suggest great things. The tragedy is that it suffers from an awful script and characters that seem unable to leave one dimension. Tag that to acting-by-numbers supporting cast members and you have yet another American series that falls flat when, on paper, it should deliver the goods.
Oh, and it seems that all you need to work in a hedge fund firm is a misogynistic and testosterone personality disorder and the ability to read complex markets and financial institutions by osmosis.


                
Person 1: Bla bla bla
Person 2: Bla bla facial expression


                
