I loved this show for the first season. 9 stars.But I couldn't see how this story, given its straight-forward premise, could realistically go beyond a single season without it running out of moves to make. I got halfway through episode 6 in season 2 and my last little bit of care for the last character I liked dissolved in a scene that made no sense at all – then I realised they needed it to happen to keep a character involved, or it would become still thinner. Suddenly, for me, it got stupid.Hollywood writers (or whoever is ultimately behind dragging these things out for the money) have zero respect for viewers. An apt description for the story, and the many others that have suffered a similar plight, might be: non-event counter-moves, again and again and again.***KIND OF A SPOILER (for many shows)<U+0085>***Whatever is happening in current scene, no matter how drastic or imminent the apparent threat, it might as well not.I understand the concept of driving a story and keeping a viewer on edge, but after a while, when you overdo it, we see the strings on the puppets too clearly.I want to get on a plane, fly to each studio and smack it for ruining some great shows for their greed.


                
This show seems to be about how effectively ruthless ultra rich people are. Another part of its appeal is probably the viewers' wish to be as rich themselves and to be able to stick it to other people. The story evolves around people power gaming each other. Don't expect any sophisticated plots or unanticipated turn of events. The characters are one dimensional as those in a cartoon: They have one character trait and motivation and that's it. Real people have competing motivations and drives. People who are unkind to others are not simply evil, they act the way they do because of their world view. The characters in "Billions" are not real, they are artificial and predictable as the story.


                
I waited till I watched 4 episodes before I gave my opinion of this show. I really like Lewis as an actor. Homeland has gone down hill without him. Band of brothers rocked. But no matter how hard he rocks it as an actor, nothing can save this show from such poor writing. First off, it's very cliché and pseudo edgy. Adding sex into a show doesn't make it interesting when the rest of the script sucks. You simply can't count on it to produce a great show, just ask stars....or at least take your dribble there. There is also way to much filler crap going on that has nothing to do with the story line. It's like they couldn't expand the actual story so you get inconsequential dribble for 30 minutes of a 54 minute show. The cast of this show is fairly good. I'm kind of shocked that they agreed to actually take part in this show with such bad writing. I have nothing bad to say about the acting. It couldn't be acted better. But they simply can't save this show from the terrible writing. The worst part of it for Lewis is he's the main character so he can't get lucky enough to be written out of this flop. You would make better use of your time taking the dog for a walk than watching this crap. Don't have a dog...borrow the neighbors.


                
The acting is good, and the basic premise interested me, but the script and plot generally fail to deliver. It's trying very hard to be a smart, edgy and sexy show, but doesn't know how to accomplish any of that. Instead, the audience treated to the main character's rivals constantly raving about how brilliant he is, a lot of gratuitous crudity, and random sex scenes.The result is a bunch of unbelievable characters, situations, and dialogue, all of which seems to be dumbed down, either to appeal to the lowest possible denominator of viewers (who wouldn't be interested anyhow) or as a reflection of the limited knowledge of the writers regarding the subject matter.Most of it isn't too bad - but the persistence in someone waxing eloquent about how utterly amazing the main character is in every single episode is making me want to vomit. It reminds me of the Poochie episode of the Simpsons, actually, except they're serious.


                
So this is what entertainment has come to these days. This is the sort of level of writing that will satisfy the majority of viewers. To be honest, I find it quite sad that most viewers would 'settle' for mediocrity. In terms of content, I find the characters to be one dimensional, not showing (almost) any depth of character, almost placards of typical personas you would find in such positions in society. In terms of dramatics/suspense i find this show lacking badly; I mean, there is no suspense, no real drama. it just sort of flows on a even queue, sort of just happening in front of your eyes but don't really engage you one bit (in my personal experience of course). Oh, and they through in a bit of sexuality, to go along with the GREED. I mean this show ultimately boils down to one human trait/inclination we find more and more these days- GREED. I mean, in real life I will stay away from such individuals, simply because they bore me. The whole concept of the show is boring, uninteresting. Why would someone watch this show. Why would someone have an interest in this show. is GREED appealing in any level? or battles of ego- are those appealing? Is this show benevolent in any shape or form? is it meant for any good cause? Does it leave the viewer with anything besides the lost time he/she had just invested in watching it?I mean, what is the point or purpose of this show?And why is it supposed to be interesting?And more sadly, how come so many people find it satisfying?How come?


                
I thought the first two seasons were decent, though the plots are OTT and the main characters were starting to get pretty irritating by the end of season two. Into season three and it's becoming quite boring and really stupid no more so than the quote "how can we live on 320 million dollars ?" The episodes seem to drag with nothing much really happening except the rich guy popping up every 5 minutes or so telling you how rich he is, while trying to manipulate someone. They should have finished the show at season two.
Even Tony Beets does not swear as much as these people do. The concept of dramatizing high crimes and misdemeanors in the financial world could be entertaining, but this representation falls short because of its utterly unrealistic dialog that is constantly punctuated by the gratuitous flaunting of the F-word and various gross sexual metaphors. This abuse of adult language--and use of other puerile plot elements, as well--undermines the characterization and drags the whole production down, eroding the willing suspension of disbelief and making it seem like comic book material rather than serious adult drama. For the most part, the characterization is already transparent and two-dimensional; the swearing helps to make it merely silly.


                
It's just boring. Lots of F bombs, lots of unbelievable bad acting. casting is bad. Main star "the billionaire" completely over acts his part. No action, no intense gripping. Just plain boring. Reminds me of one of those CBS weekly crime shows that we all try to avoid. I cannot think of any moment in any scene that really glued me to the screen and I was always hopefully anticipating a better scene.


                
I'd been looking forward to the return of "Billions" -- but after the first episode, I couldn't believe my ears. They'd brought Aaron Sorkin in on the show? Turns out they hadn't, but the writing is definitely Sorkin-ish: rapid-fire, super-slick dialogue filled with instant recall of facts, figures, names, dates, images .. show-offy stuff, a competition in cleverness. Only it's not much of a competition, since the characters all talk alike.Producers, this is a misstep. You don't want to do this.


                
