The show is about a group of billionaire wall street traders who use quasi legal tactics to make orders of magnitude more money than most of us. There is a DA who wants to nail them, especially the main character named Axelrod. I think they want us to believe both the good guys (DA) and bad guys (bankers) are equally flawed, because the bankers can care about children too (their own, not yours). I think it is insulting they want us to buy it.This could have been a great show. It has mostly good actors , and high production quality. The writing is weak though, very weak. I don't know if it was a bunch of connected millennials, or a bunch of pandering experienced writers, but it is bad. First of all, they overdue the crude and foul language traders use, so it seems fake, especially when the lines are delivered by women. Next, it has all kinds of cliché 'FOR THE CHILDREN" scenes like the one where Axelrod chases down a neighbor and slugs him in the face for driving his kids after a couple of beers. Next, the show has a lot of childish subplots like the shrink that works at the firm as a sort of general therapist for all the workers, and she has sort of magical powers to have insights into people's motivations , like a window into their souls. Oh yea, she is married to the DA by the way. The fact that most shrinks can't figure out themselves let alone others, and most know they are little more than a paid friend, the idea that a firm would have the same psych talk to everybody is just silly.Most of the female characters are smarter and more powerful than most of the male characters, except for Axelrod, and his wife has more integrity and wisdom than him (so Lifetime fans can delight). They also try to get the audience to relate to people who think its OK to cheat to set up they're family with like 40 million, when most of us would be happy with a tenth of that. "You want your family to be able to do what they want to do instead of what they feel they have to do", is a quote. I guess the work that needs to be done will get done by some lesser beings, like the ones not handed jobs in Hollywood, perhaps? If you have never gotten your hands dirty doing work, and Daddy paid tuition room and board thru everything, then you might be able to relate, otherwise, stay away.


                
This show is quite the disappointment.Damien Lewis, Paul Giamatti and Maggie Siff can all act.They are good actors. I've seen it. They are not really the problem with the show. But this show is so.. not good. Much of the acting from the side characters is wooden and stiff. The story is riddled with clichés IE "you think the D.A. is a good guy? Oh no he does kinky stuff oh even the good guys do bad things guys." Come on! The swearing feels incredibly forced. The two main characters are obnoxious to the point of both being very unlikable. I love Damien Lewis but Bobby Axelrod is a tool with no redeeming qualities. Chuck Rhoades is the classic arrogant district attorney who only cares about his record and doesn't care who he hurts. The writing is often so cheesy. Characters will drop one liners like they are in an 80's Stallone movie. Dialogue can be painful to watch and listen to. I expected more from this. I thought a Showtime project with Damien Lewis and Paul Giamatti would be awesome and cool. I was so wrong.


                
Right from the get go, this show tries to do way too much. It's plagued with clichéd characters and cringe inducing dialogue. I mean do they really think people talk like that?? The worst part is that they are desperately trying to make it seem as if it's well written. Not only are the characters badly written,their motivations are painfully obvious and overdone, not to mention one of the worst character names I have ever heard in my life, "Bobby Axelrod."The performances by Giamatti and Lewis, too fine actors, are the only way this show will keep afloat, by the end of this season most people will be able to see through its incredibly hallow storytelling.


                
This is a bit too American for me. Unrealistic, everyone's so rich, egocentric, so nice and photoshoped looking.....the list goes on.The only thing that matters in life is to make billions of Pounds no matter who gets squashed along the way.The cast venture about in a world that to some extent exists, but this show goes so far off the grid that it's "reality check time". So for the acting. Paul Giamati is a brilliant actor and the only reason that I've watched the show.The British guy who plays Axe does it well too. Very convincing in this made up dreamscape world. But this is soooo far from the America I've visited. To conclude, People probably need a way to escape the dreadful events in the world and in America in particular. Serves a purpose in that regard.


                
While I don't understand all the Wall Street jargon ( they could just be making up stuff and I'd never know), the stories in Seasons 1 and 2 were interesting. Season 3 really slowed down and I lost interest though I watched the entire season. Season 4 has started off really bad and I've stopped watching it completely.


                
I used to like this show until it started to deteriorate at record speed and turn into "in your face" propaganda of degeneracy.
Last 2 episodes, especially season 04, episode 04, have been embarrassingly bad.
Now its just circling the drain. RIP


                
