Completed watching two episodes of this show and I am all of praise for it. It contains features that excite me to go for a show like insider trading, corporate politics, courtroom scenes and complex characters. It is kind of on the same lines as Suits but an incremented version of it. The pilot starts with building of the two lead characters Chuck and Bobby while keeping up the tempo too. Between the two you cannot decide whom to root for as both have gray shades.With the second episode it starts going deeper into past of their lives and what shaped them to being the way they are today. It is exciting to watch both of them go head to head to get better of each other. It is like a see-saw ride, you cannot predict what is in store for you.If it goes the way it has started it can be one of the best shows of 2016. I would recommend to give a try to this show, you will not regret it.


                
"Billions" is fantastic as it plays with your emotions as you are unsure of who to root for as both the main characters, Bobby and Chuck are likable however they both do things that make you say "Why did you do that!?" but this is the reason the show is fantastic! Damien Lewis and Paul Giamatti bring the characters to life and I could not imagine any other actors in these roles and will be one of the leading reasons this show will continue to be successful! The writing is also exceptionally good and the writers really help to make the characters personalities and intentions known. In all, I believe "Billions" will be successful and if the writers can continue to keep up the good work, we will have plenty of seasons in the future.


                
BILLIONS (SHO): It's all a game of cat and mouse, or who has the biggest set of balls in this story of conflict between two very powerful men. The first is Bobby (Axe) Axelrod, the only surviving partner of Axe Capital hedge fund who just happened to be out of the office on 9/11. Damien Lewis gives us a multifaceted character who has enormous wealth which was probably earned illegally via insider trading. This guy's got it all: beautiful, loving wife, great kids, lives in a mansion with a full time chef and can buy anybody and does. He's so wealthy, he can go to the finest restaurants in a T-shirt. The second is the US Attorney, Chuck Rhoades played by an intense Paul Giamatti who is determined to take Axe down. Their common bond is Rhoades' wife, Wendy, (the very cool and very appealing Maggie Siff) a brilliant psychiatrist who works for Bobby as the in-house shrink, performance coach and cheerleader for the high pressure account execs who have self-doubt and are desperately trying to stay ahead of the game and earn Axe's approval because they fear replacement if they don't perform. She's been working with Bobby even before she met Chuck and makes tenfold what he makes. As a result, the Rhoades' have huge conflict of interest issues which prevents them from talking about work. Wendy loves her husband but is extremely loyal to Axe. Then there's the added bonus of the Rhoades' 50 Shades of Grey dominant/submissive sex play. Chuck is masochistic who likes to be tied up. The machinations of the financial world are as complicated as they are exciting and the writers have given us an intelligent show, smartly done. (See what I did there?) Score: 9. WATCH IT. Bonds and Bondage, can't miss.


                
I've always loved watching TV series and I love House of Cards ,but BILLIONS is a modern day-to-day life fantasy of a rich self-made billionaire and a good one at it.It starts off with a BDSM scene,and enters the world of stock traders and US Attorneys and carries a lot of deep and dark humor!I can vaguely guess that it is similar to the lines of Wolf Of Wall Street including drugs,nudity,treason and work professionalism.Everyone has dark secrets and this is a show which has been written with great patience to come up with such dark ideas. Overall ,having watched just 3 episodes,I can say it is one of the most brilliantly scripted drama thriller and i hope it lives up to its expectations.Please watch it if you haven't yet.


                
Billions: how to make great TV on a strait forward premise.Good guy vs bad guy, leading ladies, surrounding characters, friends, co-workers and family - all fit neatly into how to best tell an important story.The only progressive qualities would be the timely look at the ultra rich, and private lives of the most important characters. Obviously not small characteristics! Good guy: A federal DA with a perfect prosecution record goes after the biggest fish in the waters, Bobby Axelrod. Bad guy: Axelrod, self made billionaire is the face of a hedge fund that clears too much money to be legit. The window into private lives makes the characters believable, live and breath, and often is the best part of a completely immersive viewing experience. The private lives are intelligently juxtaposed from expectation, which adds real texture to the three main characters - who fluctuate in a triangle of love, respect and various degrees of trust. While the third main character is no secret, watching her character develop brings a beautiful counterbalance to the instability of the leading men.Big budget media is only as good as writing and characters, and both are excellent. The dialog is smart, believable, and well delivered - not only by the stars (from whom one expects greatness), but everyone! This means good direction, preproduction, and rehearsal. The chemistry between characters is real. There is never a feeling of uncertainty, wasted moments with useless characters, or scenes utilized just to move the story forward. There is always more than one thing going on at a time bringing a web of collected ideas together. This includes illusive foreshadowing that only hits on the big reveals, that somehow stay unpredictable.Production is absolutely invisible. This is a good thing. The producers know what is important, and all the technical details (while first rate) serve the greater good without frills.Please look elsewhere for a full synopsis, however I will usher fans of office drama like LA law, The Practice, and the contemporary Suits strait to Billions. While not without humor, Billions is dead serious and builds office tension with the best of them. What it adds is the deep look into the private lives of the characters, and how this tangle of realms effects every choice the characters make. But this is no slice of life, the writing is too spare, circumstances too clean, and stories too well conceived. Right now, this is as good as it gets, and though some people may like it more than others - if you love TV, watch this first season.Exceeding all expectation - 9/10


                
John Malkovich does he not have the worst Russian Accent Ever!!


                
Aside from the array of talented and established actors who have been in some the most critically acclaimed tv shows in the modern era, Billions is indcreidbly well written. The Show has no wasted scenes and everything you see has relevance. 
Billions is currently mid way through season 3 and just when I felt I had an understanding of the characters, the plot goes in a completely new direction which doesn't feel forced or unrealistic.
Damian Lewis and HBO have delivered again!


                
'Billions' is a thinking man's thriller that only gets more exciting with each weekly episode! Starring Damian Lewis as Bobby 'Axe' Axelrod, a shifty billionaire hedge-fund manager who possesses the uncanny ability to predict financial outcomes. Seeking to bring him down is his arch-nemesis U.S Attorney Chuck Rhoades (Paul Giamatti), a lawyer who prides himself on going after financial criminals. Chuck believes Bobby is making his money by skirting ethical boundaries, only to find that Chuck has quite a few unethical skeletons in his own closet.Complicating matters is Chuck's wife Wendy (Maggie Siff), who works as the in-house psychiatrist for Axe Capital. We learn that Wendy has been at this position longer than Chuck has been a U.S Attorney, and he wants her to leave her position there (as he's convinced Bobby is corrupt). This causes tremendous conflict as she frequently takes her bosses side over her husband's.Now into its second season, 'Billions' just seems to get better and better with each episode. I've intentionally omitted where all the characters currently stand because I don't want to give away too much of a fantastic plot that must be seen (and not just written about) to be appreciated!


                
Quick, witty dialogue delivered by strong, excellent talent... having been around personalities like these characters, there's an accuracy unrivaled on TV. These writers know their chops and the directors/producers 100% bring it.


                
To start with the cast are superb. Great to see Paul Giamatti with such a strong lead role. It's fast-paced and never lets up. Only saw the first series so far, but well worth watching


                
Love this show. Absolutely love the acting and the balance of goof and evil. The drama and writing are on point and so is the acting. Damien Lewis and Paul Giamatti or however the hell you spell his name are phenomenal. And who knew that Gale from Breaking Bad had such a personality?


                
'Billions' is a compelling look at wall street, justice, politics, and above all power. The rich have it and the rest want it.Billions features top rate acting, writing, and production. This show is simply one the best TV shows on television right now- bar none.Paul Giamatti is the US Attorney for the SDNY. Damian Lewis is the Hedge Fund manager and owner of AXE Capital who doesn't allow SEC regulations to come between him and his mansion in the Hampton's: They are two Titans about to collide and there will be collateral damage.


                
Great acting, good writing. At times wanders but as a hole fun show I look forward to each season. Bring on the next


                
I need a notebook while watching this to capture all the great witticisms. The cast is perfectly selected and all hebcharacters are well drawn to make the sub-plots just as interesting to watch as the main characters. The only reason I keep subscribing to HBO.


                
This series grabbed me at the beginning (season 1) but my interest waned. I made it through season 2 enjoying it, but must say that the writing for season 3 was superb. I love the way the main plot line has pivoted each season and especially liked the finale of season 3. It piqued such interest for me in what season 4 will hold. The acting is excellent too! WELL DONE.


                
One of the best series over the last 2 years to come out of the US , some superb rolls for some talented actors / actresses and a great twisting storyline, spot on !.


                
What can I say, the title says all. I don't have a taste for any genre of shows. I watch GOT, the same way I love Lost, True Detective, Breaking Bad, and move to Homeland, Westworld, The Walking Dead, The Leftovers, Banshee, The Wire and the list goes on and goes on. So, my point is that this show have a "good rating" in IMDb and I decide to give it a try just because of Lewis. After his performance in Band Of Brothers and Homeland I was grateful that other producers give Lewis another chance to perform another principal character in a TV show. And I'm grateful because usually we don't have the chance of witness a great actor participate in more than one show (with the main role, of course). This show is good, but the performance of Lewis along with Giamatti make this even better, of course, this show can't be the same without both them.


                
Updated 3/23/19My, this series might be the 2nd watchable one other than "Game of Thrones" in 2019. But a word to all the male actors who're playing roles in this fascinating series:No matter how old you are, I'd like you guys to pay special attentions to your THE HAIRS OF YOUR EYE BROWS & THE HAIRS IN YOUR NOSTRILS, you've got to regularly trim them, thread them, cut them, even comb them. Some of you guys' eye brows just looked so ugly, like weeds growing wild over your eyes, so disgusting, man! Cut them short and trim them in shapes every time when you have your hairs cut. Especially paying attention to the both ends of your eyebrows, never let them grow thrusting outward, so when the camera do your bust or your profile looks, the ends of your eyebrows should be going along with the arc or angle of your eyebrows, never let them grow upward or outward. If you regularly have your hairs cut, you also need your eyebrows to be taken care of; especially the veteran actor who played the role of Chuck's father. Your eyebrows disgusted me beyond any word could describe. This also applied to Damian Lewis'.Updated 5/06/18 after viewed Billions S03E07Gee, what a great drama! The irony of the twists made me laugh a lot on this episode. Nothing is only black and white in the financial world; it's actually pretty gray. The tricks in this drama never failed to surprise me. Love it, just love it. Like most of the viewers, I'd like to raise another 0.5 Star to this show.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I like the whole concept of this financial thriller a lot, although I'm not a stock market investor or player, and don't know the least of it. It's mainly based on the greed, the monetary figures, ambitions, back-stabbings, weird sexual behaviors, hatred, law-abiding or law-breaking issues, loyalty or betrayal, right and wrong, loopholes and gray areas, right or wrong timing, choosing sides, representation of the good and the bad or evil. About what money can buy, what money can afford you to have certain luxurious or meager lifestyle. About investment or bankruptcy, lawsuits and penalties. Father and son, husband and wife, superior or the inferior. It's full of very complicated scenarios, plots and sub-plots, wrapped up or cover-up, cruelty and brutality. Predictability or unforeseen factors. Manipulations and accusations. Almost every possible scenario or plot are smartly scripted into this series with a "Money is everything; money means happiness, freedom, social standing, power, generosity....." motto and mantra.When you are rich enough, money will become an ever-changing figure that would control your whole life; the figure would become your only lifeline to allow you to breath, to have the right to choose or to give up. Only when you got money, the more the better, the less the bitter. The rich people rarely see the money, they'd own a lot of things but rarely really use them often. Only those who got the limited money, they'd own something often within their sight, such as RV, boat, motorcycles, fast car and they are usually parked in your front yard, side yard, garage or more pathetically, in some month-to-month rental storage or park. The really rich people never own something at their hand or close to their homes, they don't drive RV, they lease jet. They usually sit in the backseats instead of driving by themselves.All these are taught in this series and, before watching this series, you never knew how poor you really are. : (


                
One of the best written, best acted programme out there. Game of thrones in a business world


                
My 9's are few and far between but "Billions", oh yeh. It was a great, then outstanding third season! There are so many really great scenes that are setup so well, along with contributions from actor favorites. The writing team definitely had a strategy of making pop culture references like I've never seen. Also, there was definitely two, no THREE parts to the season: it really could've ended with episode 7 since it brought a full segment to closure. But there were loose ends to tie up with twists/turns in Chuck's political and DOJ aspirations. Problem point: the way that Wendy can kick Chuck into gear is fascinating but there was a bit too much of it this season without adverse consequences and this is one of the fatal problems I had with "The Americans" in its final season where Elizabeth became an unstoppable and untouchable killing machine, so implausible and that's what's happening with the Chuck & Wendy story and it needs to stop. She can't just keep telling him to neutralize opponents and have him execute it with the simplicity of Checkers, his actions should be more nuanced, difficult, and he needs to get foiled if not busted. Everything cuts nicely his way and that's not cool. It's obvious they were running out of season run time and started taking shortcuts but WRITERS, it's noticeable! And that's how I felt till the second ending came in episode 11! The season could've ended right there and still set up for a season four. But no, episode 12, the season finale, set up season four - yes, that was confirmed recently, for a MONSTER season. And yes, there was comeuppance in ep12, well deserved, juicy comeuppance. Oh "Billions" I do love thee, but to wait another year for Season Four is cruel torture in deed.


                
This is a series in high finance, investment banking and hedge funds in a constantly evolving cat and mouse game between billionaire Axelrod, excellently played by Damien Lewis and attorney Rhodes played by Paul Giamatti. Although both two are very good actors, Damien Lewis IS the show. His character is complex, ruthless, sociopathic and still somehow likeable.Billions is like Mad Men set in our times and contexts. In a modern high tech environment of high finance. Having experience from this business myself, I can testify Billions is a fair replication of the business culture, jargon, attitudes and people in this world. The only things that matters is the bottom line and your pay check. Nothing else. This creates an environment for people with a all sorts of personal disorders and variations, which is ok as long as they make money. Great example here is the "Taylor", the first non-binary character on a main TV production. The casting is excellent, and one very unlikely couple is the chubby attorney "Chuck" and his wife "Wendy" who is a dominatrix in the closet while also being an in-house shrink in Axelrod´s investment firm. A fantastic setup for all kinds of plots happening.Still, the people and portraits feel shallow and stereotype. Same for the various business cases they are confronting. It feels a little too black and white, unrealistic or like a cartoon. And a little more depth of personalities and nuances in general would have made this show stellar. And at time the show also wanders.Still, the script and story is excellent. It is impossible to predict what is going to happen next, keeping you on the edge wanting to see next episode. The storyline is intelligent, complex and constantly moving forward on many levels. The finales of each seasons are epic dramatic conclusions as well as setting the stage perfectly for the next season.Billions is a very enjoyable high quality production and I really look forward to season four.


                
