Peter Jackson truly outdid himself when creating the Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring and he fails to disappoint us in the 2nd part of the Trilogy. The Two Towers shows us that he is not a one-hit wonder, like so many directors are. I actually think that The Two Towers reaches the same level as the Fellowship of the Ring, and sometimes even surpasses it.This film is the biggest film in the trilogy. What do I mean by that? Well this film has so many things going like the amazing Battle of Helms Deep. Frodo and Sam journey to Mount Doom, to destroy the Ring. But the one who's leading them through the way is Gollum, he looks so creepy and realistic, that he doesn't feel disconnected from us. A powerful performance by Andy Serkis as Gollum, he should of been nominated for an Oscar for Best Supporting Actor.The Best part of the film, is quite easily and everyone knows it the ending. The ending of the battle of Helm's Deep is quite breathtaking, and as Gandalf the White comes in the distance with another army to defeat the Orcs. When Treebeard and his army of Entz tear down Isengard, the destruction and the battle is so immense in size, that you truly have to see to believe.In size and scale, Peter Jackson has truly redefined the word "epic" and he also pays attention to the small things that truly elevate this movie from great to amazing. I definitely recommend this film to everyone, but you really should watch the first movie to truly understand what's going on.10/10


                
It seems ridiculous to want to add my own comments to a slew of others that are already in IMDB's records, but I feel like I cannot sleep nor cease the throbbing in my chest until I release some of what I have so recently seen.Peter Jackson's The Lord of the Rings is one of the bravest projects ever attempted by a filmmaker. Mr Jackson deserves every ovation he will receive, every award, every bit of the praise and adoration that will be spoken and written.This second installment of the story is a masterpiece in every sense, forget your prejudices about the books, they are another way of looking at this beautiful story (I know this is slightly against the rules, but a I cannot resist saying that a previous writers comment - a comment that compared the Lord of the Rings Films and Books to the difference between Romeo and Juliet in screenplay and ballet formats - was entirely accurate).Gollum was an excellent amalgam, so easily could he have been an annoying Jar-Jar-Binks-Alike. Instead the way that Jackson and Serkis (and doubtless many many others) chose to portray the CGI incarnation of "Smeagol" was incredibly emotive and powerful. Gollum is profoundly disturbing, amusing, almost lovable... Not even John Ronald Reuel himself could induce that range of emotions for Smeagol in me...A truly skin-crawling performance by a superb Brad Douris as the evil Grima Wormtongue was just beyond words. Douris _Became_ Wormtongue in a skillful fulfillment of what was already inspired casting.Probably the most definitive casting of this film though was Manchester born Bernard Hill as Theoden, King of Rohan. The casting for "The Two Towers" makes one shake ones head and wonder, in retrospect, whether anyone else could have filled these roles. Mr Hill's performance was truly first rate, a performance which contributed greatly to "The Battle of Helms Deep", scenes which were a spinning tornado of emotions for the viewer.Viggo Mortensen goes from strength to strength. His performance is visceral and yet sensitive. The overriding emotion that Tolkiens vision of Aragorn induced (at least for me) was awe at his heroics. Mortensen's portrayal in Jackson's frame brings new aspects to the Aragorn character. Mortensen's Aragorn is emotionally dextrous to go with his physical dexterity, he is sensitive, seemingly empathic, warmer and more fundamentally human, and yet super-human in presence and charisma. "Definitive" is not strong enough of a word.If you still view Jackson's epic with scepticism I implore you to put down your preconceptions and your prejudices, but most of all put down the books... This is beautiful way to see middle earth, don't pass it up - The books are the ultimate fantasy epic - the pictures you draw in your head are better than anything you can imagine, but The Lord of the Rings "The Two Towers" is one wonderful interpretation of that epic story.Go, Laugh, Cry, and Sit in Awe of this cinematic treat.


                
From the beginning to the very end, the Lord of the Rings trilogy is interesting and enjoyable. The books and the movies alike grasp one's attention as if they were real. You, the reader or viewer, can sense the pain of the characters, their emotions. The trilogy is truly powerful on screen. The second movie, however, I believe has something the first and third are missing; it feels like a bridge connecting two great islands. There is something unique about it that cannot easily be described. Metaphorically, the first movie is, say, a soldier. The third movie is the path home from war. And the second movie is the act of coming home because it contains the obstacles that must be passed through before achieving the goal. Although not 100% loyal to the written trilogy, the movies are done in such a way that the mainstream audience and LOTR fans from before the movies came out can say they were enjoyable and well made.


                
The opening scene of The Two Towers provides an outstanding, yet very brief, taste of action, cinematography, and special effects, only to be matched (and far surpassed) in the final hour of the film. The stunning events of the third hour of The Two Towers are undoubtedly the centerpiece of the film, and while the first two hours serve finely as story development, they primarily build anticipation for the final hour, which mostly depicts the battle of Helm's Deep. More than anything else, the first two hours merely tease and torment the patient audience. It's a shame that such a gap has to exist between the first minute and the final hour, but I take no reservations in saying that despite how you feel about the first two hours of the film, the final hour will make the wait entirely worth its while.As stated, the road to the battle of Helm's Deep can be enormously long and painful for any viewer aware of what breathtaking scenes await towards the end of the film. Perhaps The Two Towers' biggest fault is in its own accomplishments; the first two thirds of the film are well shot, well paced, and they necessarily and adequately progress the storyline, but when compared to the spectacular final hour, the first two hours seem uneventful and insignificant. However, to be fair, I feel that it's simply impossible to create two hours of film that could appropriately lead into the battle of Helm's Deep. It's difficult to comprehend how such scenes came to exist in the rather short amount of time Peter Jackson has had to create six hours (so far) of finished film. The battle of Helm's Deep is simply unreal; it's unlike any event that has come to pass since fantasy films gained, and regained, popularity.As assumed, The Two Towers begins where The Fellowship of the Ring ended. The majority of the film follows four separate groups and their story lines: Frodo and Sam; Aragorn and Legolas, Merry and Pippin, and Saruman and his army. The performances live well up to the standards of the first film, with a particularly notable performance from Viggo Mortensen as Aragorn, whose role is significantly larger in The Two Towers. Aragorn satisfies a thirst for someone to root for, a thirst that was left partly unquenched in Fellowship. It's much easier to root for Aragorn than it is for Frodo; Aragorn has many more qualities of a leading man, a soldier, and a hero. More than once did the audience, filled mostly with academy voters, applaud the heroics of Aragorn. Gollum also shines in a much-welcomed large role, due to extremely realistic computer animation, and a fine performance from Andy Serkis, upon which the animation was modeled. In Fellowship, it was appropriate to consider Gollum one of the many great 'features' of the film. However, here he is more of a leading character and a 'star,' and his convincing dual-personality, stabbing voice, and well-choreographed body movements make him consistently eye-grabbing and the center of focus of nearly every scene in which he appears.As was The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers is a visual delight. Those who have seen Fellowship are no doubt familiar with the beauty of the landscapes of New Zealand. The cinematography is, again, one of the best aspects of the film. The swooshing camera movements that follow the armies and horsemen throughout the fields are extremely satisfying in this post-Matrix era. The shots of the ascending enemy-laden ladders in the battle of Helm's Deep are terrifying and chillingly gorgeous all at once. The visual effects take an appropriate leap forward from those of the first film. While the visual effects in Fellowship were outstanding, the battle of Helm's Deep provides for the best application of CGI since the rippling waves of The Matrix's 'Bullet Time.' The battle of Helm's Deep features absolutely awe-inspiring and seamless integration of acting, stunts, and computer animation. Each orc seems to have its own personality, demonstrated in its movements and visual features. The masses of armies fight with strategy and true character, which I imagine is much harder to accomplish than animating thousands of identical clone troopers. The only problem I have with the visual department is the look of Gimli, the Treebeard. Gimli's visual features seem a bit childish and uninspired, inconsistent with the standards set by the rest of the film. But again, there is simply nothing that compares to the battle of Helm's Deep. George Lucas and the Wachowski brothers certainly have not created anything that approaches the grandness and magnificence of The Two Towers' final hour, and I doubt they will do so anytime soon.In The Fellowship of the Ring, I had a few minor problems with Howard Shore's score. While I thought it was gorgeous and it established several very memorable themes, I don't think it handled the sentimental scenes (opening in the Shire, Gandalf's passing) properly. I thought it caved in to the melodrama a bit too much, resembling the emotions from James Horner's Titanic. However, I believe that The Two Towers requires the type of score which Howard Shore accomplishes best: dark, continuous, and unrelenting, as demonstrated in Se7en and Silence of the Lambs. The theme used in many of the action scenes in Fellowship (low brass, six notes repeated with a rest in between) is much more present in The Two Towers, appropriately. A brand new theme is also unveiled, the theme for Rohan, a prominent kingdom in Middle Earth. Rohan's theme is played more often than any other melody in the film, underscoring most of the memorable and heroic scenes with great effect. Howard Shore undeniably exhibits his skills as an 'A-list' composer, and with a possible double Oscar nomination this year for The Two Towers and Gangs of New York, he could get propelled to the very top of the 'A-list,' right beside John Williams and Hans Zimmer in terms of demand.If not the picture itself, there should be a way to recognize and award the battle of Helm's Deep. The battle sequence alone represents successful filmmaking in its highest form. The choreography of the battle, the visual effects, the pacing, acting, cinematography, and music, all work together in perfection to achieve grand filmmaking which is as entertaining and enjoyable as film can be. For this very reason, no one, whether a fan of Fellowship or not, should miss The Two Towers.


                
Really, I should probably let this film soak in a bit; I am, after all, on something of a "post-viewing" high right now. However, at this moment, my feeling remains the same from the first installment - this is the movie experience I've been waiting my whole life for. In case you haven't gathered, this movie is visually stunning, literally breathtaking. I mean that, some of the scenes in this film simply stopped my lungs in their tracks, shocked at the pure, enveloping beauty of the shot. Peter Jackson has a profound grasp of visual manipulation like few directors have ever had.The acting is, as always, superb. Kudos for hiring "actors" not "stars"; "Oscar-worthy" over-acting could have threatened the realistic touch the film's remarkable cast supply. Specific mention goes to both John Rhys-Davies in his well enjoyed comic turn, and very largely to Andy Serkis, who was a major role in creating the most realistic and brilliantly well-performed CGI character I've ever seen (Gollum).For the most part, and as a fan of the books, I take no offense to the slight plot modifications. My understanding is that Tolkien himself realized that visual adaptation of LotR would require a somewhat different take on his work, and was apparently open to such minute changes. There are also a few tiny bits and pieces I was disappointed to see not make the final cut, however, I'm sure a future inevitable extended DVD will take care of those.In short, if you found the continual enjoyment I did with the first movie of LotR, this movie will in no way let you down. Not even for a minute.Highly recommended, 10/10.


                
"The Lord of the Rings" continues it's epic quest in this second installment of the trilogy, as the original fellowship is disbanded and it's various members must continue the good fight. While Frodo and Sam pursue their mission to Mordor, Pippin and Merry manage to escape the Uruk hai into the Fangorn Forest and their own adventure with the Ents. Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli traverse the Riddermark into the realm of Rohan.The One Ring begins to deepen it's spell over Frodo who questions his worthiness and stomach for the mission. This facet of his character allows Sam (Sean Astin) to portray his devotion and loyalty to his master, particularly when Gollum makes his appearance and becomes their guide. Gollum's looks are rivaled only by his treachery, and the duality of his personality is given emphasis in the tortured conversations he has with himself. I was a bit surprised at the way Gollum was portrayed in "The Two Towers"; his cameo appearance in the first film as a slinky black cave denizen more closely resembled Tolkien's description and corresponded to the mental image I took away when reading about it. At the same time though, there was almost a comic element to it, whereas his physical features presented here more accurately allowed for a menacing but tortured creature.Even more fantastic creatures find CGI life in the film; I found the presentation of the Ents to be masterfully done. The "olyphants" were a neat touch and I was happy to see them included. Of course the orcs, wargs and Uruk hai all personify the evil that befalls Middle Earth in this dire time, and their presence instills fear and dread for the heroes all along the way.There's a lot going on in the film, and repeated viewings are helpful, along with an understanding created by reading Tolkien's story. Though not entirely necessary to enjoy the movie, I feel it grounds the viewer in the rich background of the characters and locations. Actually, the books and the film complement each other nicely, even though the movie of necessity must leave out some elements.There is no doubt that "The Lord of the Rings" has earned it's reputation as one of the greatest epic films of all time and the best fantasy film of them all. At the same time, it does a wonderful job of examining such themes as honor, loyalty, friendship and love as it's characters interact with each other and find common ground against a threat to their very existence.
Seriously, I never thought a movie could get better than the Fellowship of the Ring, but it did. This movie should be #1 on the IMDb top 250. This movie, as long as it was, captivated me from start to finish, and those who are not entertained by this movie can not be entertained period.
Yes, I have read the book. Any chapters cut out at the end of books III and IV will probably themselves in the next installment. If you haven't noticed, the beginning of the Two Towers was actually closed the Fellowship of the Ring on the big screen.Gollum was a CG masterpiece. He added some light to this incredibly dark movie. At the same time, there are areas where you feel sorry for the poor guy, or just want to kill him. Smeagol was probably the most diverse character I've ever seen.Elijah Wood put on a better performance than he did in the first movie, as did Sean Astin. Ian McKellen, who captivated us in the last movie, captivated us even more in this one. Viggo Mortensen, John Rhys-Davies, and Orlando Bloom made a great trio. They laughed together, cried together, prospered together, and suffered together. This trio gave life to Aragorn, Gimli, and Legolas. Eowyn expressed her emotions clearly through Miranda Otto. The music need not be discussed. Its greatness speaks for itself.Favorite Scene: The Battle of Helms Deep. Possibly the greatest scene in the book, 50% of the trailer, and action packed climax to this beautiful movie.
The movie, like its predecessor, fails to bring us closure, but that's ok. Closure will come next year. I look forward to the Return of the King.The Two Towers is now my favorite movie of all time.The scale is broken. 10 is not a capacity sufficient enough to hold this movie... my movie... my... precious...


                
The Two Towers can only be explained in one word, beautiful.  This film left me breathless.  I was hoping for a film that could stand in the same depths of the Fellowship of the Ring, and I must say that it has surpassed the film completely.  I will have a hard time watching the Fellowship and seeing the ending, knowing there is so much more waiting.Let's start with Gollum.  Gollum gave an astonishing performance.  The poor misunderstood beast, or the darkened soul creature whose cares are only based on the One Ring.  The performance given in CGI is at times very human. The facial expressions given could strangely give this character a personality as you would see in any great actor.  Gollum's voice is still haunting, even when the beast appears to be the loving guide to the dark gates of Mordor.  For these reasons and more, Gollum has become my favorite character in the film, replacing Legolas in the Fellowship.
On the other side of Middle Earth we see Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli.  I have to say that the dark times of this movie are at times overbearing, and saddening.  There is a perfect mix of humor in the film given by the characters Gimli, and Legolas, while still keeping the viewer in understanding that these are very darkened times.  Aragorn's performance is outstanding.  He has proven that he can be put on an A-List of actors, and deserves appraise for his performance.Gandalf "the White" in this film was a twist.  We remember the friendly Gandalf The Grey in the Fellowship being a kind elderly wizard.  Shouting off fireworks for the children of the shire, and smoking "leaf" as explained in the novel.  There are no cute scenes with the new White Wizard.  No fireworks, or pipes.  Just a Wizard that knows the daunting task ahead, and the quest seems to have taken hold of the great wizard.
Very dark are the times for Frodo, and Samwise.  Gollum seams to give Frodo hope, as the two ring bearers can associate the pains of the One Ring. Frodo gives an amazing performance this time around as well.  It seams that the Ring of power has taken hold of Frodo, and our hero is slipping.  But the surprise was aimed at Samwise.  Proving that Sam is the definition of a true best friend.  Even at times when it seems there is no hope for the troubled trio, it seams that Sam brings hope to the moment.  This is what keeps the Frodo's story this time around even more extraordinary, is the hope that is there, even when all odds point to despair.
Merry and Pippin's story is very odd initially.  The Ents in the story are very wise and newly troubled creatures from the amazing mind of Tolkien. This story goes back to cut scenes during the worries of the rest of Middle Earth, and gives us a feeling of hope, in the troubled times of Aragorn and the others.  The Ents were very well done CGI wise, but it was there personality that moved the audience.  They are curiously wise, and well spoken and give the impression of an elderly college Professor.  Their story is eventually given a wonderful opportunity, and for those of us who know the story, know that greatness is upon them.This movie honestly moved me further than I thought any film could.  I could see my face and the emotion I felt as I was watching this mammoth film. Peter Jackson has truly given us all a gift of a magnificent.  This story has captivated my heart, and the film has taken my breath away.  There is no words that can express the greatness of this film. 10/10
Watching this movie is like watching a 179 or 223 minutes long action sequence. The pace is incredibly high. Alright I have to admit that the Extended Edition of the "The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers" takes an awful lot of this pace away and make some of the scene's unnecessary long and the scene's with Treebeard are also a bit dull and long but still...Especially compared to the first that was just too slow at times this is an huge improvement!Luckily there also are some welcome additions in the Extended Edition. Best addition are the scene's with Boromir, Faramir and Denethor in Osgiliath.There also are some newly great characters and actors. David Wenham is a surprisingly talented young actor and I think it's great that they actually have cast someone that really looks like Sean Bean. Bernard Hill also impressed me, he probably is best know for his role as the captain in "Titanic" in which he also already impressed me. Viggo Mortensen probably still is the best actor of "The Lord of the Rings" movies. Yes sure Ian McKellen and Christopher Lee are also more than great but Mortensen really puts some passion and effort in his character. I know Sean Astin is always being praised a lot but I seriously don't think that he is such a good actor in any of "The Lord of the Rings" movies. Andy Serkis also was really good as Gollum/Sméagol and I wouldn't had mind seeing him get an Oscar nod.Strange thing is that the Gimli and Legolas suddenly changed into some comical sidekick characters. It was odd to see but it works! They provide some good comical relief at times.Most fantastic thing about the movie is that it's really action filled. The Battle of Helm's Deep truly is fantastic to see. Still favorite and most powerful moment of the movie is when the Ent's march to war. Also the scene's with the riders of Rohan are a true spectacle.I've never been really a big fan of the editing of "The Lord of the Rings" movies and this one is no exception. Problem is that Peter Jackson shot way too many hours of footage with as a result that the editors have difficulties picking the right scene's and the length of them.But "The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers" is one of those movies were the pluses make more than up for the minuses.A spectacular adventure action experience.10/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
I've read ---with care and delight--- the books four times in the last 34 years, including the recent reversion to Tolkein's "original" manuscript, edited by his son. I'm a fan. There, I said it, and I'm glad, I tell you!This second installment of the trilogy is probably as good as a movie could get. It captures the Tolkein vibe probably as well as it could be captured in a theatrical release. Watching the flick tonight I realized that much of the vaunted charm of the very readable and very "literary" Tolkein books is in part the time it takes to read the long pages--- 1,000 to 1,400 pages, depending on the edition your are holding. And that time--- weeks and weeks of pouring over pages, re-reading certain passages, pondering and mulling over the fake languages and songs, and histories Tolkein concocted--- allows one to create and invent the Tolkein world inside oneself. That's GREAT! I loved each time I read the original. But no one could possibly expect a movie to give you, in 2-1/2 hours, that kind of luxurious lingering in the fantasy world. Duh!Therefore, the movie's focus on action--- and FYI, it is dead-on accurate and faithful to the books--- is OK. The Ents' meeting in the forest took 3 or 4 DAYS in the book, and Merry and Pippin spent many more days hanging with Treebeard. The movie telescoped that down into a few hours. But hey!!! Think about it--- how could a movie, ANY movie, capture all of the sylvan reverie (including the Hobbits growing a couple of feet taller with the Entwash, etc.) in a trilogy movie series? All of that dreamy book-world stuff would be great to see on the screen--- but it would take dozens and dozens of hours of screen-time. Who could sit in a theater for that many weeks? There aren't that many "festive" people on the planet to make such a theatrical release profitable.Maybe if we were wishing, we could have wished for a 30 or 40 hour TV mini-series. Then we COULD afford to meander and linger and all of that. Seriously--- I'd have enjoyed it. But then, the battles and evil empire and such would have to be portrayed with a vigor equal to Jackson's efforts, else the drama and peril (etc.) would be lost. For MY ridiculous wishing, then, I'm wishing for them to have made two projects--- the 3 theater-release movies, AND a 30-hour TV mini-series for all the "literary" vibe. But then, instead of a $300 million triology, we'd have had a $1 BILLION dollar (but memorable!) TV mini-series.  Oh well--- if wishing were having...Overall, "LOTR Two Towers" is an excellent movie! A "10" out of "10"!!!


                
Yes, it's true. Return of the King may have won more of the Oscars as the culmination of Peter Jackson's magnificent cinematic achievement, but history will in fact adjudge "The Two Towers" as the greatest of the three Rings. If Fellowship was a road movie and ROTK was a friendship film, then Two Towers is an unadulterated war movie of heroic proportions. Peter Jackson said he based it on "Zulu"- and we can see why. It has a dramatic intensity and flow which none of the other films quite share. Good against evil are so sharply contrasted that you could cut your fingers on them. TTT also has the best score Howard Shore has produced. And it has the best dialogue.The screenplay explains (with barely disguised contemporary resonance) what we are protecting in Western civilisation when we defend ourselves against those who would wish to destroy it. When Sam tells Frodo that there are "some things worth fighting for", when Merry tells Pippin that there "won't be a Shire" unless they do something about it, when King Theoden laments that "the sun has gone down in the West" this film could be entitled not the "Two Towers" but "the Twin Towers". It is Miltonic in its scope. It is cinema as art.Yes, one may quibble about certain Entish details, and I know that the Elves weren't supposed to be at Helm's Deem, and that Faramir is a little undeveloped, but does this matter? Not at all. The Extended version is better than the original, but does not need to make such a quantum leap as Fellowship managed with its EE. However it will be a film that is seen as a landmark in cinema. A trilogy which may never be bettered. And a reminder of what we are all here for


                
For this movie, Peter Jackson was faced with a challenge: how to make a great stand-alone film when the beginning and ending are in separate movies? He did a magnificent job. Like the first one, this movie starts with a slam-bang battle; however, where the first film had armies, this film has a clash between two titans.From there, the movie builds to the enormous set-piece siege. And, along the way, we meet one of the most interesting characters of this, or any movie: Gollum, the complex, torn, schitzophrenic slave to the will of the One Ring.And, even more than the first film, the Ring is also a character: the viewer can see it wearing down Frodo, pushing him to the limit, tempting those around him. The encounter at Osgiliath, while not in the book, is a fascinating visual realization of more subtle themes in the book. I know that, when I walked out of the theatre, I knew that there was only one movie I was looking forward to during the next year, and that was Return of the King.
You'd think you can't improve on a 10/10 movie, but this one does, with great action and characters. There isn't much else to say about the special effects that I didn't already in my first review, they're still fantastic. Peter Jackson doesn't treat this like a sequel, it's just the continuing story of heroes battling the forces of evil.Frodo, now alone except for his buddy Sam (Sean Astin), is on his epic journey to Mount Mordor to destroy The One Ring. He'll encounter Gollum, a wretched creature who's definitely up to something.And meanwhile Aragorn and friends are trying to protect the little country of Rohan from imminent destruction from the newly-bred Uruk-Hai, vicious monsters crossed with man and elf.4/4. Wish I'd seen it in theaters.


                
I have to say this film starting with the fellowship was incredibly well made. I know Titanic received 11 awards but I think this whole trilogy should receive 15. This intro to the trilogy was extremely in depth and even had the best prologue ever. I enjoy being introduced to the characters and thier origins and learning about the history of the one ring and how it does evil upon middle earth even after Sauron's death. Be patient with the action as is picks up as the trilogy's story unfolds. It all depends on what you see movies for. But this whole trilogy has quite a bit of everything. That alone surpasses all movies.10/10 (actually more than that)


                
The Two Towers is another masterpiece of returning after Fellowship of the Ring. This had excellent and brilliant action. Like the Helm's Deep battle which made the 100 best battles of all-time. There wasn't much of a story but who cares, it's Lord of the Rings!!! I loved the sword-fighting and the orcs too. This movie gave me chills down my back from the fighting and the unforgettable lines. Gollum was so cool and funny. Andy Serkis did so well in doing Gollum's voice and the CGI was amazing! The landscape once again was superb. This is another one of my favorite movies. It's not better than the fellowship and Return of the King but was very close and is still a smoking brilliant film. Go LORD OF THE RINGS, BABY!!!!!!!!!10/10!!! Highly Recommend!!! You better go see this movie!!


                
The Lord of the Rings - The Fellowship of the Ring was a fantastic start to Tolkien's epic tale. The only true weakness of The Two Towers -- if you can call it a flaw -- is that the film is the middle-child, in that it has no beginning and no end. Though it starts out where the first ended, The Two Towers begins with a recap of Gandalf's battle with the Balrog as we continue to see their fight as they plummet thousands (if not miles) of feet through gaping chasms in the Mines of Moria.The acting is just as great as the first, and with the addition of new characters, the film's atmosphere has gone from "new and wondrous" to "grim and hopeless". Needless to say, Andy Serkis as Gollum is one of the best performances of the new decade. Bernard Hill does a wonderful job as Theoden, as well as Miranda Otto as Eowyn. Karl Urban is a nice choice as Eomer, nephew of the king. Possibly the best of the new characters is Faramir, played by David Wenham. Unlike the passive-type as portrayed in the books, this Faramir is more troubled and only corruptible by the Ring because of his desire to be accepted by his close-minded father -- a nice change made by the writers. The character Treebeard is a reflection of the greatness of the CG work on Gollum; both are exquisite.The writing and directing equals The Fellowship of the Ring, in that the continuity remains, never feeling like we missed any key moments in the plot. The only real flaw, which is mainly due to pacing and events leading up to The Return of the King, is the vast expansion of Frodo and Sam's journey to Mordor, aided by the insidious Gollum. The changes and omissions were once again necessary to provide a decent pace and focus on the ever-rising tension of what all leads up to: the battle at Helm's Deep. Yet, with the massive battle near the final 30-40 minutes of the film, there's plenty more to keep a viewer attached to the screen.Fully seeing the MASSIVE software at work, the special effects incorporated with the miniatures/bigatures still dazzle the eyes in flawless execution, as 10,000 Uruk-hai soldiers lay siege to a seemingly impenetrable fortress. From the Mumakil (elephants) to the Fell Beasts upon which the Ringwraiths ride, we are given the introduction of creatures that play major roles in the following film.Howard Shore's evolution with the leitmotifs he created from the first film have now been shifted towards a more explosive composition. Equaling The Fellowship of the Ring, the music for The Two Towers is nothing short of awe-inspiring. From the theme of Rohan to the thundering might of Isengard, The Two Towers is full of rousing composition. There's also beautiful moments between Aragorn and Arwen, as well as some wonderful choral work for the last march of the Ents.Overall, while different from the text in terms of time-line, The Two Towers is an extraordinary sequel to a "trilogy" destined for greatness. While the film ends before the events in Shelob's tunnel, there's no doubt one will be amazed in what is to come. One must see this film.
The battle scenes were awesome but the plot was a little shorter than expected and it is more choppier than the 1st and 3rd Lord of the Rings (LOTR). I loved it when Legolas, Orlando Bloom, went on that shield like a skateboard. It was cool. Does any of you recognize Elrond from another movie? Let me give you a hint. "Mr. Anderson!" Do you know now? For those who do not know, it is Agent Smith, Hugo Weaving from the Matrix trilogy. Other famous LOTR actors are Sauroman, Christopher Lee, in the Star Wars Episode 2, and Gandalf, Ian McKellan, plays in X-Men as Magneto. Besides Christopher Lee, you notice that some of the good guys play bad guys in other movies. Weird huh? There are others but it is too many to list.The extended version of the Two Towers is way better than the theatrical. It explains why Eomer gets kicked out in more detail. Also it explains more about Faramir, Bormir's brother, and their father. Gandalf explain more about his rank and what is going to happen next when he returned to Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimili. I thought that the Gollum singer was little jazzy for LOTR. I liked Enya better because she has such a beautiful voice.In the book, LOTR creatures, such as the eagles, shadow fax, the spider, and so on talked in the story. I guess Jackson want to make the movie more realistic than book. They did a great job on Gollum. The actor had some special juice he drink for that voice. He explains in the special features. I really like the fact that Tolkien made his own language out of a bunch other languages and name it elvish.I think if you really watch and maybe read the trilogy, you might learn something out of it. I'm not saying you should but I would recommend it. If you like computer games, I would recommend Age of Wonders because it is a strategy game which has characters similar to the LOTR. But be careful, it can be addictive and you might find yourself playing for several hours.
The second part of The Lord of the Rings saga maintains the style, momentum and integrity that made the first film as brilliant as it is and thus what Peter Jackson gives us is one of the best sequels ever and certainly the best film of 2002. I prefer the first film for being closer to the book but I completely understand the changes made from book to film and I see why they are necessary to keep the film's narrative flowing instead of dropping dead. The film is not without a few weaknesses mainly because of it being a middle part linking The Fellowship of the Ring and The Return of the King and therefore not having an obvious beginning or an end. This doesn't stop the film from being an experience that people shouldn't be cheated out of.The acting is, like in the first film, very good and at times even brilliant. Viggo Mortensen improves greatly and provides a more well rounded and believable Aragorn and proves his qualities as an actor especially in the quit moments (of which there are too few in the theatrical release, this was remedied in the extended cut). Also Elijah Wood deepens his character considerably and shows many of the darker sides of his character in the film. This provides for some interesting exchanges between Wood and his faithful companion played by Sean Astin. Bernard Hill is introduced in this film along with the method actor, Brad Dourif. Both of the aforementioned are excellent in their respective parts even though there are some inconsistencies in Hill's character compared to the character from the book. These changes were obviously made for dramatic purposes and are very plausible. Ian McKellen's character, Gandalf, has been somewhat reduced in the second film but instead he steals every scene he is in. Likewise, Hugo Weaving's character has been reduced but he is still very good and keeps his character in the same style as in the first film. Orlando Bloom and John Rhys-Davies returns as well and I have to comment on the choice to make Gimli into comic relief, because while I understand the necessity given that Dominic Monaghan's and Billy Boyd's characters have taken a turn towards more serious characters there had to be someone to relieve the dramatic tension, I found it a shame that Gimli had been reduced to some bumbling clown. Fortunately most of his comic remarks worked. Among other characters introduced are Faramir, played by David Wenham, and Gollum, played beautifully by Andy Serkis. I'll get back to Faramir but for now I have to comment on Gollum. Gollum is quite simply the most interesting film character in the last decade and this relates both to the ground breaking special effects but also Serkis' performance, which was most unfairly not deemed fit for an Oscar nomination. Overall the acting is excellent like in the first film and all actors manages to develop their characters in ways that are at the very least acceptable.The effects and fight scenes in this second film are among the best ever and is perhaps only bested by some of the effects in the third film in the series. The Gollum character and the battle for Helm's Deep seem to be excellent examples. Gollum is quite simply the most stunning and beautifully created CGI character of all time and he displays extraordinary emotional range. As previously stated The Battle for Helm's Deep is among the finest battle scenes ever created. Well paced and choreographed and above all the editing in between the hectic battle sequences and scared citizens provides for some emotional depth as well (something that was sorely needed in the battle sequences in Star Wars: Episode II). This gigantic battle isn't the only battle in the film. There are many other interesting battles but I'm not going to spoil them so you'll just have to see the film yourself. The battles are consistent with the style that was laid down in the first film they are simply on a much more epic scale.Some people have raved that the changes made from book to film were too radical but I completely understand and condone the reasons which were obviously dramatic purposes. Especially David Wenham's character has been criticized and after watching it the first time I was a bit unhappy with his character as well but when you think about it the changes in the character were at the very least essential to maintain the narrative structure. There are other examples but it would really be pointless to mention them because the reason is exactly the same as in the case of David Wenham's character. Dramatic purposes.Overall The Two Towers serves as an excellent link between the Fellowship of the Ring and The Return of the King and it deserves every bit of praise coming to it. One of the very best films of all time.10/10 - On my top 10 of best films


                
(As with all of my LotR reviews, I am reviewing the extended editions, not the theatrical releases.)Most people seem to place The Two Towers at the end of their Lord of the Rings tier list. That's understandable when considering that most people only remember being fatigued by the seemingly endless string of action sequences in the theatrical release. But when it comes to the extended editions, The Two Towers is king.This review could go about discussing the shortcomings of the other two films. It could discuss the extensive denouement of The Return of the King, or the fact that most of the characters in the world are absent from half of The Fellowship. But I'll try and stick to explaining why The Two Towers is superior, not why the other films of the trilogy struggle to keep up.Most importantly, the characters introduced in The Two Towers are outstanding in their dynamism and are the keystones of the trilogy.Gollum, who is unquestionably the most dynamic character in the LotR universe, plays a huge role in the second film. The audience is shown so many sides of his character that they don't quite know whether to side with Frodo or Sam regarding his villainy. He's so lovable and so hateable all at the same time. Combining his two battling egos with his key role as Frodo's navigator makes Gollum one of the most important and memorable characters in the history of film (not to mention the revolutionary motion-capture techniques used to create Gollum, and Andy Serkis' legendary performance).Moving away from the insanity that is Gollum, one of the most humanized characters in all three Lord of the Rings films is Faramir. Boromir's younger brother is put to the same task as his elder sibling: to resist the pull of the ring and allow Frodo to continue on his quest. Yet Faramir faces this task within the context of much more dire and immediate consequences. Faramir must fight against the desire for his father's recognition along with the desire for the ring of power, all whilst coming to terms with his brother's death and commanding an entire army to defend his kingdom. This is no easy task even for the most noble of character. Faramir is one of the most lovable and strong-willed characters in Middle Earth, and he brings so much life to The Two Towers. Plus, The Two Towers gets bonus points for Boromir and Denethor both having a short cameo in the middle of the film in a scene that depicts Boromir as the honorable and dedicated hero he truly is.Alongside the introduction of the Sons of Gondor is the introduction of the Rohirrim and King Theoden of Rohan. King Theodan is a troubled man, struggling to maintain control of his mind and his kingdom. Sauruman has possessed him and wreaked havoc across his lands. But when Gandalf and the rest of the fellowship come to his aid, releasing Theoden from Saruman's grasp, does he kneel and follow their every command? No. Theoden has his own goals with his own means of achieving them. He does not wish to risk the lives of his people for the lives of those whom have previously abandoned him. Theoden's struggle as King is more intense than any other royal character in the series. His people are not warriors, but they are strong and proud, as is their king, and they fight desperately for their freedom during the course of the film.Speaking of nobility, it is impossible to forget about Eowyn, Theoden's niece and one of the two leading female characters in the Lord of the Rings trilogy. When faced with adversity, Eowyn is one of the strongest characters of all. As a woman, she is tasked with aiding other women and children, and tending to the weak and the wounded. But she remains strong of will throughout her trials and is a worthy carrier of the torch for all the female characters in the Lord of the Rings (few there may be).This review doesn't even scratch the surface of the incredible characters and events of The Two Towers. Events like the Balrog fight, Gandalf returning from the grave, the introduction of the Ents and the Battle of Isengaurd, the first sighting of the Fellbeasts, Pippin's incident with the Palantir, the hopelessness of the Battle of Helms Deep, Gimli and Legolas' flowering relationship, King Theoden's recital of "The Horse and The Rider", and Aragorn's most kingly recommendation to "ride out and meet them", The Two Towers is chock full of epic moments that make the second film my favorite installment of the trilogy.Now don't get me wrong, I love all three films equally, and it kills me to put one ahead of another. But when forced to rank them, I always come to the conclusion that The Two Towers is my favorite, and it should be yours too."The Horn of Helm Hammerhand shall sound in the deep, one last time. Let this be the hour when we draw swords together. Fell deeds awake. Now for wrath, now for ruin, and the red dawn!"
If you are reading this review (or indeed any other) trying to assess whether or not you should watch this film then please read no further and just go and slip in the DVD and let the sights and sounds of Middle Earth wash over you. Nothing I, or indeed anyone else, can say should help you to form an opinion prior to watching. I guess the audience for the three films fall into two categories; those who have read the books and those who have not. Those who have not, in my experience, tend to be overwhelmed by the absolute majesty of the vision but a little non-plussed by the actual story - seeing it as just some rather dopey fantasy; a Star Wars trilogy set in past times for the modern audience if you like. Then there is the "yes, I have read the books" class who in general seem to have a kind of smug arrogance grounded in comments such as "they left out too much", "its not what I imagined" or "Of course its all an allegory for the rise of the third Reich". Tolkein bemoaned the lack of an heroic mythology for the English people and he sought to create one in his Rings trilogy of books. My opinion is too humble to count - but if you want it, I believe he succeeded. The epic backdrop, the heroes and villains, the rich history, the races and the languages are all utterly plausible as a long cherished story handed down over many generations. Peter Jackson and his team must be congratulated not only for their wonderful realisation of Middle Eath and its inhabitants; but for crafting a series a movies that captured the very essence of what Tolkein was trying to achieve. Well done also for leaving out Tom Bombadil.


                
This film is one of the best films ever made. This film is almost as breathtaking as the first film but in the end the minor flaws it has makes it worse than the first film. What I consider to be the biggest flaw of this film is the character of Gimli. John-Rhys Davies is a wonderful actor and I do not blame him for the way the character turned out. I blame it on the directing (shame on you Jackson). Being that Merry and Pippin are not as much in the second films they were in the first they could not act as comic relief. Thus the choice was made to make Gimli the comic relief. While the things he says are both funny and well timed it becomes to much by the end. A second flaw that pulls the film down a bit is the fact that they deviated too much from the original book. The Theoden character is very different in the book as is Faramir. These flaws were probably necessary to make the film but the hard core Tolkien fans such as myself were disappointed to see Faramir drag poor Frodo and Sam to Osgilliath which is only mentioned in the book but never seen. This far I have only focused on the bad things in the film but there are very great film historic moments as well. E.g. the battle for Helms Deep is aside from the battle on Pelleanor Fields the greatest film battle ever conceived on screen. The acting in the film is generally on a very high level. Especially Ian McKellen and Viggo Mortensen do very well in the film but also John-Rhys Davies and Elijah Wood are very good. Aside from the fact that their roles were not as well written as they could have been Bernard Hill and David Wenham do very well. The effects in the film are flawless and on a higher scale than in the first film and the attention to detail is overwhelming. All in all a worthy sequel but ultimately the worst out of the three.


                
So it begins.
Is there anyone who doesn't love LOTR??? Gimli is the best I mean that jump to the bridge and his competition with Legolas gets me every time. The story and dialogues are very smart like in the first one and I think Andy Serkis deserved an award for that performance I mean it is one of the most iconic performances ever.
How did Chicago win Oscar vs Pianist and Lotr???


                
This is an extremely intriguing film, the battle scenes, especially Helm's Deep were amazingly well done!!!! I can't believe Peter did so well! Some say that the film was too long, I say it wasn't long enough, not even the super awesome extended version! There are very few director's that revolutionize Hollywood, but I say Peter is one of the best!!! He portrayed everything with amazing visual effects, the huge armies and epic battles! Treebeard is sweet! He is so treelike and was well done, like the picture in my head! This movie has no flaws, and is one of the best! Definitely this trilogy is the greatest epic of all time! Stories like these will always live on in the hearts of fanatics like me!
To me, I personally think that this movie is inspirational. It shows how far someone can/has to go to achieve there goals. It shows that you have to fight for what you believe in, and make a commitment. Also, friendship is a big factor in this movie. Sam is willing to risk his life to help Frodo, and expects nothing in return. For me, that was very devoting. LOTR shows that once you start, you can't just give up. You have to work to get what you want, and you have to embrace your future. And to me that is very inspiring. It also teaches you to be happy with what you have....don't be selfish. This movie has changed my outlook on life, and I think it had changed me as a person.Not to mention that pretty much everone in the movie is a total stud! That helps a little.


                
In the Lord of the Rings trilogy, The Two Towers was my favorite, but it is as good as the prequel. Peter Jackson won his major triumph again! The thing about the Two Towers is that, it makes everyone wondered what was going to happen, the fellowship was broken and the dark lord is winning over middle-earth.The Two Towers explained the path of the hobbits and the king. The film follows its prequel as did the book as Frodo and Sam make their way towards Mount Doom to destroy the ring of evil. They encounter a new creature called Gollum that is bound to the ring, and claims he knows the route into Mordor. Is he a friend or foe?it then shifts to Merry and Pippin who are held captive by a band of Uruk-hai. the Uruk-hair get destroyed in a battle against humans, and Merry and Pippin flee into the forest of fangorn. There they meet the most beloved character in The lord of the Rings books, treebeard, a creature that is a walking, talking tree that must gather the other trees for an inevitable battle against Saruman. And lastly, there's Aragorn, and his two friends Gimili, a dwarf, and Legolas, an elf. They follow the Uruk-hai, till the damned creatures meet their miserable fate. The trio encounter a band of human riders from a country called Rohan, which tell them the direction of the uruk slaughter, which leads the trio into Fnagorn forest, where they meet an unexpected friend, and learn that the folk of Rohan are being attacked by Saruman, and must make a stand against an army of 10,000! Can these three gatherers change the fate of middle-earth in the little time they have? Peter Jackson has proved himself of filming great battle sequences, unique special effects, a great storyline of an unforgettable tale, and moral lessons all people must learn. 5/5
