So the journey continues with 'The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers.' This review will assume you have seen the first film, 'The Fellowship of the Ring.' Which is fine because Peter Jackson, at the helm of this massive production, assumes you have seen it as well. Intelligently, Jackson does not begin with a redundant and unnecessary prologue. He dives right into what the filmmakers considered the hardest of the trilogy to make.When we left the fellowship, they were in shambles. Gandalf had fallen; Merry and Pippen were kidnapped by the evil forces; Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli seek their smaller comrades without the help of Boromir, who has also died; this leaves Frodo and Sam on their way to Mount Doom, the one ring still in their grasp.'The Two Towers' is more successful than 'Fellowship' because the storytelling becomes more complex without drowning us in information. The first film introduced us to the many characters of Middle Earth (too many, I believe). 'The Two Towers' isn't quite as concerned with exposition, though new characters do come on board. Merry and Pippin meet Treebeard, a large, talking "tree herder" who is concerned about the plight of his forest's future since the destructive orcs and their masters, Sauron and Saruman, burn everything in their path.Legolas, Aragorn, and Gimli enter the kingdom of Rohan and cross paths with King Theoden and his people. Theoden has been under Saruman's spell as part of he and Sauron's master plan to take over the separate kingdoms of Middle Earth. Eowyn, the king's niece, develops a special liking for Aragorn. However, as we understand from the first film, there is still a deep love between Aragorn and the elf Arwen. Along with the rest of the elfs of Middle Earth, Arwen is persuaded to leave for another world entirely. She does have reservations leaving her true love Aragorn, though mortal and she is not, for distant lands and never see him again.Frodo and Sam are introduced to the mysterious Gollum, who attempts to attack the hobbits in their sleep to regain the ring. Instead, Gollum and Frodo kindle a special relationship since they both harbor a certain addiction to the ring's power. Frodo's Elijah Wood is the most effective actor in 'Two Towers' as he is gradually taken more and more over by the ring and it's awesome strength. Gollum becomes Frodo and Sam's guide to Mordor, as he has been there before. Gollum's intentions, though, are never clear to the hobbits - neither are they to Gollum.These three strands of story form a massive, thoroughly effective, epic tale of nature vs. machine, creature vs. creature and, through Frodo, man vs. himself. The encompassing story leads to a heroic battle sequence fought on two fronts, while all the time we wonder how long Frodo can hold on to his sanity as the ring slowly takes power over him.The pacing, which was an issue with 'Fellowship,' is not problematic at all the second time around. The three stories are told in a manner that flows right through the three hour+ tale. One problem that persists is that 'Two Towers' is largely unaffected by the humanity other than Frodo's saga. There is love between Aragorn and Arwen, Eowyn also shows up as a romantic character. Her father, Theoden, is a courageous man but flawed psychologically. There exists connections between these many characters and more but they all feel half baked and cast aside to make more room for fighting.Still, 'The Two Towers' is enormously successful as a narrative and even more ambitious than 'Fellowship' visually. The score, by Howard Shore, is among the very best ever composed. The evil orcs and uruk-hai never look fake and evoke terror in the characters and in the audience. I still yearn for a more personal story, but in other realms of film-making, Peter Jackson and those under his command have outdone themselves. ***.5 out of ****


                
Spoilers herein.One hallmark of science fiction and fantasy is the creation of a world that includes to some extent the creator. That way, instead of inhabitants bumping around in a world, we get a complex set of interactions: some as a result of the world affecting the players, and some the other way around. Tolkien's work fits well within this tradition, in fact why it was so successful I think is the thoroughness with which he developed the magical laws. The reader not only understood that the magic had power, but had some notion of how it worked. That allowed the reader to exist both at the level of Frodo and the magical level of the wizards and demigods.That's the soul of the books; not any episode, not any `theme' about brotherhood or hope or any such sodapop.The first film of this saga impressed purely with the sheer ambition of the project, and we now have the second one. It is fun watching, just like `Speed' was in its day, but I'm unhappy with some of the choices that were made.With film, there are specific ways to span the two worlds, ways which a few filmmakers have been exploiting for a long time -- long enough for some of them to appear in mainstream films. Almost none of those techniques were used here. Nearly all the choices were ones that plant us firmly in the world of the inhabitants who are buffeted by the world's forces just like we as people are. This literally boils all the magic out of the books, and we are left with `Braveheart' meets `The Black Cauldron' except slightly more expensively done and with some monsters.The travesty is not that these choices were made to protect the investment in the films, but that so many Tolkien enthusiasts miss the point and argue about whether elves appear in the wrong scenes.Further to the philosophy of the film: the manner in which the characters deal with the camera is roughly equivalent to the relationship the readers' imaginative `eye' has with the text. In addition to being cast at the level of the adventures and not the magic, there are other problems. That stance is inconsistent -- the greatest offense comes in the middle of the great battle. Until then, the players have been dead serious. They've been in their lives, not characters in a movie that wink at us. But all of a sudden, we have a barrage of winking: the `surfing' move, the dwarf-tossing joke, the 007-like standoff on the bridge. All of these depend on us knowing it is a movie and the characters leaving their lives and knowingly entering the movie.Other problems with that stance. The various technologies used each have their own way the camera must be used. The two perspectives that impressed me were the handling of the fight between Gandolf and the balrog and the relationship we have with Gollum. In the first, our eye IS magical as it swoops around sometimes watching the fight, sometimes IN the fight. This use of the camera is new -- I noticed it also last week in `Treasure Planet' when encountering the black hole. But it entirely different than the soliloquies Gollum (and several others) have. Under the guise of talking to themselves, they are really talking to us, nearly looking at the camera. All of the camera engagement is from Bergman, and is his well-studied solution to the Shakespearean stage technique.I liked both of these, but they are inconsistent with each other, inconsistent with Tolkien's magic as noted and inconsistent with the movieland jokes. But there are even more diverse perspectives. We have the helicopter shots (again from `Braveheart'), and a few similar shots of virtual sets. We could have had some new movement (like the balrog fight), but we are supposed to recall similar shots.And then there are the Ents, animation straight out of `Poltergeist.' It is another set of views determined by the technology rather the story. Shifting among the bluescreen of hobbits in Ents, to the humanistic CGI Gollum, to the video game animation of the battle was jarring. We never were in Tolkien's world, just browsing through the aisles of your video store, shifting about.LOTR was written with specific notions of reading in mind and is bound to them. But `Dune' was not. Imagine a film of Dune with this budget and Lynch's originality instead of Jackson's `me-too-isms.' Now that would be cool.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4: Worth watching.
I really really wanted to love this movie.  I loved Fellowship, I found it nearly flawless.  I give a 10/10 for the acting and the special effects.  If I have never read the books, I would have been absolutely flawed by this movie.  Some of the changes detracted from this movie, but not terribly. But the fundemental changed made to Faramire (compare him in the book to the movie - not merely changed but the opposite) seriously undermined the whole plot of the trilogy.Still, I have this an 8/10.  On its own merits, it is excellent.  But changes were made that weakened the story for no good reason...


                
Really, The Two Towers is the weakest of the three novels, and it is only natural that the middle volume would be a bit of a let down.  Jackson does a nice job of trying to lift the story - the battle sequence is fantastic - but to my mind the 10 I might have given for this movie went over the cliff with Aragorn.  I have nothing against Jackson deviating from the books - I was not troubled by the changes in the Faramir character, for instance, and adding the Warg riders themselves was a nice touch.  But what was the purpose of sending Aragorn over the cliff?  Creating false tension that probably fooled less than 1% of the audience?  Screen time for Liv Tyler? All it did for me was make the movie feel false for about ten minutes.  This crucial mistake is compunded now that we have the Extended Edition and see some of the scenes that were left out of the theatrical release.  the movie would have been stronger without Aragorn's fall, and with, for instance, the scene between Boromir and Faramir, or the march of the trees to the Battle of Helms Deep.Well, so be it.  One or two major missteps in a ten hour movie is not unexpected.  On its merits, apart from that, this movie, like the whole trilogy, is a magnificent achievement.One question: every time I look, Legolas is shooting dozens of arrows.  And every time I look, his quiver is full.  Where are the arrows coming from? Elf magic?
Peter Jacksons' first major task was to make Lord of the Rings into one film. "Impossible", Peter Jackson said, there was no way he could fit all the information into one film. But one of the producers in New Line Cinema said why not make three films because there is three books. It was exactly what the crew making the film wanted to hear. So then the scripts were re-writ to fit three films. After the theatrical release, director Peter Jackson wanted to create an extended version for each film. This was because Peter Jackson wanted to capture it for posterity.The Lord of the Rings was a cinematic masterpiece, the greatest book of the 20th Century was made into the greatest film trilogy of the 21st Century."The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers was probably the hardest to adapt," admitted director Peter Jackson. It was also the longest and most frustrating experience of Peter Jacksons directing career. But the two Towers is not a failure but it does not match up to the quality of the Fellowship of the Ring.The Two Towers continues the adventures of the fellowship as they separate and take their own routes; Frodo makes his way to Mordor with Sam, and his guide Gollum, Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli head to find Merry and Pippin and to defend Helms Deep from Isengard. The film struggles to make an impact, although the film is good enough to keep your interest high for the concluding part in the trilogy, the Return of the King.


                
After the first movie i was looking forward to this one, not having read the books, i didn't know what was coming next.All the characters were there again, even Gandalf, who i thought was dead (ahh, but this time he's Gandalf the white) the visuals were as good as expected and some of the cinematography blew my mind.For me though, Golem stole the show, a very compelling computer generated character like nothing I've seen before. Well done to the special effects crew. The story developed with some interesting revelations along the way and all in all I was satisfied with another chapter of the trilogy.8/10


                
As a fan of LOTR before it came out in paperback and of the first film, I was disappointed in the sequel. Tolkien gets lost in all the mugging for the camera, uglified folks, and computer-battle scenes. It is sort of the antithesis of Tolkien, who presented hobbits as admirable for their simplicity and courage. The wrong aspects of seventeen- year-old boys are being appealed to here.


                
...not as good as Fellowship. Loved Smeagol - more expressive than most of the human actors in the film. But I was reminded of watching the Baski animated version - this section of the saga suffers from cutting between gripping stuff and tedious stuff, especially Merry and Pippin on bloody boring Treebeard. Loved the addition of the warg attack but it did have the effect of making Middle Earth seem tiny and, if Saruman's forces could reach Rohan so quickly then why didn't he head straight for Helm's Deep and stop them getting in? Eh?Also, the battle left me cold. Compared to Boromir's last stand, all these computer-generated t**ts running about were just unconvincing. And why is Gimli nothing but clumsy comic relief? All that 'toss me' stuff - terrible.But, by far the worst crime here is Legolas skateboarding down the steps. I expected Huey Lewis and the News to kick in.That aside, I will watch the DVD over and over but I'm hoping the extended version, as with Fellowship of the Ring, will iron out the pacing problems and give us more character study to balance the action.


                
Spoilers perhapsFirst of all I'd like to say I love the trilogy as a whole and I don't think it deserves some of the stick it's getting. I mean just because it's popular people get worried that is going to "rise above" or become a supposedly better film among viewers. What a load of rubbish. I hate to break it to you but just because something is new doesn't mean it isn't a classic. These films are as close to a classic as any modern films at the moment. It's not an order to like these films, it's just very annoying that trolls and LOTR "bashers" just give it abuse just because it has a very high rating, won eleven Oscars etc. If you don't like these films you could at least give a reason.Secondly I'd like to say that I feel this was weaker than FOTR and ROTK and it is #12 on my top movie list whereas FOTR is #5 and ROTK is #1. I have many old classics on my list such as The Godfather, Casablanca and Citizen Kane but for overall enjoyment this trilogy is top. I find this not as emotional as the other two. I mean the elf Haldir dies, there is a brief lovely thing with Sam near the end but apart from that not really. The main qualities about these films are that they are emotionally grabbing and feel like real life, which I feel The Two Towers didn't have, but enough of my moaning. Time for the best bits.The Special Effects were absolutely awesome and 10/10 in quality and no I don't think they wrecked the film. People say also that the acting was poor however Ian Mckellen as Gandalf was superb, Sean Astin as always the Sam I imagined and as for Andy Serkis, well he was superb as Gollum. PJ and the team did terrifically well in making the creature Gollum/Smeagol. It was very interesting to see the emotional struggles he has in it. The Costume Design was good too. You always imagined an orc would look like it did. Elijah Wood as Frodo was impressive again, he's going to be a good actor! Orlando Bloom as Legolas has had so much criticism which is underserved as he isn't just a pretty boy. I can't say he deserved an Oscar as he had a smaller part than perhaps Aragorn and Frodo and Gandalf etc. Cinematography was good, the music stunning. The Sound and score superb. I highly recommend you see this film! Although I see the second and third LOTR not really as sequels, this is somewhat a very good sequel when you consider how many poor sequels there are nowadays. There also many Christian Themes and good messages but I won't go into that as it is explained in a book called "A closer look at Lord of the Rings" which I recommend you read.Overall rating-VERY GOOD GO AND SEE AND BE IN FOR A CRACKER OF A FILM!
Following on from The Fellowship Of The Ring, JRR Tolkien's The Lord Of The Rings saga continues as hobbits Frodo and Sam, in the company of the devious Gollum, continue their quest to destroy the One Ring, Aragorn and his friends fight to protect the people of Rohan from the evil Saruman's vast army of orcs and kidnapees Merry and Pippin escape from their captors and befriend the Ents of Fangorn Forest.This beautiful and breathtaking fantasy film's only flaw is that being the middle book of a trilogy it doesn't have a beginning or an end. That aside, it maintains the stunning high quality of the previous film in every aspect of production and keeps the epic story sweeping along at a magnificent pace. The performances are uniformly excellent but three actors new for this movie in particular distinguish themselves. Hill as the proud but miserably oppressed King Theoden. Dourif as the slimy Grima Wormtongue. There's a wonderful moment where he says to Lee, "But we'd need an enormous army for that !!", to which Lee strides to a balcony and looks down at a colossal orc army amassed outside. And in particular Serkis, who never appears on screen (Gollum is computer-generated) but performed on set, motion-captured the character's moves and provided his incredible voice. For me, Gollum is the key character in the movie and he is brilliantly realised, bursting with pathos, rancorous bile and schizophrenic nuttiness ("We hates Bagginses !! We hates them forever !!"). Howard Shore's excellent score and the outstanding effects work by Richard Taylor, Jim Rygiel and Randy Cook (the battle for Helm's Deep setpiece especially is a stunning composite of live-action and effects) serve to make this film even more spectacular than its predecessor. This is a movie with too many great scenes to mention, and tells a classic story with incredible visual splendour.
I would give the film a 8.5/10 but it comes with a warning of advice.  For people that have not read the book the viewing can be a very challenging task that demands careful attention and repeated viewings.  I personally found it hard to remember the characters names, the places, and even to figure out which hobbit is which, or even which wizard is which.  I also found it hard to understand the thick "Middle Earth" accent.  Why does everyone's name sound the same? Sadly, I don't think that this movie can be enjoyed if you were just a casual fan who saw the first film a year ago.  In order to fully understand this film, it is necessary to watch perhaps 2 or 3 times or with the captions on, and have a ring guru nearby so you can ask lots of questions.  "Who's that? What did he just say?"  There is simply too much going on for our ADD/ADHD society to engulf, or even me and I consider myself an intelligent college educated person. However, after working really hard, I eventually did understand and appreciate this as a spectacular film and story.  I just don't think it classifies so much as a movie - it really is in its own category.  A movie you should be able to go to without knowing anything about it, sit down and let the movie take you to its world and let you leave 2- 2.5 hours later with some token impact.  A movie should be able to give you all you need such that you can take whatever you need from it in one sitting.  The ring "films" don't do that with me.  That is my caution.


                
This could have been as good as the first part, if Jackson had more respect for Tolkien. Those scenes of Aragorn dreaming of Arwen or utterances that may appear good in script but sound stupid on the screen (running heavy breathing Legolas speaks to himself: red sun rises, blood has been spilt this night) have pretty much harmed this otherwise good film into something that one can't watch without a very unpleasant shivering sensation down one's spine. Fortunately, there are still more good parts than those bad ones, so this is more or less a fine movie. Hope that the Return of the King ends up better.


                
Perhaps it's the lessened necessity for basic exposition, perhaps it's Jackson's greater willingness to depart from the precise events depicted by Tolkien, but for whatever reason, THE TWO TOWERS mostly (but not entirely) overcomes the superficiality and rushed feeling that marred its predecessor.That's not to say there isn't a misstep here and there: in particular, Aragorn's fall and recovery is utterly pointless, and the Ents lose much in the translation to film. And TTT inevitably fails to capture the depth and richness of the world Tolkien created, simply because no film possibly could. But as a movie, this one succeeds very well.I may actually go see ROTK in the theater now.8/10(Addendum: Full series only 6/10. See http://us.imdb.com/title/tt0167260/usercomments-2224 for my {disappointed} comments on the last film and the series as a whole.)


                
The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers Starring: Elijah Wood, Ian McKellen, Christopher Lee, Viggo Mortensen, Brad Dourif, Sean Astin Rating: PG-13 Runtime: 2:59
There are two types of people who will watch this movie: Those who read the books and wand to see the visions brought to life, and those who saw the first movie in the trilogy (The Fellowship of the Ring) but haven't read the books (and perhaps don't plan to do so).The latter group will be more receptive to The Two Towers than the former, because director Peter Jackson takes some major liberties with the plot. As most people are aware, there are three books (The Return of the King is the final in the trilogy). There are scenes in the second book that will appear in the third movie, and vice versa. This is perfectly reasonable, in my opinion, as it would be difficult - and perhaps not nearly as entertaining - to present the movies in exactly the same order as the books.That said, there are some major plot deviations in The Two Towers, scenes and situations that appear in none of the books. If one has read the books, this can be quite disconcerting, as one might be expecting the movie to follow the basic plot of either The Two Towers book or The Return of the King book. If one hasn't read the books (but did see the first film in the trilogy), this might not be so disconcerting - one might not even notice a problem. So this isn't a complaint, exactly, as much as it's an observation.The movie picks up right where the last one left off. Now, I'm going to assume here that people reading this have seen The Fellowship of the Ring. When that movie concluded, the original Fellowship had lost two (Boromir was slain by orcs after attempting to gain The One Ring, and Gandalf fell into the abyss beneath the mines of Moria), and the remaining seven were separated. Frodo, the Ringbearer, and his servant Sam have decided to continue their quest alone and are making their way to Mordor. Their fellow Hobbits Merry and Pippin have been kidnapped by those orcs that had slain Boromir; the orcs are under orders to capture alive any Halfling, since they don't know which one has The One Ring. Aragorn the Ranger, Gimli the Dwarf, and Leglolas the Elf are now tracking the horde of orcs, hoping to rescue Merry and Pippin.The first movie clearly belonged to Frodo, who unlike most of his companions is slight, timid but fun-loving, hardly the hardy adventurer. He alone is entrusted to carry the eminently corrupting Ring to its demise in Mount Doom. But the second movie shifts focus to another character, one who was seen only very briefly in the first movie: Gollum. Gollum has a long history with the Ring, and he's now a complete slave to it. He wants it, his Precious, back in his possession. He joins up with Frodo and Sam to lead them to the Black Gate, the terrible entrance to Mordor itself, home of Sauron, the maker of the Ring (who desperately wants it back). Gollum likes Frodo, but he's plagued by split personalities; one side of him wants to help the Hobbits, the other side wants to kill them and eat them - and regain The Ring. It's interesting to note that Gollum, unlike the other major characters, is completely computer generated. This isn't all that new in and of itself, but it's Gollum's emotional expressions that make you think he's as real as the actors playing Frodo and Sam. In fact, director Jackson had Andy Serkis (who voices Gollum) act in the scenes with Sam and Frodo, then had him digitally removed and replaced with a computer-generated Gollum. The result is much more seamless than your run-of-the-mill computerized character.But the story's not just about Frodo and his quest. Sauron knows the Ring's out there, and that a Halfling has it, but he has other matters to attend to. His goal is to wipe out mankind forever. That might be tough in today's world, but in Middle-Earth man was just gaining a foothold; elves and the like had ruled for eons. Saruman, as seen in the last movie, has been breeding legions and legions of superfighters, mutant orcs called Uruk-hai. The Uruk-hai are sent to attack the kingdom of Rohan, which has already been attacked from the inside through a silver-tongued advisor to the king, a Wormtongue (Brad Dourif). By casting a spell on the king, Theoden, Wormtongue is able to render him invalid; his kingdom is shortly weakened. Wormtongue is working for Saruman, who's working for Sauron (even though he thinks he's working for himself). In addition, the kingdom of Rohan has been set against that of Gondor, the other remaining Man kingdom. Together, they might be trouble for the Enemy; separate, they can be picked apart.One of the most prolonged scenes in the movie is the battle at Helm's Deep. After being removed from his spell, Theoden takes his people there for shelter and safety, determined to fight, aided by Aragorn, Leglolas, and Gimli. The Uruk-hai, some ten thousand strong, attack. There have been many excellently staged epic battle scenes in cinematic history, but they all seem to pale to the extravagance and sheer power of this one. It's an awe-inspiring scene, guaranteed to make one cheer.Now, as I said, there are some differences between the books and this movie. I don't mind if certain scenes or sequences are left out, because you can only cram so much into a three-hour movie. But when scenes appear in the movie that never appeared in any of the books, I have a problem. These books have been around for a long time, and it just seems foolhardy to add plot that doesn't need to be added, while at the same time omitting plot that seems necessary. I won't go into details here about what "new" scenes are in the movie that aren't in the books, but I was scratching my head after a few of them (and I had just reread The Two Towers a month or so ago).There's even less attention paid to female characters this time around. Arwen, the Elvish beauty who had a thing for Aragorn in the first movie, is seen in dream sequences only - although this is indeed an important plot point, as it explains Aragorn's motivations a bit more lucidly. There's a new female character as well: Eowyn, the daughter of the Rohan king, who (surprise, surprise) also has a thing for Aragorn.There are some funny moments as well, most of them involving Gimli the Dwarf, who appears to be along for comic relief - even more so than in Fellowship. This can, however, have the unintended consequence of marginalizing Gimli's character; after all, he's a strong, steadfast, and tough Dwarf, yet he's pigeonholed into a "comic" character. The chemistry between him and Leglolas the Elf is excellent, however.One thing that we must all be thankful for is that the movie does shift away from Frodo himself. Elijah Wood continues to prove he's a terrible actor, incapable of expressing emotion adequately. As the story wears on, Frodo is supposed to get weaker and more beaten - although at times he can rouse himself to complete his quest. But Wood always has that scared look, that deer-caught-in-headlights look, the look that says, "Why am I here with these actors?" The performance is flat and ineffectual. And although the focus of the movie as a whole does shift away from Frodo, because his scenes basically involve just him, Sam, and Gollum, Wood's inadequacies are that much more accentuated. Luckily, these scenes are dwarfed (pardon the pun) by the battle scenes.It's never easy to make the middle movie in a trilogy - you want to build on the first movie and lead to the third. Remember Back to the Future II? Wasn't quite as charming as the first one or as action-packed as the third one. It was just kind of there. The Two Towers suffers this indignity, to an extent. Unlike the first one, there's no opening narration that gets everyone up to speed, and like the first one, this one just sort of .... ends. And not necessarily in the same manner as the second book did, either.
This movie isn't as good as The Fellowsip of the Ring, but it's still very, very good. I'm giving it three-and-a-half stars out of four, but bear in mind it was a tough three and a half to get. It's not as bad as a three-star movie, but it's not quite the masterpiece of the first movie, either.


                
Don't get me wrong, Director Peter Jackson's Lord of the Ring's films are all well-done films, but the pacing of these films are just way too slow. Even with Two Towers being the shortest of the three films, 179 minutes is a very long time, to sit down and watch a film. By the time, you get to the end of the film, you just witness, a lot of things happen on screen, but not much, if that make sense. A lot of things could be cut down, in the editing room, even more. It's like being in the middle of a mile run. You glad you went this far, but it's not done yet, you got another half mile and you're starting to feel a bit tired. Since, this film is the middle of the trilogy, there is no beginning nor end, for that, reason, it's hard to say if the movie is great or just OK. In my opinion, The Two Towers is just alright. The Two Towers is the second volume of J. R. R. Tolkien's high fantasy novel The Lord of the Rings. It is preceded by The Fellowship of the Ring and followed by The Return of the King. It is book III: The Treason of Isengard and IV: The Journey to Mordor AKA the Journey of the Ringbearers or The Ring Goes East in the book series. The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers arguably contains the most book to film major alterations, but the movie mostly follows the books, very close, mixing the two, but unlike the book starts, the movie starts a little bit later as 2001's Fellowship took the first chapter of this book opening as its ending. Instead, we get a cool new intro with Gandalf (Ian McKellen) fighting the Balrog monster from the last movie. We come into the film, after the break down of the fellowship, with smaller groups of characters going on their own adventures and story arches intercut with each other. Frodo (Elijah Woods) & Sam (Sean Astin) continuing their journey and meeting Gollum (Andy Serkis) on the way. Gollum is the best new character, they introduce into this film. Andy Serkis is amazing actor, and he puts out the best motion CGI capture acting, I ever saw. Since, there was a decision to leave Shelob for the third movie meant that Faramir (David Wenham) had to become an obstacle for Frodo and Sam's journey. This change was indeed different than the book. It does add conflict, but gees... it slows the plot down. Frodo is the everyman character, because he lack power, he is the best one to carry the ring throughout the film. His real challenge is to bear the ring without giving in to its temptations. This resistance is Frodo's inner journey, in which his pure heart is constantly under assault by his darker yearnings for power. It had some pretty powerful symbolism here between Faramir, Frodo, Sam and Gollum. I do have a problem with Frodo & Sam's friendship. I have nothing against gays, but there is a huge different between friendship and being in love. It's obvious Tolkien wanted to show the strength of friendship, so I don't think it was intentional, but it's still hard to ignore that it comes off as a gay relationship. While this is going on, Aragorn (Viggo Mortensen), Legolas (Orlando Bloom) and Gimli (John Rhys Davies) find themselves fighting the Orcs invasion at Helm's Deep and helping the war-torn nation of Rohan. While in the book, Helm's Deep is a small battle. In this film, it's the big climax of the film. It's one of the best battle scenes in film, I ever witnessed. I can do without the small awful cheesy things, like the heroes mowing down hundreds of Orcs without much battle scars. I can do without Legolas being too perfect like, shield surfing and only speak in exposition. I couldn't stand Gimli being pull into too much comedy relief role. Also, glad to see Arwen (Liv Tyler) was not in the battle scenes in the final version, as they film her earlier in it fighting alongside Aragorn. I can still do without Aragorn's life is now tied to the Fate of the Ring bit. It makes little to no sense. I understand that they (the producers) were trying to make anti-ring symbol with her character as a sign of hope, but it doesn't work. The movie is more about Aragon rise to become king and presented a coming to age story for males. Merry (Dominic Monaghan) & Pippin (Billy Boyd) end up encountering the giant treelike Ents and trying to stop Saruman's (Christopher Lee) army at Isengard. Environment themes are question here. Still, the whole Treebeard part were a bit boring. One thing, I hate about Lord of the Rings are the cheap fake out deaths scenes. Aragorn, Frodo, and others. As much as I love seeing Gandalf again, his death scene in the last movie was supposed to be impactful. For him, to come back makes it seem like you can cheat death here. I blame it on Tolkien. I didn't like the whole Jesus Christ metaphor with his character. Besides Boromir (Sean Bean), does any main character dies in this movie. The movie lose a bit of its sense of danger without any major deaths. Everybody seems nearly invincible. Water seems to be a symbol of rebirth in this film. Gandalf, Aragorn, and Frodo were save by large bodies of water. Similarly, Saruman's tower loses its power when its plain is flooded. Like a baptized, it's free from sin. Even the elves depart Middle-earth on a boat and sail out to a great body of water. The film has a lot of Christianity themes. The music by Howard Shore is amazing. Overall: Good visual film that can be a bit confusing. Just hard to get through all the themes, and all the characters arches.
A lot better than Fellowship of the ring. This one gives the characters a personality and motivations to their actions. They finally stop being boring unidimensional characters. Alongside that, the plot starts getting epic, in the first film there were some epic scenes with great direction, but in this one, there are frigging wars and death. This gets epic to new levels, the film is just a lot of anticipation to a great battle. Great action scenes, good characters and a decent plot line. My only problem with it is Legolas, the only boring character in the film, he is just filling space and doesn't have ANY personality. There would be no difference if i replace Legolas with a tree. But overall, good film.


                
The movie doesn't deepen or expand the tale's themes as masterfully as The Empire Strikes Back added to Star Wars' mystique. But as a stirring story of unsullied heroism, it's a winner, and as an action epic, it features superb battle sequences.


                
"The Two Towers" is usually referred to be the worst entry of the series. I still think the movie is great, but I can only agree. However, facing off against "The Fellowship of the Ring" and my personal favorite part "The Return of the King" is almost impossible. So don't get me wrong the movie is still great, just not quite as good as the other two.What probably makes "The Lord of the Rings" the greatest trilogy of all time (maybe besides the original Star Wars trilogy, but even this trilogy lacks, as "A New Hope" has suffered a severe drop in quality throughout the years and "Return of the Jedi" being the least favorite of most people, as many don't like the Ewok story line) is that they were all shot simultaneously. So even though "The Two Towers" is the weakest entry, it still fits in great, as the transition throughout the whole story is very smooth.Just as "The Fellowship of the Ring", the direction, the visual effects and the landscape shots are still awesome, but "The Two Towers" lacks the great story introduction of "The Fellowship of the Ring" and the endless climaxes of "The Return of the King."


                
22 December 2002. I'd say 8 stars out of 10 for this movie. The scenery was spectacular and the overall appearance is of epic proportions. The were a few distractions however and perhaps the DVD (and I'm assuming even longer version will help fill in the gaps). Frodo's internal conflict as the ring-bearer doesn't come across the screen as personal to the audience, we get to see more from an observer standpoint without getting the feelings and the emotions and the actual pull to the dark side was one might get from Star Wars. The Rohan King's son is a person we never really get to know and to feel the bond between the King and his son and again we're left to see the King's emotions from outside, never getting to emote with him. Gollum is perhaps the most amazing character of all in this movie and I'd say should earn an Oscar nomination for something. Except for the ending scenes which seem to suddenly turn the Gollum in another direction from the prior scene which doesn't seem smooth and consistent in character, the Gollum and Frodo's and Sam's interaction was the highlight, brilliant, and intimate creative genius of the whole series to date. Another strange figure is the 10,000 warriors that march to defeat Helm's Deep and King Rohan. But even the Vietnam War, the American Civil War, the Russian Revolution, the numbers offered as to the size of the massed army in this epic fantasy don't seem to conform to the gigantic clash between good and evil of the massive size of Tolkien's novel - I'd think that 100,000 soldier army would be the minimum size to defeat any fortified fortress in the Lord of the Rings. The battle seemed to be awful fast and the feeling of lingering doom, the seige over days (more in line with most fantasy battle scenes) is missing in this movie. However, overall, Lord of the Rings brings to the screen images that have been waiting a long time for Fantasy fans and almost (not quite) capture the essence of Middle Earth. A great attempt, a near perfect success, but there is even better movies to come if this significant benchmark is any indication of the future of fantasy movies.


                
This was faboulos move , i like it , i think can more but this was good


                
Like the previous film, Intensely immersive with its engaging plot


                
While 'The Lord Of The Rings: The Two Towers (2002)' initially seems like an improvement upon its predecessor due to an almost instant start, to the point of totally leaving anyone not already on-board with the story behind, and constant 'in-the-moment' feel, the piece soon becomes a baggy and generally slow affair that does, in itself, seem like the so-called 'extended version' (how an actual 'extended version' exists, I'm not sure I'll ever fully understand). This middle instalment falls victim to its transitional status, which is essentially a kind way of saying that not all that much happens - at least not considering its bloated three hour run-time - while it ties the knot between the first and last part of its larger tale. It also suffers from a meandering narrative that opens up its world in a way that seems unfocused, taking away from the core - and, incidentally, most interesting - story of our protagonist and his journey to destroy that which would seek to destroy the world at every opportunity. There's still a lot to like, including a clarity of vision most prominent in the brilliant battle sequences - which are some of the largest in scale seen in cinema (only to be bested in size by its follow-up) and yet still retain a remarkably tangible quality - and smaller character moments - mainly surrounding its landmark 'motion capture' character. Indeed, this character is a groundbreaking achievement that did almost as much for the industry as the rest of the effects combined, being the premier creation of this kind essentially still to this day. He has some of the best moments in this feature, moments which are only slightly less interesting because of all the apparent 'filler' which surrounds them. It's made out to be essential perhaps because it sits in the source novel, but trimming sequences shouldn't be discouraged even in something based on a beloved book. This flick ends up perhaps the weakest of the trilogy. In the end, though, there are enough stand-out scenes and it's entertaining enough to make it more than worthwhile. 8/10


                
On par with the Greek epics of the past. The battle sequences last for what seems is forever and every moment of them is astonishing. The best character development for a sequel I've seen and I highly recommend it


                
The Two Towers steps up to the plate and delivers an even better movie than the first. The action scenes are exciting and very well done, and the cinematography, editing, CGI, and especially score were all phenomenal. One of my frustrations in the series in general is the lack of secondary themes beyond the pull and power of good/evil and the ring as a representation of power. However, I liked how the movie delved deeper into that dichotomy and did a great job of developing characters. I loved Serkis' work as Smeagol as well. The Two Towers does not drag at all and is riveting all the way through despite the long run time.


                
Really, I should probably let this film soak in a bit; I am, after all, on something of a "post-viewing" high right now. However, at this moment, my feeling remains the same from the first installment - this is the movie experience I've been waiting my whole life for. In case you haven't gathered, this movie is visually stunning, literally breathtaking. I mean that, some of the scenes in this film simply stopped my lungs in their tracks, shocked at the pure, enveloping beauty of the shot. Peter Jackson has a profound grasp of visual manipulation like few directors have ever had.The acting is, as always, superb. Kudos for hiring "actors" not "stars"; "Oscar-worthy" over-acting could have threatened the realistic touch the film's remarkable cast supply. Specific mention goes to both John Rhys-Davies in his well enjoyed comic turn, and very largely to Andy Serkis, who was a major role in creating the most realistic and brilliantly well-performed CGI character I've ever seen (Gollum).For the most part, and as a fan of the books, I take no offense to the slight plot modifications. My understanding is that Tolkien himself realized that visual adaptation of LotR would require a somewhat different take on his work, and was apparently open to such minute changes. There are also a few tiny bits and pieces I was disappointed to see not make the final cut, however, I'm sure a future inevitable extended DVD will take care of those.In short, if you found the continual enjoyment I did with the first movie of LotR, this movie will in no way let you down. Not even for a minute.Highly recommended, 8/10.


                
