Coppola's masterpiece is rivaled only by "The Godfather, Part II" in which the 1940s setting of the first movie is extended backwards and forwards to reveal the corrupting effect of power...The film, breathtaking in its scope and tragic grandeur, shows two parallel stories extending two different time periods: the early career of young Vito Corleone seen first around the turn of the 20th century in Sicily, and then in 1917, building his criminal underworld in the Italian ghettos of New York City, post World War I, plus that of his son, Michael (Al Pacino) desperately trying to keep his family together...Al Pacino's performance is quiet and solemn... He is cold and ruthless, with a whole contrast from the idealistic innocent war hero we initially met at the beginning of the first film... Here he's a calculating and frightening force, seeking to expand casinos into Pre-Revolutionary Cuba and consolidating an empire surrounded by perfidy and treason, maintaining total confidence in his ability to control the situation whether testifying before enraging Senators or trying to outface his worst enemies...The film's haunting final shot of a lonely, isolated paranoid Michael in his empty compound, is an unforgettable movie scene, a tragic portrait of a lonely and fully damned person, emotionally empty and finished, far from a waspish wife, more distant from a faithful lawyer...De Niro's rise, from an orphan child by a family feud back in Italy to a hood in New York and his position as a respected Don, provides a welcome break from Pacino's relentless attitude... Since the people he kills seem to deserve it, Vito comes off better than Michael does, and it was wise of Coppola to shuffle the two stories together despite lengthy flashbacks and the disturbance of continuity...The entire cast contributes greatly to the success of the film: Lee Strasberg, a fascinating mixture of lust and ruthlessness; G. D. Spradlin, absolutely right as the sinister and corrupt Nevada Senator; Michael V. Gazzo, unforgettable as the troubled gray-haired informer; Gastone Moschin, excellent as the blackmailer in white suit; John Cazale, marvelously timid as the vague, confused, and hesitant Fredo; Diane Keaton, clearly irrational as the long-suffering wife Kay; Talia Shire, too extravagant as the lousy mother; Troy Donahue too ambitious as the fortune-hunting suitor; and Robert Duvall excels as the confidant, and retainer to the all-powerful Corleone family...Coppola's motion picture is not just a mere supply with new characters and events from the original, it's a far more complex and intimate movie than its predecessor... It is not really a sequel... It's just more... It cleverly shifts in time between two distinct narratives with extreme realistic violence and criminal mentality of gangsters...
This movie is way to be good to be labelled a sequel to The Godfather . Rather it is more of a companion piece to the original and the two perfectly compliment each other . IT is both a sequel and prequel showing the rise of the young vito and moral decline of Micheal . Both characters are brought to life with uncanny ability by Robert  DeNiro and Al Pacino . To say that these two are good actors is like saying that a nuclear bomb makes a loud noise and in this movie they prove why they are at the top of their respective crafts .Al Pacino is the standout in the ensemble cast and its amazing how his eyes have changed from the first part . They are now cold , ruthless and unemotional and betray the price which Micheal Corleone has paid for power .Watch this movie and learn why it is the greatest gangster film of all time.


                
The original Godfather is a brilliant work. It is in a sense a voyeuristic delight, allowing us to see the mafia from the inside - we become part of the family. It single-handedly change the world's view of organized crime, and created a cast of sympathetic characters, none of whom have a shred of common morality. It was the highest grossing movie of its time and Brando created a cultural icon whose influence resonates as strong today as it did in 1972.As extraordinary an achievement as this is, Part II is even better. It easily receives my nod as the best picture ever made. I have seen it at least 20 times, and each time its 200 minutes fly by.The movie uses flashbacks to brilliantly weave two tales. The main story is the reign of Michael Corleone as the world's most powerful criminal. Now reaping the benefits of legalized gambling in Las Vegas, Michael is an evident billionaire with an iron fist on a world of treachery.
Behind this, Director Francis Ford Coppola spins the tale of the rise of Michael's father, Vito, to the center of the New York mafia. It is these scenes that make the film a work of art. Without spoiling, I will simply say the Robert DeNiro as the young Vito is the best acting performance of all time, a role  for which he won a richly deserved Oscar.The screenplay is full of delicious little underworld nuggets ("Keep your friends close .....", "I don't want to kill everyone, just my enemies"), while it blows a dense, twisted plot past you at a dizzying and merciless pace. The cinematography is depressing and atmospheric. The score continues in the eerie role of its predecessor, foretelling death and evil.All of this makes the movie great and infinitely watchable. But it's what's deeper inside this film ... what it is really about ... that is its true genius.The Godfather Part II is not really a movie about the mafia, it is a movie about a man's life long struggle. Michael controls a vast empire that is constantly slipping out of his hands. He grows increasingly distrustful and paranoid, and even shows signs that he hates his own life. Michael almost seems to resent the fact that he is a natural born crime lord, a man who puts the family business ahead of everything.The great Don Michael Corleone can never come to terms with one simple fact.... his father's empire was built on love and respect, Michael's empire is built on fear and violent treachery.See this movie. It's three-and-a-half hours very well spent.


                
The Godfather Part 2 is the finest sequel ever made and is arguably a finer film than the original Godfather. The film is divided into two main parts - the story of a young Vito Corleone (flawlessly acted by Robert De Niro and a worthy Oscar winner) and the rise to power of Michael as the head of the family. Francis Coppola recollaborated with many of the crew members of the first film and again achieves a quite superb period piece thanks to the cinematography of Gordon Willis and set design of Dean Tavoularis. The acting performances are outstanding, hence three supporting oscar nominations for acting guru Lee Strasberg (Hyman Roth), Michael Gazzo (Frank Pentangeli) and Robert De Niro (young Vito Corleone). Duvall, Keaton, Cazale and Shire all provided first rate performances but it is the performance of Al Pacino which steals the show, expertly portraying Michael as a cool, calculating, suspicious Don Corleone. The film expands upon the original movie and brings us into the family's activities in Nevada, Florida and Havana. Arguably the finest movie of the 70s, a cinematic masterpiece with the greatest ensemble acting you will probably see.


                
After seeing The Godfather and improving it as one of my favorite films, I wanted to get more into The Godfather so I rented this. Words can't describe how great this sequel was. The acting once again was amazing and the story and how the movie went on just never got me bored. Everything in this movie was clearly beautiful. The ending by far was my favorite when there all sitting at the table talking. There were so many great scenes like Vito when he was younger, Fredo at the lake, and many many more. You have to see this movie because it's just brilliant filmaking. It's not better than it's first film but still an extremely worth sequel.10/10


                
The Godfather Part II (1974)Number 1 - 1974Top 3 - 1970s"My father taught me many things. Keep your friends close but keep your enemies closer""The Godfather Part II is truly a masterpiece. Timeless, Classic, Beautiful and endlessly watchable"The second part of Francis Ford Coppola's Epic and violent Gangster Trilogy, follows the reign of Don Michael Corleone as the head of the Corleone family. As well the film shows us the early years of Vito Corleone (Marlon Brando) played flawlessly by Academy Award Winner Robert De Niro, and how he created his empire of money, gambling and respect. Beautifully directed by Francis Ford Coppola, Godfather Part II exceeds every expectation with outstanding performances from Academy Award winners Al Pacino,Diane Keaton, Robert Duvall and Robert De Niro. The second part of this unforgettable trilogy is one of the finest films ever made. This is cinematic art. A treasure of film history. The finest sequel ever made. A faultless, flawless gripping drama; Coppola's second part of his crime saga is in my opinion one of the top 5 films of all time and perhaps towering over the first part. "As close to perfection as movies get""Pacino at his best"-10/10-


                
This sequel is just as terrific as the first film, if not more so. I hesitate to call it a sequel, as "sequel" is quite simply the wrong word I am looking for. A film like "The Matrix Reloaded" is a sequel - "The Godfather Part II" is something more. It's just too good to be called a sequel.The film won six Oscars in 1974, including Best Picture and Best Supporting Actor (Robert De Niro). It deserved every one. It involves the viewer from the start and never lets up. Particular aspects I enjoy in this film are the flashbacks to Don Vito Corleone as a child immigrating to New York City after social problems in his homeland, Sicily. I like the intertwining of Michael Corleone (Al Pacino), his son, in present day, dealing with his crime inheritance, and Vito (Robert De Niro), his father, years ago. I like how, as Michael comes to terms with his family legacy, the film shows us Vito coming to terms with his future. The day he shoots that man in a gritty apartment complex is a turning point in his life. Every actor is in top form here. Al Pacino has gradually made the move from a man who denies his future to a man who is accepting it. His character is the spotlight of this film, much more so than in the first film (though both center around his decisions).Robert De Niro is particularly wonderful and convincing as a young Vito Corleone, who was of course played by the constantly-spoofed Marlon Brando in the original. De Niro takes an iron grip on his character and completely engulfs himself; this was, in 1974, the sign of an actor who would go places. Indeed, he did.Coppola's magical sense of direction is at work here, as is the script by Coppola and Mario Puzo (whose novels the series is based upon). The original was a wonderful film, but the sequel presents more of a challenge. Flashbacks are often intercut in the middle of other films are awkward times, but in "The Godfather Part II," Coppola uses them at precisely the right moments, managing to careen in and out of scenes and time periods with free abandon.It takes a great kind of skill to master something like this, much less a sequel to one of the most beloved films of all time. "The Godfather" was an instant classic upon its release in 1972. Coppola had two years to plan for his continuation of the film. People told him it wouldn't work, he would never beat the original, and he would never pull it off. But he showed them all. "The Godfather Part II" may well be the best sequel I have ever seen in my entire lifetime. I wish they were all this good. To call it a "sequel" almost seems insulting.
To me and probably to many other people The Godfather Part II is more of a continuation than sequel to The Godfather. Just look at the IMDb rating and you'll see I'm not the only one who feels this way. To me it as good as the first.The acting may have been better than the acting in the original. Robert De Niro gave a perfect subtle performance as Vito Corleone. His portrayal was powerful and breathtaking. When I think De Niro I definitely do not think subtle and smooth but that is exactly what he was in here. It is definitely one of his top three performances in his career. The depth in his portrayal was able to justify the Vito Corleone that Marlon Brando portrayed in the first. Al Pacino gave a very strong performance playing Michael Corleone. In here we get to see more of the tough decisions that have to be made and the consequences of certain actions. Al Pacino perfectly displayed the amount of thought and struggle that goes into and comes out of every action you make; the way it affects relationships, family, power and influence. Diane Keaton was not really given a lot of room to act in the first but in here she is very good. She did not play the stereotypical wife who always stands behind her husband but rather the woman with a mind of her own who is willing to go after what she feels she deserves. Robert Duvall again to me was the glue to the movie. Just having him in there kind of makes you feel safe. John Cazale also had more of an impact in here than in the first playing the half-witted brother always needing to be bailed out. A lot of these characters sound so familiar and stereotypical but in The Godfather Part II every character is played out with such extraordinary depth. Everyone from Talia Shire who gave a fine performance to Lee Strasberg all the way down to the kid who played young Vito Corleone were perfect. Part II seems to me to be more of a character study than the original.The directing once again is perfect. Francis Ford Coppola know or at least knew how to make a movie. The first to Godfather movie are done so precisely and perfectly that nothing really sticks out because they are so perfect throughout. Coppola just lets his actors play everything out as he should with type of cast he has here. Not to many movies can maintain such a consistent flow over 3 hours let alone even an hour and 45 minutes.The writing may not have been quite as good as the first in terms of quoting but the storyline was perfect. Seeing the decisions made by new mob boss Michael Corleone was common sense but flashing back on Vito Corleone's life was genius. The storyline to me could not have been better and Coppola and Puzo do a great job with it all the way.Like the first the cinematography was amazing but it had a slightly different tone to it. The first had more of a majestic, mythical look to it. In Part II you feel the modern times creeping in and the Corleones having to adjust to it. Part II has more of a corrupt and evil twist to it but I guess the end signifies that. The music obviously the same as the first was perfect and just fit so greatly with the rest of the movie.The first to movies of The Godfather series are really like the same movie. They are not the same though, they are actually very different but the greatness of them both and the continuation of the storyline from the first to the second really create a strong band between each other. To me it is only a sequel in that it was the second movie of a great series. No let downs, no disappointments just a continuation of of the greatness from the first one.


                
The Godfather Part Two is possibly the best film ever made, every part of this film is amazing, it is even better than the original, I was very surprised by this. The story is amazing, everything makes perfect sense. The Oscar winning screenplay is amazing, the dialogue is some of the most original, and realistic ever putt on screen, the characters are flawless, and it's in every way perfectly written. The acting is just as fantastic, I can't believe Al Pacino lost the Oscar, and for once Robert De Niro was even better, he was truly amazing, and interestingly he fails to say a single word in English. The direction is also amazing, Francis Ford Coppola even does a better job than he did in The Godfather, and Apocalypse Now. The visual effects are so much better than the amazing one's in the original Godfather. One of the best films ever, a must see. Flawless.


                
The Godfather Part II is a consummation of the saga of the Corleone Crime family. Regarded by many as the best sequel ever, the Godfather Part II is equally brilliant as its precursor and good enough to stand on its own. The movie juxtaposes, the early life of Vito Corleone (from his orphaned childhood to his rise in power in New York), with the life of his son, Michael (after Vito's death to Michael becoming the most powerful Mafia head). Al Pacino picks up from where he left in the first part, consummating Michael's journey to the dark side and in the process, presenting him as the greatest anti-hero, the western cinema ever embodied. The movie gave Pacino his third consecutive Oscar nomination and a perpetual stardom that catapulted him above the ruck, laying the foundations of his illustrious career. Just like in part I, his performance in this movie is absolutely worthy of an Oscar, but the Academy once again robbed him of the glory.Robert De Niro in his Oscar winning portrayal of Vito Corleone, gives a great performance without uttering a single word in English. The synergy imparted by the brilliance of these two outstanding performers, makes the movie, a treat to watch. Robert Duvall reprises his role of Tom Hagen with a desired degree of subtlety and equanimity, reminding the viewer of Brando's portrayal in Godfather part I. The entire cast is brilliant with special mention of John Cazole as Fredo, Lee Strasberg as Hyman Roth and Michael V.Gazzo as Frankie Pentageli, who are outstanding, to say the least. Cuppola's brilliant and innovative direction gives Puzo's masterful story, an incredible impetus, which is well complemented by Nino Rota's poignant score and Gordon Willis' vivid cinematography. In a nutshell, the movie, though sanguinary and lengthy than its precursor, is an equally brilliant work of cinema, a profound and a deeply engrossing master piece.http://www.apotpourriofvestiges.com/


                
It's rare to see a sequel that is as good as the first; it's even rarer to see the two acting veterans, De Niro and Pacino, together in a film. This is the only film that delivers both. I loved the first Godfather film, for it's acting talent, for it's cinematography, and for it's fantastic story. The acting is every bit as great, and the cinematography is about as good, but the story wasn't exactly as good as the first; had it not been for the flashbacks that showed Vito as young(beautifully portrayed by De Niro), it wouldn't have gotten a perfect rating from me. He saved the film, that was otherwise slow and a little bland, due to the story not being as great as the first. The first showed us a mafia war; this just shows the aftermath, and Michael Corleone's further rise to power, after the fall of Vito in the first. However, the film has a number of flashbacks, that show us Vito as young, and here De Niro perfectly shows us the entire range of his talents, by mimicking Brando's performance to perfection. The plot is good, but not as good as the first; it's saved by the flashback sequences that show us how and why Vito Corleone came to power. The acting is every bit as great as the first. Al Pacino still gives a great performance, like he did in the first, and the other cast members who came back from the first, including Robert Duvall and Diane Keaton, also give as great performances as they did in the first. The new actors also give great performances, though the following stand out as the best; Robert De Niro, Lee Strasberg and Michael V. Gazzo. The characters are as well-written as they were in the first. The mafia is portrayed as menacingly in this as it was in the first. The film, like the first, has it's share of memorable quotes, but not really any scenes that were memorable, like the first one had. All in all, a great film, but mainly because of De Niro and Pacino. De Niro fills Brando's part fairly well, but overall, the film isn't as entertaining and exciting as the first, though it does reach about the same quality overall. I recommend it to fans of the various actors involved, and of course anyone who enjoyed the first, as they should enjoy this one too, but possibly to a lesser extent. 10/10


                
The sequel to "The Godfather," at times, was just as impressive, and sometimes even more impressive than the original. Overall, though the film struggles with it's flashbacks to an early New York as we watch a young Vito Corleone (Robert De Niro), rise to power. "The Godfather II," wants to be both a prequel and sequel at the same time. When we're in the present time watching Michael Corleone (Al Pacino) fight off Senators that are trying to squeeze him, or when we're watching his house get shot up on an assassination attempt that involved someone very close to the family we always find our self in amazement. When we jump back in time, you get a feeling of intrusion. The script is to blame because its too bloated, and wants to accomplish so much in it's near three hour run time. When we're in the early 1920s we see things that are entertaining and gratifying, but ultimately not even close to being on par with the present day status of the Corleone family. Its good to know and see how the godfather started out, but there's too much to say and not enough time to say it. The bloated section of the film becomes underwritten. We don't really learn anything about Vito Corleone that we didn't already know. We don't really see how he gains his power. He kills "The Black Hand," and one day, through rumors, he becomes the Don of the city. Just like that. Just like that? Really? Then we come back and he's all of a sudden in the Olive Oil business. We don't know how he got there or anything, he's just there. De Niro gives it his best, but he's just not working with anything to give any kind of performance that's remotely on the same level as Brando did in the previous film. I found it painful to watch De Niro try to imitate Brando. When we see the city, it does have a good look to it, and its convincing as the set and costumes designs, along with the art direction, are very good. We never see big wide shots of the city block. We see a lot of people and grocery stores go by the quickly moving camera. Coppola does an excellent job of not pulling back too far (Probably didn't have the budget to make a huge set of the city), but we get a claustrophobic sensation. The kind of claustrophobic sensation where a guy right next door, in the next building, is close enough to stick his head out the window, call for you, and hand you a sack full of guns. Coppola encapsulates the city, and the time very well. There are some great moments in the flashbacks, but I could have lived without it entirely, and probably would have watched a much better film (Possibly better than the original). When Michael finds that his own brother, Fredo (John Cazel), knew about the assassination attempt on his life, and that he was involved and that he never told Michael about his connection with Hymen Roth and Johnny Ola, it infuriates Michael to the point of no return. He feels as though he loses his family. When he confronts Fredo, he doesn't say much; he's sick of him; Fredo's too stupid to have around, and he can't even look at him. Coppola' direction here is magnificent. Even though its dark and you can't see the reactions of both of the men, they're both in the picture with the light shinning through the windows creating silhouettes of the men that were, and we see their body language, and the body language tells us everything we need to know.Cazel gives a great performance throughout the entire film, and we wish we got to see more from his character. He's so good in this one scene that it stands as one of the best scenes in film history, and a huge part of that is due to him. The words that come out of his mouth are on par with Marlon Brando' speech in, "On the Waterfront." All this frustration, years of it, just boil over to point of pity. He's pleading with his brother. We watch him spill his guts on the table, and admit that he's well aware of being stupid and feeding into that stereotype as he watches his younger brother give him orders we feel his pain and frustration for not living up to the coldness and callousness of his family. He feels like an outsider, a coward, and a loser. All the while, Michael sits in front of the window looking at the boathouse. He doesn't care what Fredo has to say, which makes it all that more painful to watch for the both of them. Michael wants information from him, and that's it. One feels like an outsider, and one is an outsider. Neither of them fit in this lifestyle, but it ruins both of their lives. Fredo wants respect and power. Michael has the power, but no respect, and finds out that he loses everything that he ever cared about: his family. Its one of the most powerful scenes in cinematic history.
Wow. This thing is almost three and a half hours long and yet it is not boring for a second. Not one moment. From the very first scenes up until the tragic and forlorn ending, this film seizes hold of the viewer's consciousness and does not ever loosen its grip, even when the credits roll. I walked away from the movie with what felt like a deep resonance inside me. It is at once heart-wrenchingly sad and stunningly beautiful.Thematically, it actually shares much in common with later films such as American Beauty and Fight Club. The Godfather Part 2 is the story of a man who seems to have it all - but the only things he ends up not having are the only things that truly matter to him. Michael's character arc continues on from the first film, creating a great, epic tragedy and what I think is one of the saddest and yet most majestic endings in film.I haven't even talked about the more technical aspects yet. This is because I don't have to - everything is perfect. Not just great, but perfect, as in there seems to be no way that they could be improved on. Acting, direction, cinematography, script and story. Everything.The one thing, though, that clinches it for me is that the plot doesn't really matter. This is a movie about themes and ideas. The plot is quite thick, so don't worry if you don't get it - you don't have to. As long as you understand what the film is really about... you will walk away knowing that you have witnessed something almost life-changing.


                
The saga of the Corleone family continues from "The Godfather" in this classic film directed by Francis Ford Coppola entitled "The Godfather Part II" that was released two years after the original film was released.This movie that stars Al Pacino and Robert De Niro,who portrays Michael Corleone and the young Vito Corleone respectively,together with Robert Duvall,Diane Keaton,John Cazale,G.D Spradlin, and Method acting teacher Lee Strasberg,tells the parallel story of the expansion of Corleone crime family headed by Don Michael during the 1950's and the rise to power of the young Don Vito during the 1920's.No question that the themes of corruption,ruthlessness,amorality and ambition continues in this film as both Michael and the young Vito continues to pursue their respective American dreams in this parallel story being told when both father-and-son were at the same age.We get to see Michael expands the family's gambling operations in Cuba and his pursuit to making the Corleone family legitimate while dealing with rival mobsters who intend to eliminate him like Frank Pentangeli and Jew mobster Hyman Roth.It also tells the story of how he dealt with the federal indictment by the U.S.Senate.As for the young Vito,we get to witness from how his family got killed by the local mafia chieftain Don Ciccio in Corleone,Italy and how he migrated to New York a young age.Then,it narrates how he started as an ordinary worker and then rose into stature and power after dealing with the area's extortionist,Don Fannucci and killing Don Ciccio to strengthen his family's power in both the United States and in Italy.This was definitely one great film just like the original.It definitely would compare to the first film as we get to witness two great parallel stories of ambition and rise to power.In addition to that,we also get to see how much the characters of Vito and Michael deteriorated into becoming ruthless,corrupt and amoral as their power and stature increased.Aside from great stories,we also get to see great performances from its lead stars - Al Pacino and Robert De Niro - wherein the latter won an Oscar for his portrayal the young Vito.Added to that,we also get to see great performances from the other members of the cast such as Lee Strasberg,who got nominated for an Oscar as the Jew mobster, and Diane Keaton as Kay,the embittered wife of Michael.After more than 43 years since it was initially released in the theaters while this review is currently written,it would still be a fun to watch and it will hold up.Just like what I have stated in my review of the first film "The Godfather",I also would say that this film that tells the story of amorality,ruthlessness and ambition "The Godfather Part II" is truly a masterpiece.
The Godfather Part 2 is easily better than part 1 for several reasons.1. The telling of Con Coleones rise in power with Robert De Niro is very exciting and De Niro is amazing.2. The scene where Micheals brother Fredo is killed is the best scene in the film.3. I felt there was a bit more action but there was still time for story and character development.4. The last scene with Micheal sitting on the bench is also very good.5. The score is just as in Part 1 superb.So all in all Part 2 is better than Part 1 which didn't really believe could be possible.
A must watch for everybody. The backstory of the godfather... cant decided if part 1 or 2 is better... both beyond amazing!!


                
This is the greatest sequel ever made and in my opinion the finest film i have ever seen. I couldn't tell you how many time I have watched it.


                
A masterpiece! The perfect sequel. My favorite out of the series.


                
Here we get an insight to both criminal life of mobsters as well as insight to history. This is a pure masterpiece!


                
You can write the volumes about the Godfather Part II phenomena. There is nothing that has not been said about it greatness, magnificence, perfection that radiate in every aspect, every moment, every inch of every frame, every performance, quote, glance, in the sound of the music, in both parts of the story, past and present that take the viewer to the journey in search of American Dream that turn to the epic vision of gaining ultimate power coming with ultimate loneliness. The story of one family of Italian Immigrants begins in Sicily in 1901, goes to New York City's "Little Italy" and spans over the most part of the 20th century. The viewers and the critics often argue which film is better, the original Godfather (1972) or Part 2. (1974). Both films are perfect in every way, and the vision and movie-making talent of a young director named Francis Ford Coppola are simply awesome. His idea of making an American epic, the story of one family raise to power, the price it takes and the eventual fall instead of a low budget fast moving gangster movie as the MGM studio had planned proved to be the stroke of genius. It is not easy to choose the best of two but I prefer Part II because I found the way Coppola tells two parts of the story by intertwining them and cutting effortlessly, seamlessly between the different time periods and geographic locations - incomparable. Yes, it's been done before and after him but never was I touched so deeply and amazed by the artistry and brilliancy of moving between past and future. I am surprised that the film was not rewarded for the editing because the team of editors contributed enormously in what is the magic of The Godfather, Part II. The film is unique by being at the same time a prequel and a sequel to the original Godfather because it tells the stories of young Vito Corleone first steps to the top of the criminal world and of Michael, his youngest son who became Godfather after his father passing. Part 2 has the most important scene in the whole trilogy, the scene when Vito kills Don Fanucci - the choice that would eventually lead to his raise as the crime family patriarch. I can go on forever. It is known how many great performances Al Pacino gave back in the 70s, his prime time (four Oscar nominations in the row, 1973-1976) but Michael Corleone in Part 2 is something that has to be studied and admired for as long as the young aspiring actors dream of not being stars but the ACTORS. I am not a fan of Pacino's latest films and roles. He screams a lot, he overplays but all screams can't say more than one glance from the scene during the New Year Celebration in Habana. He said so much by his eyes only that had literally darkened with disbelief, grief, anger, and despair when he realized that he had been betrayed by his own brother Fredo - who broke his heart and left the viewers heartbroken. John Casale had only given five performances during his tragically short career but every one of them was remarkable and every movie he worked in belongs to the best America has produced. ...Robert de Niro speaking only Italian as young Vito gives one of his finest performances speaking. He plays a beautiful, dignified, decent man, hard working, loving father and husband who would stop at nothing to make his family happy the best way he knows how... And above all - the melancholic, melodious, mournful score by Nino Rota, the Requiem for a dream, the best Rota's tunes outside Federico Fellini films, As great as it is, Godfather Part II would never be the same without musical themes written by Nino Rota specifically for the film, especially the main theme or the Kay theme - the sound of love lost and longing... And in the end - perhaps the best flash back scene ever filmed, Christmas and Vito Corleone's birthday celebration - the family is close together, the grown up children sit around the table, talk about future, some choices have been made, but there is no alienation, betrayal, losses, regrets, death....yet.
I personally think that this film surpassed the glory of The Godfather I. you will have to watch it time and again in order to understand the nuances of it's brilliant film-making. the characterizations are exceptional: 1. Micheal Corleone (as the new don torn between family & business) 2. Hyman Roth (as the scheming old villain) 3. Kay Adams Corleone (as the worried wife) 4. Robert Duvall (as the loyal lawyer) 5. John Cazale (as the betraying brother) 6. Robert DeNiro (as young Vito) etc. etc.... It's just Brilliant!!! Speaking about the film-making the parallel narration of two different but interlinked stories is a fresh new lease of screenplay. the cinematography is outstanding. the indoors are lit up beautifully with overhead lighting which puts a shadow over the characters' eyes making it impossible to say what they're thinking. But unlike the first part where they had broken all the rules (the characters are established first before the place and time) in this film they've come back to the rules (the locations are established before the characters) Francis Ford Coppola should definitely be given another chance to make a sequel to the trio-logy so that the present generation can also experience the 'Magic of the Movie' and for anyone who's not seen this film, I bet they're surely missing something in life...


                
Although most movie sequels never equal the original this is certainly not the case of The Godfather: Part II. Many would argue it surpasses the original. With both films declared the Best Picture by the Motion Picture Academy in their separate years, I'd hate to argue the difference.In this case we should thank the executives at Paramount for retaining both director Francis Ford Coppola and the original The Godfather author Mario Puzo to put their talents to this film. I'd hate to think what would have happened in other hands. Certainly these two men knew their characters and knew how to expand on them. And the best thing about The Godfather: Part II is that one can pick up the story, at least the modern portion of this one without reference to the original. In fact viewing this film will give you a burning passion to see the first.Unlike The Godfather and The Godfather: Part III, this film runs on two parallel tracks. The modern story is a continuation of Al Pacino as Michael Corleone now residing on the shores of Lake Tahoe and now directing the family affairs from Nevada where the Corleone family is heavily into gambling as we well know organized crime was back in those days of the Fifties and Sixties. He's going into partnership with Lee Strassberg playing Hyman Roth, a thinly veiled portrait of Meyer Lansky. But there are a lot of things making Pacino hesitant about this move into Cuba under the Battista dictatorship.The prequel parallel story is how young Vito Corleone came to this country as an orphan and worked his way up to establish himself as a crime boss. Here Coppola does a brilliant job in capturing the flavor of pre-World War I New York in the Italian ghetto. Robert DeNiro is young Vito Corleone and won a Best Supporting Actor Oscar. Remarkable when you consider that two of his rivals were Lee Strassberg from this film and Michael V. Gazzo playing Frankie Pantangeli from this film as well, the Mafia kingpin turned Senate witness modeled on Joe Valachi. DeNiro and Marlon Brando have the unique distinction as players of winning an Oscar for playing the same role.The woman do better in this film as in the original. Talia Shire got an Oscar nomination in the Supporting Actress category as Connie Corleone Rizzi. You remember her husband betrays the family and is killed in the original. She now is a drunken dependent on Pacino. Diane Keaton's character of Kay Adams Corleone is expanded here as well. She's a cultural outsider and the Sicilian vendetta code that she's expected to approve without comment becomes too much to bare. Her scene with Pacino when she tells him she's leaving him is one of the best for both in their respective careers.Overlooked unfortunately at award time was John Cazale as Fredo Corleone. He's the middle son who's passed over for succession after eldest son James Caan is killed in The Godfather. Fredo's big moment in The Godfather is being unable to fire his weapon in defense of his father being shot and how he breaks down.Fredo's got feelings as John Cazale dramatically points out. He does something really stupid in this film and it costs him dear. Cazale has some of the best moments in this film.If the first Godfather film doesn't do it, The Godfather: Part II will have you permanently hooked on the inner workings and dynamics of the Corleone family both in the criminal and personal sense.


                
Francis Ford Coppola came perilously close in this film to accomplishing something rarely, if ever, done: he nearly made the second movie revolving around a particular set of characters and themes better than the first.In the truest sense of the word, Godfather II is NOT a sequel, nor was it intended to be. What Part II does is fill in details about Don Vito Corleone's arrival in America and rise to underworld power. That story was told by Mario Puzo in the novel, but involved too lengthy a story to include in the 1972 film. Coppola and Puzo did the next best thing: they told the prequel, the rise to power of Don Vito Corleone (Robert DeNiro) and then appended to the prequel the story of the Corleone family subsequent to Michael's gangland triumph at the close of the first film. "Appended" should not be taken to have a pejorative connotation. There is certainly nothing slapdash about the tale of the Corleone family's fortunes following the obliteration of the rival gang leaders at the end of the first film.Al Pacino is stunningly believable as the still-reluctant Don Michael Corleone. He wants to move the family business toward legitimacy, but in the end events compel him to "be strong for everyone" by taking down all of the family's enemies, even when one of them is his older brother Fredo (John Cazale, again brilliant).Unlike the first film, Coppola does not pull off the same level of audience empathy for the Corleone family in the second film. Clearly the life of the crime boss is costing Michael everything while he gains all the power in the world. The first film is more equivocal on that point and also remarkably draws the viewer into a world where the Corleones can be viewed with some empathy. In Part II, Michael is far more cold-blooded and consequently a less sympathetic character. He seems less drawn into the vortex of organized crime by unexpected events, as was the case in the first film, and more the ruthless manipulator.This is really two great films in one. Vito Corleone's rise to power is portrayed with subtle intensity by DeNiro, always observant and always absorbing important information from his observations. Those scenes really capture remarkably the story of Don Vito's early years woven by Puzo in the novel. Wrapped around that prequel is a marvelous continuation of the original story with remarkable twists and turns and deft uses of historical circumstances (Congressional racketeering hearings and the Castro revolution in Cuba). This is another magnificent film, and fitting second step in the Godfather story.Don't end the story with the first Godfather movie. See them both. As for Godfather 3, well, if you really want to go ahead, but be prepared for a let down.
Growing up in my family, this movie was a staple and I have been watching the entire Godfather series since before I could understand what I was watching. Around the age of thirteen, I started to become a cinephile, a trait that was embedded in me by my father. I saw this film for the series for the first time around that age and understood it. The second edition of the series was perfect in that the theme of family ultimately stood and we got a chance to see great cinema at play as Coppola and Puzo told two stories simultaneously that ended up perfectly balancing.
I have to agree with Robert Towne when he said this film is one of the greatest achievements in the history of screenwriting. When the camera follows DeNiro as he moves from rooftop to rooftop, falling into the abyss filled with crime and corrpution, it will affect him and his family forever. DeNiro is slick and smooth as the young Vito Corleone. The rise of Michael Corleone's power is superbly captured by Coppola and delivered with cold hearted villainy by Al Pacino, in his finest performance. Strasberg is also solid in his performance of Hyman Roth. It's nice to see him put that "method" to work. The only one who feels out of it here is Duvall who seems to be simply going through motions. It may have been that Tom's character is also given limited depth within the script. It is a superb sequel, argued by many to be superior to the original.


                
