I managed to tolerate the first but this one was an insult! I am not faulting the acting, just the film in general. It expects viewers to understand about the Mafia, and want to watch as these mundane characters speak in a secret coded language in Italian. I have forced myself through this film and would think it a cruel personal punishment to force myself to consider watching the third one. There must be other people out there who dislike this film as I do...? When comparing this film to others of a similar time (or before) I can still not understand its appeal. I can not believe any of this trilogy can make it into the top ten, let alone be people's favourite film!


                
Coming off the disappointment of the first "Godfather," Coppola continues his overrated trilogy with the weak and incoherent Part II. The story outlines the earlier life of Vito Corleone in the early 20s and follows Michael Corleone in the 50s, but does so with very little coherency or flow. Francis Ford Coppola has shown very limited improvement from the first "Godfather", failing to realize the weaknesses of the first. The dialogue is still lacking authenticity, and the crypto-fascist undertones are still ever present. It doesn't help when any of the actors, in particular Al Pacino and Robert de Niro, fail to deliver any of their lines with any real conviction. The story is fairly interesting, but the lack of quality in the script is hard to overcome, and especially so in the hands of Coppola, who has proved over and over again that he does not deserve to be in the company of such legendary directors like Paul W.S. Anderson, Michael Bay, and Wych Kaosayananda. Watching the film, it's obvious the troubles Coppola had in handling the material. There are many inconsistencies in the mood and atmosphere, and he doesn't seem to hold a grasp of the material that was so masterfully outlined by Mario Puzo. The film hasn't aged well at all, and the boring cinematography highlights that combined with all the weaknesses pointed out in my review. "The Godfather Part II" marginally improves upon the first "Godfather," but still contains many weaknesses that make it hard to enjoy or appreciate.


                
This is possibly the most overrated film that has ever been. It's confusing nonsense - the first plot, about Michael, is incoherent with way too many loose ends, while the second plot is unnecessary and doesn't tie to the first film (why wouldn't Vito Corleone have an Italian accent if he spoke Italian for so long?). The film should've been about half the length that it was - the writing is atrocious. The only high point of this film is the acting by Al Pacino.


                
another boring 3 hours. All bad performances. Im not going to say its good because everyone else does,,im going to say it as I see it.Anybody who gives this a good review is just listening to the media. I love movies so I watch them but this was a complete bore. Al Pacino and Bob De Niro cannot save this waste of time.Bad characters and bad direction heap on the misery of having to sit through this .Watched gf1 and now this...will not bother watching gf3 if its as bad as this. So many good movies from the 70s around but this pile of muck doesn't do the decade justice.I think FFC is a really bad director but if the mafia exists I reckon they paid him to make this bile.


                
And I write review based off the ENTIRE Godfather series. I may be in the minority, but I simply don't understand the hype all about these movies!!! Perhaps the most overrated trilogy ever. I really do believe so much of this hype & attention should be given to some other much BETTER films, like "Iron Will", which was a true story. Or the "Great Escape", another true story! Maybe it's just evident how much of a FETISH Hollywood has for violence, blood, gore, sexual innuendos, and bad language! That's NO "ART", you can trust me! I'm not much of a fan of Al Pacino, nor any of the work he has done - he just always seems to come off as scary & abusive (with his scary eyes & unpredictable attitudes.) Couldn't Al Pacino take up a KINDER character role here and there sometime soon???The film was a mess, and so was it's sequels! Everything is shot in the dark, most scenes are often times really boring, and half the time you can't understand what the characters are saying 'cause they're speaking in *freaking* Italian!! And don't forget the horrendous false cult of Catholicism especially being depicted on-screen; Catholics are DUPED. They worship idols, believe in a false Jesus, and are only all just about idolatry, bigotry, and superstition. Though to be fair, I did like seeing Robert De Niro here and there, and I liked some of the talk concerning Israel & the Jewish people - because I have quite a soft spot for Jews, because they have literally got a long sad history of persecution, and deserve to be recognised for their incredible genius minds and intelligence.But in the end, that really doesn't matter in a huge porous abomination nonsensical pile of worthless nothing that is this movie! And the other two. 2/10PS: Everyone's saying "the Godfather" is the greatest film of all time. Nope, they're wrong! It's Groundhog Day! THAT film probably deserves the #2 spot on the Top 250 on IMDb.
