Series note: It is almost unthinkable to watch this film without having seen The Godfather (1972) first. This is a direct continuation of that story.The good news is that The Godfather Part II has many amazing qualities, including fantastic performances from a superb cast, sublime, unprecedented visuals that no one else has been able to capture since, and very engaging stories. The bad news is that this should have easily been a 10, but overall, it is so sprawling and unfocused that I can't possibly give it more than a 9, which it only earns because the assets transcend what's basically a mess overall. Because it should have been a 10, and most other reviews will tell you about the positive points at length, I may pick on more things in my review than you would think I would for a 9, but rest assured that even with the flaws, The Godfather Part II is still essential viewing.Director/co-writer Francis Ford Coppola cleverly begins the film with parallels to The Godfather. We see Michael Corleone (Al Pacino) "in the role" of his father, Vito (Marlon Brando), from the first film, accepting prostrating guests while a party is going on outside. Like the first film, the party consumes a lot of time while we get to know some of the principal characters. Perhaps during this segment, perhaps a bit after, we realize that maybe the beginning wasn't so clever after all, because the structure of The Godfather Part II parallels The Godfather from a broad perspective, as if Coppola and co-writer Mario Puzo used the first film as something of a template to create this one.After the party is over, there is an attempted hit on Michael, and we quickly learn that not everything is rosy in the Corleone's mafia world. Michael believes that someone on the "inside" was involved with the hit. This launches a complicated sequence of events that has Michael, who is now living in Nevada, traveling to Miami, Cuba, New York, and so on. He accuses different people of involvement in the attempted hit depending on whom he is talking to. This may have all been part of a grand scheme to set up the responsible parties, but one of the flaws of the film is that Coppola doesn't convey Michael's underlying thoughts about this very well, not even later, and not through his actions. Rather than feeling like a clever set-up, it starts to feel like slightly muddled writing.During the middle section of the film, which goes on for hours, we also have a hint of a problem that plagued The Godfather--a bloated cast. There are bit too many characters who aren't well enough presented or explained. You may need to keep a scorecard.Coppola and Puzo also treat us to many extended "flashback" segments, and I mean way back, to Vito as a boy and young man, played by Robert De Niro. For my money, these were the best scenes of the film, although maybe that's a bit of my bias creeping in, as I'm a huge De Niro fan.But let's talk about the main plague of the film--sprawl. This is maybe first evident in the flashbacks. As good as they are, they go on far too long, and happen far too frequently, to sustain the momentum of either the Michael story or the Vito-as-a-youngster story. It begins to feel like we're toggling back and forth between two films, which is the track that should have been taken. The prequel, at least, would have been a solid 10.There's also a lot of sprawl in the Michael Corleone segments. Coppola appears to have been suffering from what I'd now call "J.K. Rowling Syndrome". That happens when an artist becomes successful enough that they can fire or ignore their editor(s). Instead of taking good advice about where to trim fat, the artist decides to just leave much of it in, and they now have the clout to override any dissenting and more sensible opinions. The Michael Corleone story has a lot of fat, including much of the Cuba material (for example, sitting around the table with the President, laboriously passing around a solid gold telephone), the Senate hearings (which go on far too long to make and provide the dramatic points), and so on.The film begins to feel more like a couple seasons of a television show that Coppola tried to cram into a 3 and a half hour film, or worse, a collection of deleted scenes. The scenes, except for the fat that needed to be trimmed, are excellent in isolation. But by the time the climax rolls around, the whole has more of an arbitrary feeling--this is especially clear in the dénouement, which seems to just end.I've barely left myself room to talk about the good points. The first one, which most people mention, is the acting. There isn't a bad performance in the film, but Pacino, De Niro, and some relatively minor characters, like those played by Diane Keaton, Talia Shire and John Cazale, really stand out.The second outstanding point, similar to the first film, is the beautiful visuals. Although all of the cinematography and production design is great, what really impressed me were some of the darkly lit scenes. Characters and features of sets emerge from pitch-blackness, and everything is rich, deep shades of burgundy, brown, and orange. Amazingly, nothing gets lost in these scenes. It must be incredibly difficult to achieve without making the shots too dark, because I can't remember another film since that has been able to capture the same look. The flashback scenes are also in similar, but lighter, colors, creating an appropriate sepia-tone feel.Although the broad perspective problems are unfortunate, a closer focus on most segments of the film provides exemplary artistry. Given that, and the film's importance culturally, The Godfather Part II is a must-see.


                
Sequel to the original Godfather is slower moving than the original but maybe better. The first was fresh material and Brando's presence was a huge plus. But this one digs into the blood and guts of the two main characters, provoking more thought, as well as introducing us to one of the most prolific actors today.Michael's descent into darkness is terrible to behold. Tragedy surrounds him as he struggles to maintain his empire but alienates himself in the process. Hey, it's not easy holding a crime empire together. I think this film sets out to make Michael a tragic figure but how do you feel sympathy for a guy who murders family members? It's a cold world obviously, and takes a strong man to stay on top. Very interesting final scene, grim and stark, as Michael sits contemplating on a chair watching the dead leaves blow around him.Pacino's performance is magnificent. Some great scenes, especially when Michael realizes Fredo betrayed him. That simple movement of covering his forehead in shock and despair conveys so much. Michael becomes a three dimensional character in this film as opposed to the first. Pacino just nails the part.The secondary story is the rise of Michael's father, Vito Corleone and we watch the birth of a star. DeNiro even surpasses Pacino in his part, if that is possible. The calculating Vito as he calmly stalks Don Fanucci from the rooftops is classic film. DeNiro plays the role of Death himself: knife thin, pale yet slick and immaculate in appearance. How many other hit men in the movies borrowed DeNiro's look? What the Godfather does, unlike so many other films of it's generation is convey thought in simple movements. Watch DeNiro as he pales visibly, staring at an old Italian remedy of his sick baby. We know right then that Vito Corleone will do whatever it takes to protect and save his family. Watch him as Don Fanucci boards his car and leans on him. By DeNiro's expression, we know Fanucci is already a dead man. That's unsurpassed acting.The sets are beautiful to behold and this is probably the best cinematography I have seen in any movie. Early 1900's New York, in the Italian neighborhood is unreal. Watch the pedestrians and background movement while the focus of the scene is occurring. That's sheer magic. Once again, watch Hyman Roth in Cuba lie on the couch, shirtless and a gentle wind moving the drapes. We can practically feel the heat and hear and smell the city of Havana. It made me think how much care and calculation was put into this movie.Some weak points: Lee Strasberg as Hyman Roth was not on par with the other actors. Gazzo as Pentangeli just grated on my nerves, especially in the first hour. I was hoping he would get whacked so he would not appear in the rest of the film. The rest of the cast is great as usual, especially Duvall and Kirby. Not much to complain about.The second Godfather, tries to do what the first does, a study of Vito vs. Michael. They both have different motivations for ruling their empire. Whereas Vito tries to do whatever it takes to rise from poverty and provide for his family out of love, Michael rules out of ruthlessness and a need to succeed to maintain his empire. You can see where the results have taken both.One of the greatest films of all time.
This isn't quite as powerful as the first Godfather, done two years earlier, but it isn't far behind. It's another magnificently filmed effort, wonderfully acted and a hard film to stop once you've put it in your tape or DVD player.What makes this a notch below the first Godfather is the absence of Marlon Brando and a little too much disjointedness with flashbacks. Also missing from this film was the volatile James Caan. He was shown in a flashback scene near the end, and that was it.One thing was just as good if not better than the first film, and that was the cinematography. The browns, blacks, greens and yellows are just great treats for the eyes. I especially love the Italian houses and scenery. Why this was not even nominated for an Academy Award in cinematography is mind-boggling.The story centers around the brutal vengeance of youngest brother Michael (Al Pacino). It also gives a good demonstration of how the gangster lifestyle may look attractive on the outside but really is an unhappy one despite the wealth.There are some excellent supporting performances in this film, too. I especially would cite the roles played by Michael Gazzo and Lee Strassburg.


                
Nino Rota's musical score plays an even greater role in this equal but different successor than it did in the predecessor. Yearning, lamenting, stimulating bygone ages, see how infectiously Nino Rota's music affects our sentiments for the savage events on screen. It is the pulse of the films. One cannot imagine them without their Nino Rota music. Against all our realistic deduction, it guides us to how to feel about the films, and condition us to understand the characters within their own world. Throughout the Corleone family's many criminal actions, we understand that one doesn't have to be a monster in order to live with having done them.In what is both a dual expansion of its predecessor and a masterpiece of juxtaposition in itself, we see Michael Corleone forfeit his remaining shreds of morality and become an empty shell, insecure and merciless. As his father quietly knew in his latter days would be so, Michael has lost sight of those values that made Don Corleone better than he had to be and has become a new godfather every bit as evil as he has to be. The score, with its tonal harmony, its honeyed and emotional aesthetics, is sad, and music can often evoke emotion more surely and subtly than story. Consider several operas with ridiculous stories and lyrics yet contain arias that literally move us to tears.The devolution of Michael Corleone is adjacent with flashbacks to the youth and young manhood of his father, Vito, played with paternal, home-loving subtlety by Robert De Niro. These scenes, in Sicily and old New York at the turn of the century, follow the conventional pattern of a young man on the rise and show the Mafia code being burned into the Corleone blood. No false romanticism conceals the necessity of murder to do business. We don't look at Vito as a victim of his environment, but a product of the depiction of the resorts to which the Italian culture had turned, initially to both protect their homeland and protect their livelihood as immigrants who came to America to be paid less than the blacks.The film opens in 1901 Corleone, Sicily, at the funeral procession for young Vito's father, who had been killed by the local Mafia chieftain, Don Ciccio, over an insult. During the procession, Vito's older brother is also murdered because he swore to avenge his father. Vito's mother goes to Ciccio to beg for the life of young Vito. When he refuses, she sacrifices herself to allow Vito to escape. They scour the town for him, warning the sleeping townsfolk against harboring the boy. With the aid of a few of the townspeople, Vito finds his way by ship to Ellis Island, where an immigration agent, mishearing Vito's hometown of Corleone as his name, registers him as Vito Corleone. From this very opening, and the events that gradually follow, we see that Vito's damnable early experiences have enhanced his sense of family, and his experience of revenge as a necessity was passed on to Vito's sons.The life of young Vito helps to explain the forming of the adult Don Corleone. As his unplanned successor Michael, his youngest child, transforms, we hark back to why, when his true desire is to make the Corleone family completely legitimate, he feels that he must play the game by its old rules. His wife says, "You once told me: 'In five years, the Corleone family will be completely legitimate.' That was seven years ago." What we have are two all-too-real narratives, two superb lead performances and lasting images. There is even a parallel between two elderly dons: Revenge must be had.I admire the way Coppola and Puzo require us to think along with Michael as he feels out fragile deliberations involving Miami boss Hyman Roth, his older brother Fredo, and the death of Sonny in the previous film. Who is against him? Why? Michael drifts several explanations past several key players, misleading them all, or nearly. It's like a game of blindfolded chess. He has to envision the moves without seeing them. Coppola shows Michael breaking under the burden. We recall that he was a war hero, a successful college student, forging an honest life. Ultimately Michael has no one by whom to swear but his aging mother. Michael's desolation in that scene of dialogue informs the film's closing shot.So this six-time Oscar-winning three-and-a-half-hour gangster epic is ultimately a dreary experience, a mourning for what could've been. It is a contrast with the earlier film, in which Don Corleone is seen defending old values against modern hungers. Young Vito was a murderer, too, as we more fully understand in the Sicily and New York scenes of Part II. But he was wise and diplomatic. Murder was personal. As Hyman Roth says, "It had nothing to do with business." The crucial difference between the father and son is that Vito is cognizant of and comprehending the needs, feelings, problems, and views of others, and Michael grows in the very opposite direction. Whereas the first movie was a taut ensemble piece, this second part is a more leisurely film that closely studies only these two characters, neither of whom share scenes with each other. Everyone else is periphery.It must be seen as a piece with the consummate mastership of The Godfather. When the characters in a film truly take on a simulated environmental existence for us, it becomes a film that everyone who cherishes movies to any extent should see at least once.


                
"The only sequel better than its predecessor."  Come now, the ONLY sequel? How can you tell?  I can think of several such examples - and this isn't one of them.  The Godfather films (I presume we may ignore the third) are now a quarter of a century old, and if you haven't seen them, chances are that two snippets of information will leap into your mind when you think of them: they are about the Mafia, and the sequel is as good as the original.  This latter line has been repeated so many times, always with the same air of surprise, that it has entered popular mythology.  It is my sad duty to report that it's not true."The Godfather" was a story about the corruption of a soul.  It was a good such story, since the person who suffered such corruption did so from the noblest of motives, or at any rate from motives it would have been hard to question.  But, of course, once the process of corruption is complete, the story's over.  "The Godfather Part II" is afflicted with the same blight that afflicts most of the other sequels we dislike.  It's just more of the same doodling at the end of the script, prompted by a desire to know what happens next after the point has been reached where we don't need to know - and, worse, it childishly gives in to the impulse to tell the same story AGAIN rather than think of a new one.  When the original story concerned itself with the corruption of a good man this is just impossible to pull off.Stylishly made, plenty of good bits, but heavily over-valued.


                
Seven years after the first film, Michael Corelone (Al Pacino) continues his family's quest to become legitimate. Also, more on his father's growing up in Sicily and coming to America. With Vito being played not by Marlon Brando, but Robert DeNiro.) If you liked the first film, you will like this film. If you didn't, you won't. It's really that simple, since you have all the same great people coming together for this film with just as solid a script and acting as you did the first time. You lose Marlon Brando, but you get Robert DeNiro. I consider that a fair trade.This film has two things going for it: it has the early years of Don Corleone, which really fills in the missing mythos around the family. Without this, the film would appear to show the Corelones were always powerful, which is far from the truth. It does not explain how Don Corelone grew to talk in such a mumbled voice, though.Also, I really enjoyed the entire Cuba sequence, because it put the film in a historical time frame (and I like Cuba). I was never fully sure when the first film was taking place, but this one made sure I knew the years when Don Coreleone was growing up and that the present day was not 1974, but rather in roughly 1958-1959. That changed my perspective on things completely.If you have invested three hours in the first film, invest three more in this one. Why only get half the story of Vito Corleone? I cannot make any suggestions for part three, though, one way or the other.


                
"It's not easy to be a son, Fredo. It's not easy." Is undeniably the best sequel ever made and one of the best films ever made. First off, Robert De Niro's performance as the young Don Corleone completely owns. Pure genius, pure craft.Secondly, well it's Pacino, all Pacino. One pure example, at its best is when Diane Keaton's character confesses to him ' it wasn't a miscarriage'' revealing that instead she had an abortion, so that she wouldn't bring him anymore sons into the world. Watch Pacino's face during this entire scene!!!!!!!! Or the last flashback scene where Michael reveals that he has joined the Marines to the disgust of his family and such, at this time he had his own ' dreams' now, we simply watch the price which Michael Corleone has paid himself for power.
The first sequel to win the Best Picture Oscar, and deservingly so, words cannot begin to describe how amazing this film is. Unlike the first (I'll admit, I'm not the biggest fan of the first film) which had several slow spots, GFII had me riveted from beginning to end. Pacino and Cazale turn in the performance of their careers, while Francis Ford Coppola, who co- wrote this with Mario Puzo, directs with such precision. This film is truly a gift of cinema by all the talent involved. Everybody, even the smallest supporting actor, give terrific performances. The pace is fantastic. The writing is brilliant. The last scene at the lake...chills! Watch this masterpiece NOW!4/4
I feel like the Godfather part one had a few mistakes in it but this one they learned from them and created a perfect film. The rooftop scene will always give me goosebumps
The original Godfather was more about Vito Corleone (Marlon Brando) than it was about Michael (Al Pacino), his son. Michael was the other main character certainly, but it was Vito's movie all around. In this sequel the roles are switched and while it's still about Vito, specifically about his youth, it's much more about Michael and his struggle with power, responsibility, pride and greed.The movie dances between two timelines, following both young Vito Corleone (Robert De Niro), and Michael as the new head of the Corleone family. The roles are also switched in that in the original film we followed the fall of an aging crime boss and the rise of a cunning mind in Vito and Michael, respectively. This time it's Vito that's rising to become the most feared and respected man in New York, whereas Michael is the one to suffer and watch as his life is torn down all around him.Superb storytelling from Francis Ford Coppola, and the main reason why this is such a beloved movie. In lesser hands all these separate strings, characters and plot points would have become a convoluted mess, but in Coppola's hands they weave a tapestry of corruption, personal glory and ruthless ambition. And while it is a requirement to have seen the original film, it in no way takes away from the saga. In truth these films should be regarded as one long experience.The secondary reason why these films work so well are of course the actors. Al Pacino once again gives us the performance of a century. He has moved from young man plagued by naivety, responsibility and obligation to a man burdened by expectations beyond any reason, inner struggles of family and endless ambition to prove himself worthy of his father's legacy. Robert De Niro as young Vito proves himself Pacino's equal. In him we get a character that's eerily similar to young Michael in intelligence, charisma and willingness to do what's necessary, but unlike his eventual son, this man isn't burdened by the expectations of larger society. He isn't an unreasonable man, but neither does he expect anything to be given to him if he isn't willing to take it by himself. Fantastic roles, both of them.The only flaw I can name in this film in comparison to the original is the multitude of plot point and story lines. I mentioned that in Coppola's hands they are not the disaster they would otherwise be, but that doesn't mean that the original movie isn't a purer, more streamlined experience. Though only in comparison. This film is still a masterpiece by any standards.


                
Francis Ford Coppola directs the sequel of "The Godfather" the "The Godfather: Part II". "The Godfather: Part II" is a movie that show us the history of Corleone family and also show us how Vito Corleone attempts to expand the family business into Las Vegas, Hollywood and Cuba.In this movie you will see an another perfect performance by Al Pacino as Michael Corleone (nominated for Oscar as Best Actor in a Leading Role) and Robert De Niro as Vito Corleone (won the Oscar for Best Actor in a Supporting Role). An another good performance made by Robert Duvall as Tom Hagen. "The Godfather: Part II" is a really good movie but is a little lower than the first movie that explains my title "Touching perfection...", but it continues to be the best sequel of all times.


                
The Godfather: Part II is not a sequel in the traditional Hollywood sense, rather a companion piece to one of the greatest films ever made in The Godfather. Here, the story is epic and sprawling, as it covers Michael's reign as the new head of the Corleone family by moving the business to Nevada and at the same time flashes back to show the story of how a young Vito Corleone came to power and started the story now being continued.Francis Ford Coppola returns to his old ground with writing partner Mario Puzo to expand on Michael and establish Vito and doing so by going back and forth. This leads to some incredible shots of the young Vito and the young Michael in the same frame, a haunting image and symbol of how far this family has come. It also shows how far Coppola has come in terms of directing these films. Once again, his direction is immaculate in every sense, perfectly balancing the time between Michael and Vito, always picking the right time to go from story to story.All this aside, I haven't even mentioned the other strong points, which are basically all of them. The flawless acting continues here with Al Pacino cementing his legacy in this very subdued yet emotionally upsetting performance as Michael, the youngest who seemed ostracized from his family at the beginning and now has all the power and success and none of the love or affection his father had. Indeed, one of the main themes of the film is to show how different Michael handles things from his father and whether or not he is a better leader. Diane Keaton, Robert Duvall, Talia Shire and the tragic John Cazale all contribute so much in their roles, and Robert De Niro made his name known with a flawless performance as the young, ambitious and loyal Vito.Once again, Gordon Willis photographs and once again the darkness shrouds the characters, symbolizing the heavy-handed situations surrounding them. This adds so much to the tone and atmosphere of the story that it completely takes us up in the story and makes the 200 minute running time fly by smoothly. The Godfather and The Godfather: Part II have long been recognized as required viewing for any film lover and I cannot argue. They are so well-made and engrossing that it is impossible to not feel for these characters and the choices they make.The final two scenes are quite something to behold. The first is a flashback to see the kids waiting for Vito to surprise him on his birthday. Here, we see how Michael truly was treated and how Sonny, Tom, and Connie related to one another and how it colored the rest of their existence. The final scene is Michael, alone and contemplating everything that has happened. It is a scene for the audience to contemplate and wonder at the travesty that has abounded. And these two films are truly something to behold and admire for their sheer quality and intensity.


                
You're not allowed to dislike this film either. This is a massive achievement in every possible sense. Indeed, there is little that rivals these two films in opulence or production scale.Coppola doesn't shy away from trying new things. Michael Corleone's story-arc is more realistic, more ambitious than anything in the first film. The scale of crime is upgraded. And I had never expected to see that scene between Michael & Kay, where she tells him of her departure, "because of this 2000-year-old Sicilian thing." Vito Corleone's backstory follows the earlier, more conventional combination of style and myth. Actually, Coppola makes Vito's arc too obvious, as though he's following a checklist. But again its very tastefully done, so you enjoy it.I guess what this film lacks is a simpler plot and the phenomenal pacing of the first film. Also missing is the magisterial presence of a certain Marlon Brando. It is easier to appreciate this film when you place it together with the first, as one single epic of the rise of one Mafia generation, followed by the decline of another.


                
Warning! Spoilers Ahead!"The Godfather, Part II" is another gem of a movie, worthy of a place alongside its revered predecessor. This movie's strengths lie in Copolla's retention of the best actors from the first film mixed in with terrific new actors for the second. John Cazale, Lee Strasberg, Robert de Niro and Michael Gazzo are given their moment to shine here, and play credible and unforgettable characters. Al Pacino, Diane Keaton, and Robert Duvall reprise their roles from the first movie, and put in an equal amount of effort to the first film, which means that the second is also very good. Copolla had a lot more creative freedom with this picture, but it doesn't differ much from the first in terms of style and camera angles. Still, the director does an admirable job crafting an interesting and wonderful film.Pacino's Michael Corleone is, in the first, a quiet and understated character most of the time, only this time, whenever the character is riled by a tragic event, Pacino lets out his infamous "scream" to emphasize that his character is like a dangerous time bomb with an unpredictable temper: one minute he's calm, the next he's in a rage. Unfortunately, Pacino is most remembered for his loud, bombastic performances rather than his understated quiet ones. Keaton appears to have less screen time, but, like her husband Michael, undergoes a credible transformation from the naive, submissive character we remember from Part I into an assertive, strong woman who will not give in to her husband. She asserts control over her own body by aborting her baby rather than letting Michael have another heir to his criminal empire. Again, Keaton's performance is usually cited as the weakest of the "Godfather" saga, but this seems unfair, and she does well whenever she has screen time. Robert Duvall is back with another excellent turn as Corelone family adviser Tom Hagen.The new faces do very well here, and again, Copolla was blessed with an excellent cast. Gazzo is simply delectable as mobster Frank Pentangeli, one of cinema's most memorable characters. One minute he's a lovable old man, sometimes seeming as dopey and sweet as your great-uncle, asking the band to play an Italian "tarantella"; the next he's viciously asking for the blood of the Rosato Borthers. He, ultimately, cows to Michael's control during a Senate hearing, just as he is about to rat him out.Gazzo, a prolific playwright, showed he had the chops as an actor as well. Another memorable performance is the Italian actor who played the gangster Don Fanucci, a dandy tyrant who shakes down Italian immigrants for protection money. He, like the guy who played "The Turk" Solozzo in Part I, is a convincing actor who can make a slimy villain come to life. He seems to relish his role as the white coated mobster who confidently rules the neighborhood with an iron fist. Less potent is Lee Strasberg's Hyman Roth, who, after Don Fanucci, is the film's main antagonist. Roth's true evil is only revealed in other characters' dialogue and indirect screen action rather than anything we see Roth do on the screen. I wasn't fully convinced that Roth was a cunning double-crosser, as we don't actually see him engage in the double-cross. Strasberg gives an understated performance as the kingpin of the pre-Castro Havana casinos (an obvious representation of real-life gangster Meyer Lansky). Still, Strasberg does have some memorable moments, such as the famous "This is the Business We've Chosen" speech he gives to Michael.Fresh performances from John Cazale and Robert de Niro round out this movie. We don't see much of Fredo in Part I, but he's essential to Part II. Cazale gives a memorable performance as the meek, weak, sweet, but ultimately treacherous middle brother of the Corleone family. His flaws include his lack of intelligence and possible naiveté, which ultimately result in his being a pawn in Roth's scheme to kill Michael. Fredo wants the keys to the kingdom, but will settle for some power, and Roth apparently offered him something special for his services. All Fredo says is that "there was something in it for me!", but what this was is rather vague; still, Fredo's ties with Roth are enough for Michael to commit the darkest murder he will commit in the saga: fratricide. We almost feel sorry for Fredo as he sweetly tells his nephew how to catch a fish by reciting a "Hail Mary," right before Michael has one his goons shoot him from behind on a fishing trip. Fredo may be the rather weak and dopey member of the Corleone clan, but Cazale also manages to humanize Fredo and make a memorable performance as the ultimately tragic odd man out in the "family business." Part II carries with it a sadder tragedy than Part I, as Michael "loses his family," in terms of his wife's abortion and departure, and Fredo's treachery and his eventual murder. It is in Part II that we see the full scope of the perils of a life of crime in terms of keeping a family together. Even Don Vito, while running a criminal empire, was able to somehow keep his family glued together. We see the sad irony when Michael's mother tells him "you will never lose your family." This is an excellent movie, much like the first one. Copolla does well here. (Copolla's further career is debatable. Radio host Phil Hendrie once gave a hilarious criticism of Copolla's career: "what do you mean 'Charlie don't surf?!'") He directs beautifully here, and the actors cooperate by giving excellent performances. This is a highly recommended movie.


                
The Godfather Part II (1974)Is this well made? Dramatic? Epic? Beautiful? Impressive?Of course.Is this better than the original Godfather? In some ways, yes. It lacks the originality of the whole world novelist Mario Puzo (and co-screenwriter Coppola) created, but it fills in background in Italy and adds wonderful new elements about immigration and the revolution in Cuba. It lacks Marlon Brando, who is a force of his own, but the presence of Robert DeNiro in the many long flashbacks is moving (and he has more presence than Pacino, frankly, who is intentionally stoic, but to the point of expressionless). Is it a great movie? Why not? What is a great movie supposed to do that this one doesn't? Well, for one thing, I don't think it surprises at all. It doesn't reveal anything too deeply, despite all its deeply felt and emotionally turbulent scenes, and despite the apparent inner probing of the main character (who is last seen thinking very hard, staring into space). It doesn't suggest how to feel about any of this violence, this cold duplicity. And maybe it shouldn't do any of these things. It is an oddly "confirming" experience. It shows what we have come to think we already know, more or less, about the mafia world with its combination of loyalty and bloody revenge, its attachment to business and its selfishness, its emphasis on family even as it kills those in its own family.What Coppola does do, as director, is suck you in. You get wrapped up in the world of these men (mostly men, of course, though with a great small role by Talia Shire and a famously troubled larger role by Diane Keaton, who makes a better Annie Hall by far). You are easily and gladly transported from New York to Las Vegas to Miami to Italy back and forth, across time and space, in warm colors and sweeping scenes, inside and out. The pieces of this rather complex story are put together with "artful" deliberation--it's a work of art, surely, despite its relatively straight forward intentions.It is also filmed, that is lit and photographed, with sensitivity, without becoming virtuosic for its own sake, by Gordon Willis. Part of the immersion happens because of how everything is depicted, and it's easier said than done to make it all cohere and remain beautiful.So yes, it's surely a terrific movie. It might not be one of your favorite movies, and it really isn't one of mine. I've resisted watching it a second time for two decades, and finally have, and found my mind wandering sometimes. This might partly be a testament to the imprint the Godfather movies have made on American culture and on the movies, because part of my distraction was that it's all so familiar. But it's familiar partly because it's so influential and convincing.But it's also partly true that there isn't a huge range of events here. I mean, a lot happens, but it falls mostly into a small diversity of power plays, deceptions, waiting games, and ruthless murders. It's all fascinating and terrifying on some level, but it all wraps around itself over and over again. You will find yourself understanding and even identifying with some of the characters, but you might not find yourself sympathizing with any of them, not the major ones, who are all (all) out for themselves in the end, or a pathetic followers yes men. In short, if you like this world and are fascinated by the male power aura, every second is filled with drama. But if like me this isn't really sufficient for over three hours of absorption, your mind might wander a bit, too. Cosi sia.


                
I remember saying in my review of "The Godfather" that i was going to review this film a week later, that was more than one week ago that's for sure. I did actually start watching "The Godfather Part II" the next Friday, though i stopped watching after an hour because i wasn't really in the mood for it! So i decided that today, with nothing else to do, i'd give it another try and i wasn't disappointed! It was a great film, lots of talking but it's still great fun to watch. I only have one criticism, the length. It was extremely long, about 3 and a half hours! But that's my only criticism, everything else was spot on! Hopefully i'll be watching "The Godfather Part III" soon and as soon as i do, i'll post my opinion right here! So overall, "The Godfather Part II" is just as good as the original Godfather If you haven't seen this film yet, watch it now!9/10


                
I got the privilege to watch this film for the first last a few days ago. This has to be my favorite film of all time, along with one of the best films that I have ever seen.The movie does very well in shown two different two stories in one movie. You have Michael's story of which shows his struggle in controlling one of the most powerful crime families in the United States. The second story is Vito Corleone's struggle as young boy in Sicily growing up and coming to America, and his start of the Corleone crime family.This is a long film to watch, it took me a few days to watch it, as I watched about 30 to 40 minutes at a time.All of the actor and actresses preformed there roles very well, and the actors and actresses who got Oscars for their roles in this movie were VERY WELL deserved. Robert De Niro does one of the best acting jobs I have ever seen in film, in my opinion one of the best actor's in 1974.The script is well written and for the most part is easy to follow.If you seen the first film, which is a must to understand this film, then you will like the second one, which is one of the best films of
This film changed the way cinema would think of sequels and the idea of "film series". Before George Lucas created the franchise of Star Wars and popularized continuous film sequels, Coppola was putting out a follow-up and continuation to an amazing trip of a film. Not only do we learn more about the Corleone families' past, but we watch the parallel story lines of father and son coincide in their respective growths as characters. Screenplay wise, this script is a masterpiece and serves as a template for how flashbacks and parallel character developments can be used.


                
As the name would suggest, Godfather Part 2 is the sequel to Francis Ford Coppola's Godfather film. This film is an extreme rarity because it divides feelings; some people have suggested that this sequel is actually better than the first film (which doesn't really happen often for sequels), while other die-hard fans would argue that a sequel could never out-rate an original.Godfather 2 could actually be split into 2 separate films, both showing separate events, in different times, with only a family name and blood being the connecting factor. One film is a rewind to a time already gone - a young Vito Corleone (the Godfather in the first film - played here by Robert De Niro). The other film; living in the present but with stark teachings of the past coming into fruition.It's been 7 years since the events of the first film, and Michael Corleone (Al Pacino) attempts to expand and develop the family business as the head of the Corleone Mafia family - looking to get a toehold in Las Vegas and Cuba. Woven into this we also get to see a young Vito Coleone in flashbacks as he comes from Sicily to America and makes a new life for himself. The film uses these two stories to show similarities and contrast between father and son, separated by 30-40 odd years. This film is a masterpiece in storytelling, expanding on a world we've been introduced to via the first film, and moving forward with sublime character development and a complete story. Throw in a 'who-done-it' for Michael to solve (trying to find the mole in 'the family'), as well as the stresses he has to deal with from domestic family life and there is an awful lot going on.It could probably be argued that rather than being a sequel, this is a follow on. Coppola expands on the groundwork laid out in the first film - it's not a whole new adventure, more the next chapter in a story that we, the audience, have been tantalized with in the first film. Like the first film, it's not just a film about crime and mafia; it's as much a film about a man's struggle to live in the world that life has dealt him. It is brilliantly climaxed as we see Michael, alone in his own compound at the end of the film, like he's strapped in his own head dealing with the thoughts and plots going on - playing a mental game of chess with himself in order to stay one step ahead of his real life enemies.Pacino and De Niro are both fantastic in their respective roles, and the supporting cast is brilliant. There is plenty going on, and in some instances it's what you don't see which is as important as what is explained to you.I love this film, I have no issue with awarding this 9 out of 10 the same as I gave the first Godfather film.
Another great crime installment
Probably will appreciate more over time but for now it is a 9


                
Quite possibly the greatest sequel in movie history, even though it's more like a continuation than a sequel.
Acting is phenomal, Al Pacino is probably one of the best actor this world has to offer. In his performance we can see Michael's character change into a ruthless maffia boss.
I liked the first movie better for some reason, felt less memorable except for some fantastic scenes (e.g the ending).


                
The best mafia movie ever....nothing can even come close to this movie


                
This movie is just as good if not better than The Godfather.CHARACTERS
Michael is unrecognisable in this movie.
How his character developed and into this cold hearted man is amazing and compelling and he is one of the greatest protagonist i have seen.
The prequel story was great as well.
How they showed how Vito became so popular and owned the streets naming himself the godfather is a compelling story were we see how he develops and becomes who he was in the first movie.
They managed to do what a sequel should do, expand on the lore.
I like as well how they give Fredo an small arc and it shows how they care about each one of the characters.
and the end of Vitos arc in the movie was great when he gave revenge and also that final shot were we see the Michael before The Godfather and the Micheal after and we can see how they are vastly different with the posture and look showing that Michael is different.VERDICT
This movie is great would rewatch.
The end of Godfather Part I already hinted that Part II will continue with Michael Corleone (Al Pacino) being the new head of the family.
They change the location to Nevada and introduce a lot of new characters, depicturing Michael's own way of being 'The Godfather'.
Additional they also show many flashbacks to the life of his father, Vito Corleone, how he got introduced to the Mafia as a kid in his home in Corleone, Sicily and his rise to a Mafia Godfather as an adult, played by Robert DeNiro, who fits the role very well, in 1917 onwards in the ghettos of New York City.
All in all, the movie is very lenghty and complex, I am not even sure I understood everything fully and might have to rewatch some parts or read through synopsises.
Undeniably, the greatest sequel ever made. However, one thing I will never understand.... Bruno Kirby. Why?


                
