More than twenty years on, but this documentary series still stands out head and shoulders above most. It is not simply the fact that it was a well-made production, but more of how it was presented. Professor Carl Sagan offered ordinary intelligent viewers an enthralling scientific series without the scientific language; he presented it as if he were an excellent school-teacher, right there before the class, in his careful, methodical way of speaking. His carefully worded explanations of all that could be seen on screen added superbly to that something which is close to magical; thus, for many people, it was a magnificent series for people to learn English; and I include a lot of North Americans and British people!The magnificent use of visual concepts as Professor Sagan took us on his voyage into the unknown, was admirably backed up by a sensational selection of music which just lifted the entire work way above the run-of-the-mill documentaries. Here there is no preaching: just simple plain old-fashioned teaching; but so carefully carried out. The universe came to life as we journeyed on through the Cosmos: it was at once exciting, it was fun, it was spell-binding, but this series was always educational in the first degree.
And do not think I am talking about it being for a classroom of 14 year-olds: this is not the case. Whatever your age, `Cosmos' is one of those great landmarks in the making of anything for the screen, whether the big one or the small one.Previous to this wonderful series, I had only heard Vangelis' music in `Chariots of Fire', but with the selection used in `Cosmos' I have become the firmest stalwart of this brilliant Greek musician and composer. Who can forget such delightful pieces as `Entends-tu les Chiens Aboyer' and - on my LP recording! - the Bulgarian Shepherdess Song, as well as the other pieces used to such effective advantage for this unrepeatable TV documentary series? This is a series that should be repeated again and again. Outstandingly brilliant.Many thanks to the late Professor Carl Sagan and to KCET, Los Angeles.


                
Regarding Sagan's "blubbing like a baby", he was talking about the death of a colleague isolated in Antarctica after NASA crushed his dream of adding to the Mars probe, not about a robot, you idiot! Watch the show before you pontificate upon it! The rest of your criticism is based (as I would expect from an American raised on US programming) on his style, his delivery, his mannerisms rather than what he was actually saying. If you think his "45-minute rants" would put most audiences to sleep, then I suggest you never had to go through university. A deeply moving and spiritually reassuring series that acts as a balm to the continuing madness where "Intelligent Design" is given equal if not greater attention than science in American classrooms. www.tracesofevil.com


                
KNOWLEDGE! Not just physics, not just astronomy, not just biology, or philosophy or mathematics; knowledge from every strand of human endeavor. Astronomer Carl Sagan ties it all together in an immense library of congress called COSMOS.First broadcast on Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) in 1980, to date COSMOS is still the most widely watched PBS television series in the world. It won an Emmy and a Peabody Award and was viewed by over half a billion people.Not merely a dry, didactic statement of facts, COSMOS appeals to such a wide audience because Sagan makes every episode, every topic, every nuanced syllable as interesting as possible, using props, special effects, reenactments, shooting on location around the world - the brilliant scientist himself, turtled to the neck, the most interesting prop of all.COSMOS is also an optimistic cry to humanity; an understanding of our place in the universe; a plea that we are all in this together on a small blue rock drifting in an endless ocean of night...It has dated, yes, and the special effects look quaintly chumbly-wumbly (especially the hokey "Spaceship of the Imagination" Sagan supposedly travels the cosmos in), but COSMOS is a perfect example of what the methodology of science is: a continually-changing facility, presenting the facts from evidence gleaned up to that point, but knowing those facts will change with more precise measurements, images, monitoring, researching - and welcoming those changes. No one - not even Sagan himself - would claim this series or his book of the same name was the ultimate be-all and end-all of knowledge (matter of fact, in 2005 The Science Channel rebroadcast COSMOS with updated computer graphics, new satellite photos of our solar system's planets, and digital sound). It was a placeholder until more current facts could be verified about the nature of things.Even so, COSMOS is one helluva placeholder, Sagan bringing together strands of philosophy, sociology and science into a fascinating wrecking ball of entertaining intellectualism.
Well, it's hard to imagine a better introduction to astronomy, or to science and history, than this series distributed by Public Broadcasting System and hosted by Carl Sagan. I watched it when it first aired and recently saw it again, and it's as impressive now as it was in 1982.Much depends on Carl Sagan, who takes us through the universe, from atoms to billions and billions of stars and galaxies, and he delivers it all very smoothly. A nice, casual guy who wears sports clothes and speaks mellifluously, Sagan knows what he's talking about and gives us an occasional personal or humanitarian gloss. He's one of those professors, like Vincent Scully, who seems genuinely awed by the things he's describing.A stellar list of advisors, artists, and animators suggests the enormous effort that went into this project.I don't expect to see anything more entertaining, informative, and inspiring about this subject.
Very good one of the best documentaries ever and one of the best series ever made; With great special effects, great explanations and great information that we should all know. Truly good. Highly recommend. One of the best series ever made.


                
