I must say, no signs of aging. Embedded in its day and yet totally relevant. Perhaps the most entertaining of all of Hitchcock's films. Marriage is the theme and murder is the hook. James Stewart is as perfect as he's ever been. He uses the contradictions of his character to create someone immediately familiar. Thelma Ritter's practicality includes a rant about the destructive effect of intelligence. Grace Kelly enters the scene like a character in a dream. She remains a sort of dream that's why to see her climb the killer's balcony is one of my most cherished film memories. If you haven't seen the film you may think I'm rambling but if you have, you know exactly what I mean, don't you?


                
After viewing 'Rear Window' again, I've come to realize that Alfred Hitchcock was not only a great moviemaker but also a great moviewatcher. In the making of 'Rear Window,' he knew exactly what it is about movies that makes them so captivating. It is the illusion of voyeurism that holds our attention just as it held Hitchcock's. The ability to see without being seen has a spellbinding effect. Why else is it so uncommon to have characters in movies look directly into the camera? It just isn't as fun to watch someone when they know you're there. When we watch movies, we are participating in looking into another world and seeing the images of which we have no right to see and listening to the conversations that we should not hear. 'Rear Window' and Powell's 'Peeping Tom' are some of the best movies that aren't afraid to admit this human trait. We are all voyeurs.When watching 'Rear Window,' it is better to imagine Alfred Hitchcock sitting in that wheelchair rather than Jimmy Stewart. When the camera is using longshots to watch the neighborhood, it is really Hitchcock watching, not Stewart. Hitchcock's love of voyeurism is at the center of this movie, along with his fascination with crime and his adoration of the Madonna ideal.In many of Hitchcock's movies, 'Rear Window,' 'Vertigo,' 'Psycho,' 'The Birds,' etc, the blonde actresses are objects. Notice how rarely they get close with the male leads. In 'Vertigo,' Stewart's character falls in love with the image of Madeleine; in 'Psycho,' we see the voyeur in Hitchcock peeking out of Norman Bates at Marion; and in 'Rear Window,' Jeff would rather stare out of his window than to hold the beautiful Lisa by his side. For Hitchcock, these women are ideals that should be admired rather than touched.However, the story of 'Rear Window' isn't about the image of women, as it is in 'Vertigo.' 'Rear Window' focuses more on seduction of crime, not in committing it but in the act of discovering it. At one point in the story, Jeff's friend convinces him that there was no murder, and Jeff is disappointed, not because someone wasn't dead but because he could no longer indulge into his fantasy that someone was. Think how popular crime shows are on television, and noir films at the movies. People do not want to commit crimes; they want to see other people commit them.'Rear Window' is one of the most retrospective movies I've ever seen. In a span of two hours, it examines some of the most recurrent themes in film. When we watch 'Rear Window,' it is really us watching someone watch someone else. And all the while, Hitchcock is sitting on the balcony and seeing our reaction. It is an act of voyeurism layered on top of itself, and it allows us to examine our own behavior as we are spellbound in Hitchcock's world. The only thing that I feel is missing in the movie is a scene of Jeff using his binoculars and seeing himself in a mirror. Why did Hitchcock leave it out? Maybe because it would have been too obvious what he was doing. Or maybe he was afraid that the audience would see themselves in the reflection of the lens.


                
Alfred Hitchcock is considered by most to be the master of suspense.  I believe he was also a master of understanding human nature.  He intuitively understood that human beings are voyeurs by nature, not in the perverted sense, but in the curious sense.  We are a species that slows down to look at accident scenes and steals furtive glances at lovers in the park who are oblivious to everything but each other.  A major appeal of cinema and television is that they offer us an opportunity for guilt free voyeurism. When we watch a film, aren't we in essence looking through a window and watching people who behave as if they don't realize we are there?Hitchcock realized this and took voyeurism to the next level, allowing us to watch a voyeur as he watched others.  While `Rear Window' as a whole is probably not quite at a level with `Vertigo' (which was far more suspenseful and mysterious with a powerful musical score) as a cinematic accomplishment, it is more seductive because it strikes closer to our human obsessions. Hitchcock's mastery is most evident in his subtle use of reaction scenes by the various characters.  We watch an event that Jeff (James Stewart) is watching and then Hitchcock immediately cuts to his reaction.  This is done repeatedly in various layers even with the other tenants as they interact with one another.  For instance, in the scene with Miss Lonelyheart (Judith Evelyn), we see her throw out the man who made a pass at her and then we see her reaction after she slams the door, followed by the reaction of Jeff and Lisa (Grace Kelly).  In another scene, Detective Doyle (Wendell Corey) sees Lisa's nightclothes and presumes she will be staying the night.  Hitchcock shows the suitcase, then Doyle's reaction, and then he goes to Jeff who points his finger at him and says `Be Careful, Tom'.  This elegant scene takes a few seconds and speaks volumes with little dialogue.  Such technique gets the viewer fully involved, because if we were there this is exactly what we would be doing, watching the unfolding events and then seeing how others around us responded.  In essence, it puts us in the room with them.Hitchcock was a stickler for detail.  For instance, he aimed the open windows so they would show subtle reflections of places in the apartment we couldn't see directly.  However, there were certain details included or excluded that were inexplicable.  Would Thorwold really be scrubbing the walls with the blinds open?  Would Lisa be conspicuously waving at Jeff while Stella (Thelma Ritter) was digging up the garden?  Moreover, wouldn't Lisa have taken off her high heels before climbing a wall and then a fire escape?  This film had numerous small incongruities that are normally absent from Hitchcock films.  Though these are picayune criticisms, they are painfully obvious in the film of a director known to be a compulsive perfectionist.The acting is superb in this film.  Jimmy Stewart is unabashedly obsessed as the lead character.  Photographers have an innate visual perceptiveness and the ability to tell a story with an image and Stewart adopts this mindset perfectly.  Grace Kelly has often been accused of being the `Ice Maiden' in her films, yet in this film she is assertive and even reckless.  Though cool at times, she is often playful and rambunctious.  I always enjoy Thelma Ritter's performances for their honesty and earthiness and this is another example of a character actor at her best.  Raymond Burr often doesn't get the recognition he deserves for this role, which is mostly shot at a distance with very few lines.  Yet, he imbues Thurwold with a looming nefariousness using predominantly physical acting.This film was rated number 42 on AFI's top 100 of the century sandwiched between `Psycho' (#18) and `Vertigo' (#61).  I personally think more highly of `Vertigo' but it is a minor distinction, because I rated them both 10/10. `Rear Window' is a classic, a masterpiece of filmmaking technique from a director who was a true pioneer of suspense.


                
One of Hitchcock's greatest masterpieces, "Rear Window" is a deep and entertaining classic with many strengths, and a little bit of everything.  A fine suspense story is combined with romantic tension in the main plot, and there are numerous sub-plots, some humorous and some moving, all with many psychological overtones.  The main characters are wonderfully portrayed and full of life.  The apparently simple setting in an apartment complex is developed into a world filled with intriguing and sometimes unsettling possibilities, and this apparently average neighborhood comes to life with a wealth of lavish visual detail and interesting minor characters.  It is the kind of film-making that (like many of Hitchcock's greatest movies) is very flattering to the viewer.  The director assumes that his audience will pay close enough attention to appreciate the many subtleties with which he has filled the movie.  It rewards both careful attention and repeated viewings, since there is much more here than merely a suspense plot, as good as that story is in itself.For the first 30 minutes or so, we simply get to know the characters.  Jimmy Stewart gives one of his best performances as a photographer recuperating from an injury, forced to spend several weeks staring out his apartment window at the minor dramas in the lives of his neighbors.  Grace Kelly is ideal in the role of his perfect girlfriend, who can never find a way to break down Stewart's reserve.  The study of their relationship would have made a good movie by itself.  Almost every action and every word between them is filled with meaning, and what they see in the lives of others is an interesting reflection of the tensions and possibilities in their own present and future.  Thelma Ritter is wonderful as a colorful, no-nonsense nurse who constantly sheds some light - sometimes unwanted - on what is happening between them.  The action and suspense that occur later serves in large part as a catalyst that resolves some of the important issues between the two.After we get to know the characters and their world, things start to happen, as Stewart becomes engrossed in some of the things he has seen.  The ethical and moral concerns of meddling in others' affairs become intertwined with more urgent questions about what may have happened in those other apartments, and from then on the tension builds steadily.  It leads up to a riveting climactic sequence filled with suspense, and made even more meaningful by our awareness of its deeper significance to the main characters.There is much more that could be said, but you should see this for yourself. It is a classic that will be enjoyed not only by thriller fans, but by anyone who appreciates carefully crafted movies with a lot of depth.


                
Finally, I watched "Rear Window" by famous Alfred Hitchcock. First off, I saw this movie on the top 250, and it's #14 on top of that! I mean, it's gotta be great or a classic, right? Also, I'm a fan of the Simpsons, and I got the 6th season where Bart breaks his leg and has to watch the kids outside and accuses Flanders of murdering his wife, Maude. I watched it with commentary and the writers said this was taken from the movie "Rear Window", I had to see this movie! I know it sounds silly that I was more inspired by a show, but it's a good reference if it's from The Simpsons."Rear Window" is an excellent movie and a great classic that should never be forgotten! After 51 years, this is still a well talked about movie and I can see why. Jimmy Stewart, he's just so great as L.B., I loved his madness and his dark comical role. He doesn't even try, but you can't help but laugh at a lot of his lines, the way he looks, and the way he presents every scene. He didn't have a lot of movement, he is confined to a wheel chair, but he is so effective and perfect. No one could have replaced him as L.B., he's a terrific actor! Grace Kelly, what a beauty! Beauty and talent, what a great combination and she had it. Playing Liza, I loved her character so much. She started out as this extremely feminine lovely woman who is struggling with L.B., because he is having doubts about marrying her, and you can tell she loves him so much and is willing to do anything for him and to make their lives work, despite his adventurous side as a photographer and her being an indoor kitten. When L.B. talks of the murder to Liza, she is doubtful but never dismisses that it could be a possibility, and stays with him into the end. She finally goes into danger and grabs it by the you know what and wins L.B.'s heart.I loved the ending, to me it was just one more good laugh with L.B. and Liza. I won't tell, you'll just have to trust me, it was a brilliant way to breath and smile again after all the suspense and drama. "Rear Window" is a true classic and I'm extremely grateful to the reviewers of IMDb who saw this movie and gave it great reviews, and the writers of The Simpsons! If it were not for you guys, I nor other members of my generation would probably not view it! Let's keep this classic alive! 10/10


                
Not only does REAR WINDOW (RW) have Alfred Hitchcock's trademark wit, suspense, and romance (with a touch of friction) in spades, but it's one of his most well-crafted, cleverly-staged movies; in fact, even though RW is based on a Cornell Woolrich story, I can't imagine this story being told as effectively in any medium other than cinema. However, the technical accomplishments (explained most entertainingly in the DVD's documentaries) would be nothing without the engaging characters. James Stewart's neighbors are interesting enough to warrant their own movies, and in addition to providing a wry microcosm of New York City life (the only dated thing about it is the lack of air conditioning), they all reflect possible outcomes for the somewhat stormy romance between laid-up shutterbug Stewart and the luminous Grace Kelly as his upscale fashion maven inamorata. As Brent Spiner said while hosting a showing of RW on TNT, the real perversion of the film is Stewart's reluctance to commit to the irresistible Kelly! In fact, one of the things I like about the movie is the way it shows these two very different people gradually learning to compromise and work together. The piquant final shot shows that a woman can have a happy relationship with a man without submerging her own personality -- refreshing for the 1950s! Great supporting cast, too, including Wendell Corey, Raymond Burr in one of his last bad-guy roles before PERRY MASON, and the scene-stealing Thelma Ritter. Incidentally, the restored special edition RW DVD was put together just in time to include Georgine Darcy ("Miss Torso"), then one of the last surviving cast members. Darcy died earlier this year; she will be missed.


                
Many reviewers and critics have commented on Alfred Hitchcock's theme of the voyeur in Rear Window (the mere thought of a voyeur in a suspense film conjures up images from other classic Hitchcock films), and I felt that voyeuristic bug as well.  But I realized something that I hadn't thought of as I watched it for the first time- this is a return for Hitchcock to his skills as a master of silent-film chills.  As L.B. Jeffries (Jimmy Stewart in one of his most infamous performances) is in his wheelchair viewing out one perspective to other inhabitants in the apartment, the audience views right along-side him.  So, for more or less 50 percent of the film, the only sounds we hear are the sounds of mere realism, as Hitch's camera keeps a close eye on things.  As the thrills build in the second hour of the film there is considerably more dialog than the first hour.  This could, and occasionally does, present a challenge for the audience member that could either be accepted & payed off or resented- can one sit back and just watch things unfold as in a film from the 20's?  Personally, the experience of seeing these events unfold and increase was near electrifying.  Along with Stewart's performance, which ranges from amusing to terrified, compelling to frightened (i.e. Hitch's 'everyday man'), there's Grace Kelly as Lisa, who carries her own beauty & inner conflicts, and Raymond Burr as Thorvold, who could have things going a little better with his wife.  If we empathize with Jeff, it's because we become as much apart of his mind-set/POV as he already is, and that's the ticket to the film's true success.  Not only is there a magnetic kind of skill to which Hitchcock (and cinematographer Robert Burks) presents us with the apartments' supporting and minor characters and how their fates are played out against the enclosed backdrop, but the psychology of Jeff becomes parallel, or against, to the audience's.  This is the story of one man's temptation and compulsion to be involved with those he can see (much like movie-goers have with any given film), and how perception of the realities around him become ours.  Rear Window may have become dated for some movie-goers, particularly since the theme has been played on by other movies and TV shows (like The Simpsons for example).  Yet there is a certain effectiveness to it all, even in the earlier scenes, that holds an edge over imitators.  A+


                
"Rear Window" comes very close to be the perfect Hitchcock film that illustrates nearly all his great abilities...Hitchcock demonstrates in "Rear Window" that he is a great voyeur, that he loves to spy on his characters making each viewer into a voyeur, forcing audience to see everything from his hero's point of view... James Stewart is hold up in his Manhattan two rooms apartment with a broken leg... He passes his time spying on his neighbors through back window in an orgy of voyeurism...Speaking of technical challenge, "Rear Window" is Hitchcock prototype... Most of the film is shot from one confined set... It is also notably theatrical since it takes place in one room...Hitchcock forces limitations on himself, as he did in "Lifeboat" when he shot entirely on a restricted set, in only one boat... And in "Rope" (his first Technicolor film) where the single setting for the production had only walls and furniture...Having restricted his movements, Hitchcock is demanded to be ingenious in order to keep curiosity alive... He builds a realistic courtyard of apartments with inhabitants in it, and the restriction becomes a potency and the technique a fascinating example of what he chooses to call "pure cinema."Hitchcock's camera tracks out through the windows... It never goes inside the apartments... We never see close-ups of the characters... We can only see what Stewart sees... We feel like we are watching people through a window instead of in a movie...Hitchcock doesn't use any kind of music... We hear natural sounds, occasional live music played in the surrounding apartment..."Rear Window" describes Hitchcock at his best for the way it works on several levels, yet hides its own complexity... Stewart, tied in too by pressure from his high society girl who loves him and wants to marry him... Everything he sees out is related to this problem... He avoids to discuss marriage with her, though he himself does not seem to realize it...All the while, the people in the 31 apartments that he can see live out their little lives<U+0085> The tormented middle-aged bachelor, composer/songwriter; the couple who beats the heat by sleeping on a fire escape; the newlyweds and lovers; the tragic "Miss Lonelyhearts" and her fantasies of entertaining gentlemen callers; the hearing-impaired sculptor working day and night; the vivacious and sexy blonde dancer "Miss Torso" who does suggestive routines in bikini tops and, most important, the hysterical "nagging wife" - lying in bed - and her grouchy fed-up husband, a jewelry salesman...One 'great shot' reveals just how involved Stewart has become in their lives when Miss Lovelyheart - in her romantic dinner for two - raises her glass in a toast to her imaginary lover and Stewart raises his glass as well...The urban backyard setting is the night city terrain of "Rear Window," a night city shattered by the sharp sound of a loud female scream and the sound of breaking glass...Hitchcok presents Stewart who sees (or think he sees) what he is powerless to stop... The insidious salesman strangely attracts Stewart's attention... His Passtime becomes an obsession after he suspects that he has murdered his ailing wife and specially when he notices that she is missing... His ravishing fiancée (Grace Kelly) and his nurse (Thelma Ritter) warn him that voyeurism is a crime and is dangerous... But Stewart persists, eventually he was turned on ... This explain perfectly his specific use of a huge zoom lens to do his peeping as he monitors the murderer's activities... The murderer and his wife became subject of Stewart's parody with the "too perfect, too talented, too sophisticated," Grace Kelly..."Rear Window" is visually very strong... Hitchcock designs the film in such a way so that his view is our view... He manipulates our emotions because he knows perfectly his work... He has the film synchronized in his mind... Shooting and editing are, for him, a simple mechanical phase... The creativity has all taken place before...The first shot of "Rear Window" is a perfect example of this reality - as his many typical first shots - for the way it visually transmits the whole complex to the audience...Hitchcock is a master at using his camera to create suspense... Like Stewart, we are restricted in movements, paralyzed inside the apartment, immobile, trapped in a room where we are anxious and uncertain... There is no way we can warn the outcome... This is what 'suspense' is all about<U+0097>not surprise... An effect of intense and prolonged expectancy, lacking all help in the state of knowing that we possess but the characters do not... And, of course, all this great suspense is created by only 'visual' means...Stewart gives the performance of his life behaving at ease... He was the perfect Hitchcock character: a voyeur by profession, an unpretentious photo journalist who becomes caught in a terrifying event...When you see the film, feel the menacing 'look' of the murderer staring those evil eyes at you... And don't forget to catch Alfred Hitchcok in his customary cameo appearance, this time repairing a clock... Enjoy!
Wow, this movie was just great.Everything about it was just flawless. The pacing and the story kept me on the edge of my seat for the whole run time. I felt invested in the story and was interested about where it would go next. The acting was superb and helped pushed this film along. I also particularly liked how it didn't tell us everything from the beginning and we had to figure the mystery out along with the actors.In one sentence: "one of the best films ever made".


                
I think that Alfred Hitchcock's rear window is a fantastic movie. I'd go as far as to say that it is one of the best thrillers I have ever seen. There are a few main aspects of the film that I would like to point out that sold me on this wonderful film: the framing and filming techniques, suspense building, and pacing of the film were all perfect, and made for an interesting, thrilling, and over-all exciting display of some of theater's finest filming techniques that will keep you on the edge of your seat until the credits roll.
 First, the framing of the film was excellent. Upon first hearing the premise, that the entire movie takes place from one man's room, you might be hesitant. Such a boring, consistent setting couldn't possibly make for an interesting film. But within the first few minutes of starting, you find very quickly that these first impressions were very wrong. The film manages to build a complex, active, and very real world using just the room of main character, photographer L.B. "Jeff" Jeffries, and the view from his window. By cutting from shots of his apartment to the surrounding complex outside, the movie manages to make you think there's more to this film than just Jeff's living room. On top of this, the framing techniques used keep the film exciting. To start, you never see more than Jeff can through his window; this allows you to really connect with the characters, and theorize about the events going on at the same time as they do. We'll talk more about this under pacing, but the film always gives you just enough information to make you wonder what's really going on. Using what's not shown in frame as much as what is, Hitchcock manages to keep you glued to the screen throughout the movie.
 This lasting interest is brought about just as much through the pacing and suspense of the film. While Jeff is looking out his window one day, he notices some suspicious behavior from one of his neighbors, and begins to think he has witnessed a murder. As the film continues, the evidence of this is given to you in bits and pieces. You only see half the story, and half to piece the puzzle together yourself, along with the main characters, who slowly start to believe Jeff's theories about his neighbor's actions. However, with every bit of evidence towards the crime, Jeff's detective friend strikes it down with a completely logical explanation, leading Jeff, and the audience along with him, to believe that he might be delusional. Every plot point in the film is spaced beautifully, so that every time you think you've figured it out, some new idea or suspicious act comes up and throws you completely off. As Jeff slowly convinces more people that he's witnessed a murder, there are always others who outright deny his ideas.
 Another point related to pacing is the building of suspense. The movie manages to subtly build suspense as the movie progresses, resulting in a thrilling conclusion. One method it uses to do this is by confining our hero. Due to an accident at a race track, Jeff is confined to the wheelchair in his room with a broken leg. He is unable to leave his room, which is what results in him watching his neighbors through his rear window. The suspense continues to build as he watches helplessly as the events before him unfold. There's nothing he can do but watch it happen and try to make a convincing argument. 
 With all of these filming concepts combined, Alfred Hitchcock was able to produce one of the best thrillers of all time, certainly the best I've ever seen. It was intense, interesting, and kept me theorizing until the last second. With a great cast and exceptional production value, I would easily recommend this film to anyone looking for a classic with an exciting plot and interesting premise that will keep you engaged and entertained.


                
It doesn't have the psychological complexity or panoramic sweep of his later films, but 1954's "Rear Window" is arguably his most fun film to watch. An entire Greenwich Village apartment complex and courtyard was built inside a Paramount studio building to create Hitchcock's unforgiving microcosm of lonely souls that stretches the ethical envelope of voyeurism. James Stewart plays L.B. "Jeff" Jefferies, an adventure photographer, wheelchair-bound with a week left in his cast for a broken leg. He is itching for some excitement and not even the devoted attention of an impossibly beautiful Grace Kelly as Lisa, a Park Avenue fashion model is enough for him. Stuck in his apartment all day, he sees the comings and goings of his neighbors, all strangers to him, and pieces together their lives and gives them pseudonyms like "Miss Torso" and "Miss Lonelyhearts". But his attention focuses on a suspicious, white-haired man named Thorwald. Jeff becomes increasingly intrigued by his neighbor's odd behavior and the sudden disappearance of his nagging, bedridden wife. Jeff suspects a murder plot, which seems far-fetched at first, but becomes gradually more evident as his obsession infects Lisa, his masseuse Stella and his detective buddy Tom.Hitchcock was indeed the master of suspense, but the movie is suffused with an unexpectedly light sense of humor that touches rather candidly on sex and relationships thanks to John Michael Hayes' sharp script. Lisa's entanglement with Thorwald is played out well, especially as Jeff looks on helplessly from his apartment. Stewart is wonderfully sly throughout, giving hints of the inner torment he displays later in "Vertigo" but still likable even as he tries to reject his glamorous, sheltered girlfriend. Kelly seems merely decorative at first, but she sharpens as her character gains a fearless sense of intrigue that Jeff finds alluring. Thelma Ritter plays a smarter and warmer variation of her typical wisecracker as Stella, while Wendell Corey is his usual nondescript stalwart self as Tom. Raymond Burr, pre-Perry Mason, shows up as Thorwald and lends interesting ambiguity to his menacing character. Robert Burks' probing camera-work makes the perfect complement to Hitchcock's trademark film-making style, and special mention needs to be given to Robert A. Harris's splendid 1998 work in restoring the film's original splendor, even the slow-motion first kiss between Stewart and Kelly. The DVD has a couple of nice extras, an hour-long documentary that focuses on the ethics behind the story and the restoration effort, and a brief interview with screenwriter Hayes. One of Hitchcock's best in an impressive canon of work.


                
Alfred Hitchcock's 1954 film, Rear Window, features a shocking neighborhood murder, only to be uncovered by a peeping wheelchair-bound photographer, L.B Jefferies, and his cover girl girlfriend Lisa Fremont. How we know such details from each character is due to Hitchcock's panning and fantastic sense of mise en scène. At the opening of the film, what is first seen is the window the main character L.B. Jefferies spends his days looking out of. From there, the camera's motion moves as if it were to float about the neighborhood, catching the neighbors, sleeping Jefferies, his shattered camera and a magazine with his girlfriend on it. Without getting too into it, Hitchcock had already planted important information into the viewer's mind without having to achieve the same thing through an extensive amount of dialogue. Very aware of what and how people and objects are placed, he knew precisely what he was doing. 
One of the first things the viewer learns about the photographer is that he seems unhappy to be in a relationship with a 'perfect woman', he finds him and Lisa to be incompatible due the fact that the two come from different worlds. Each neighbor featured in a way relates to Jeffries's relationship situation or relationships in general. For example, there was a moment where the shot was focused on Miss Lonelyhearts raising her glass to nobody, and Jefferies did the same. This could because 
Not to mention the most obvious aspect of the film, the one vantage point. Hitchcock creatively chose to limit the motion of the camera to the motion of the main character. Doing this, it is impressive how he envisioned and conveyed what he wanted using other camera techniques. For example, he used close ups on several neighbors to shift the focus onto them. In addition, there were several closeups of both Jeffries and Lisa individually and together. The proximity in these shots along with the eye leveled position of the camera play a role in how intimate the viewer gets to the character, including their feelings and emotions. This, I believe creates a more intense feeling when suspense is reached towards the end of the film.
The use of light is also intriguing. Its symbol of clarity and when not present, obscurity. Having this in mind, it is important to mention that whenever the characters had to hide from the gaze of Mr.Thorwald, they would retreat into the darkness. In addition, whenever Lisa came over to talk to Jeffries about the potential murder, she would turn the lights on, begging for him to stop scaring her and talking nonsense. However, when she began to believe him, she stood in the darkness alongside him. Lights were also turned off when Mr. Thorwald found Lisa with his wife's jewelry, right before he attacked her. Not to mention that light was also used to fend away the big angry Thorwald from strangling Jefferies sooner. Besides that, where the film stands in the beginning, is drastically different to what it becomes later in the film. A man with relationship problems quickly turns to a gang attempting to catch a neighborhood murderer. However, this change is not remotely noticed, which makes it important to note. 
The suspense portrayed was incredible. The unsafe and dangerous measures that Lisa went through to invade the Thorwald apartment was only the beginning of a very hair-raising, intense ending. There were very sudden moments in between cuts where Lisa would be shown and the terrifying responses from Jefferies and Stella would also be shown right after. Meaning that there were moments where we couldn't see when Thorwald was coming or not. The film was an overall great thriller to experience.
Brilliant. Legendary. Perfect. There are not enough adjectives to describe properly "Rear Window". Along with "Vertigo" and "North by Northwest" this is probably one of his best 3 movies.After his period in Warner Bros., where he directed masterpieces like "Strangers on a Train" or "Dial M For Murder", it seemed as if the master could not top what he had previously achieved. But he did. In fact, when Hitchcock directed "Rear Window", his first movie at Paramount, he was beginning with the right foot what would become his most brilliant period.The well-known plot stars Hitchcock's favorite Jimmy Stewart as photographer L. B. Jeffries, who is almost caged in his apartment during his recovery from an accident he had while working. To kill the time, he becomes obsessed with what happens to his neighbors outside, to the point that he is convinced that one of them committed a murder. Grace Kelly plays his beautiful girlfriend, and Thelma Ritter plays his nurse.Hitchcock makes us parters in crime during Jeffreis voyeuristic adventures, as we are silent witness of the misfortunes of the neighborhood. Lisa, his girlfriend, has a difficult relationship with Jeffreis, there is definitely love there, but he is reluctant to include her in his life because he considers her "too perfect". Jeffreis voyeurism is probably, his escape to his problems as he prefers to watch the others.Technically the movie is brilliant. The camera is our eyes and it flows smoothly; and even when the movie takes place almost entirely in Jeffreis apartment, it never becomes tiresome or boring. This is also possible to the ingenious script and the brilliant performance of the three lead characters.Beautiful Grace Kelly is outstanding as the lovely girlfriend who turns into an adventurous spy as she gets interested in his boyfriend's new hobby. Jimmy Stewart gives once again his classic performance of the "regular guy" that Hitchcock enjoyed so much; although in my opinion, is Thelma Ritter who gives the movie that charming quality, as her witty comments are delivered with that dark humor that Hitchcock loved so much."Rear Window" is without any doubt, a perfect movie. Hitchcock has walked a long way, but all his previous work was practice when compared to the movies to come; his work would reach it's peak in the famous three: "Vertigo", "North by Northwest" and "Psycho". At this time, he is already considered a master.10/10. Masterpiece.


                
As a Hitchcock fan, I am guilty of serial-watching his oeuvres. An engaging tale about spying on your neighbours, which perhaps many of us are guilty of, James Stewart and Grace Kelly are timeless on screen. Is it paranoia or is it real ? If you're hindered and your leg is on a cast, will you take note of every single thing happening around you which may be only baseless, unfounded fear? Is there a killer on the loose? What are you going to do about it? These are the myriads of questions you ask when you watch this film. I am one of those skeptics when a Classic such as this gets adapted and recycled ( e.g. Disturbia with Shia Leboeuf )since there was only one Hitchcock, one James Stewart and one Grace Kelly. Go be creative and leave this Classic film alone.


                
This movie is exteremlely intense and suspenseful.
In my opinion this movie is a masterpiece and deserves its place in cinema history.


                
For most of its duration, not a single shot in Alfred Hitchcock's "Rear Window" takes place outside the small, lonely apartment of L.B. Jeffries (James Stewart). Every exterior pan originates through the eyes of the injured photographer, whose broken leg has him restrained to a wheelchair, living off of the meals of his caretaker, Stella (Thelma Ritter).When his fiancée, Lisa (Grace Kelly), stands outside the window, we see her <U+0096> but we're still in the room. The camera does not position itself on the sidewalk, or above the flowerbed next to her, or in the window of another room <U+0096> it stays put.What Hitchcock does here is nothing short of brilliant <U+0096> the movie turns us into unconscious voyeurs as we are forced to take on the perspective of the protagonist, and participate in his constant eavesdropping.This technique of isolation and confinement forms a sort of disturbing effect that smothers the viewer on a subconscious level <U+0096> we can feel it, but can't necessarily put a finger on what, exactly, it is.The movie is also particularly risqué for its time <U+0096> 50 years later it's the sort of film that would probably receive a PG rating (and, in fact, after being restored and re-released in 2000, it did). There is no foul language, no sex, no nudity, no violence (per se), and no drug content. But there are many insinuations <U+0096> e.g. the mental image Hitchcock forms in his viewers' minds, of the man next door murdering his wife; the innuendo involving Lisa's overnight stay at Jeffries' (and her dress that sparks the interest of a private detective); the newlywed couple next door ("No comment," Jeffries tells Lisa); Miss Torso, the ballerina who lives across the street and the amount of time Jeffries spends watching her dance and change out of clothes. Jeffries has injured his leg after trying to take a daring photograph -- now he doesn't have a television or any other means of entertainment, so he amuses himself by studying the lives of others. Sound familiar? With "Reality TV" shows such as "Survivor," "Big Brother" and "Fear Factor," America's growing fascination with voyeuristic programming is becoming rather startling. Although the 1987 action picture "The Running Man" (and its source manuscript by Stephen King) is often credited with accurately depicting this odd form of entertainment, "Rear Window" <U+0096> to a certain degree <U+0096> predicted it much earlier. 34 years earlier, to be exact.One night while studying the rooms across the street, Jeffries notices a strange man carrying a briefcase in and out of a darkened room. The man's disabled wife (who demands his constant care) is nowhere to be seen. The next day, she is gone, apparently on a train; but Jeffries notices Thorvald (Raymond Burr), the mysterious man, cleaning a sharp knife in the kitchen sink.Could he have committed murder? Jeffries believes so, and convinces Lisa and Stella, too. They begin to piece together a number of clues <U+0096> a disheveled flower bed, a purse, fake letters <U+0096> that lead to one conclusion: Murder. The problem is that no one else believes them.A movie such as "Rear Window" would never work nowadays. The main character would entertain himself with technology <U+0096> not voyeurism. The windows would not be left open for fear of burglary. Police would be more willing to believe such a "far-fetched" story, and the private detective probably wouldn't shrug off Jeffries like he does in the film.This is evidenced by the poor remake starring Christopher Reeves, made for television <U+0096> it didn't make any sense because it was set in this day and age, featuring an outdated concept. It almost seemed silly, and was vastly inferior.But it works in the 1950s, and as a film, "Rear Window' still holds up beautifully today <U+0096> despite its dated premise (or, at least, execution), the other elements of the story keep it interesting. We are willing to suspend our disbelief because it is so great. And because "back then" the story's progression seems more natural than it ever would today.The performances are flawless <U+0096> James Stewart is completely convincing as Jeffries, a man controlled by his own impulses. Likewise Hitchcock's typical blonde love interest, Grace Kelly, is marvelous <U+0096> beautiful and likable, willing to do anything for Jeffries, which includes breaking into Thorvald's room while he's out and about (which results in one of the most nerve-jangling suspense sequences of all time). And Raymond Burr is utterly petrifying as Thorvald, who is almost always seen from a distance, with his odd white hair and continually narrowed eyes that just scream murder."Rear Window" is often considered by most critics to be Alfred Hitchcock's greatest masterpiece. For my money, "Psycho" (1960) is his best <U+0096> but "Rear Window" may very well be number two. With a career comprised of some truly amazing motion pictures ("The 39 Steps," "The Lady Vanishes," "The Man Who Knew Too Much," "Shadow of a Doubt," "Strangers on a Train," "Vertigo," etc.), it will always be hard to choose Hitchcock's "best" movie <U+0096> but in terms of narrative, and film-making, and acting, "Rear Window" could justifiably be called one of his all-time greatest. And, all considered, that's not a compliment to be taken very lightly.
Alfred Hitchcock is without a doubt the king of suspense. I have been a fan of his for many years, so I knew I had to see this movie. Needless to say, I wasn't disappointed.POSSIBLE SPOILERS ********Jimmy Stewart is great as LB Jefferies, the cranky photographer who's wheelchair bound in his apartment with a broken leg. To pass the time, he begins playing Peeping Tom on his neighbors. Good thing there are some interesting characters around. There's the gorgeous ballerina, who loves prancing around in her undergarments, the party hardy pianist, the couple that sleeps on their fire escape (I love when it rains on them) and the volatile salesman with a bed stricken wife. Things get even more interesting when Jefferies starts to think the salesman has murdered his wife. He's going in and out of his place on a cold, rainy night, and the wife is no longer in bed, where did she go? Jefferies asks for the assistance of friend and former Air Force buddy Detective Doyle (Wendell Corey), who unfortunately, thinks he's crazy. Not to worry. Even though he won't fully commit to her, Jefferies is able to enlist his beautiful, sociable, and all around perfect girlfriend Lisa (Grace Kelly) to do his dirty work. Being the fearless type, she's willing to take more risks than Jefferies imagines, a move that almost gets her killed and lands her in jail. Of course, Jefferies soon puts his own life at risk, which leads to the one action sequence in the movie (which is kind of cheesy and dated).One thing that was unique about Rear Window is that the whole film was shot in the same location, from Stewart's apartment. Hitchcock, not only good with suspense, is also able to do some fascinating camera work. Those shots of Stewart holding his camera are innovative and show how talented he was. I have to say, I don't think movies like this could be made anymore, for it isn't action packed. The mood slowly builds up until you have the final confrontation. No high speed chases, explosions, anything of that nature, just old fashioned suspense. The acting by Stewart and Kelly is wonderful and they had a great on screen relationship, even if Stewart's character is oblivious to the idea of love (how could you be if you had a woman like Grace Kelly)?If you're a person that loves blood and guts, plot twists, fast paced action, then do not see this movie. Many from Generation X and Y (which I am a part of) would be bored by this flick, but if you appreciate good film making and suspense, go see it, and you'll understand why Hitchcock gets so many accolades to this very day.


                
Yes, Rear Window is probably the film that has finally made me accept Hitchcock's genius. I loved "Vertigo", appreciated "Psycho", was irritated by "Spellbound", was partial to "Strangers on a Train", was intruiged by "The Wrong Man" and fairly enjoyed "North By Northwest"... "Rear Window" is probably his finest work that I have yet seen... open, as it is, to many, varied interpretations.While "Vertigo" had a more domineering score, photography and general artifice, "Rear Window" has a greater impact for me. While "Vertigo" was gripping, this one was positively electrifying in that department. The fact that Hitchcock managed such a multi-faceted, intruiging effort with the original conceit he adopted - to make a film from one set, and one single vantage-point - is astounding. I've not heard of the novel it was based on, but this is one hell of a script. All of the characters, and that's partially including the ones viewed by Stewart's L.B. Jeffries, are fully fleshed out and flawed. I found Thelma Ritter's performance amusing, and believable, providing the Bel Geddes (in "Vertigo")-type role early on, and then developing interestingly. Grace Kelly's Lisa is a fascinating character, more than you'd initially suspect. Undeniably beautiful, but also frustrated, passionate, devious and desperate in equal part. While Jeffries, or perhaps his accident (a typically important little detail that Hitchcock uses brilliantly, like Stewart's vertigo in "Vertigo"), starts the whole voyeuristic business, Ritter and to an interesting extent, Kelly collaborate with his fancies. Stewart's role is a great one, that of a deeply flawed, and disturbingly obsessed voyeur. It is sure that, at least with the films he made for Hitchcock, Stewart fulfilled all of his promise as an actor. From the wonderfully casual early scenes, to his gradual obsession with a particular house, his acting is brilliant in conveying the character's less-than-positive traits. It seems absurd at first that he be resistive at all to Kelly, but gradually their relationship is made complex, with perhaps Kelly's motivations in the film's later stages intruiging to consider, if she is or not as "perfect" as Stewart earlier claims. There is twist after twist in characterisation, theme and plot, with the final 15 minutes particularly striking in this regard. The conclusion is brilliantly ironic. Audience expectation and sympathies are toyed with exceptionally by Hitchcock at every turn. The themes are manifold, with voyeurism the guiding one. Themes are linked with character, and are effectively tackled; Wendell Corey's character pretty much emphasising the voyeuristic theme with a pertinent quote that I can't exactly recall. The direction is superb, as you would expect from Hitchcock (its his fascinating, complex use of narrative, character and theme that eleveates this work above so many of his other films), engendering many different moods, but none untainted by corruption in some way. The photography is impressive, giving the restricting settings a pungeancy. Hitchcock and his photographers always tending, at least with "Vertigo" and "Rear Window", to capture colour in a more vivid, expressive and importantly, atmospheric light than most in the history of colour film. Perhaps pivotal in my view is the brilliant use of music, distant, from the houses Stewart spies on, especially the haunting piano tunes (referred to yearningly by Kelly's character) from one home. This adds contrast and depth to many scenes, both within and without of Stewart's flat.It seems a waste that there are so few films that try, and succeed, in capturing this film's mood and devices. In many ways, I felt David Lynch's "Blue Velvet" to capture some of its suspenseful brilliance. Terence Young's 1967 film, "Wait Until Dark" was very nearly as tense and exciting, and also well worth checking out if you love "Rear Window". No doubts are there, that "Rear Window" is one of the "classics" more than deserving of its status. Rating:- *****/*****


                
"Rear Window" might is not the best film of Alfred Hitchcock, but it's my favorite and I think impeccable, starting with the script that develops several different characters just showing a few minutes via a window, and the script shows the daydreams LB Jeffries, who is with a broken leg and kill the boredom observes its neighbors to notice a strange behavior ... no need to even say that the suspense in the film is even more amazing in the final 30 minutes, you can not even blink, and the best is that Alfred still put shades of humor in the film that fall very well. The picture is beautiful, without words, that vision for the buildings and their indiscreet windows has its own life, or look like a movie, it seems that Alfred Hitchcock filmed a building any in an American suburb, the soundtrack although not very participant in the film, she is accurate, the main plot the film will count through small steps the stories of several families, all very fast and complete, you feel the LB Jeffries himself, the performances are very good, although redundancy praise actors like James Stewart and Grace Kelly, the movie is great, mixing humor, romance, drama and suspense in a very effective way, I recommend any movie Alfred Hitchcock, but this, I place a starlet.Sorry my English translator google.


                
This is the greatest movie of all time. I believe that Jimmy Stewart is one of the greatest actors ever and that Grace Kelly is one of the best actresses of the era. Rear Window takes place in a small apartment complex in the village. Jimmy Stewart plays famous photographer L. B. "Jeff" Jefferies who after an accident is confined to a wheelchair with a broken leg. He has nothing to do but stare out of the window and look at the neighbors. He plays this role very well. When Jeff thinks he has witnessed a murder from the apartment across the way he gets help from his high society girl friend Lisa played by Grace Kelly and his comical nurse Stella played by Thelma Ritter and his detective friend Lt. Doyle played by Wendell Corey. When you carefully watch the movie you can see that there is a great amount of humor throughout the whole film as well as a whole crap-load of suspense. Thelma Ritter is the more obvious comic relief of the film with funny one liners: " When two people love each other, they come together - WHAM - like two taxis on Broadway. " One thing that this movie tackles is the subject of voyeurism the act of watching someone without there knowledge and not for sexual gratification. This is what most movies are anyway, we are in a way spying on the people in the movie and become interested in their lives.This movie just focuses on it specifically. One thing that it is interesting is how the camera never leaves Jeff's apartment. We can see conversations between the neighbors but we can not hear what they are saying so we have to figure out what is going on by their body language. The whole movie is a bunch of reaction shots from Stewart. Jeff sees something, then we see him react to it. Another thing in this movie is the relation ship between Jeff and Lisa "Jeff: She wants me to marry her. Stella: That's normal. Jeff: I don't want to. Stella: That's abnormal." Jeff feels that her lifestyle would not be the kind that she would want to be apart of seeing that he travels all over the world to photograph things like war and other things of that nature" Raymond Burr stars as the suspected murderer Lars Thorwald. This movie is the greatest movie and I can't do it justice by telling you about it like this. This one just needs to be seen by everybody. 11 out of 10


                
The night is dark, quiet. But at peace? No. Jimmy Stewart, playing a gritty photographer, sleeps in his wheel-chair, the victim of some car racing accident, the result of his attempting to obtain an extraordinary picture. Now he's fettered by a cast as the result of this daring attempt. A shadow moves over his sleeping body. Is it malevolent? A rival come to enact revenge? Or the grim reaper come to take Stewart's soul? NO! It is none other than the 1950's goddess of cinema, Grace Kelly replete with white gown, scarf and gloves. She moves over the drowsy photographer and plants a kiss on his lips. The shadow is not a monster at all but an angel from Hollywood Heaven. Stewart has died and gone to eternal Paradise where he will love and worship Princess Grace for eternity! But for most of the movie he doesn't quite realize that Kelly is a beautiful gift, even beautifully wrapped!There are films, both old and new, which boast a "cast of thousands" and shot in 5 different continents. Well, there are few feature-length films that were shot only on one sound state. And maybe none that I know of whose primary shots are essentially a handful of camera angles from a single vantage point on that one sound stage. Yet this is what Hitchcock does to tell a very compelling story. And the viewpoint is a laid-up photographer played brilliantly by Jimmy Stewart who has nothing better to do than watch people through his rear window.The focus is Stewart's suspicion of criminal acts by one of his neighbors who he can see across the way with either his binoculars or his camera with zoom lens. His suspicion is aroused through his habit of innocently spying on the the inhabitants of the buildings on his block. What's interesting is the amount of mileage Hitchcock attains from telling a story from this peculiar vantage point in the form of other sub-stories. There is the woman on the bottom-floor of the apartment across the way who can't seem to find the right man, dubbed "Miss Lonely Heart". There is another younger woman, a dancer, who can't seem to keep men away from her. She is named "Miss Torso." A songwriter and/or composer lives in another apartment. A newlywed couple move in to another apartment. As the story unfolds, the other stories unfold as well in different ways. And in addition to the main story, most of the other stories have some sort of resolution by the end of the film.This cinematic concept is one of the most innovative techniques ever backed by a major film studio. Stewart is perfectly cast as the husky photographer turned amateur sleuth. Grace Kelly who only seems to get better with each viewing, plays Stewart's desperate girlfriend who is involved in the fashion industry on Madison Avenue. The characters seem made for each other like Dracula and sunlight. She loves the glitz and glamorous life of the sophisticated fashion crowd on Madison Avenue while he seems more at home crawling in the mud of another country to get the photograph of a lifetime. Thelma Ritter keeps Stewart in check as the reluctant nurse who tries to get him to take the plunge with Kelly and also gets caught up in the mystery. And Raymond Burr plays the man across the way to whom Stewart focuses his attention. His unsmiling haunting expressions are enough to portray his secretive character.This is an absolute masterpiece of film-making. The dialog is fun, witty, sarcastic, with constant innuendos about love and marriage. Kelly plays the "straight-man" while Stewart get's away with lines that he'd be lynched for today by women's groups. The only thing that doesn't make sense: why is Stewart so reluctant to tie the knot with Kelly? Grace Kelly was probably the Cary Grant of actresses in the 1950's with millions of males looking on with absolute jealousy of her leading men. (I'm sure many men's heart went bust when she became Princess Grace) Of course, Stewart sees her as "too perfect", "too beautiful", and "too smart" for him. Ironically, the more he pushes her away the more she wants to come back to him. Which does point to one of the strangest foibles of the human psyche: when someone can't quite have something that he or she wants, the more he or she wants it!


                
Rear Window/1954/****Main Stars: James Stewart Grace Kelly Raymond BurrExcellent! Another well-written, thriller brought to you by the master of suspense, Alfred Hitchcock. I had seen this many times before this review but I have never had the chance to review the classic. But since I have time to spare, why not? Why is it Hitchcock is so good at making films and even his mediocre ones become famous a month or two after they come out in theaters? Why<U+0085> (?) because he was always on track making his films with witty dialogue by hiring perfect screenwriters (this one at most). But he's not a director that sits in his chair and eats, gets fat and just moves his hand around and says, "You are here, and you are there!" No! He plans out the scene in his brain while the actors/actresses rehearse and get ready. Normally before shooting (even the first scene) begins, he has already made the movie himself, planned it out with all his tricks, twists, and turns. When they start shooting, he gets it done fast since he has already planned it out. His camera moves, twists, humorous and factual dialogue, everything! He's a perfect director and this ("Rear Window") is one of his best films he made (besides "Vertigo", "North by Northwest", "Rebecca", "Shadow of a Doubt", "Saboteur", "Rope", "The Trouble with Harry", "Psycho", "To Catch a Thief", "Dial "M" for Murder", "Torn Curtain", "Frenzy", "Topaz", "Family Plot", "The Man Who Knew Too Much", "The 39 Steps", "Notorious", "Suspicion", and many, many more)! You notice I didn't mention "Marnie" or "Jamaica Inn" because they were two of his more mediocre ones. Pretty much all his films were big hits and only a few flunked! Not bad, not bad at all! Hitchcock had a big sense of humor and therefore all his films have at least one scene of humorous dialogue or humorous action, adventure, or whatever scenes. But mainly his humor comes from the mouths of the actors. Like in "Rear Window" there was a scene where one of (the main character) L.B. Jefferies's (James Stewart's) buddies comes over to the house and browses around for this salesman (named Mr. Lars Thorwald who is played by Raymond Burr) that is so-called "a murderer" (by Jefferies) (very Hitchcockian) and that he killed his own wife! The thing is Jefferies's buddy wasn't looking over at the so-called "murderer's" apartment window but yet looking at an attractive woman in a window on the other side of him named Miss Torso (Georgine Darcy). He watched for a while and smirked until Jefferies (Stewart) asks him out of the blue, "How's your wife?" And the buddy (named Thomas Doyle played by Wendell Corey) said, "Oh, she's fine." He looked away. See, witty humorous dialogue. Not only does Jefferies's buddy look at Miss Torso but also so does Jefferies himself. Even though he already has someone he's kinda in love with named Lisa Carol Fremont (Grace Kelly) he still looks at other woman and admires them. AND there is a very funny character named Stella (Thelma Ritter) who takes care of Jefferies while he has his cast on (caused by a car crashing into him) and is in his wheelchair spying out at all the people on the other side of him. Stella definitely is a character and really shows how the dialogue is funny in a Hitchcock film. It's great! You have to respect Al and his films because he worked so hard not just to bring you a film, but a great film and to entertain the movie watchers. The films that come out now are definitely making more money but are not as good and wit (more violence, blood, sex, vulgarity). But at least the films that are literally good are still around and can be restored if not good qualities, which are the versions I have of "Rear Window" and "Vertigo". They are both restored and in much better condition. This is one of Hitchcock's masterpieces staring famous actors and actresses (at the time) and has a great ending (not as much of a twist as "Vertigo" and other Hitchcock classics), middle, and beginning. This film has the most creative set ever seen in a Hitchcock film: an apartment courtyard and that's it! You mainly see Jefferies peeking out his apartment window into others (as a window shopper) and seeing what he sees and the camera is never in a different apartment room. Never! As I just said the ending was perfect. Well the reason why is because of the suspense and if he'll die from this fight with the so-called murderer that breaks in to his apartment room. But yet how hard is it to fight with a wheelchair? Movie directed by Alfred Hitchcock.
They don't make movies this way anymore.  Consider how deceptively simple the plot is-A photographer, confined to a wheelchair until his broken leg heals, is spying on his neighbors in an apartment complex and thinks that he is the only witness to a murder.  The movie often seems simple, too-The camera shots are pretty much only what the lead character can see, meaning that you see everyone in the complex from outside their windows.  Yet this movie never needs the heart-pounding airplane chase of North by Northwest to build a powerful momentum that hooks you in and never lets you go.I must be fortunate-I saw this when it was re-released into theaters recently.  Twice.  I loved it so much the first time that I had to see it again.  I've seen the last hour on TV twice since.  Even when presented with only that last hour, I still couldn't stop watching until the ending credits rolled.  Yes, they don't make movies like this anymore.The leading players are well-chosen.  You've got James Stewart as the wheelchair-bound photographer and Grace Kelly as his rich, fashionable girlfriend who is head-over-heels for him.  Theirs is not the only love story-several people in the complex have their own romances to deal with, in particular, the tragic Miss Lonelyheart, who sets dinner for two every night, even though she never has company.  The characters we see from a distance are surprisingly well-developed, and live such natural lives, such as a woman who lives on the top floor of the building across from the photographer.  She puts her dog in a basket everyday and lowers him down to the ground so that he can play.  Such simple traits are also very human.Then there is the gripping story.  You're never given any more information than our protagonist has.  Stewart is forced to prove that Mrs. Anna Thorwald was murdered by her husband, Lars, and keeps trying to convince his detective friend (played by Wendall Corey) of her murder.  In the meantime, he's also trying to work out his own lovelife, and often what he sees in the windows reflect his mood, particularly a speech delivered by the woman with the dog about how neighbors should treat each other(another example of Hitchcock's masterful use of subtlety).It's these subtle details and deceptive simplicity that make this movie so fantastic.  You just don't see movies like this now-everything must now be explicitly stated to the audience.  Hitchcock does not play that game-he expects his audience to be intelligent enough to understand the meaning of every scene and to know what is going on without the characters explaining even the most minute details.  This movie should be required viewing for everyone that loves movies.


                
Some of Alfred Hitchcock's films date badly, or are flawed by script points he chose to ignore as "Maguffins", or just are not his cup of tea. But REAR WINDOW is one great movie - a film that just never stops fascinating it's audiences as much as the world of that Greenwich Village enclave fascinates L.B. "Jeff" Jeffries (James Stewart). Hitchcock built a meticulous set of apartment flats with a common courtyard. Although extensive it is, in fact, claustrophobic, with the seemingly separate lives of the residents running into each other more frequently than one expects (witness Raymond Burr's growling at a neighbor as he is working on his garden patch and she tries to give him some advice). The fact that it is supposed to be in the middle of a heat wave (this is in the pre-air-conditioned apartment days) adds to the feelings of closing in - even if the audience actually feels no heat from the set. At least five separate stories are going on that we are invited into during the course of the film, besides the main one of the fate of Mrs. Anna Thorwald (Irene Winston).Jeff has been a widely respected and awarded photographer around the world, and he is nursing a broken leg (from his photographing a careening racing car). His only contacts with the outside world are his nurse Stella (Thelma Ritter) and his girlfriend Lisa Carol Fremont (Grace Kelly) who is a supermodel of the period (c. 1954). Stuck with nothing to do Jeff starts looking out his window at his neighbors. They include a ballet dancer, a newlywed couple, a struggling pianist composer, a lonely woman seeking companionship, a couple with a dog, and a sculptor. Also there is Mr. Lars Thorwald (Raymond Burr), a salesman, and his wife Anna.Voyeurism is intoxicating, because (as long as you are unobserved) you can imagine what is actually going on - illustrated by the newlyweds pulling down the blinds of their window, and Steward struggling for words to explain to Kelly about what the couple behind the blinds are doing. But it becomes a matter that we are increasingly urgent as Jeff is aware of what is going on in the lives of those people. In particular the Thorwalds, who are always arguing. One night he hears a woman scream, and wonders who it could be. Then he notices Thorwald acting very methodically (and atypically) in leaving his apartment with his salesman bag at late hours of the night. He slowly concentrates on Thorwald and his movements in his apartment - and the fact that the hitherto bedridden wife is missing. Both Stella and Lisa dismiss this, until they both are unconsciously drawn into watching some of Thorwald's activities themselves, and they start realizing there is something a bit odd.Jeff calls in a war friend of his, Police Detective Thomas Doyle (Wendell Corey) and he to is rather dismissive, but checks into the story. And he finds that everything on the surface seems explicable. But despite occasionally making Stewart and Kelly ashamed of themselves, sooner or later some other business by Thorwald or near his abode reawakens suspicions.The conclusion is memorable for giving Thorwald an opportunity to confront his main prosecutor and demand an ethics answer that just can't be simply answered.Hitchcock appears to have used elements of the Crippen murder for the story - based by the way on a short story by the gifted noir writer Cornell Woolrich. The cast is splendid, not only giving a bravura performance to Steward, but giving Kelly a chance to stretch her acting when in danger, and giving Ritter another one of her wise, wizened women roles. Burr had his best recalled moments on film here - if not his best performance (I still favor his avenging D.A. in A PLACE IN THE SUN). Corey too is the voice of reason and common sense - until the last moments of the film when Stewart finally jars him.One of the finest thrillers ever constructed and filmed by a master director
While Psycho is still my favorite Hitchcock film, this comes very, very close to that. Having only seen the made-for-TV remake starring Christopher Reeves, I was quite excited to see this, as it's referred to by many as one of the(if not the) greatest Hitchcock thriller. Now, while I still prefer Psycho over this, I must say that it's a very well-done and effective mystery-thriller, and most of the second half had me almost biting my nails from suspense. The plot is very good, and its theme appeals to some of the most base instincts, including the tiny little voyeur that we all have. The pace is great, I was never bored during any point of the movie. The acting is great, Stewart and Kelly give excellent performances. The characters are all well-written, credible, and, as they almost always are under Hitchcock's direction; very human. The cinematography is excellent; most of the camera angles are from inside the main character's apartment, which creates a very effective and scary feeling of claustrophobia and adds to the suspense. The mystery keeps you guessing throughout the movie, but the ending seemed a little like a letdown... there's no definite answer to the mystery. Then again, maybe that was Hitchcock's intention... to any true mystery, there is no real answer. And Hitchcock probably wanted to have each viewer make up an answer for him- or herself. The film has some great suspense, and a few of the scenes will have you sitting at the edge of your seat. The ending was very close to being anticlimactic, but it managed to make up for it by having one of the most thrilling and nail-biting endings in a Hitchcock film ever. The main reason I rate Psycho higher than this on a personal scale is that the theme works better there... the killer is more easily understandable, while here he's just... well, sloppy and arrogant, half of the time. That was my one complaint while watching the movie, and it won't bring down my rating, not even a notch, because I'm positive it was the way Hitchcock intended it to be. His characters are always human, and what is more human than failing? I recommend this film to any fan of thriller, mystery and/or Hitchcock. You won't be disappointed. Great film. 10/10


                
