oh my god, i may believe that sun can rise from west but can't believe the position of this movie on IMDb's list of top 250. it doesn't deserve even to be in top 1000. there is no mystery, no thrill. what it does contain is a person just keep looking out of the window all the day to all kind of people. i shall advice all mystery lovers that it can make your mystery taste very sour. one more thing is that a movie directed by alferd hitchcock doesn't guarantee its success. below average for me. all the facts given in this movie are verbal and not practically filmed. whole movie contains buildings with windows.shut the windows on this kind of movie.


                
I have seen 2 other Alfred Hitchcock's movies namely north by northwest and the birds. The first one was not very good but it was good, it had many interesting scenes. But the birds was very well below expectations.The first half was very slow and boring, the scenes where the birds attacked were the only interesting scenes.Coming to The rear window, I expected the movie to be good like Disturbia and it was no way near it. The 1st 30 mins was as boring as it was in the Birds and the 2nd half din make things any better. The movie going at a slow pace till the end of the movie. No suspense, thrills, twists,action nothing. I wonder how it is at IMDb's #17. Only thing i can think of is people liked it very much 50 years ago.Pls don waste ur time in this. Rather watch Disturbia.


                
Hitchcock is obviously one of the best directors, if not the best, of all time, and Stewart is one of the greatest actors. However, they've made over a hundred films between them, and there are a couple of clunkers. This is one. The suspense exists, and mystery, so we are told. However, it is not possible to know this first hand, because no creature on Earth can sit through the movie. This is because it has the worst and most annoying sound effects ever in any movie. Hitchcok certainly wanted the audience to twist and hate the noise, but there is considerable overkill here. A human's nerves can't take this horrible noise and concentrate on what is going on. Even if you sit through it, you don't know what is going on, because you are in way too much pain. Some people insist they can watch it, but it isn't possible without drugs. I wonder what drugs they are taking? A normal person would need two and a half strong Valiums to even begin to sit through this. Not watchable.


                
