This movie was a very influential piece by a very influential man.  They tell me this flick changed the way some things were done in the movie business.  I am told by others that this one is one of the truly best of Hitchcock's, well worth checking out.  I, nevertheless walked into this movie with an open mind.  A mind that quickly got bored.I did like the caught-up-in-the-mystery feeling that flashed through a few scenes.  I did like the famous drawl of James Stewart, and his character's wit throughout.  And I am now interested in reading some of Cornel Woolrich's short stories, from which this screenplay was created.  But still, I was bored.Leaving behind the "importance" of this movie and only commenting on how it affected me, I only give it a four out of ten.  On my personal rating scale that's counted as "not great, not horrible, don't bother."  See it if you must.  It is, after all, one of the talked about films in certain circles. If you have not seen it and end up in one of those circles, rest assured that the person extolling it's genius is most likely paraphrasing a magazine article he or she read last night and is not too sure what they are supposed to think about this one.


                
I had heard a lot about this film so was really looking forward to seeing it. I watched it in the company of my wife and her sister and at the end all three of us felt the same about it as my review below. I found it a huge disappointment - it trundled along at a slow pace and I kept waiting for something to happen which would be thrilling or suspenseful etc - typically Hitchcock. I am still waiting. I kept wondering, if someone is a professional photographer with a massive telephoto lens at his disposal, why did he not take any photographs. Isn't that what voyeurs do? Also, could someone tell me the purpose of the back massages - I am no masseuse but there seemed to be no rhyme or reason to them. This movie was a horrible waste of my time.


                
This movie was decent but had a dry plot that was quite uneventful. If you like movies filled with action or an intelligent storyline than this movie is not for you. Throughout the entire film Jim Stewart moves within a 10 foot radius and the set not exceeding a 50 foot radius. However this movie does contain some suspenseful moments but often end abruptly and without explanation. The storyline is unlikely and far-fetched and some of the actions taken out by the main characters are ridiculous, an example being when Stewarts girlfriend sneaks into the culprits apartment by hopping a fire escape into a two story window. All in all this movie contained some moments that were worth watching, but for the most part i thought it was mediocre at best.
When this film was released, it was a big hit, but much of the reason for that was that Grace Kelly was in it, and she was the darling then. Also, people had not yet grown tired of James Stewart. But the film itself is contrived, artificial, tedious, unconvincing, and silly. Looking back now at the ethereal beauty of Grace Kelly, her perfect face, her perfect dainty profile, her perfect lips as she kisses, and her highly cultivated dreamy look which is meant to convince us that she is in love, it is a bit like remembering that one tried to eat the lace-like sugar ornament on the first wedding cake one encountered as a child: far too sweet, indeed sickly. The outrageous designer dresses and suits worn by Kelly in this film, including a ludicrously flouncy skirt, can perhaps be excused by the period, combined with a director indulging his well-known fantasies. But let's consider the film itself and what is wrong with it. For one thing, it is one of those films set in a single room which directors vainly imagine they can make compelling for the entire length of a film, but so rarely do. Alfred Hitchcock was notorious for preferring always to shoot in controlled studio conditions whenever he could, and would build whole exteriors inside a studio rather than step outside to the real thing where – what was it? – he was afraid of catching cold? No, it was insecurity and the need for control, especially control over those beautiful blonde victim actresses whom he wished to dominate either directly or through story lines. He could not kiss them himself, but he could have other people kiss them and film it. He could also punish them, or even murder them on screen. In this film, Grace Kelly is not killed, though she does have a serious scare. The story is about a press photographer who has broken his leg and is stranded in his small Manhattan apartment with his entire leg in plaster, sitting in a wheelchair by his large rear window. From there, he can spy on his neighbours, at first through binoculars, but later through a telephoto lens attached to his camera. It is summer in Manhattan, apparently August, when everyone in the 1950s was sweating and suffering from the heat, and air conditioners were not yet widespread. All the windows are open, one couple are sleeping at night on a mattress on an outside balcony, and everyone is on view, and one can hear everything and see everything. The photographer is played by James Stewart. He turns into a compulsive Peeping Tom because he is bored and, after all, he is a photographer who is always looking for things anyway. Stewart plays the role in his usual default manner, that of the droll and drawling good fellow. (His acting range was never broadband. He could always be counted on to be the same.) Grace Kelly flies in every evening in some fantasy gown or other to look after him. She professes that she adores him, loves him overwhelmingly, and why cannot they marry. He grumbles and complains both to her and his masseuse Thelma Ritter that Kelly isn't really what he is looking for. Pull the other unbroken leg! Grace Kelly not good enough for him? Try telling that to the public. The whole world was lusting after Grace Kelly at that moment, and tedious, drawling James Stewart wants to find someone better? How can she put up with him is the better question. And yet, this is what Hitchcock would have us believe. But she is having none of it, and will not be disposed of by her boring choice of husband-to-be. Being as well endowed with money as she is with good looks, she goes off to The 21 Club and orders a takeaway dinner for two. It arrives, carried by a man in a red bellhop uniform, and consists of a bottle of chilled Puligny Montrachet (of unimaginable expense in America then, and indeed now) and lobster thermidor. And thus her courtship of her reluctant photographer is carried out. She brings a small overnight bag because she is going to stay with him one night, and from it she pulls something long and silky. Shortly afterwards she emerges from the bedroom dressed in the most outrageous Hollywood floating negligee and strikes a pose in front of Stewart, asking him how he likes it (i.e., how he likes her). He remains indifferent. Surely erotic fantasy is here butting its head against a brick wall. Stewart remains more interested in spying on the neighbours. (Is he gay? What is his problem?) He rolls his jaw around and does a bit of drawling with it from time to time. Are there really no other takers on Kelly's Park Avenue? Must she really keep coming slumming in Lower Manhattan where her adored James Stewart overlooks a motley back yard with different small apartments inhabited by oddballs? (There is the usual irritating bad soprano practising her scales, an all too realistic touch, though we never see her.) Several of the oddballs are overdone, to say the least. The dancing girl in shorts is perhaps the most ridiculous. The story concerns Stewart believing that he may have witnessed the aftermath of a man murdering his invalid wife, cutting her body up and taking it away in stages in a metal suitcase. Everyone ridicules him for imagining this, but Grace Kelly and Thelma Ritter end up believing him and try to collect additional evidence. This lengthy and languid attempt to keep us watching this dreary story is a complete waste of time.


                
This is likely to go down as the least popular user-comment in history, but then so be it. I believe in honesty and freedom of speech. Although universally considered as one of the top three (or maybe top five) best thrillers that Alfred Hitchcock made in his lengthy and undeniably brilliant career, I personally feel that "Rear Window" is the most overrated movie of all times and I sincerely can't fathom why it's such a cinematic landmark. I reckon that the basic plot idea is utmost intriguing and that it's rather inventive how the cameras film literally everything from within the same secluded living room location, but that about sums up all the film's strengths. The narcistic photographer L.B. Jefferies (James Stewart) sits immobilized in his apartment, bound to both a wheelchair and a humongous plaster cast around his leg ever since he took too much risk during a photo shoot on a racetrack. Purely out of boredom, he begins to watch all his neighbors across the little cement garden. The watching quickly turns into observing with binoculars and then into spying with his most professional & strongest photo lenses. He then thinks he witnesses a middle-aged man murdering his wife in cold blood, but a befriended police inspector, his lovely girlfriend and even his nosy housekeeper have trouble believing him. I was particularly annoyed by the behavior and ignorance of the protagonist. Jeff is supposed to be an intelligent person, so he must understand or at least respect that the police can't just go invading someone's private property and interrogate them about a possibly felony for which there isn't any evidence. The entire film evidently revolves on L.B. Jefferies' arrogant persona, and of course it doesn't help that I never really liked the actor James Stewart. I can appreciate him when his characters aren't omnipresent, like in Hitchcock's "Rope" for example, but here he was rapidly getting on my nerves. The other characters, including Grace Kelly who never looked prettier, are downgraded to mere extras. I am also aware that practically every review praises that the powerful impact of "Rear Window" lies in the fact that it's a statement on the human towards voyeurism and blah blah, but to me a film has to be entertaining and plausible first and foremost. "Read Window" along with "Vertigo" and "The Man Who Knew Too Much" made me realize that can't get into Hitch's espionage or 'wrong-man-condemned' thrillers, and that I find his more polished thrillers extremely boring, unrealistic and overrated. I'm primarily a horror fanatic, and thus love the nasty Hitchcock films the most, like "Psycho", "Shadow of a Doubt", "Rope" and "Frenzy".


                
