Rear Window
	Picture this: You're all alone in your apartment, dancing in your underwear when you suddenly stop cold.  The little hairs on the back of your neck stand on end, and you get the feeling that someone is watching you dance the night away through your window.  Well, before you call the cops and tell them you have a peeping tom, why don't you wave at them because your peeping tom just might be...Jimmy Stewart.
	Yes, Jimmy Stewart likes to look through peoples windows when they're in their underwear in the movie `Rear Window'.  And to tell you the truth, he does a pretty good job of it too.  Jimmy played a character named Jeff who was confined to a wheelchair in his apartment as a result of a broken leg. He was perfectly cynical, and his idleness, and curiosity of other people's private world was his downfall.  Jeff was like a stereotypical house wife who gets caught up in their `stories', or soap operas.  Jeff was becoming more and more absorbed in the private worlds outside of his rear window until he was finally sucked into that world in the shocking conclusion. Jimmy Stewart played this character with strength and established Jeff's cynicism, stubbornness and his meddlesome tendencies. 		But the viewer wasn't always paying attention to Jimmy and his paranoia, because there was often times something a little easier on the eyes on the screen.  The beautiful Grace Kelly played opposite of Jimmy Stewart.  Even though her beauty was undeniable, she was more hypnotic than anything else. It was in the way she delivered her lines with such, dare I say, grace.  Her parents weren't kidding when they named her after beauty.
	Hitchcock used his resources to create beauty in every frame that appealed to all five senses and most emotions also.  And even more amazing is how he filmed the whole movie out of the little apartment, and made it both an interesting story which built to a fantastic crescendo, but his cinematic genius was also stimulating to the mind.  Hitchcock created visual metaphors of Maslow's Hierarchy of needs and of basic, raw humanity.  He accomplished this with his set that had a apartment building that symbolized the human state, with the rock bottom sad people in the lower apartments and the happy people in the top floor apartments.  
	Hitchcock's film `Rear Window' had many levels much like his metaphorical apartment building.  And from every angle there was something to appreciate in this movie.  It captured beauty, it captured humanity, it reflected raw and polished life.  `Rear Window' is in every sense of the word `art'.


                
`Rear Window' is an incredible mix of things; mystery, life lessons as lived within the perimeters of various stages of life, and romance. James Stewart portrays Jeff, an ambitious photographer who is temporarily on a wheelchair due to a work related accident. He believes to have witnessed a crime as he watched his neighbors' lives through the rear window of his apartment. The cinematography of Hitchcock's film is deserving of recognition, because it was the largest inside set of the time. The film's setting is inside Jeff's apartment throughout the duration of it, with one exception. Yet every single apartment watched through the apartment's window is so incredibly detailed and thanks to the filming allows the audience to capture all that goes on inside the far off windows. Hitchcock does an amazing job at carefully choosing the stages of life in which every one of Jeff's neighbors is going through. One woman is your typical lone heart; he gives us an aspiring musician, a ballerina, a newlywed couple, as well as a look inside a troubled marriage's apartment. These don't just stand for their clearly stated definitions, but also in a certain way reflect what Jeff's life is like. As he gives marriage a serious thought. Grace Kelly is portraying Lisa Carol Fremont, the woman Jeff is seeing and who represents an opposite of Jeff's character. She is rich and holds a high social status, and also deeply desires a commitment to Jeff. The chemistry created between Lisa and Jeff is reflected very well by the actors. Jeff is almost blinded to see the perfect woman throwing herself at him. The pace Rear Window starts off with is steady, yet seems to drag at about the middle of the film, making it hard for the audience to follow, again towards the end its faster pace is picked up again. This is recovered by the choice of inspirational and dynamic music continually played in the background of the film. Hitchcock demonstrates his geniality and incredible talent by the making of Rear window


                
This is another good thriller of Hitchcock. James Stewart, as usual, was the selection as a leading actor together with the then nice Grace Kelly, always efficient supporting actress Thelma Ritter, a solid acting of Wendell Corey, and the villain Raymond Burr, who later in his career became the famous actor of the detective Perry Mason. The best is that the thriller does not show any particular violent scenes until its end when the wheelchair journalist (Stewart) was caught in his activities by the guilty man (Burr). Notwithstanding with this, the film keeps you always awaiting for a final discovery of the supposed killer. So watching the film you have entertainment, you may see the people's life of 50s, and you enjoy with the plot of the thriller. Film-makers should see how Hitchcock did to delight everyone with a really simple plot.


                
This is one of the best murder mysteries I've seen because of Hitchkock's artistry. Like 12 Angry Men, it's very simple. The simplicity is  used to Hitchkock's advantage. He draws up an intricate murder plot just from one scene. That deserves credit. It's an original and creative way to view a murder story. The acting was also great.


                
Hitchcock was a master of his craft- everyone is aware of that- and his ideas revolutionized and popularized the thriller genre, one of my personal favorites. Skimming through his rich filmography, every addition is fueled by unmatched suspense. This is no different with one of Hitchcock's highly-acclaimed classics, Read Window. The film promises so much potential with its opening act in which the camera is technically the first participant and onlooker as it manages to give us a considerable amount of backstory without any verbal language in its first five minutes or so. It carefully observes a fascinating environment/setting- one in which every neighbor's life is visible through their open windows. The way the set was built and is in appearance is simply genius and (almost) never was the set of a film as crucial to its story and themes as it is here. Right from the get-go, you witness an underlying theme in that this picture conveys the isolated and individualistic nature of neighborhoods in our current world. No one seems to be interested in their neighbors besides Jeff (and he even mentions this in one of his clever lines) so much so that they aren't even concerned about what they're actually partaking in those rooms of theirs; the neighbors are never aware anyways. However, on the opposite side, it can be argued that people in current society are frankly too obsessed with another's conversation or activities. Apparently, we stick our noses in everyone's business, and it can be argued on a political scale as well. We do, in fact, watch our foreign neighbors far too closely with invasive binoculars, and in this manner, Jeff could actually be perceived as the villain of Rear Window in a way. In sum, there are countless perspectives one can judge this film from, occasionally conflicting with one another due to their opposing scopes. Anyways, I can't place my eye on the exact reason, but actors were so much more capable of delivering with a charming character back in those days because the audience immediately recognizes the charisma of the film's protagonist as he daringly speaks out with clever, hilarious, and/or downright convincingly serious lines. His lovable personality is loud and clear with the story's development, and eventually, it's met with the beauty of Grace Kelly's character (Lisa). On a side note, as the intriguing plot progressed, the whole idea undoubtedly reminded me of Disturbia (2007). Moving on, albeit its heavily suspenseful and compelling nature, there were some faults I happened to identify. First of all, did the entire case really mean that much to Jeff to the point where he just couldn't bring himself to yell out when Lisa, his future wife, was endangered by Mr. Thorwald's intimidating and threatening presence? There was a sense of awkwardness in that I was viewing this curious fellow experiencing anxiety with visible sweat pouring down his face though he still continues to watch on as his love nears possible death. In addition, the result of this riveting mystery felt somewhat anticlimactic, and this slightly stemmed from the expectations one usually possesses upon viewing a Hitchcock film for there is usually a twist that shocks and awes the audience towards its end. We never got that from Rear Window as everything was exactly as it seemed. It could've been the main point of the feature, but still, I predicted the garden being the burial spot of the poor woman in the movie's first hour. And if the message of the film was that everything is truly as it seems, then why did another theme intrude the ending where you see a short, fat lover show up at the breathlessly gorgeous model's apartment? There and then, it seemed as if not everything is what it seems; so, already you have two contradictory (possible) themes on your plate. Which one was Hitchcock's actual intention? After all is said and done, Rear Window is a fantastic thriller with a not-as-satisfying end result, but it definitely impressed me the way most Hitchcock films have already. (North by Northwest is definitely next on my list.)
Alfred Hitchcock was one of the greatest film directors during the first half of the twentieth century. His films have become legends in their own right, and have established a style and genre all of their own. the term 'Hitchcockian' is now widely used for a film today where all the elements of a Hitchcock film have been exploited to the highest level. Very few films can break this mould and be truly considered in the same league as some of this great man's work."Rear Window" is probably in the same group as other memorable Hitchcock movies. They are all memorable, of course, but there are one or two classic Hitchcock movies - such as "North By Northwest" and, of course, "Psycho" - that are TRULY memorable. You can tell when a movie is memorable, for example, when "The Simpsons" parody the film in an entire episode - see "Bart Of Darkness", it's very good and very funny.James Stewart is in the lead role, playing L.B.Jeffries, a photo-journalist who has broken his leg and spends his days staring out of his apartment window at all the neighbours. There is a very quiet, but quite apparent fascination here that Hitchcock explores brilliantly. Although it is never mentioned, and it is not strongly suggested, there is an element of something in this movie that helps to give the movie one of its classic Hitchcock themes - exploring taboo subjects very, very slightly. There's the newly-married couple who never seem to get out of bed, the ballet dancer who practises in her underwear, and the sculptor who lives underneath her. With the songwriter in his penthouse apartment providing incidental music, we also have the suicidal and lonely woman who craves the love of another, and the elderly couple who sleep outside on the balcony and use a basket to give their dog some exercise.And then, of course, there's the Thorwalds. Here the main aspect of the plot comes into play. Jeffires becomes convinced that Mr Thorwald (played by Raymond Burr, who would go on to play "Ironside") has murdered his wife and done away with the body. Using his photographic lenses, Jeffires spies on Thorwald, trying to catch a glimpse of anything that will help prove his suspicions.He is helped through this by three individuals. The first is his lover, Lisa Fremont (Played by the beautiful Grace Kelly), a woman who Jeffries believes is too perfect for him. The second is his masseuse and helper from the insurance company, Stella, (Thelma Ritter), who provides some of the funniest lines in the film with her dark, sometimes twisted humour. Finally, and the one who needs the most convincing of all, there's Jeffires' old friend from the air force, Detective Doyle (Wendell Corey). However, his involvement only complicates matters, as he constantly brings out evidence that Mrs Thorwald is not dead, but simply on holiday.The final half-hour or so of the film has quite a few twists and turns. The eventual conclusion, that Thorwald IS a murderer, is something you want to happen. this is another of those Hitchcockian elements. As an viewer you WANT the man to be a murderer, because you are so sure that Jeffries is right, and you yourself get frustrated when he is constantly proved wrong. There is an extremely tense scene at the end of the film involving Jeffries and Thorwald that puts you on the edge of your seat. The use of light in this scene particularly is excellent.This is a very good film, and something to watch either with a loved one or just by yourself. Stewart is excellent and constantly dominates the screen even if he is stuck in a wheelchair for most of the film. Grace Kelly is very talented as an actress, and there are one or two rather daring scenes for the 1950s that show you that Hitchcock was full aware of the changing attitudes towards this sort of thing. I also think that Thelma Ritter deserves a mention, as she holds the film together with her witty comments and is largely ignored by some reviewers.But the real stars are the neighbours of Jeffires. The whole film is shot from the room in Jeffries' apartment, which is in itself a wonderful idea. Whenever we see through that window something new and interesting is happening for each of the neighbours - be it witty, like the newly wed woman who can't seem to get enough, or tragic, like the lonely woman who lives underneath the Thorwalds. The final scene shows Jeffries, not only with two legs broken, but also facing away from the window. He does not need to watch his neighbours any more. this is a nice touch, and it symbolises that all is going to go well for our friend Jeffries. Plus Grace Kelly is on his couch, so that's a bonus as well!
When a professional photographer with a broken leg is forced to sit in his New York apartment all day he can't help but spy on his neighbors. It's his only form of entertainment. It was just purely entertainment until he believes a murder has taken place.The pacing of the movie is fairly slow and the scene never changes. The entire movie took place in the apartment of L.B. Jeffries (James Stewart). Every so often he has his physical therapist, Stella (Thelma Ritter), and his girlfriend, Lisa Fremont (Grace Kelly) to bounce his theories off of. When they get involved in his shenanigans the pace picks up a bit. It's a movie that requires patience but it's worth it in the end.


                
So I just watched this for the first time in years, and as I often tend to nitpick things, I have a few beefs about this film regarding character shortsightedness. First off, who would spy on their neighbors through large uncovered windows with the lights on, allowing whoever is being watched to potentially see you? You would think the guy would try to be a little more covert. He should've at least tried to be more stealthy after he suspected a murder, like any rational person would. Then, after he's discovered, he doesn't anticipate that the killer would come after him next? Most perpetrators want to silence their witnesses. The killer expectedly pays him a visit, and instead of Mr. Snoop grabbing a blunt object and concealing it behind his back, he foolhardily decides to blind the guy with his camera's flash. It's unlikely that an attacker would stop and go, letting him reload film each time. Imagine it were bullets being loaded. Would you wait for someone to shoot you twice? Any normal killer would've went straight at him. Moreover, why didn't the photog just take pictures of what he saw? He's already holding a camera. I guess he got so caught up in all of it that he wasn't thinking wisely. Oh well, this is classic cinema nonetheless.
Even though the whole movie takes places in an apartment, it is fluent and makes you curious about what's going to happen next.The script is written cleverly and as i watched i couldnt see any holes in it.The movie is about stalking and being curious about other human lives.This is an instinct that we all have, we compare ourselves with others and we learn about life as we observe people around us.Hitchcock also wanted to show types of relationships between men and women through the neighbors we see in the movie.For the 1950s, Rear Window is an amazing movie; well written, good acting and sets a foundation to all the movies we've seen so far about spying.
Most of the thriller horror movies are based on Hitchcock's movies.The reason he is considered one of the best directors in the history is that he accomplished the first of many films and inspired others that came after him.Rear Window is a true example for this.(Still feeling bad about the poor dog..WHY)
Rear Window
From an artistic perspective, I thought that this movie was very well done. The colors were vibrant but also showed the dullness that living in an urban environment can have. I also enjoyed the costumes and makeup of all the actors. I found that it reflected the time period well and accurately represented what a middle class person would dress and look like. I also enjoyed the sounds that were incorporated into the film. Throughout the film, birds could be heard or dogs barking and this gave a very open feel to the otherwise closed in feeling of being in a walled in apartment complex. Another very good aspect of the film was the quality of the actors. Throughout the movie, the actors do a very good job of "show don't tell." What I mean by this is that many scenes in the movie do not need the actors telling each other how they feel and it can be read on their faces. An example of this is when Grace comes to the realization that LB's theory that Lars killed his wife may have some truth behind it. You can see the change of expression on her face and without her even saying anything, the audience knows what she is thinking. The film had a very slow and relaxing feel at the beginning which I found interesting because it would be the opposite of what you might feel living in a downtown apartment. At the beginning of the film, the camera pans from apartment to apartment showing the daily lives of the people around LB. This gives us the feeling that we are actually looking through LB's eyes and feeling what he feels. I had a slight sense of loneliness when watching this because I felt that all of this was going on around me but I still felt distant and not a part of it all. I believe this is what Hitchcock was intending when filming this because it allows us to relate more to LB. During this scene, and in many other parts of the movie, it is as if LB is actually in a movie theater watching all of this unfold in front of him. In many scenes, such as the one where Grace breaks into Lars' house, LB must sit back helpless and watch it all take place as with the audience in the theater or the viewers at home. I found this very unique in that I have never experienced this perspective with any other movie I had seen. One thing about the film that can be seen as both a positive and a negative is the fact that there is a very long buildup from the beginning of the film to the climax. Although this can be seen as very important aspect of the story, I found it kind of boring at times and a little slow. There were times that I found myself spacing out and losing focus in the film. While I believe that a large portion of the film was slow, the last half hour of the movie had me on the edge of my seat. When Grace broke into the apartment and when Lars confronted LB were very well done. I felt the suspense that LB felt because we both felt that we were helpless and trapped in our seats.
The 1954 film Rear Window, encompasses the story of L.B. 'Jeff' Jeffries, played by James Stewart, a wheelchair-bound photographer who is injured after a racetrack accident. In his post-recovery, Jeff is confined to his apartment, leading him to watch his neighbors through his "rear window." As a result, Jeff finds alarming discoveries about his neighbors, revealing more about the "ordinary" town. The film begins with the audience's introduction to Jeff, the protagonist of the movie. After an accident, Jeff is bound to a wheelchair and begins to watch his neighbors through his courtyard apartment. As the story progresses, the audience is introduced to various characters of town. Jeff starts to memorize the patterns of each of his neighbors, understanding their day-to-day life and responsibilities. In addition, the audience is introduced to Stella, Jeff's nurse, and Lisa, Jeff's "fiancé." The film shifts after Jeff makes a shocking discovery about the Thorwalds, a couple who lives directly across from Jeff. After previously observing the Thorwalds' complicated relationship with each other, Jeff notices Mrs. Thorwald's disappearance. As Mr. Thorwald becomes increasingly more mysterious and shady, Jeff recruits help from Doyle, a police officer as well as Stella and Lisa. The story progresses, and Jeff develops his theory on Mrs. Thorwald's murder and seeks evidence to affirm his guilt. At the end of the film, Mr. Thorwald's guilt is confirmed when he confronts Jeff, ultimately leading to a fight. As a result, Mr. Thorwald is arrested and faces the repercussions of his actions. Throughout the film, Hitchcock's specific presentation of characters and context adds to the genre of suspense. The audience's ability to grasp the complexity of each character without any dialogue or direct involvement with the main character plays a significant role in establishing suspense. Mr. Thorwald's anonymity to the audience enhances the level of suspense and mystery, as Jeff tries to confirm Mr. Thorwald's guilt in his wife's murder. In addition, I noticed the use of music and time in the film. In more intense scenes, Hitchcock incorporates a darker aesthetic and eerie music, dramatizing the feelings of suspense. This is evident in Director Hitchcock's decisions to have most of the suspenseful moments occur at night. Some of these scenes included Lisa's search of Mr. Thorwald's apartment, the dog's murder, and the confrontation between Mr. Thorwald and Jeff that occurred at the end of the film. In addition, I found it interesting that the entirety of the film took place in Jeff's apartment and was still able to omit a dynamic, thrilling feeling as the audience watches the film. In some cases, filming in one location can negate natural progression and make a movie feel slow. Apart from the shocking plot revelations and the suspenseful scenes, Hitchcock's incorporation of unique camera perspectives and angles demonstrates a unique way to translate film. The utilization of the "three-part POV" and intense zoom-ins, allow Hitchcock to reinvent film in a new, meaningful way. One example of this is Hitchcock's camera angle after Lisa starts to believe Jeff's accusations. The camera zooms in from a lower angle, increasingly getting higher as it zooms closer to Lisa's frightened facial expression. In contrast, this is evident in Hitchcock's decision to incorporate a broader camera angle during intense moments. While Lisa is attempting to collect evidence from Mr. Thorwald's apartment, "Miss Lonelyhearts" attempts suicide simultaneously. In this shot, Hitchcock intensifies the thrilling emotion by closing the blinds in Miss Lonelyhearts' apartment, giving the audience feelings of uncertainty about her fate; all occurring while Lisa is searching Mr. Thorwald's apartment. Since there are several things transpiring, Hitchcock uses a broader camera angle in displaying the content of this scene.
Doyle! I think my neighbor across the courtyard murder his wife! What evidence do I have? I can answer that for Jefferies - a dead dog and a purse. 
When it comes to being the best amatuer detective in the block, Jeffries is the first thing that comes to mind, if you need someone to watch your neighbor day in and day out, he is your guy. 
Jeff (James Stewart) also known as L.B. Jefferies. An amazing photographer turned sleuth when he breaks his leg getting into the middle of a racetrack to take a picture. Stuck in a full leg cast and bound to a wheelchair for several weeks, Jeff finds many ways to entertain himself, like scratching itches on his leg, taking pictures of others while they are unaware, and also watching those same people. He watches his neighbors argue, a pianist play his music, a dancer dance in her underwear, a newlywed couple moving in, and a husband taking care of his bedridden wife. He gets the occasional visit from his nurse/caretaker Stella (Thelma Ritter) a sassy older woman who is a hard worker and tries to convince Jefferies that watching his neighbors is pretty creepy, but he still continues to do so. Stella also talks to Jeff about his girlfriend, Lisa (Grace Kelly) a fashionista socialite, who Stella believes is just the right girl for Jeff and is very much in love with him and that Jeff should marry her. However, Jeff believes he has too much of a rough and tough lifestyle, where you can only have one suitcase, and that's not the life he would want to give Lisa. Sorry to break it to you Jefferies, but Lisa isn't the only one who can change themself *cough Jefferies cough*. Moving on in the movie, we see Jefferies neighbor, Mr. Thorwald (Raymond Burr) across the way acting somewhat somewhat suspicious one night, and Jefferies decides to make Thorwald his next person to peep on, after the girl who dances in her underwear everyday. Jefferies then uses his old timey war connections to get his friend Detective Doyle (Wendell Corey) to help him with this case, even though Doyle does not see much of a case, he still entertains Jefferies by checking out Mr. Thorwald and his suspicious behavior, while our peeping tom continues to peep his eyes away. After seeing other suspicious behavior from Mr. Thorwald like wrapping up large knives, packing up all of his wife's belongings, wrapping up his mattress, and the straw that broke the camel's back (or should we say Jefferies leg) a dead dog near Mr. Thorwald's garden. After noticing this Jefferies decides to send his small army of Lisa and Stella to harass Mr.Thorwald and snoop around to find some hard and tangible evidence. During this time Lisa sees an opportunity to sneak into Mr. Thorwald's home to grab some more hard evidence, and she does it alone because she's a risk taker. In the end, Lisa almost gets assaulted, gets arrested, but gets out of jail in the end. Mr. Thorwald realizes that Jefferies has been watching him the whole time, and decides to give Jefferies what he deserves, after all he is a peeping tom. In the end Mr. Thorwald confesses to murdering his wife and everyone lives happily ever after. 
This movie is filled a lot of suspense but not a lot of twists and turns. This movie didn't really wow me, it was good, but not the best movie I have ever seen. When I hear the name Alfred Hitchcock I expect a lot and I was kind of disappointed. This movie came of to me as a peeping tom who gets caught up in something bigger than him, but it alls works out in his favor. His girlfriend has to change herself (unknowingly) so that in the end he realizes she's the one and he's ready to settle down. Maybe it's because I'm from a different generation, but this movie did not really have me on the edge of my seat, it had me laughing. All the cliches of movies from that era shined through, and I think Hitchcock could have done better.
From cinemas leading auteur, Alfred Hitchcock comes the story of L.B. Jefferies, a photography who has been bound to a wheelchair after getting in the middle of a race car crash and now spends his days spying on the neighbours. One day the curious Jefferies begins to notice something isn't quite right with his neighbours the Thorwarld's and thus begins an investigation in search of the truth. It's a classic Hitchcock suspense thriller that plays on the themes of paranoia and voyeurism ans not only deals with issues behind other peoples closed doors but also talks of the voyeurism associated with cinema going.The film keeps you guessing as the suspected crime remains just that, suspected. What unravels is an ambiguous psychological mystery for the most part as we are lead to question whether a crime has actually been committed or is Jefferies simply fixating on little things and trying to make his own narrative from them. As I previously stated if we step back and point the finger at ourselves and see what Hitchcock is saying about us, the viewer and our attempts to piece together the plots of peoples lives be it in real life or magnified on a cinema screen.The film, like Jefferies, not only fixates on the the Thornwald's but also shows follows the lives of the other, rather eccentric neighbours, such as the fire escape couple and Miss Lonely hearts and the songwriter. These stories are intriguing as they seem to remain rather realistic as in little transpires in their lives over the course of the film with a few exceptions, but somehow you find yourself intrigued by their lives despite of the seemingly eventfulness of their home lives. This again speaks to the voyeurs in the audience, which it appears I am one of.Overall, Rear Window is a contained film (pun intended) that conveys an intriguing message about voyeurism and cinema going. It's interesting to see as one of Hitchcock's essentials as that in itself could begin a debate of whether that is accurate but I think I'll just leave it here.
Once again, Hitchcock is effortless in his pacing and virtue to the philosophy of an advantaged and privileged victim. Unfortunately and disappointingly, the film is often slow-moving and unlike others in the Hitchcock canon, the slow-mounting tension and thrill of the chase is often rendered monotonous. Nevertheless it is enjoyable and incredibly taut, the paranoid and claustrophobic tension is eased by the glistening of Grace Kelly and the ridiculously dry wit in the back and forth between Thelma Ritter and James Stewart. Definitely worth a watch and a necessity for any Hitchcock collection - the imagery and pace are both really unique to Hitchcock's style but are more on show in Rear Window.


                
What makes Alfred Hitchcock the renowned director was how he created so much out of so little, precisely the hook of the direction and plot that snagged me on this voyeuristic thriller. Ever suspected the worst out of your neighbor? Enjoy the slow burn in taking your suspicions a few steps further through wheelchair bound L.B. Jeffries (James Stewart), paralyzed to somehow convince his visitors of his hunches. His high class girl, Lisa Freemont (Grace Kelley), and nurse maid (Thelma Ritter) eventually bite, but only after putting up good comical and smart arguments. Logic wins out but, who is really culpable on these torrid NYC nights, where indiscretions, entertainment and suspicions all play out through your window?


                
Photo-journalist L.B. Jefferies is recovering from a broken leg. Bored, he spends his time looking out his apartment window at the neighbours, and begins to suspect the salesman across the way of murdering his wife. Is he imagining things, or is there some foul play ?As with so many of Hitchcock's films, this is a wonderful example of how to take an almost absurdly simple idea and spin out the maximum tension, character, humour and drama from it. It should be boring (a movie set in one room with a guy who can't move) and ludicrous (a killer who murders his wife and chops her up in front of his neighbours) but it's quite the opposite - riveting and eerily plausible. If ever there was a film about voyeurism and its relationship to cinema, this is it; Hitchcock tells engrossing little silent movies of the tenants (the newlyweds, the sculptress, Miss Torso, the dog-owners, the killer, the songwriter, Miss Lonelyhearts) without ever cheating and cutting to closeups of them - we see them all remotely, from Stewart's detached and aloof point of view. It's a masterpiece of editing, which builds and builds into a nail-biting final reel, with our hero sitting helplessly alone in the dark while the killer closes in. Stewart is wonderful as always as the sardonic prisoner, and is the only leading man not to fawn over Kelly, resulting in her best performance, while Ritter steals the show as Stewart's wisecracking nurse. Equally fabulous is the production design - contrary to appearances, the whole backyard neighbourhood was a very elaborate set on the Paramount backlot, one of the most memorable in any movie. An extremely influential picture, particularly on the career of Brian DePalma (see Body Double), with the helpless-witness motif appearing in many fine subsequent thrillers (Wait Until Dark, The Bird With The Crystal Plumage, Panic Room, etc), and a watershed of stylish, intelligent direction. Remade for TV by ABC in 1998 with Christopher Reeve in the lead. Based on a short story by Cornell Woolrich and deftly scripted by John Michael Hayes, who wrote Hitch's three subsequent films (notably the sublime The Trouble With Harry). Hitchcock appears in his standard cameo as the guy winding the clock in the songwriter's loft.
Rear window is one of the best movies ever made. Jeffries a photographer that broke his leg starts looking out of his window to pass the time, after a while he starts to notice some odd happenings throughout one of his neighbors that lead him to the conclusion of murder. The suspense keeps you on the edge of your seat to the very end constantly wondering what happens next. This is by far one of director Alfred Hitchcocks greatest work and helps justify the saying that he is the master of suspense. The acting is perfect and character creation is flawless. One flaw might be that people nowadays might not enjoy it as much because the film is not as fast paced as the movies today. although it may not stand up to the hype of films now it has a perfect story which the movies nowadays cannot seem to create. I greatly suggest watching rear window it deserves more than it ever got.


                
After my third viewing of the film over a span of 20 odd years, I went beyond appreciating the cinematic challenges that Hitchcock sets for himself to overcome. For instance, I was not appreciating that this film is one of the rare instances in cinema where all the sounds are "diegetic"<U+0097> recorded on the soundtrack.are sounds from within the visual world captured by the camera. After the earlier viewings, I was no longer intrigued by the amoral perspective of the voyeur, represented by L.B. Jefferies (James Stewart), the good, average American bachelor with a robust, modest, creative career and a rich doting girl friend, Lisa, trying to rope him into marriage. No longer was blending of the viewer's perspective and that of Jefferies' perspective a major feat of Hitchcock.My third viewing threw up new perspectives of the film because I had now got to see over 20 Hitchcock films.First, "Rear window" is one of the rare films of Hitchcock where women emerge smarter and stronger than men<U+0097>the last scene has the hero with two legs in a cast and his lady love switching reading material to what she prefers to read over what the hero would prefer her to read, even though for the first time she has switched to trousers to humor her future husband's vision of his kind of wife. Similar ends were obvious in "Family Plot," "Spellbound," "Rebecca" and, by inference of the final choice, in "Marnie." The final shot in "Rear window" is a sexual reversal of the final shot of "Mr and Mrs Smith." Second, "Rear window" is yet another film on marriage<U+0097>a recurring theme in Hitchcock's films. Jefferies and Lisa do not tie the knot but the end inferred this would eventually happen. But the switching of the reading material gives the viewer a clue who among the duo would rule the marriage. In another perspective on marriage, within the film a husband kills his wife. A wedding ring is stolen of all objects. Other perspectives in the film reflect on the sex in marriage and another looks at a woman dreaming of a virtual husband, a dream to which Jefferies involuntarily raises his own glass! Third, this is a film on photographers, photography and voyeurs. Only the photographer looks out of the window, when all have windows open, except when a dog or housebreak is involved. Many years after Hitchcock made the film, the Polish director Krystof Kiesolwski in his "Dekalog no. 6" explored the same theme with astonishing results. Recently, Austrian filmmaker Michael Hanneke's "Cache" presented videos of an anonymous voyeur as the pivotal essay on racial interaction. All the three films infer that the crime is in watching other people commit crime. The watcher and the watched emerge as flip sides of an individual or alter egos.


                
Great Film, One of Hitchcock's best, great original storyline and great use of location. The film is set in one location throughout the whole film. Rarely you find a film based in one location. A true genius at work, you cringe through the film wanting to know what really happened?? The 50th anniversary restoration looks great. The film contains sexual references and is rated PG. Love this film, very different to a lot of Hitchcock's films, the master of suspense is at his usual work but doesn't have the same thrills as other films. Definitely a film to see and you will not be bored, put it on your to do list. A film that you must see.


                
I found Rear Window, on the whole, very interesting. However I think the end was pretty... well... stupid. Disapointly, really. People say "it isn't about the mystery, it's about the relationships" etc. I suppose with a Hitchcock movie, you really expect a thrilling mystery. Of course I found it entertaining, but just a let down. Jimmy Stewart nails the role of the injured photographer, and Grace Kelly is very good too as the rich girlfriend. It's all very simple and well done and does Definitely keep your attention. I did like Rear Window (and Grace Kelly's fashions). It's a very good film.. perhaps a bit overrated, though. Just the ending... a bit of a let down. :(


                
`Rear Window' is a great movie, if the viewer is into more drawn out plots. If they are only into movies that catch their attention quickly, this is not the movie for them. This film had a very unique set.  The entire movie is filmed in an indoor set.  It also is filmed so that everything is inside the apartment of the main character.  Things happen outside, but all of the camera angles are simply looking out the window.When compared to most movies, `Rear Window' is very good.  The only time this movie does not `measure up' is when compared to `Psycho', Hitchcock's more notable movie.  The Master of Suspense didn't really live up to his name in this movie.  This is supposed to be a suspenseful movie, but comparatively, it is not suspenseful at all.  Though good camera angles, and good music selection, did help things along, it did not seem to have the Alfred Hitchcock touch.Overall, this reviewer gives this movie a seven out of ten.  It is good if you have the attention span for drawn out movies.  But if the viewer is looking for `entertain me, quick' they are looking at the wrong movie.


                
Alfred Hitchcock's masterpiece `Rear Window,' was something a bit different for the time. Known as the master of suspense, Hitchcock, used camera angles, plot structure and an overall atmosphere to give a sense that you're in the movie. `Rear Window' was filmed on only one set and in one room making this movie truly unique. This movie stars James Stewart as L.B. `Jeff' Jeffries, Grace Kelly as Lisa Fremont, Wendell Corey as Lt. Thomas Doyle and Thelma Ritter as Stella. All of who give a wonderful performance and gibe the story life. Jeff, who is the main character in the movie, is a professional photographer who travels the world and is unfortunately stuck inside his apartment because of a broken leg hi had received. This film is viewed from his prospective as he views his neighborhood and his fellow neighbors. Hitchcock's choice of music was very interesting for this film because there is none, or at least no official sound track. All music that was used in the film was from his near by neighbors, or music playing on the street, which in turn was in sync with what was going on. This films battles a lot of controversy over ethics and morals as James Stewart `peeps' out his windows of his apartment, is it okay? Is it wrong? Although Hitchcock is known for his fantastic horror movies, this is a great mystery movie to watch. Hitchcock did a great job casting this film, James Stewart was a perfect choice, because many viewers at the time felt like they could identify with him. This film really gets you hooked and making you ask what exactly is next. I give it 8.5 out of 10 stars, for the spectacular work put into making the set of `Rear Window' and also the great job the performers and Hitchcock putting together this movie.


                
This is one of only two Hitchcock movies that I recommend to anyone, film buff or otherwise.  Hitchcock's method has lost its edge in the last half-century thanks to a fleet of imitators (Spielberg included) and advancements in other techniques that have created visions into the world of film.This is one prototype vision.  This is your only spoiler warning...The world here is skewered, much like 'Truman Show'.  Whereas Weir wanted reality in disguise, this is plain reality looking fake.  Varying detail is spread over everything, causing the effect to less look authentic than 'West Side Story'.  This almost resembles 'Streetcar'.Here is where Hitchcock separates the film world from the stage world.  This movie is only a freak mutation of both that uses Stewart as the stationary viewer.  We watch Stewart.  We know Stewart has a flat persona that's been continuously belted since 'Mr. Smith'.The plot is ridiculously simple by today's standards and the photography is lethargic, but Hitchcock has another element...Kelly.  She makes the movie flow, not Stewart, and when the culprit is caught, she is the winner.  And so are we.  Hitchcock made a mistake by using Hedren in 'Birds'.The other Hitchcock is, of course, 'Psycho'.Final Analysis = = Learn from this...
I love Hitchcock's 'North by Northwest' and 'Notorious', so I thought I'd enjoy Rear Window since it's his highest ranked film on IMDb. I thought wrong. As a matter of fact I think this film was just a tab above average, and definitely not as good as the two other films mentioned above. My main beef with Rear Window is that there was simply not enough condemning evidence before the dog got killed to suspect a man of possibly committing murder.First of all, I didn't think it's too out of ordinary for a jewelry dealer to go out at night. He might be doing business with someone only available at night, and he might have forgotten to bring a few things that the buyer wanted so he came back a couple of times. Maybe he had a argument with his wife and went out a couple of times to clear his mind because he couldn't sleep. Maybe he was smuggling drugs this one time or some other illegal merchandise, and as bad as this is that's still not murder! The possibilities are simply endless.Second of all, I have knives and saws in my house, and if I'm moving I'd certainly pack everything. Does that make me a murderer if a neighbor should see me packing these things? I wouldn't write this if I am. I think it's quite ridiculous to suspect the husband of CUTTING UP HIS WIFE'S CORPSE simply because he was packing up his knives and saws for relocation.I have a problem with the purse as well. How in heck did Jeff and Lisa come to the conclusion that the purse they saw was the wife's favorite? My mom's got more than one purse, and she never takes all of them wherever she goes. And how are they so sure that the ring was the wife's wedding band? I bet neither of them had met the wife in person let alone taking notice of her ring.Lastly, if I was the neighbor, I would laugh off Jeff's accusation, and tell him to get a real hobby 'cause he's got nothing on me. Instead the neighbor freaks out even though he was cool as a cucumber while disposing of his wife's remains.With all this said, I think the overall plot really fall apart due to these holes. But I did like the concept of Rear Windows. I thought it was really clever how Jeff used his photos to conclude that the flower bed was disturbed, and I enjoyed the suspense when the two women went sleuthing while Jeff watched for the neighbor. I just think there should be more condemning evidence planted to make this film more believable.All in all: 7/10


                
Has everybody gone crazy?! I mean, this is a great movie (good acting and use of the camera) but it's no way 8.8/10! So just because the Simpsons remade it in one episode (which by the way they do with every movie) and also 'cause it's a classic, it should be this high on the top 250?! There's at least a hundred movies ahead of this one. This is the perfect example of the boys band theory... ...it's over-rated by one person so everybody exaggerates? And by the way this ain't a question of taste 'cause anyway I'm a hundred percent with the other quotes (exept maybe "Casino"). Finally, I'm sure Hitchcock would also be surprised that this is his most acclaimed movie.N.B : I really like the movie, but it's no 8.8/10...


                
