This is the quintessential Hitchcock flick, easy to understand, addictively interesting, featuring great stars (Grace Kelly and James Stewart), familiar bit players (Thelma Ritter in one of her best roles as Stewart's talkative nurse), and a kind of almost imperceptible satire on the human animal. In this case, Hitchcock has glorious fun displaying a whole range of human behaviors through the device of watching them through a Greenwich Village rear window before the age of air conditioners when everyone had to leave their windows open (and some even slept on the fire escape–I've done that) to cope with the appalling heat and humidity during an eastern seaboard heatwave.James Stewart stars as L.B. Jeffries, an adventurerous photographer who has a broken leg and is confined to his apartment in a cast while it heals. Bored beyond belief, he becomes a voyeur of his neighbors. Meanwhile there is his girlfriend, none other than Grace Kelly playing a "too perfect" socialite intent on winning his heart and soul. Trouble is Jeff worries that it won't work out, that they are essentially incompatible, she a socialite, who always goes first class, he a roughing it man of the world comfortable with second class accommodations. Naturally the audience (me!) finds it incredible that he isn't madly in love with her.Raymond Burr (long TV's Perry Mason) in gray hair and specks has an interesting role as Lars Thorwald, seen almost entirely from a distance across the courtyard doing very suspicious things with knives and suitcases and mysterious comings and goings in the middle of the night. Bored voyeurs wonder what is going on. There is some light romantic play between Stewart and Kelly, but it is decidedly secondary to the voyeuristic adventures seen through the rear window: the saga of Miss Lonelyhearts, the ardor of the newlyweds, the angst of the songwriter, the exhibitionism of the dancing beauty, the pampered dog in a basket, and Thorwald and his invalid and then missing wife. Hitchcock's America at midcentury. Each of the little stories within the story has a plot and a resolution: Miss Lonelyhearts finds her man. The songwriter finds somebody who appreciates his work. Dancing beauty's man (looking from a distance a little like Woody Allen in an army uniform) returns. The groom seeks a break from his exhaustive marital duties, etc. Hitchcock's sense of satire has the softest touch, which is why, I think, he is so beloved. In the final scene Grace Kelly, finding her man asleep, puts down the adventure book she is reading (for his benefit) and picks up Harper's Bazaar to check the fashions. One gets the sense of future marital bliss and especially, marital reality.There is some tension and some mystery, but nothing too strenuous for little old ladies from Pasadena, and nothing to offend anybody and nothing too graphic. You can see this with the kids and your maiden aunt and all will find it interesting. See it for Thelma Ritter, the sadonic character actress of many films, most notably this and All About Eve (1950).(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it at Amazon!)
Spoilers herein.I just don't like Hitchcock. I admit that he `delivered value' in his day, but as I review his films today, I find them trite, badly dated. The style of acting he used now looks `actorly.' His camera framing is well considered but unimaginative by today's standards. The stories are not engaging (to me).But this film really is a classic. Not because of the acting or the dialog, but because it was so cleverly conceived. And because the execution is so purely cinematic.The first problem a writer/director faces is what stance the camera takes. Is it a fairly static `audience' as if you were watching a play? Is it godlike in always seeing things from the best perspective, though sometimes humanly impossible? Is it a character? Or does it follow a character sometime showing their point of view, sometimes their reaction? Does it act?Do we admit the camera exists -- by introducing jiggle, or showing operator's functions like focusing, developing? Do we dissolve the camera's perspective by juggling time or perspectives? Do we try a `100 simultaneous cameras' approach?Hitchcock usually uses the static theatrical approach -- way too much for modern tastes. He punctuates this by sometimes doing a character focused shot, and sometimes a spectacular-for-the-time godshot -- as in the `Psycho' shower scene.But this film is more purely conceived for the camera. There are no godshots. Nearly all the camerawork is from Jeff's eye, or of Jeff's apartment, with a few notable exceptions. What is novel is why this works -- the set and entire story were composed backwards. That is, instead of having some slice of life that the camera discovers, this reality exists as if it were created by the camera before the action starts. Everything that is required to motivate the world is comprehensible from that apartment -- the entire physics of this world is based on its center.In other words, Hitchcock's achievement here is not how he accommodates the camera to the world, but the world to the camera.Pure genius.
Alfred Hitchcock awesome intrigue/comedy in which a magazine photographer seeks diversion in watching his neighbors , often with a telephoto lens and binoculars , discovering a possible murder . Thrilling flick with funny moments , nice acting , adequate settings and funny dialogue . The tale is ordinary Hitchcock fare that plays and preys the senses . It involves a bewildered as well as hapless wheelchair bound photographer (James Stewart) because of a broken leg who spies on his neighbours from his apartment window and becomes convinced one of them (Raymond Burr) has committed murder his spouse and dismembered the body . The photographer soon enlists the help of his high society fashion-consultant sweetheart named Lisa Freemont (Grace Kelly), his visiting nurse called Stella (Thelma Ritter) and a Detective (Wendell Corey) to investigate the weird deeds .This agreeable and often hilarious picture from master of suspense has a memorable scene after another and was one of the main Alfred Hitchcock films made for Paramount . In fact , at the time the set was the largest indoor set built at Paramount Studios . The entire picture was shot on one set, which required months of planning and construction . The film was shot quickly on the heels of Dial M for murder (1954), November 27 1953-February 26 1954 . Alfred Hitchcock's movies have become famous for a number of elements and special iconography : vertiginous height , blonde bombshells , voyeurism , long non-dialogue sequences , a matter of mistaken identity etc . This charming as well as inventive mystery movie has these particularities ; furthermore contains a fun intrigue , amusing situations and keeps the action at feverish pitch . The first part of this production is slow and artificial ; however , the rest of this suspense picture takes off at high speed . Interesting and intriguing screenplay adapted by John Michael Hayes based on a story by Cornell Woolrich . Screenwriter John Michael Hayes based Lisa on his own wife, who'd been a professional fashion model when they married . The original story by Cornell Woolrich had no love story and no additional neighbors for L.B. Jeffries to spy on, and those elements were created by Alfred Hitchcock and John Michael Hayes . Alfred Hitchcock's movies were known for featuring famous landmarks and he also was known for making his actors follow the script to the word, and in this movie the characters use their dialogue taken from an engaging as well as fun script . Very good acting by the great James Stewart as as a photographer who soon becomes convinced that one neighbor has killed his wife and Grace Kelly as gorgeous and elegant girlfriend , both of them make a marvelous duo . Grace Kelly made three of her eleven films with Hitchcock; this film, as well as Catch to a thief (1955) and Dial M for murder (1954), but Rear window film was thought of as the best . Excellent support cast such as Thelma Ritter , Wendell Corey , Kathryn Grant , Frank Cady and Raymond Burr . And of course , Hitch cameo , about a half hour into the film, winding the clock in the songwriter's apartment. Colorful and glimmer cinematography in Vistavision by Robert Burks , Alfred's ordinary cameraman , showing nice images from studio . The film negative was considerably damaged as a result of color dye fading as early as the 1960s , nearly all of the yellow image dyes had faded out. Despite fears that the film had been irrevocably damaged, preservation experts were able to restore the film nearly to its original coloration . Rousing as well as atmospheric score by the classic composer Franz Waxman .The motion picture was stunningly directed by maestro of thriller Alfred Hitchcock . The film was unavailable for decades because its rights were bought back by Alfred Hitchcock and left as part of his legacy to his daughter. They've been known for long as the infamous "Five Lost Hitchcocks" among film buffs, and were re-released in theatres around 1984 after a 30-year absence. The others are The Man Who Knew Too Much (1956), The rope (1948), trouble with Harry (1955), and Vértigo (1958). This essential and fundamental Hitchcock will keep fascinated and thrilling right up until the edge-of-your-seat climax . And the American Film Institute ranked this as the #48 Greatest Movie of All Time and ranked #3 on the American Film Institute's list of the 10 greatest films in the genre "Mystery" in June 2008.


                
As far as I know, this is a huge favorite with older folks. Kids of today would be bored to death with this famous Alfred Hitchcock film. I went on a bit of a roller-coaster ride myself regarding how I viewed this movie. When I first saw it on the big screen as a kid, I was fascinated and almost terrified at the end. Years later, watching it twice within five years on VHS, I found it boring with Grace Kelly's dialog annoyingly corny and dated. Recently I viewed it again - a fourth try - and absolutely loved it. Next to Psycho, it's now my favorite Hitchcock film.Yeah, it's still dated quite a bit, and, in future viewings, I might fast-forward through a couple of talky parts with Kelly or Thelma Ritter. I would prefer to stick with the focus of the story, namely Stewart's voyeurism and suspicions of what is going on in Raymond Burr's apartment. That storyline is entertaining and builds tremendous suspense. Stewart is usually fun to listen to, anyway. Kelly is there for looks.Speaking of dated, can you imagine all the people in the apartments keeping their blinds open all the time, and Stewart keeping his door unlocked all the time as well, and people entering without bothering to knock first? True, it was more trusting and safer world back then, but it couldn't have been THAT transparent and trusting. Give me a break! Yet, credibility aside, it's so involving and fun to watch that who cares if doesn't make a lot of sense?


                
Rear Window is considered one of Hitchcock's classics, and is probably Jimmy Stewart's most famous Hitchcock Role.  Stewart plays an adventure-seeking photographer who is laid up for seven weeks in his apartment with a broken leg.  During this time, he has become vicariously involved with his neighbors; looking out his rear windows and following their lives.  As the final week of his incapacity begins, he begins to suspect that one of his neighbors has killed his wife, and pretty soon his girlfriend (Grace Kelly) and nurse (Thelma Ritter) realize that he may be right.I seem to get more out of Rear Window the older I get <U+0096> there are subtleties to the relationship, and to the lives of the other apartment dwellers that I catch as an adult, and didn't when I was younger.  One thing that has remained a constant however is the methodical pacing and the slow tension that builds up to outright terror.  I get just as tense and nervous during the last ten minutes of the film as a 30 year old as I did when I first saw the film at age 10.  It is only as I got older that I realized the helplessness of Stewart's character, and how important that element was to the plot along with its contribution to the uneasiness of the film.I've heard more than once that people have been bored during this film <U+0096> of course, that is an opinion and cannot be judged, but I find it hard to relate to that, as I believe that even without the elements of suspense, Rear Window still makes a great story and film:  Which is just one of the many reasons it remains one of my favorite Hitchcock films to this day.--Shelly


                
Exceptionally likable movie about a desperate killer and his secret murder, yet also one about the bond of friendships and the camaraderie which arises in the face of exciting danger. Photographer James Stewart, laid up with a broken leg, gets to know the neighbors in his housing complex--by watching them all day out his back window (it's a sticky hot summer and everyone has their lashes up). This Alfred Hitchcock thriller gets off on the wrong foot by introducing Stewart's love-interest, Grace Kelly, rather clumsily. Kelly is supposed to look out of place in Stewart's rumpled apartment, with her designer dresses and Park Ave. manner, and we're meant to see that they are possibly an inappropriate match; however, Kelly's character wounds too easily, and the argument that ensues between she and Stewart isn't convincing. Luckily, she's allowed to warm up soon after, and she's wonderful when teamed with Thelma Ritter as Stewart's sharp little nursemaid. Ritter, in one of her best roles, keeps score on all that's going on and soon all three are involved in some mysterious doings happening across the courtyard. Dandy yarn has one of the most satisfying wrap-ups for a Hitchcock picture, and three fine actors who really get into these roles. It's squirrelly and suspenseful, quite amiable and masterfully done. ***1/2 from ****


                
I have always been a huge fan of Hitchcok, after 1st seeing Dial M for Murder. Rear Window was probably the 2nd film of his I ever saw. I have since seen it probably 5-7 times and it never fails to keep my interest or cause me to see some new detail I missed before. I think that is the true measure of a Classic or Masterpiece, and this one certainly delivers! There are so many things going on in this movie, but most reviewers have touched on all of these so I won't add to them. But the plot is so superb in its layers of conflict, and studies in personalities of Stewart, Kelly, and all the neighbors. It is probably the best film for observing human nature at its many forms.I never realized how massive the set was until I dug a little further. They actually constructed the massive building in one sound stage. All the apartments in Burr's building had running water and electricity and could actually be lived in. Talk about realism and going the extra mile - but Hitchcock was all about that. All along I had assumed they had pieced the different scenes together to look like one building. At the time, it was the largest indoor set ever built by Paramount. While some may find the action a little slow as everything is filmed from the viewpoint of Stewart's apartment window, I find it amazing that the movie still creates such tension and suspense in spite of this.I think it is interesting that Spielberg is facing a lawsuit for his movie Disturbia which claims that it is basically a re-working of Rear Window. Why would anyone even attempt another telling of Hitchcock's perfectly done masterpiece, and especially without permission (even if your last name IS Spielberg)?


                
I'm quite frustrated having watched this one. I'll get to that later...Rear Window is about Jeffries, a photographer for a magazine in a kind of half-way house (Or maybe it's his own place) after an accident broke his leg. With nothing to do all day he stares out the window onto the courtyard and watches his neighbours' various lives. However, after a while one of them seems to go missing and her husband seems suspicious in his behaviour, so Jeffries decides he must have killed her. The rest of the movie sees Jeffries bringing his girlfriend and nurse in on the paranoia, as well as a detective friend he has.The acting is terrific, no 2 ways about it. Superb, witty dialogue which exudes intelligence handled charismatically by all players. They truly suck us into their world, as the incredibly claustrophobic direction does. The cinematography is amazingly effective given the movie is set in one room, and makes the viewer as involved in the story as any movie I've seen. Hitchcock does a fine job here.Moreover the plot itself is utterly gripping, and, not surprisingly, suspenseful, and all 3 factors combine to give it all a level of charm which really smarts.SPOILER>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>The film just 'ends'. There's no twist, no plot, no explanation, nothing. What they suspected was the truth. The end. And this is what frustrates me about the movie.SPOILER>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>It's a fine piece of cinema, but ultimately because of the reason I state in the spoiler, it's a bit hollow.
Generally considered one of the best of all time, "Rear Window" is a very simple story filmed in the Hitchcock manner to provide suspense.  I rate it "8" of 10.  Jeff (Jimmy Stewart) is a world-traveling photographer confined for several weeks to his Greenwich Village apartment by a broken leg and cast up to the hip. He soon spends all his waking hours watching his apartment neighbors across the courtyard through his rear window, using binoculars and the telephoto lens and camera. Eye-candy is provided by 25-year-old Grace Kelly, in the same year she made "Dial M for Murder", and only a few years before she became Grace of Monaco. (Current starlet Julie Bowen of TV series "Ed" looks amazingly like Grace Kelly).As Jeff watched neighbors, he becomes suspicious of one (Raymond Burr), a salesman with a wheelchair-bound wife who disappears suddenly on a rainy night. Clues he pieces together from his voyerism convinces him that she was murdered.  The police help only reluctantly, and Kelly actually goes into Burr's apartment at one point, is caught, is threatened, until police show up.  Burr in the final scene tries to throw Stewart out the window, is nabbed, Stewart falls, and the very final scene shows him in casts on both legs!To accurately rate a film you have to compare it not only to what came out during the same era, but also everything since. With that criteria, I don't believe "Rear Window" is one of the best of all time.  Still, a pretty good flick.
"Rear Window" is an excellent thriller by the master of suspense, Alfred Hitchcock. All throughout the film, the audience becomes a willing accomplice to a peeping tom. The audience watches the main character's neighbors right alongside the main character. L.B. "Jeff" Jeffries (Jimmy Stewart) is confined to a wheelchair due to a bad accident in which Jeffries nearly lost his life. It was a car accident, occurring as Jeffries tries to get a picture of a car racing, but the race car ends up coming apart just as Jeffries takes his picture. Needless to say, Jeffries gets injured and his camera gets broken. He has broken his leg, preventing him from being able to get out of his apartment. These days, when that happens, someone might take to spending their time watching television. However, this film takes place in the 50's, when television was just coming into it's own. As a matter of fact, at the time, advertising companies generally were not agreeing with their clients as to whether or not to advertise on television. The advertising companies thought television was doomed. Hence we have the reason why Jeffries ends up spending his time watching the neighbors. He has nothing else to do. He makes up his own name for each of them. There is a woman he calls Miss Torso, who dances all the time. There is Miss Lonelyhearts , who cries herself to sleep every night. Then there is the traveling salesman, who Jeffries becomes very concerned about. Turns out the salesman's wife is bed-ridden. Then why is no one paying attention to her? Why is it the salesman is wrapping such bizarre things as knives, and in newspaper? The film is centered around this mystery, and the audience becomes a peeping tom themselves as they try to unravel the mystery alongside Jeffries. What I am trying to point out here is that the film is entertaining, but, like all Hitchcock films, it requires a different sort of attention span than a modern day film does. Sure, the film is about the same length as modern films usually are, but modern films have to have something exciting happen often, something usually in which the main character's life is threatened. Take for example "I Robot." The character played by Will Smith cannot go more than twenty minutes before he has problems with the androids in that movie. Unlike "I Robot" "Rear Window" has the ability to just focus on the mystery and the development of the characters it has. This is not to say that the film is not interesting. Trying to unravel the mystery to "Rear Window" is fun, even though it means becoming a neighborhood watchdog like Jeffries. Also, considering the year the film was made, the portrayal of the woman in the film is somewhat sympathetic, like in other Hitchcock classics including "The Man Who Knew too Much." Films from around the time, such as"The Three Faces of Eve" have a tendency to look at all semi- strong woman as either loony or dangerous. "Rear Window," however, has a very sympathetic strong female character in the form of Lisa (Grace Kelly). She goes with the nurse to dig up the plot of ground Jeffries believes the wife is buried in. She is the one who goes and gives Mr. Thorwald (Raymond Burr, known to television audiences as Perry Mason) a threatening note and even breaks into Thorwald's apartment, an event that becomes pivotal to the story in a way I will not mention, through a second story window while wearing high- heels. In other words, the women of the story make up for Mr. Jeffries' weakness. These are all reasons why "Rear Window" has stood the test of time. Although there are also other reasons, the film is fun to watch if you don't have to have something exciting happen every few minutes in order for the film to keep your attention. The mystery to the film makes watching "Rear Window" a lot of fun.
Alfred Hitchcock's Rear Window is a definite classic. The movie is about a successful photographer with a broken leg, whom is stuck in his apartment in a cast for 6 weeks. 	This story takes place during a one-week period, where this man has nothing to do but to stair out of his back window of his living room into a courtyard that is in the center of other apartment complexes. What is seen in the other apartments is a mystery you will have to reveal on your own. And when you do; you will be stunned with that you've concluded. 	Alfred Hitchcock did a brilliant job filming this story, as he does with all of his films. The different techniques that he uses play such an enormous part in this film. For example: when the man in the apartment tries to hide in a particular scene from another man, instead of running to another room, he scoots himself into a shadow, and it is so much more practical. The shadow across his face adds suspense and mystery that running away does not. 	Another powerful touch on the film was the soundtrack. All of the music and noise that is heard in this video are all from something going on in the scene. Whether it is the tapping of a hand on a table, or a man in his apartment across the courtyard playing his piano. None of the music was added in, it is all from the scene. Very Powerful!!!	The movie as a whole is not necessarily a spook, but more of a possible murder mystery. This film is very good and gripping. Even though its not exactly scary, it still draws in its viewer. 	It is definitely a Hitchcock classic that all should see. It is definetly a respected film because of the way it was filmed my Hitchcock. So definetly check it out, you will not be disappointed!


                
While recovering from a nasty leg injury, James Stewart finds himself looking out the back window of his apartment. Grace Kelly just wishes he'd look at her. Thelma Ritter wonders what's so special outside worth looking at. Raymond Burr wishes James looked at Miss Torso a little longer.Alfred Hitchcock's directorial prowess is on full display in "Rear Window," a film that IMDb viewers have made the 14th best in movie history. Not to burst your bubble, but Hitch made better flicks than this, like "Psycho," "Vertigo," "Strangers On A Train," "The 39 Steps," and my all-time Hitchcock favorite, "Shadow Of A Doubt." But "Rear Window" is a hard film not to like, especially after you've seen it once or twice. The format is special, if not unique by Hitchcock standards, where we have a very controlled, limited setting, a man's Greenwich Village apartment that faces a courtyard and a number of apartment windows into various neighbors' lives. Think "Lifeboat," "Rope," or "Dial M For Murder," only more varied. Instead of the people on the main set facing danger, they see apparent danger in a neighbor's dwelling, and sip adult beverages and chew fancy dinners while contemplating how to respond.Making it more special is the fact Stewart and Kelly do much of the thinking. Stewart's L.B. Jeffries is the main character, a bored photographer of some repute laid up by an injury he suffered while covering an auto race. Kelly as Lisa Carol Fremont is the high-profile, haute couture model used to wearing $1,100 gowns (in 1954!) and dining at Manhattan's 21 Club, but somehow willing to settle for Stewart amid all the Prince Rainier and Zoolander types she undoubtedly comes across.However absurd, the central relationship is cemented by an apparent murder Jeffries thinks he witnesses, and Fremont comes to believe he did, involving a neighbor and his nagging wife. It's a bit of an irony, and a pretty marvelous one, that has Hitchcock celebrate one impeding marriage by making them apparent vultures in the untimely demise of another. Such was Hitchcock.Great Greenwich Village ambiance, circa the early 1950s and "My Sister Eileen/Wonderful Town" rather than the drag queens and Stonewall riots of the near future. Boho artists co-exist with Miss Lonelyhearts-spinster types and costume jewelry salesmen that may be up to something more sinister, or not.I wasn't a fan of Grace Kelly until that shot of her in Thorwald's apartment looking out the window while holding the purse upside down. Now I think she's swell. Thelma Ritter seems to have dropped in from a Neil Simon comedy next door, but she totally rules the scenes she's in. The set design, and the peeks at the neighbors, is especially well-wrought. That scene when Stewart and Miss Lonelyhearts share a silent, sad toast across the courtyard is one of cinema's finest moments.While the mystery itself is kind of hokey and patly resolved, there's something special in the way it comes together on screen. It's one of Hitchcock's best meetings of comedy and suspense, and a great romance besides despite an early handicap (a beautiful, successful woman totally devoted to the leading man.) There's nothing to really dislike in this film, and while it's still not Hitch's best despite what all the IMDb voters say, it's a good-enough standard bearer for the best director cinema's ever known.


                
The movie Rear Window which was released in 1954 and directed by Alfred Hitchcock has proven to be a gripping and exciting movie that leads the viewer through a mystery. The main character L.B. Jeffries, played by James Steward, investigates a murder that he believed happened but has no real evidence to prove which he acts wonderfully in and makes the movie very exciting. This movie makes one evaluate the freedom that we have but also makes the viewer question is what L.B. Jeffries saw something that he should be concerned about and is he disrespecting others privacy.The main theme in the movie gives it an interesting feeling because of the general plot that is around what Jeffries sees when he looks out his window and spies on his neighbors. The way that the plot goes it suggests from the beginning that there is going to be a problem at some point because of the way that the dialog goes. From this when Jeffries is talking to Stella it seems clear that he is looking out the window too much and paying attention in a way to other people where he is seeing more than they may want to make public. At first, when Lisa Fermont comes to the apartment it seems that she is going to be able to talk some sense into Jeffries telling him that the observations that he is making are crazy, but then she ends up believing him and just contributing to his observations and obsession to see what his neighbors are doing. But, as the movie goes on we learn that the events he is seeing may not be so far-fetched and the evidence starts to build up suggesting that his neighbor Thorwald might have killed his wife. In the end, Doyle realizes that he was wrong and even though that Jeffries might have been going a little crazy he was still sure of what he saw in the window which was proven to not be in his imagination in the end.The movie gets even more suspicious when a detective friend of L.B. Jeffries, Thomas Doyle played by Wendell Corey, enters and initially doubts Jeffries because of circumstantial evidence. This is just the beginning of the character development for Doyle who starts doubting Jeffries then evolves over time to believe him more and eventually agree with accusing Thorwald of the murder. While Doyle may doubt Jeffries and his friends originally and want to have no part of the case, I believe that he eventually comes to realize that he knows Jeffries and that he may not be that crazy after all. This leads him to take another look at the case after Jeffries and Lisa Freemont find more evidence that suggests that the letter and things Doyle has found may not be true.The cinematography in the movie is very good and makes what is a small space feel very big and exciting with many different camera angles and tricks used. This is one of the largest factors that makes the movie exciting with the cuts from window to window and across the alley which show in an exciting way what is going on in all the different apartments. The cinematography is what makes the movie interesting because if it were shot in a different way the movie could very easily lose the viewers' attention. One of the most important and interesting shots in the movie is the opening shot where the camera pans through the alley setting the scene. This is very important because it really establishes the location where the events take place with a type of camera movement that we do not see many other times in the movie.Overall I would definitely recommend this movie to others because of the good cinematography, exciting storyline and good actors and actresses. I would give this movie an 8/10.
Rear window is a mystery thriller movie that focus on the male protagonist Jefferies life and way he helps capture the murderer. He always seen looking at the neighbor's window. He broke his legs and always shown sitting on the wheel chair. He keeps his eye on different activities of neighbor through windows. Some neighbors are alone and some have job and some with wife. however, movie is mainly tell the story of Jeff try to prove the salesman crime, a neighbor of Jefferies who he believe murder his wife. And trying to get off from police eyes. 
 The movie was shot in same neighborhood area till the end. The event takes place in same area from beginning of movie to the end of movies. it is entire shot indoor set design. Only outside scene movie show is the glance of helicopter up above the building. Here, helicopter is use as mese en scene because adding scene of helicopter create suspense thought. Since, male protagonist could not able to walk, everything happens around him. The usage of sound in scary tone is brilliantly executed. The film not one focus on one-character story but also briefly take a peak story of lonely women and pianist guy. A movie is not much scary as I expected it to be. But full of suspense.it express the pain of loneliness, boredom, happiness and thirst for love. A scene when lonely women is having a candle light dinner but creep me out when she pretends to be with guy. This resemble the pain of being loneliness and boredom. Well, Jeffries neighborhood is not friendly and cooperative. The environment is fill with loneliness feeling. 
 The movie feature point of view shot to some extent. in movies, it uses this idea when, Alfred focus on antagonist with closer angle of camera, showing suspicious face expression or covering detail of character. This point of view shot also use whenever, Jeffries try to keep tract of the activities of salesman. 
 The story is arranged structurally. When no one believe protagonist story, even his girlfriend and detective friend don't believe in his story. but he himself decide to find the truth, kind of show the behavior of true detective. He uses his professional skill to find the true face of salesman. But later on, his girlfriend believes his story when she herself see the suspicious activities of salesman. This scene put life to the movie. It is always better to see when two lovers believe one another and together trying to solve the case. There is also a scene when hint of antagonist cruelty is displayed. when innocent dog is found dead, everyone come out expect the salesman. this event easily increases the viewer suspicion toward salesman.
 The suspicious act begins when male protagonist heard the scream of women but next day he did not see the wife of salesmen in bed. This unexpected scene, take movie plot into different track. From this scene, begin the real fun for suspense lover audience. Before this scene, a film Is not much entertainable. 
 There are lots of movement of camera going on because to show other characters from the perspective of main protagonist. The background sound of children scream in movie is nicely projected by sound designer. It creates fun full environment in movie for brief period of time. Visual artist uses dark color to symbolize the scary and suspense scene. At the end of the move the look of antagonist when Kelly shows ring to Jeff show the guilty expression on the face of salesman. The silence on phone, sound of walking on stair, suddenly showing antagonist in dark and the panicking expression of protagonist really feature super scary scenes. Because everything happens inside small windows. it feels like watching a tv. Like most film this film also ends happily. A dancer lover come from war, criminal accept crime, Jeff girlfriend spend time with him and lonely neighbor woman chatting with pianist.


                
Rear Window
By Alfred Hitchcock's
2/6/18L.B. Jefferies played by James Stewart is depended on his wheelchair after a broken leg. Jefferies is forced to stay in his apartment for several weeks because of his injury. Because of this he gets a deeper meaning to his girlfriend Lisa Carol Fremont who is played by Grace Kelly. Lisa was this perfect woman which every guy dreamed of having but because of Jefferies injury he realizes she has a rebellious side to her. Jefferies nurse (Stella played by Thelma Ritter) who was hired to help him out gets launched into the drama of Jeffries spying on his neighbors. The story was written by John Michael Hayes and filmed by Alfred Hitchcock. The movie was produced by Paramount Pictures in 1952. The story is based on Cornell Woolrich's 1942 story "It had been a murder". In 1995, The film won the Edgar Allen Poe award for best motion picture screenplay. In 1997, the movie was honored by the United States National Film Registry in the library of congress. In 2002, the film won the online Film and Television Association Award. After Jefferies broke his leg during a photographing a racetrack accident he is forced to stay in his apartment. His apartment overlooks multiple other apartments in the building over. He creeps on multiple people over the course of time. Until one night during a thunderstorm he hears a woman yell "Don't!" then the sound of breaking glass. He witnesses a guy named Thorwalds who is played by Raymond Burr. Thorwalds lives in the apartment directly across from Jeffries with his wife for the previous six month. Jefferies notices the next day Mr. Thorwalds wife is missing and that he is cleaning a knife. Thorwalds later that day locks a trunk and has moving men move the trunk away from the apartment. Jefferies soon become convinced that Mr. Thorwalds killed his wife and, becomes obsessed with finding out the truth.Jeffries believes that Mr. Thorwalds buried something in the court yard and killed a dog to stop it from digging. Jefferies and his wife Lisa go try and dig it but don't find anything. Lisa than climbs into his apartment. Mr. Thorwalds comes home and catches Lisa; Jefferies calls the cops to save her but in the mix of everything, the police arrest her for breaking into the apartment. Stella goes to bail out Lisa at the police station. Mr. Thorwalds calls Jeffries to confront him but Jefferies thinks it's detective Doyle who is played by Wendell Corey: says, "the suspect has left the apartment". When Mr. Thorwalds goes speechless, Jefferies quickly realizes that it's not detective Doyle and makes a huge mistake. Mr. Thorwalds comes over to confront him. When he gets there, he grabs Jefferies and throws him out the window. As he falls to the ground the police enter the apartment and arrest Mr. Thorwalds. A few days later, Jefferies goes home to rest peacefully but now with a cast on both his feet. All the neighbors seem to go back to living normal lives and a happy ending is at ease. It is not certain if Jefferies and Lisa ever get married.Jefferies isn't by definition, someone who goes out of the way to do good nor is he a detective. He is simply someone who likes to snoop around in other people's business. He is driven to be someone who likes to be next to the drama but not actually involved in it. You can see this in multiple occasions in the movie where he delays doing something because he's afraid to get himself involved.
The rear window was a very good film. I sat by right with Jeff wondering if Lars was the killer. I felt helpless and trapped when poor Lisa was caught snooping around the apartment with no one there to help her. I felt as though she was calling out for me, and I couldn't do anything. Just sitting there witnessing the events, just like Jeff through his window. Hitchcock can achieve this remarkable state of suspense through the types of camera shots he chooses to take throughout the film. 
The majority of the film is point of view, specifically from Jeff's point of view. The three part shot that Hitchcock employs captures the viewer and places him in the wheelchair. Scenes of Jeff peering through the window, then cutting back to see what he is looking at. When we see it we can form an opinion and a reaction for ourselves, then the shot moves back to Jeff where he is showing us what his opinion of the events are. It could be a subtle smile or an investigative glare, but we are right there smiling or glaring along with him. This connection fuels the tone for the rest of the movie because Jeff is in a wheelchair. The wheelchair confines him, makes him look through the windows. Since we connect with Jeff we also feel confined, helpless at times peering through the screen. 
The use of the windows and sound also create that feeling of what if. What if Lars didn't kill his wife? What if we are watching something private that was not meant to be seen? The windows are full of private moments, scandalous and humorous moments alike. Who is to say the investigating we are doing is right? These people only allow us to see windows into their lives, with little context. If we are wrong about Lars then are we now the bad people? This doubt was brought to life by Doyle, the police officer. He did not take much interest in the window unless it was the ballerina dancer. He seemed to have an answer for evert conspiracy that Jeff throws at him. It seems to us the Jeff, and the audience with him is just cruising down a dead-end street. Instead of being super sleuths we are degraded to no more than creeps that stare at people through the window. This is all brought about by the suspense generated in the film. The highs and lows we experience, and this could not be done without the windows.
What creates the suspense and wonder is not what is shown to us. It is created the parts we can't see. The division of the scene by the windows and buildings. Characters in the same house even seen disjointed by the separation. Lars and his wife in the beginning did not seem that close because we rarely saw them in the same window. We could tell that their relationship was strained. Another effect the windows have is that we never see the whole scene much like we never really know the whole story until the end when Lars confronts Jeff in his own home. No more looking through the windows to find out what happens at that point, we can see the whole scene. Much like what the windows did visually the use of sound does auditorily. Laughter and screams can be heard clearly but no other context can be heard. Are we watching an argument? Playful banter between a husband and wife? We cannot draw a solid conclusion on the topic because we do not have all of the information much like Jeff when trying to find Lars guilty of killing his wife.
Rear Window is Hitchcock's simple masterpiece. He could connect to this primitive curiosity of people. This is the start of, what I believe, to be the scariest genre of horror. The simplistic anxiety of people watching, and watching people is one that is the most realistic. A suspenseful thriller combines with a charming romance, with the expertise of Hitchcock's silent film expertise. This average apartment complex is the source of entertainment and mystery. We are introduced to our characters during a heat wave which forces them to keep their windows and doors open. This pleasant and peaceful day meets L. B. Jeffries, bored and broken. Jimmy Steward is iconic, and his abilities are highlighted in subtleties of being confined to his one room apartment. 
Grace Kelly and Thelma Ritter are fantastic as the girlfriend and the nurse, both in stereotypical role yet impowered by the disability of Jeffries. Kelly, in particular, places herself in suspenseful danger and is smart enough to leave with the evidence necessary to arrest our villain, Thorwald. Hitchcock pairs his simplistically thrilling plot with controlled cinematography to create an attention vacuum. You are drawn into exactly what he wants, and the camera seems to focus on your own curiosities. His framing in Rear Window has been commentated on as watching a movie within a movie, seeing both the film as a whole and the entertainment that Jeffries sees, since a voyeur would see the world as their personal movie theatre. It could be argued that Jeffries is not our main character, but the viewer. We perceive the story through the lens of his camera. Jeffries is the personification of the viewers. His reactions are our reactions. He has no prior knowledge of the mystery, no need for additional exposition. All in all, let's be honest. We are all curious, and if this would be remade into a contemporary film, it would be on social media, not just outside your window.
Jeff got bored. A man who's traveled the world, photographed the world, and earned his place has been resigned to the confines of a wheel chair. From scene one we see his boredom. The world outside his apartment is alive with the diversity of the city. 
The first panning scene gives the viewer an omniscient view of this place. Never stopping on one person too long, but intriguing us with interesting actions, each brought into the center of the frame one at a time. We have not been in this setting for more than 2 minutes, and we have already been introduced to the world which Jeff observes.
The world in which Jeff lives is different. Seated in a wheel chair, and having only direct contact with people who enter his apartment, Jeff is cutoff from the outside. this creates a interesting dynamic challenge for the film, forcing it to create an engaging story to make both Jeff's live and our lives more interesting.
This is started through the only gateway of interest: the window. The story could have easily brought a series of interesting people to the door of the apartment, and through dialogue, made a murder mystery. But instead, it follows the story through the window. 
Spying like this is not an appropriate pastime. It is noted for nearly the entire film that it is rude to peep in people's windows, especially with binoculars. However, it is so enticing the way the camera waits to show the scene until Jeff picks up his camera or binoculars, that the audience is always on edge waiting for the next glimpse inside. It slowly becomes more and more acceptable for people to peak. First Jeff, then Lisa are consumed with the desire to look, and finally Stella. However, it never becomes socially acceptable. Doyle, the detective and voice of society in this film, is always against the spying. 
The framing in this film is always using Windows. It creates isolation in this film between characters, and separates their stories. When the couple is fighting, they are pictured often through different windows, separating them visually and showing the conflict in their marriage. The newly wed couple is shown only thought one window, and they are happy at the beginning. We never see Lisa and Jeff through their own windows, but if anything, the many windows with thin borders would show them together in the frame.
The audience can be invested in the characters in their own little worlds, but not very much. When it comes time to add drama and suspense, we need to be more emotionally involved with the subjects. That is why it is so exciting when Lisa and Stella go out to dig up the flowers. All of a sudden, two people, whom we care about are put in a place of danger. It is very engaging watching them sneak around. When Lisa is abandon by Stella when she climbs into the apartment, the audience knows the danger, and because we are trapped in the view point of Jeff's window, we feel powerless to help. 
The Climax of the story is when Mr. Thorwald enters the apartment with Jeff. Where as we felt an emotional connection to Lisa and didn't want her to get hurt, because Jeff has been our view point for this whole movie, and because he his immobile, this is a much more suspenseful scene. All of a sudden, the sanctuary of the apartment turns into a trap. The message against spying has been loosened throughout this movie but now it has meaningful consequence. 
The way Mr Thorwald is shown in the shadows and how Jeff's only defense is to flash a light in his eyes, mirrors the way in which Mr. Thorwald has been operating in private. He is revealed to be a killer in the same violent and sudden way that he is stunned by the light.
Jeff's, now with two broken legs, is bored again, but has resolved his conflict with Lisa, giving a happy ending to this story.
Here we have a story of stories. Numerous narrations enveloped into one holistic, Thriller of a film. Namely two plot lines steal the spotlight; the life that has been given to L.B. Jefferies (James Stewart), and the life which he has chosen to lives his days by through that rear window. 
The emotional relationship journey through his character and Lisa, and the murder thriller brought to life by predominantly nameless characters and events from which the audience and main cast are entirely concealed from. Every detail has its place, every storyline has its meaning, Alfred Hitchcock has unlocked this dynamic story through plot intuition and creativity which is then presented from film angles so that no intention of the storyline is missed. Both the story itself, and the film art, work from separate perspectives to make this entirely cohesive thriller. Professional photographer L.B. Jefferies spends his days peering down from his apartment window at his neighbors and surrounding alleys as he recovers from his wheelchair restricting broken leg. His persistent watching produces consecutive evidence of questionable action by his neighbor Thorwald. Later aided by his dear Lisa and other close companions, Jeffries unravels the story of a murderous husband, and complex deception, that would otherwise go unseen. From the artistic and technical side of the film, the plot line and camera angles take gold in my eyes. The window of the shots oscillate between having Stewart dead center, to his optical target, and then back again repeating this pattern. The audience then receives from this a beautiful interpretation of Jefferies inquisition, physical target, and then reaction to what he saw. Each consecutive view of the same region would also involve a closer look at the region of interest. Without words the audience understands each detail and the mental process of the character.Another story telling technique which really stands out is the order in which pieces of evidence are visually presented, significantly before they are ever considered by a character. This is fascinating as it allows the viewers to ultimately solve parts of this riddle entirely on their own; independent of the characters' discovery. Two examples of this are the digging of the dog in the garden, and the wedding ring that is seen in Mrs. Thorwald's handbag. The dog's curiosity is seen very early on in the film, though not addressed until the poor pup is later found dead. The ring is first seen by Jefferies as Mr. Thorwald fumbles through the bag's contents while on the phone, though no character acknowledges the discovery until later discussion occurs. The close-up shots and perfectly timed panning of the set allow for these details to be picked up by the audience and subtly emphasized as important without any plot cue having to tell them so. Along with film angles, the control of light and dark on the set itself is the obvious director of audience attention. In the extremely tradition sense, rooms that are lit are where the eye is meant to be drawn. This is a voiceless narration that is ideal for this film. This film is essentially narrated by the thoughts of L.B. Jefferies, though these thoughts are not audibly expressed. The film angles and set lighting are meant to produce the narration in the head of the viewer by matching your thought process identically to that of Jefferies himself. Phenomenal.Lastly, just as the light is used to regularly draw attention, in calculated instances the darkness was used in just the same way. When the dog was discovered to be dead, lights came on in every room as people all around the set looked out of curiosity; all except one room. This dark room of Thorwald was silent proof that emphasized him as the guilty party.
It is no fun talking to a know it all. When watching a movie, it is no fun being one. I was grateful that Hitchcock knew this when seeing Rear Window. The movie is so effective because we usually only know as much as our main character, Jeff. The movie also makes Jeff our avatar in the movie through several techniques.
 Like Jeff, the audience is confined to his apartment. We frequently see things from his point of view. When the camera is focused on him, we usually see him at eye level. Even though he is in a wheelchair, the camera is never made to pity him. Jeff and us are equals. 
While the camera does frequently look to Jeff's neighbors, they are usually far away, at the distance Jeff would see them at. One reason may be to isolate the audience from them as much as possible. This is so the audience does not get concerned about Jeff's spying. The movie would be quite different if the protagonist was a young dancer who was suffering from a peeping Tom in the building across from her. The closest to empathy we get is to the woman on the balcony after her dog is killed. The camera lingers on her, still from afar, as she screams at her neighbors and laments how isolated they all are from each other. This is possibly the only time we get close-ups of any of the neighbors. This is, of course, just a way to jolt the viewer back into attention after the mystery runs into a dead end, and to turn our suspicions back on Thorwald. However, the main reason for this is to place us in Jeff's shoes. If he cannot see his neighbors close up, then for the most part neither can we.
One possible exception to this perceptual connection is when Jeff falls asleep, and we see Thorwald and a woman leave his apartment. Later, Boyle says that the landlord caught Thorwald and his wife leaving for the train station, and due to what we saw, we are led to believe him. Later, we know that the woman was not Thorwald's wife. Hitchcock may have let us see something that Jeff did not, but he only did that to deceive us. Even though we saw more than Jeff, we still do not know more than Jeff.
There is also one notable exception with the angles of the film. It is when Thorwald confronts Jeff in his apartment. For the first time, the camera is far away and looking slightly down on Jeff. He is backed against the wall. He looks trapped. For most of the film, he is our equal. Now, he is in danger, therefore so are we. Thorwald is treated to a low-angle shot. He is menacing and imposing. For the majority of the movie, he was far away, a merely suspicious presence. But now he is at our hero's doorstep, and the danger is clear and present. The angles are not too extreme, but in this movie it is rare for the camera to deviate from eye level.
This film would not be nearly as iconic as it is without the attention paid to Jeff. Every technique employed in this film is done to ensure the audience's connection to him. The camera does not merely stay on him, it treats him like we would want to be treated: it looks him in the eye. It is shot not only through his eyes, but through his camera and binoculars. This means that whenever he ventures to learn more about the mystery, it feels like we are accomplishing something too. Without this connection, Rear Window would just be another movie with a great premise but wasted potential.
The lead man stays home all the day because of his fractured leg.He is so bored that he start looking for something interesting through the rear window.And then he find out the one.A resident on the other side seems to like to hind something.It 
occurred after the quarrel last night.So he is so sure that something wrong happens.It is ridiculous idea.But he stick with it from then on.
One of my favorite Hitchcocks' masterpieces.
One of my favorite Hitchcocks' masterpieces.
One of my favorite Hitchcocks' masterpieces.


                
It's a good movie. Ok, C'est un très bon film, je vous le conseille vivement


                
Hitchcock's nod to voyeurism has a very simple premise: a photographer (Jimmy Stewart) is laid up with a broken leg, and finds entertainment in looking out his second floor window at his neighbors. The plot device is that during a heat wave, these neighbors leave their curtains drawn or shades up at all times, well, with the exception of a pair of newlyweds, whose implied activity (and its frequency) is a little joke Hitch gives us early on. He also dials up some eye candy circa 1954 with a dancer who regularly prances about her apartment. Stewart (slash Hitchcock) is a bit of perv, and he's kidded about that by his tough little nurse (Thelma Ritter) and glamorous girlfriend (Grace Kelly). Things get serious when he notices one of the neighbors (Raymond Burr) leaving his apartment multiple times in the wee hours of the night, and that the guy's wife has mysteriously disappeared.From then on, there is a tension to the film, as we're not sure what's going on, or if anything at all is going on, as Stewart's detective friend (Wendell Corey) is skeptical and provides some alternate explanations. You might say, c'mon, we're pretty sure something's going on, this is a Hitchcock film after all, but consider the uncomfortable light Stewart's character is placed in: spying on neighbors with binoculars and a gigantic zoom lens, suggesting that his friend break the law by searching the guy's apartment without a warrant, and even (gasp) having Kelly over for a little sleepover, despite only having a single bed. It would have been interesting had Stewart's character been darker, e.g. taking pictures of his neighbors, but that may be implied when he breaks out slides showing pictures of a flower garden in the courtyard to try to understand if anything has changed.Tension ratchets up considerably when Ritter and Kelly investigate on their own, but I won't spoil it. The fact that the action for the entire movies takes place in Stewart's apartment or from its vantage point is a pretty phenomenal achievement. Stewart turns in a strong performance, and Ritter's blunt speculations are effective in spurring our imaginations. I loved the scene which ends with Burr's cigarette glowing in the dark, one of the best moments in the film. The little stories playing out in the various apartments, including a woman who is lonely and depressed, provide interesting subplots. Overall the film is a little too constrained for me to consider it Hitchcock's best, and I could have used a little more darkness in the characters or the plot, but it's certainly very good, and a brilliant example of suspense not requiring fast-paced action or gore.


                
"Rear Window" is the type of classic that has become such a part of pop culture that it's likely never going to surprise anyone with its plot twists again thanks to its proliferation, but it's still a great way to spend two hours. The setting itself is one of the movie's most effective touches, with its intimacy and its structural uniqueness, and it's not hard for the audience to get lost in the movie's central mystery. James Stewart and Grace Kelly make a grand duo onscreen, with Stewart's curmudgeon charm doing most of the dramatic heavy lifting here. This is one of director Alfred Hitchcock's most famous thrillers, and while it's definitely been impacted by the passing of time, it's a worthwhile classic that should be seen by every cinephile at least once.


                
