I know it's dangerous going to a movie with expectations, but not knowing very much about "Downfall" except for its excellent reviews here at IMDb.com I was anticipating something like "Das Boot" with brown dirt for green water. As a film this drama's execution is quite superb. The audience seems transported into Hitler's bunker during those last days of the war. The city above is a wreck, and so is Hitler. Boys and girls and the elderly must take up futile positions against the advancing Soviet troops. No need for another plot synopsis here -- it's been well covered by the previous posts here.Somewhere into this long and very engaging movie a chill set in. Yes, these Germans were real people, not monstrous demons, and this movie wasn't portraying their days here as heroic, but... Then something very odd struck me: during the scenes where the solitary Hitler contemplates his inevitable end, a poignant music plays in the background. It sounds familiar and my mind reaches back to my music school days to place it. It's from Johann Sebastian Bach's Mass in b-minor, specifically, the Crucifixus. Here in the film score, it appears sans words and chorus, but the music is distinct and powerful. Originally intended to evoke the tragedy and sacrifice of Jesus Christ ("he was crucified for us, made to suffer and was entombed...") here it is an offense. Is this the real point of view of the film, is this its purpose? To portray Hitler as a grand person who suffered persecution and betrayal?Or am I reading too much into what is only an element of the drama? Well, Albert Speer is portrayed as a dapper (an architect in a suit rather than a minister in a uniform), intelligent, urbane, and compassionate man. He and Hitler have a conversation about their lost future over Speer's model of the Berlin that was to be. Yet wasn't Speer beloved of Hitler out of a compatible grandiosity? Wasn't that Berlin-to-be dominated by a palace with a dome a thousand feet high? Didn't this cultured architect become Hitler's Minister of Weapons and Armaments and ruthlessly use slave labor in the service of the Third Reich? In this film, he is a rather unfortunate artist caught up in the whirlwind of the times. No way.No doubt the Germans were real people. How did they get talked into this grand, barbaric, and murderous scheme? Yes, they were like us. So could this happen to us too? Don't see this movie, don't shed tears for Hitler, and don't even entertain the notion suggested in this movie that he was a persecuted and betrayed savior. Don't participate in the rehabilitation of Nazism.


                
This movie shouldn't have been made, because it is absolutely impossible to express this part of the history in posterior made pictures. Let us remember that the plot of this film is based on the personal experiences of Hitler's secretary, Traudl Junge, the script written by Joachim Fest, a historian known as viewing history from a very conservative angle. To persons like him history consists in the results of the thoughts and deeds of persons at power, instead of understanding history as the sum of what all humans are thinking and doing, not to forget the effects of what is happening in the nature around us and, not less important, of what happens by accident. The realism of this film is its weakest point, because it creates at the spectator the illusion of being well informed about what really happened. To learn more about the psychotic nature of this depraved crew of gangsters I would recommend to view Leni Riefenstahl's documentary "Triumph des Willens" about the "Reichsparteitag" in Nuremberg, Germany, from 1935, made on Hitler's orders. There you can see the real physiognomies and discover the collective paranoia in which fell most of the people of a country which was until then considered as a "Kulturnation".


                
I'm resubmitting my review (edited of course), because "someone" said it was offensive the first time. What did I say about this movie the first time? To summarize, I gave it a 7 of 10 (rated it a one star to make it easier to find among 300+ reviews, mostly 10 stars). I said it was well made. I also said it glorified an evil regime. I based that on the premise that it did not show a dead Adolf (was that the offensive part, that I didn't address him as Mr. Hitler?). Was his dead body so sacred that they would show everyone else's corpse except his bullet ridden head? Was that too taboo to show in a modern German film, was the filmmaker too scared to show that? I say it wasn't shown because the purpose of this film was to be sympathetic with an old Hitler's plight. Anyway, there were no morally redeeming elements in the film that said the Nazi's were bad, just that it didn't work out the way they wanted it to. I recommend seeing "Hitler: The Last Ten Days", or others have liked "The Bunker" (I have not seen that one, but will someday). Read Alfred Speers book "Inside the Third Reich" also for a more true account of what probably happened. Is this worth seeing, of course. I enjoyed it especially because I'm a history buff of Hitler and his inner circle and their last days (really any of their days and actions they undertook) are fascinating to me. I was just disappointed that it really made Hitler look like such a nice old man when you know he was a power mad psycho and was surrounded by fanatic death squads at his disposal. He had recently finished his purge of his enemies (plus others I'm sure) from the failed coup of 1944, people were petrified with fear of him! Remember the stories of being hung by piano wire that he filmed and watched over and over again? That moment would have been nice to include here to show how evil he was, but no, no mention of that. My favorite parts had more to do with the collapsing German Army in Berlin and what resulted than on the actual Hitler moments. We'll see if those who seem to love this film so much find this review offensive because all it is is my opinion of the truth. Sometimes, especially for the political left (maybe it was a present day Nazi who didn't like my first review who knows, I do know a lot of leftists seem to like this movie a whole lot), the truth hurts so much they resort to censorship to quell debate. Hell, if I pressed that offensive button on the reviews I found offensive here at IMDb it wouldn't be a very interesting place to visit. Just use your voter buttons and let the debate be allowed, sheesh.
I watched the first half of this film in cinema and went out. Normally I try to stay in the film even if it's bad, but I couldn't this time. They showed it in the free TV and I again tried to watch it. That was before a year or so and I'm still searching for the sense of this film. Well, I think I have to surrender. What's the sense to show the last hours of the worlds greatest tyrant who killed millions of human beings?? This film gives you the intention that the allies were the bad guys. What's the sense to make a film which intention obviously is to have pity on Adolf Hitler. So, what happened? Of course, children who don't know much about history yet feel sorry for him. I heard a little girl say: "Mum, why does everyone hate him? I think he's nice". I was close to puking when I heard that, but I couldn't accuse her. I would have thought of it the same way, when I was child.


                
Wow! This is the most boring film of all time!A moment-by-moment description of how things went pear-shaped for the 3rd Reich - from the novelty perspective of Hitler's bunker!What a hoot. Anyone who has read anything about WW2 will find nothing new here. Hitler was cheesed off cos the war wasn't going too well - Verdammt! - Russians everywhere! Time for all true Nazis to commit suicide, and swear eternal allegiance to the Fuhrer, etc, etc. Most of the dialog is copied from Ian Kershaw's second volume on Hitler, "1936-1945: Nemesis".The only interesting thing about this movie is the thought that had the Nazis won the war in the last 3 seconds, (and I were now living in a National Socialist state,) someone might have, by now, been granted permission to make an "honest" portrayal of Adolf's last moments on earth - and voilà! This would be that film!


                
I once saw a work by the German graphics artist Klaus Staeck, there's a "Entnazifizierungsurkunde" (a formula of de-nacification), filled out for a certain Adolf Hitler, where he's rated as "Mitlaeufer" (nominal member) of the Nazi party, signed by Joachim C. Fest.This poster very pointedly summarizes Fest's work on Hitler. It's a real shame that such an inadequate work with such a questionable moral background gets rated this high in the INDB. Just one snippet: The only person of the Nazi elite which really manages to commit an atrocity in the whole film is Goebbels wife! All the other Nazi magnificos are pitiful and broken creatures who have failed in a great endeavor.Sure, maybe I should concentrate more on the capabilities of the actors, the camera work and the quality of the adaption of the book (which are all OK, in part even superb). But I won't. A film on this subject can only be measured by the subject itself, and in this respect it fails. The one relevant question - "Why?" - is neither asked nor answered.


                
after watching the movie one could have had sympathy for the Nazis (if you would not already hate them). it is ridiculous that this work was giving a nomination for Oscar. what else is to say? one of the Nazis, I think his name was Speer , is shown as a kind of good knight. but it is a historical fact, that this man is disliked by his own son, because he never reflected his time as a Nazi as an error or something. it is proved since over 20 years by now that he had known that 1000 of Jews had to work to death in his arbeitslager - they had to break stones for the Nazi-buildings. there is a scene where Hitler talks about that the Jews are the cause for everything bad in the world, that they are a plague. As he said so, his secretary looks to him (camera has a great view of her facial expression) as if he is crazy, as if she could not believe what he is saying. this is ridiculous: as if she wasn't an antisemit on her own ! but, why this ? the answer is simple: the book for the movie was created under the helping hand from this secretary. it is easy, eh ? Hitler was crazy (at the end (of his Reich)), and there were a lot of bad, but also a lot of good Nazis. and have a look at the end of the film: there is said that so and so millions of humans died in the WW2. and then, a new screen: so and so many Jews died . so: are Jews no humans, or what ? ... you should see the movie, and try to imagine if you would not known anything about this period of mankind: one could really have sympathy: For Adolf Hitler and his Nazis.really, this movie i dislike.


                
terribly boring, full of clichés. i mean come on, just go ahead and kill yourselves! i also dislike the kind of mentality whereby you can ALWAYS present the other side as suffering. like some pervert was harassed by his parents. right. a lot of people, especially in Europe are so soft these days you can even sell something as stupid as "hitler-the-dog-loving-person" kind of rubbish - but the fact they actually go and vote and make it a top 250 movie is simply OUTRAGEOUS!!! and who votes for it anyway? i get an impression there's just too much 'nationally' driven support for stuff like that - is it war movie crowd? get over it, this movie is so much worse than other things about WWII on this list, private Ryan included!


                
The most boring movie ever! I was so sorry that I didn't leave the cinema during the break when I went to this movie. I was just waiting the whole movie for something interesting or amusing to happen, what never happened. Maybe a good moral or something could have made up for that, but that also was something the movie lacked. Plot line of the movie; a few bombs, a few sick and crazy Hitler fans, a bunch of people who didn't dare to speak up to Hitler and Hitler being boring and disturbed. Boring dialogs and even 'so-called-dramatic-events' came off pretty lame.The only people who like this movie are probably the ones who cannot look back on WO II rationally and therefore think every movie about WO II/ Hitler is great/artistic. Well, this one sure isn't.
Oh my goodness! What can I say about this film? I had heard so much about this movie, mostly good and positive things, so I wanted to check it out for myself. A WW2 movie from the perspective of Hitler during his last days - intriguing premise and should make a brilliant piece of film right? Boy, was I disappointed; this has got to be one of the most boring films I have ever seen. It's full or clichés, about an hour and a half too long and the pace is incredibly slow - you won't believe how many times I thought to myself: "just get it over and done with already!" - even I wanted to kill myself by the halfway mark. But by then I had stopped caring. It does nothing to tell us anything new or refreshing about Hitler's last days, so the whole thing was just completely pointless. Yes, it's supposed to capture just how desperate they all became as the Russians closed in and the leader gradually lost his mind; as if he didn't I suppose the one saving grace of this absolutely terrible movie is Bruno Ganz's portrayal of the Fuhrer; he absolutely nails the great leader down to every little mannerism and nervous tick; you'd think Hitler himself had come back from the dead to be in this movie. But then, not even top-notch acting by Ganz can save this awful movie from its "downfall".


                
Oh my good. A never-ending story. I am fed up with looking at Second World War movies. It is enough!!!This movie has nothing new, any new fact. It is a simple remake of the history, which nearly everybody now.Maybe it is interesting for people who do not know the history.It could be handles as an educational movie for children and teens outside Europe. Because there are not really confirmed with this historical education such as in Europe.Please do not make any more movies like this. Do more inquiry. Go deeper inside the history.


                
I saw this film in Germany with some German friends when it first released. We all had to hold ourselves back from leaving early from the film. We only decided to stay to see if there was a great ending, but no. The acting was so terrible. I mean just awful and my German friends couldn't agree more. There were random scenes that had nothing to do with the film and they were boring too, which just added to the length of this nightmare. I was surfing through IMDb and came across the ratings and comments for this movie and couldn't believe how highly this film was voted. I immediately called my German friend who was dumbfounded as well. Someone even wrote that this was the best World War II film ever made! Give me a break. Saving Private Ryan will sweep mops the floor with Der Untergang. Don't waste your time or money on this film.


                
A throughout unrealistic movie, I did not even manage to get through to its end (watching it on DVD, I fast-forwarded the remaining few minutes).No, this is not a good story, this is not even a credible or likely story, it does not seem to have any realistic touch about it, which is quite a surprise in case of "hystorical movies", as this one aspires to be.I could not name anything I liked about it.WW movies usually either have the looks and the ketchup (Saving Private Ryan), or the plot (Sunshine), or the characters (La Vita é Bella), or all of it (Schindler's List). Der Untergang has none of these. I believe that in case of such topics, a movie should be made in the event that it has to offer something: a new perspective or approach, new characters, anything at all. To me Der Untergang was a disappointment all together, surely awarded for the topic, and not the actual realization.


                
This movie has an 8 rating ?This is a very dangerous movie: it wants us to empathy with the nazi. How can you make a movie about Hitler, Goebbels, the III Reich and never once mention the atrocities and the crimes they committed ? These directors should not be allowed to make another movie again because the message they want to give us, is pretty clear in the movie's content: not once, is there the otherside, the victims, the innocents, the millions of dead people. It is disgraceful, it is shocking, and if the directors are not bothered about it, then this movie should be illegal and deleted from the archives. You do not give the focus on the natzi without ever tackling who they are and what they've done. That's not the purpose of history and not the purpose of justice, and it has no place to be in cinema Shame !
Forget 'Battlefield Earth', 'Wolf Creek', 'Dancer in the Dark', 'Catwoman', etc. 'Downfall' is inexcusable and unforgivable. This trivialisation of one of the bleakest periods of human history should never have been made.There's a loose correspondence with real events: World War Two happened, Hitler died, and that's about it. Almost every scene rang false. There was no mention of the holocaust, just a few anti-semitic ravings, briefly confined to the later parts. The acting was uniformly (as befits a Nazi drama) awful.It's a blasphemy against humanity to make a film like this. Show what actually happened, or get as close to it as possible when the records are lacking, but don't make an 'entertainment' of those dreadful days.Any return to the evil and slaughter of 1939-45 should leave a viewer stunned and outraged. 'Downfall' fails at every level. It fails to tell the truth. It fails to involve any viewer who has any inkling of the truth. It shows scenes that certainly didn't happen.Until watching 'Downfall' I'd rated 'Inglourious Basterds' as the worst war film ever. After what I saw tonight, Tarantino's greatest folly is now reduced to a mistimed joke. If you're going to falsify history, why not immolate Hitler in a Parisian cinema, cocking a snook at reality?I can only think that 'Downfall' was made by persons wholly insensitive to human suffering who hoped to wring a few tears from a popcorn-gobbling audience by showing human suffering.I kept watching, with increasing reluctance, for a long, long time. Then I felt so disgusted with the film, and with myself for being dragged along by a manipulatively false and farcical story, that I hit the off button.Everyone involved with the making of this loathsome film should be ashamed of themselves. The favourable IMDb and Rotten Tomatoes ratings can only have come from reviewers not old enough to feel connected to the unspeakable vileness of Nazi Germany.I thought it would be a hard call, but 'Downfall' is the worst film I've ever seen.
