I teach a college course on WWII, in graduate school studied under several experts on the subject and have interviewed numerous survivors on both sides. This film comes out on top, perhaps the finest ever made on the subject of the war (though the Belorussian "Come and See" & "Schindler's List" are darn close as well).I had the remarkable experience of watching this film last night with two veterans, one a GI who fought from Omaha to Czechoslovakia. . .and a German infantry officer, a veteran of four years on the Eastern Front. The German, who met Hitler several times, within minutes was exclaiming over the historical accuracy, right down to "Hitler's" lower class Munich accent. . .something an American audience would never pick up on. My German friend, who at the end of the war was in East Prussia, in the debacle of attempting to evacuate over a million civilians ahead of the Russians, was profoundly shaken by the film. . .saying the horror, the hospital scenes, the utter chaos, the lynchings, the sight of 12 year old children fighting. . .all of it was real. And an interesting observation by him. . .he had no idea Berlin, at the end, had been as bad as what he witnessed along the Baltic coast and is still haunted by. It truly was "Gotterdammerung" for an entire nation and this film brings it frightfully close to you. If you are a parent of small children, the terrifying ending for the Goebbel's children is an absolutely searing nightmare.I think the most important point of the film was the portrayal of Hitler. . .not as the stereotyped raving madman, usually overplayed like a bad performance of King Richard, but far more subtle. I've talked with many who knew Hitler, including a childhood playmate of Helga, Goebbel's oldest child, and all will tell you that Hitler could be absolutely charming, focused on you, even courtly when with women. The terror is, that even as the actor shows us that "human" side, in his soft voice he is dictating orders, observations, and comments of absolute evil. The true form of evil rarely looks evil on the surface, it seduces us with a fair face as it leads, sometimes an entire nation, into damnation. THis film captured that evil.My German friend's comment at the end of the movie. . ."I still can not believe we fought for that monster for six years." A history professor at Montreat College
This film definitely is a must-see because of the incomparable degree of realism displayed in it. Direction, camera and acting are of an unparalleled level and make you, as the viewer, feel as if you are actually in Berlin, 1945, and in the FÃ¼hrer's bunker. The film does not provide any commentary or judgment, it just shows facts.The film is criticized because it gives the Nazi's a human face, but this is exactly it's strongest point: the Nazi's were not extraterrestrial monsters, they were as human as you and I. The image of Hitler crying of sorrow because all is lost, is still burned on my retina.In my opinion, this is a film that should be shown in schools to illustrate the Second World War with. It is probably impossible to provide a more realistic account, without *any* form of judgment.A major achievement, even for Germany as a whole. It is very brave to create such a realistic film about one's own past.
"Der Untergang" is certainly the most impressive, depressive and realistic dramatic movie about the World War II ever made. I have never seen a film picturing the insanity of Hitler in his very last days in a bunker in Berlin with his high command, and how the German people were hypnotized by him like in this film. Last year, I saw the deceptive, boring, pretentious and overrated "Molokh", showing a caricature of Hitler and Eva Braun in Bavaria. But "Der Untergang" is awesome and comparable to "Apocalypse Now!", my favorite movie of war.Two years ago, I saw the powerful "Das Experiment" and I was impressed with the work of Oliver Hirschbiegel. With "Der Untergang", this director is certainly included in my list of favorite directors. It is difficult to highlight one actor or actress in this constellation of stars, but I was impressed with the performance of Bruno Ganz and his "human" Hitler, totally different from the stereotypes usual in other movies. The cinematography and the battles are stunning, and the scenario of Berlin completely destroyed recalled the neo-realistic movie of Roberto Rossellini "Germania Anno Zero".For those who know Germany and German people, it is amazing to see how this wonderful country survived to the chaos, destruction and lack of command, arrived from the ashes like Phoenix and sixty years later is again one of the greatest nations. For those who might have believed in Hitler and his Nazi Party, it is impressive to see how people is forgotten and treated without compassion by their leader in his last hours. And for those who love war, I really recommend to watch this magnificent anti-war movie, and see the behavior of the leaders and population when a war is lost. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "A Queda! As Últimas Horas de Hitler" ("The Fall! The Last Hours of Hitler")


                
In recent years, war films have given a new exposure to the sheer nature of war. In "Saving Private Ryan," "Black Hawk Down" and "Born on the Fourth of July," we were exposed to the realities that a soldier endures not only on the battlefield, but what they take with them long after the battles end. However, "Downfall," a German film nominated for Best Foreign Language Film at the 2005 Oscars, brings a unique perspective to the table. It is about the last days of Hitler and the Third Reich and the ultimate demise of both. More so than a war movie, this feature exposes the insanity of Hitler and the blind faith of his followers at the end. It is a deeply disturbing, intimate portrait of the cruelty that he inflicted not only upon 6 million Jews, but ultimately on his own countryman at the end.Based on the book "Inside Hitler's Bunker" by Joachim Fest, "Downfall" is in a word, shocking. The last act in the great horrific play of the Third Reich plays out like that of a cult<U+0097>so many men and woman who swore allegiance to Hitler commit suicide by either shooting themselves in the head or by ingesting poison capsules. But the madness of Hitler himself is horrifically captivating. He changes his mind and opinion on a whim. One moment he advises his SS-Guards and Generals to leave the city after learning that he does not have enough troops to protect Berlin. A particular one named Gruppenführer Hermann Fegelein , who was Eva Braun's brother-in-law, takes the Fuhrer for his word and leaves Berlin. When Hitler realizes this, he denounces Fegelein and orders him executed. What is more, Hitler discusses the final demise of the German people. He explains that this failure is not only that of the military, but of the civilians themselves. As such, his soldiers do not protect the people from the coming onslaught of the Soviet Army. He advises, "In a war as such there are no civilians." Hitler is recreated by the superlative performance of Bruno Ganz, who appeared in the 2004 remake of "The Manchurian Candidate." Ganz captures the movement, voice, even the involuntary shaking of Hitler's left hand so well, that the audience would feel as if they are watching the dictator himself. We are often left with shivers down our spine at how realistic Ganz's depiction is. Surprisingly enough, Thomas Kretschmann, who played the Nazi captain that gave Wladyslaw Szpilman a coat and food in "The Pianist" is seen here as Fegelein. I first noticed Kretschmann as a German U-Boat commander in 2000s, "U-571." He is a remarkable actor who brings with him a demanding presence on the screen through his stern looks and ultimate resolve. Unfortunately my knowledge of Eva Braun other than Hitler's mistress is limited. So it was refreshing to see a film that revealed her. Based on "Downfall's" depiction, Braun, portrayed by Juliane Kohler, was either one of the shallowest individuals I have ever seen, or she was so blinded by her faith in Hitler that she disregarded almost any sense of reality. For example, during Berlin's first days of bombardment, she becomes bored with being in the bunker and orders a party in an above ball room<U+0097>not surprisingly during that party a shell lands nearby and blows out windows in the room. Secondly, during later heavy bombardment, realizing that she will commit suicide with Hitler, she writes a letter to a relative where she states what jewelry she will leave behind. She is simply detached from reality and lost in the fanatical jargon of the Fuhrer. Certainly the film's most disturbing instances occur when Magda and Joseph Goebbels poison their children in the name of the Fatherland. One of their children, a girl probably about 10 years old, has a dim understanding of what is happening and refuses to take the drink given. She is then forced to drink it by her mother and a guard. Later on, Magda would come into her children's room while they were asleep and would give them the final capsule to eliminate them. "Downfall" is certainly one of the most powerful film's I have ever seen. As stated above, Hitler and his followers played out their existence as if they were in a cult. The blind faith of his followers and the insanity of the man are so well realized by director Oliver Herschbiegel, that it changes one's perception from that of simply being history to that of realism. These events happened less than a century ago and although most have learned to forgive Germany's past, no one will ever forget it. It is the stigma that haunts this generation of German youth because many of their grandparents or great-grandparents were a part of one of history's most infamous armies. But the fact that this film is German was surprising to me. I would have guessed that no one in Germany would have wanted to dig up their past in this way. However, if one looks at this film as closure to Germany's transgressions, then maybe this new generation of German youth can learn to have a sense of national identity without the horrors of the past seen in their shadows. **** out of ****
This magnificent film goes where no one else dared to go to show us the last days of Adolf Hitler. The director, Oliver Hirshbiegel, working with a big cast, brings to life the madness of the last days of the monster, as observed by a young and impressionable secretary who witnessed most of the crisis.At the beginning of the film we watch as five young women are brought to be interviewed by Hitler for a job as his personal secretary. Young Traudl Junge is selected. She is a pretty woman who is naive in many ways and probably had no inkling about the trip she was going to embark.The film captures the tragic figure of Hitler as everything is caving in on him and his grand plans for victory. We watch a man at the beginning of the film that is still thinking he is in command of the German forces, but his authority has eroded, as it becomes clear to the people under him the war is lost and it will be a matter of time before they are defeated.We watch the life of privilege the higher ups led inside the bunker. It was a fortification in which all comforts the regular Germans could not imagine existed. We get to know the people in Hitler's inner circle. The Goebbels, both Joseph and Magda, supporters of the regime, maintain the loyalty to the Fuhrer until the end. The scene where Magda Goebbels murders her children is hard to take and we keep sinking in our seats, as we can't believe such cruelty existed. In her narrow view of things, Magda must take her family with her to a death these children didn't deserve.The film is totally dominated by Bruno Ganz. As Hitler, he makes us see this man as he probably was in real life. Mr. Ganz's uncanny resemblance with Hitler is what makes the film works the way it does. At times, Mr. Ganz is totally irrational, and at times, he is presented as a lost man who can't see what he has done to Germany and to Europe and the world.As Traudl Junge, the young secretary, Alexandra Maria Lara gives a subtle performance. She saw plenty inside the bunker and lived to tell it to the world. The other excellent performance is given by Corinna Harfouch, who as Mrs. Goebbels makes us cringe in horror because of what she is capable of doing. Juliane Kohler, as Eva Braun, is an enigma. At times, she is presented as a carefree young woman who might have loved Hitler. Yet, we don't ever know what made this Eva Braun tick. Ulrich Matthes as Joseph Goebbels and Heino Ferch as Albert Speer are equally effective playing these two men.The director and his team have to be congratulated for taking us on a voyage to see the last moments of the Third Reich.


                
I don't know what to say about this film. I am almost speechless.First of all, this is almost PERFECT cinema, beautifully shot, acted, lit, staged and on and on. BUt it is also the only film in recent memory that had an almost physical impact on me. I left feeling disoriented and very disquieted, a feeling that lasted for several hours.What we have here is an exercise in patience. A film that allows us to watch the disintegration of the largest empire in modern history, from the inside out. Beginning after the start of the siege of Berlin, the bulk of the film takes place in the cramped bunkers below the city, where Hitler and his officers are trapped like rats on a sinking ship, aware of their fate, but not smart enough, not willing enough, or maybe incapable of escaping the fates they created for themselves.This is a daring, brilliant film with a virtuoso performance by Bruno Ganz as Hitler. He shows us that beneath the genocidal, world changing shell of hatred that the globe knew, Hitler was still that petty, hatefilled, failed art-student that he was before becoming the greatest villain in history.awesome, awesome, awesome movie.


                
All I can say about "Der Untergang" is: WOW! This is one of those rare films that prove that the darkest pages in our world history easily surpass the fiction tales of the most imaginative fantasist. This soon-to-be landmark in cinema portrays the final ten days of Hitler's reign at the well hidden bunker in Berlin. In the opening sequences, we see how the Führer hires Traudl Junge (flawless performance by Alexandra Maria Lara) as his personal secretary and we largely witness the rest of the story from her viewpoint. Recent documentary footage with the real Junge is showed to audience at the end of the movie, stressing even more that this is a very intelligent and carefully elaborated production. A form of criticism I often encountered stated that Hitler was portrayed too "human" by the Swiss actor Bruno Ganz. Let me tell you that people who claim this haven't got the slightest clue what they're talking about! It's true that Hitler sometimes strokes his dog<U+0085>or even gives a compliment to his servant for cooking him such a lovely dinner! But only moments after, you're exposed to the real Hitler again! Alternately a mad-raving dictator, a disillusioned conqueror or simply a pathetic old man. But perhaps the most astonishing scenes in "Der Untergang" are the ones in which the persons close to Hitler <U+0096> either professional or amicable <U+0096> remain unconditionally loyal to him! It is deeply disturbing to behold how so many people blindly swear by the unworldly beliefs of a madman, even prepared to follow him into death. This accurate portrait results in a series of brilliant sequences with the severely shocking fate of the Goebbels family as an absolute highlight.Purely talking in terms of cinema, "Der Untergang" comes dangerously close to perfection as well. The largest part of this film exists out of interior shots, more specifically the bunker-network where Hitler lasted his final days and eventually committed suicide. And the atmosphere inside this bunker is reflected on the movie-screen as genuine as humanly possible. You can nearly smell the fear of the lower-ranked officers! You can almost feel the shivering of the petrified secretaries! I really hate using a cliché sentence like this but<U+0085>it's true<U+0085>it's like you are there yourself! And you don't want to be there! Even the totally demolished streets of Berlin looks look more appealing than the claustrophobic Nazi bunker. This despicable chapter in history deserves an accurate and well-budgeted cinema version, if only just for passing on the inglorious stories of WWII to younger generations. Director Oliver Hirschbiegel terrifically turned Joachim Fest's novel into a mesmerizing film experience. Perhaps the most praiseworthy aspect about it all is that "Der Untergang" simply is a reconstruction of the facts! No lame and amateurish attempts to blame Hitler's actions on miserable childhoods or traumatizing experiences. Simply put: this is fundamental viewing!
Considering the fact how hard it is to make an adequate movie about the  Third Rich and especially Hitler himself, "Der Untergang" is a superb  portrayal of the last days of Hitler, his minions and the Third Rich.  First of all, Bruno Ganz' performance is magnificent, brilliant,  perfect. You're beginning to think he IS the Fuehrer, his look, his  mannerism, his sick philosophy of life and his downfall are absolutely convincing. After seeing him you can finally understand why  so many people back then were attracted by his charisma, but thanks to  Ganz' performance you do not forget about the terrible crimes he  committed by his followers and about the evil inside the sick soul of  this man. His minions weren't that important in this movie, except for  Joseph Goebbels and his family. Heinrich Himmler, the ReichsfuehrerSS,  was portrayed as the man he was: an idiotic coward, who was in great  part responsible for the Holocaust and still believed in a peace  agreement with the allied forces, although this idea was completely out  of place. Albert Speer as one of the less criminal national socialists  was also quite good interpreted. Martin Bormann, Alfred Jodl and  Wilhelm Keitel, 3 other important Nazis, got too few screen time, and  Hermann Goering didn't even show up, he was just mentioned. I think  Goebbels wasn't portrayed that authentic as he could have, due to the  fact he was the most intelligent of Hitler's inner circle, but in some  scenes he seemed like someone who could just repeat his own slogans.  The part about Traudl Junge and the boy from the Volkssturm, Peter, was  also quite good, but it was clearly overshadowed by the Hitler/ minion  part. There are also some surprisingly well done battle- sequences  taking place in Berlin, in which you can also see a part of the pretty  high amount of blood and violence, for example when a soldier gets shot  through his head, some officers are committing suicide or the killing  of the Goebbels children, a scene which gave me the chills. Due to it's  high authenticity, great actors and an important message, this movie  could become as important as Schindler's List already is, in order to  show today's youth the insanity of Hitler and the whole Third Rich and  to make them avoid racist and extreme right wing organisations. All in  all, this is one of the best German flicks I've ever seen - although  there isn't such a huge number of good German movies. 10/10


                
"Der Untergang" ("The Downfall") portrays life inside (and to an extent outside) the "Führerbunker" in Berlin during the last few weeks prior to Hitler's suicide in April, 1945. The screenplay was written by Bernd Eichinger, who has had previous experience with the adaptation of historical material for cinema, and done a commendable job in the process. I am, of course, referring to his screen version of Umberto Ecco's historical novel "The Name of the Rose (1986). Some of Eichinger's other credits include "Body of Evidence" (1993, which he co-produced) and "The NeverEnding Story" (1984, as producer).Few movies have stirred up as much controversy even before their release, as has "Der Untergang." So what was all the fuss about, and was it warranted? After all, how many films have been made about Hitler already, including several about Hitler in his Berlin bunker. There is nothing especially controversial about the subject matter per se. What is more, Hirschbiegel and Eichinger appear to have done their homework, basing the film extensively on German historian Joachim Fest's acclaimed book of the same name (2003). Events are portrayed largely through the eyes of Traudl Junge, Hitler's private secretary from 1943<U+0096>when the film opens with a flashback sequence to her job interview and appointment<U+0096>to his death. Her memoirs, and interviews conducted before her death, constitute a further source for the film. The Führer himself is played magisterially by Bruno Ganz, who clearly spent countless hours studying Hitler's public speeches, as well as rare footage of the private man, not to mention recordings of his voice. For a historian like myself, who has viewed and listened to much of the material myself, it is uncanny how right Ganz gets it. Inflection, tonality, accent<U+0096>they are all there. As are gestures and body language. This film has to be seen in the original, even if you don't understand German.So if there is little in the way of subject matter, preparation, historical consulting, and prime acting to fault, why then the controversy? The approach and interpretation were at the root of the hullabaloo. Interviewed while the film was in the making, Eichinger explained that he would portray Hitler "as a man, as a human" ("wie ein Mensch.") This was revolutionary in cinema, where renditions of the Nazi leader have<U+0096>pre-Eichinger<U+0096>still not gone far beyond the "evil-dictator" approach. You might reasonably query what is wrong with the "evil dictator" approach, given the accepted fact that he was, indeed, evil. From a historian's perspective, everything is wrong with that approach, and Eichinger had the courage to transcend it for the broad public.The first two decades of post-World War II historians pretty much demonized Hitler, as did all movies before "Der Untergang." This was understandable, at the time. Wounds were still fresh, denazification was under way, Germans were seeking a new democratic identity aligned with the West, and the issue of "collective guilt" was touchy. Solid, balanced biographies of Hitler had not yet been written, and historical understanding of how it was possible that a highly cultured people such as the Germans could have been led astray was only just beginning to take shape. But with the 1964 revision of Lord Alan Bullock's "A Study in Tyranny" (1st ed. 1952) and Joachim Fest's "Hitler: Eine Biographie" (1973) professional historians started putting demonetization to rest and instead began to explain. And this meant accepting the perhaps distasteful tenet that Hitler was, after all, a man, and not some kind of deranged satanic figure from hell. Sir Ian Kershaw, Professor of Modern History at the University of Sheffield, has taken things even further, in his highly accessible two-volume (2000 page!) magnum opus which has now become the standard biography (published 1998-2000). For Kershaw has not only reconciled the internationalist (or "Hitler-centric") approach, which focuses on Hitler as linchpin and leader of the Third Reich, without whom World War II and the Holocaust are unthinkable; with the structuralist approach, which links Hitler and his "enabling" to social, political and cultural structures in Weimar Germany. Kershaw has also gone a long way towards meeting the desideratum of German historian Martin Broszat, uttered as far back as the 1970s, for the "historicization" of Third Reich history, meaning its firm embedding in overall German, European, and indeed World History, rather than its artificial isolation as an "aberration" or a "German special path" ("deutscher Sonderweg.") This, then, is the proper historiographical context of "Der Untergang." In effect, the film almost belatedly follows trends in scholarship that have been developing for some time now. Of course, the general public is hardly aware of such developments. So in a sense, the film is something of a vulgarization, a kind of dramatization informed by the best scholarship. The film does not explain, for it is, after all, not a documentary with the voice-over of a historical consultant cum narrator. That is not its purpose. What it does, however, is provide an excellent sense of Hitler in his declining days, increasingly delusional if perhaps not outright insane, but still able<U+0096>almost to the bitter end<U+0096>to maintain a hold on his closest followers. Not to mention the unreality of life in the sheltered bunker, while outside the Russians are advancing through Berlin suburbs, held back only by a pathetic hodge-podge of Hitler youth and tired old men drafted into service in the Volkswehr. From all accounts I have read, from the pens of scholars English, American and German, I can say with a high degree of certitude that this film provides a reasonably authentic recreation of what it must have been like. Or in the words of Leopold von Ranke, "wie es eigentlich gewesen." What higher acclaim can a historian provide?


                
I have been fascinated not only by the movie (I have watched this now 10 times) but the divergence of opinion - with some Germans saying it was terrible. This I don't understand. In the West from the time of Charlie Chaplin Hitler was portrayed as a raving lunatic - but to me that does not explain his rise to power. A lunatic could not nearly conquer and enslave half the world. In his early rise to power, he was ridiculed in the West. The fact that this movie gives him some human qualities makes him all the more chilling. There is a dialog between the Junge character and the Braun character that perfectly summarizes Hitler. They talked of the great gulf between the private man and the public man. The Braun character said that she had known the man for 15 years - and yet she knew nothing of him. I believe to truly understand the movie one must also watch the movie with the director's commentary. Everything about this movie - with the exception of 2 things mentioned by the director - (which having just read the spoiler agreement I will refrain from mentioning - everything was based on fact, which makes the movie all the more dramatic. And the movie characters make some minor statements - based on fact - that would be lost on the audience without outside knowledge of those historical facts.Small case in point: The Eva Braun character is telling the Traudl Junge character that she "so looked forward to coming to Berlin" with the inference (to me) that she hadn't seen Hitler for awhile. Then I read elsewhere that she was in Obersaltzburg for 6 months away from Hitler prior to coming to Berlin. The director stated that he wanted this movie to be treated not only as a drama - but a documentary. He succeeded in both. I suppose this movie is controversial - a local reviewer said it tried to make Hitler sympathetic by giving him some human qualities but as someone else said this makes him all the more evil. It is these human qualities that make him a believable entity - kind to many individuals, indifferent and murderous to millions. And with the end he was indifferent to the fate of his own people, who were dying for him. Watching this movie made me think that the German people's initial support of Hitler followed a plot from Goethe - that a Mephistopheles - a demon in disguise - promises the recipient all that he wants in return for his soul. This of course is a theme that has subsequently replayed countlessly in western literature since Goethe's Faustus. This movie is based not only on Junge's book and Fest's book, but interviews with some of the survivors of the bunker.I would recommend not only the movie but then watch it with commentary from the director a second time. It is all the more haunting when you realize that virtually everything was based on fact during Berlin's last days.Bruno Ganz - as all the cast - turned in an excellent performance. Watching Ganz in this performance was watching Hitler. You will feel as if you too are a witness in the Bunker. The beginning and end statements by the real secretary Traudl Junge make the movie even more powerful. This movie was so moving for me that I have bought Traudl Junge's book, "Until the Last Hour". In the US on the DVD it is said it was nominated for "best foreign picture" - if it didn't win, it should have.
Having a huge interest in both World Wars and all that happened during the time period 1910-1950, I've seen a lot of movies and read even more books on the subject. Name me a more or less realistic war movie and I've probably seen it, so when "Der Untergang" was first released in Germany, I already knew I wanted to watch it as soon as it would be released over here. The commotion that it caused, the good critics that it got, all made me look forward to the day that I would see it, but really nothing could prepare me for what I saw... It was amazing, it was great, it was jaw-dropping...The main criticism that many people had on this movie was that Hitler and the other Nazi party members looked too human. I know, some people expect that the leaders of the Third Reich are only shown as real monsters, as people who didn't have any human feelings... But that's not the truth. The truth is that, no matter how horrible the things they did, they still were human and (most of the time) acted like normal human beings (for instance Hitler who really loved his German shepherd or who had one of Goebbels' children sitting on his lap while they were singing a song for him...). And let's be honest: do you think a leader who doesn't care for his people's destiny after the war, who doesn't want to see the truth that the war is lost, who knows all too well that he sends young children into battle (he even decorates them personally), but doesn't care, a man who can be so kind and sweet one moment and than be furious and outraged the other moment, really looks like a kind, sweet grandfather??? I don't think so. The makers of this movie never intended to make him look like a nice or a bad man, they intended to show him the way he really was and they did an amazing job.I've seen many documentaries about Hitler and read a lot of books about the man, so I think I can say I know quite well how he acted and reacted. Seeing Bruno Ganz as Hitler was a shock. He doesn't just look like Hitler, he IS Hitler in this movie!!! His performance was absolutely amazing and seeing him in this film really made shivers going down my spine. Hitler seemed to be alive again! If you've read so many books about the man as I did, you can only conclude that the resemblance is more than just remarkable, it is perfect.But of course there were more actors in the movie than Bruno Ganz (an actor who I admire since I saw "Pane e Tulipani" or "Bread and Tulips" for the first time). Even though I have to admit that I don't really know any of them, I must say that they all did an excellent job. Juliane Köhler as Eva Brown, Corinna Harfouch as Magda Goebbels, Alexandra Maria Lara as Traudl Junge, Ulrich Matthes as Joseph Goebbels,... They all must have studied there characters for many hours, because they were all excellent.As the horror and reality of the movie have only just ended and burned themselves on your retina for the rest of your life (By the end of the movie, you'll have seen many officers commit suicide, Hitler and Eva Brown being burned behind the bunker, the Goebbels murdering their children, people being hanged on a lantern for stupid reasons, young children dying as they try to defend Berlin...), you think you've had it all, but than the real Traudl Junge gives away a last testimony, looking back on her life with Hitler ... blowing you away even more. I can't remember that I've ever been so quiet after seeing a movie and apparently I wasn't the only one. Really no-one spoke a word during the first minutes after the lights went on again. I don't think many movies have ever touched the audience in such a deep way as this one did.Because of its historical value and realism, this movie should be seen by everybody and especially by young people at school. Forget those history books for once, this will get through to them at least ten times better. I'm sure that everybody will admit that this movie is a true masterpiece. People who don't know anything about the subject will be able to learn a lot about it and people who already thought they knew it all will still find some new things and will admit that this is exactly the way it must have been 60 years ago. I think there can be only one appropriate score for this movie and that is a full 10/10. Go see it people, NOW!!!


                
I had the DVD of this film for my birthday, and quite by chance also bought The Name Of The Rose (also produced by Bernd Eichinger) so I had the experience of watching two movies by this superb producer in two days, filmed 20 years apart.To save anyone who doesn't want to read further: I have over 200 DVDs in my collection and have no hesitation in placing this as #1.Now for the review: I'm not sure it is possible to write a 'spoiler' for historic events (not counting the people who came out of Titanic crying because 'the ship sank'<??>). We know Hitler died, we know the Allies won WWII.I came to this movie having read the book "The Last Days Of Hitler" by Hugh Trevor-Roper, who was the officer British Intelligence charged with finding out the truth, in September 1945. Obviously I was curious to see how Downfall compared.The main difference is in focus. While the book looks from the top (leadership) down, the film looks from the bottom (Traudl Junge - a secretary) up. The difference in perception is fascinating.Hitler: Our first view of him is somehow of a kindly man who stops dictating, looks at Traudl and says "Let's try again" when she fails to keep up with him. The duality of this, his private character is incredible and makes one think bipolar or schizophrenia as it seems impossible to believe that the raging monster who says that the German people do not deserve to survive is the same one who orders Junge and Christian to leave the bunker. If in his eyes the German people do not deserve life, why does he show concern for them? Is it because among his inner circle they are one of the vanishing number who have never betrayed him?Eva Braun: Blind loyalty is the only description I can find for her. Her devotion to Hitler is total, even when pleading for the life of Fegelein she bows unquestioningly to his decision.Traudl Junge: I can't say more than the lady herself, who in the DVD starts and ends the film with her judgment on herself. Her very simple stance (paraphrased) was "Ignorance is no excuse. Youth is no excuse. I could have asked. I didn't want to know."Josef Goebbels: Frightening. A true sociopath in every sense of the word. Hitler may have had the 'excuse' of mental illness towards the end, but Goebbels' actions were those of a rational thinking man who just did not see anything wrong in his actions. The ranting of a clearly unhinged mind is one thing, but save us all from the man who calmly considers his actions and rationalises such atrocities as those explained away by Goebbels.However, again like Hitler, his portrayal showed a stark duality to his character. One moment singing 'Happy Birthday' to Hitler with his children, with a warm smile and sparkling eyes; the next telling Traudl Junge very calmly that the German people quite rightly deserved the fate that was being visited on them.Magda Goebbels: As with other reviewers here, I found her almost the most chilling, second only to her husband. How any mother could deliberately and calmly bring about the deaths of her own children is something a rational mind cannot comprehend.Every single performance in the movie was captivating. I was glued to the screen from beginning to end. Bruno Ganz et al were perfect in their roles and brought every person back to life; as noted above sometimes to chilling effect. Talking to a friend on the phone about the film he thought I meant that the characters were stereotypical 'nasty Germans', but this is *not* the case.I've mentioned the duality of the main characters, but there were others, Prof. Dr. Ernst-Günter Schenck, Prof. Dr. Werner Haase, SS-Gruppenführer Hermann Fegelein to name but a few who showed that not all Germans were rabid Nazis, and that those who were, were very much in the minority. The Army in particular just wanted to get the war over with the minimum of casualties; a wish shared I think by every military commander throughout history.The look of the film was authentic and very atmospheric; whether in the cramped bunker (apparently built more as an authentic replica than a film-set) where the shots were mostly taken hand held as there was no space for a mounted camera; to the outdoor shots filmed in St Petersburg. It is rivaled in this respect only by Enemy At The Gates for capturing the full horror and idiocy of war.For true historians of the war - a must see.For all modern history students - a must see.For all who have never lived through war (I myself am 36 so I have not)Lest We Forget.A Must See.
A lot of war movies have a sense of patriotism or commercialism, but Der Untergang feels like it is just giving you the cold hard facts of the last ten days of the Third Reich. I have to commend the filmmakers for not using black and white or filtering the color, like many other WW II movies today. It is becoming a cliché. The film is based on Traudl Junge's recollections of the last ten days she spent in Hitler's Bunker. It takes place entirely in the Bunker, which gives the film a very claustrophobic feel. As the outcome of the war becomes clearer, the Bunker becomes a cesspool of drunkenness, denial, and even death.Hitler's secretary Traudl Junge has a strange relationship with him. She stays with him out of sympathy and loyalty, but she is often horrified by his cruelty and inhumanity. This might be difficult to understand but I believe this makes the movie all the more realistic. She can recognize cruelty when she sees it but Hitler is the Fuhrer, a man who is practically worshiped. Hitler is shown to have elements of humanity. He despises smoking, loves his dog Blondi, and genuinely seems to care for his secretaries and Dr. Goebbel's children. We can feel his sorrow as the Russians advance toward Berlin. His dream of a German Empire had been lost and it breaks his soul. One of my favorite shots in the film is that of Hitler staring silently at a picture of Frederick the Great, seemingly thinking about his failures.This is not to say Der Untergang is pro Nazi. I believe that by portraying Hitler's humanity the film makes his crimes all the more terrible. If he was just a one dimensional monster that would be his excuse. The inhumanity of the Third Reich does emerge throughout the film. Hitler blames the German people for the defeat of the military, calling them cowards and saying they deserve their fate. Joseph Goebbels expresses similar sentiments. Magda Goebbels says she cannot live in a world without National Socialism, and poisons her children before committing suicide with her husband.The film perfectly captures an aura of hopelessness and denial. Eva Braun throws a party in the middle of the Russian bombing, trying to get her mind off Germany's impending defeat. She does anything and everything to keep her mind off the war. Hitler orders his Generals to move Tank divisions that do not exist or are too crippled to be of any use. He blames his Generals for Germany's defeat and not himself, which he usually did in real life. People around Hitler are aware that the situation is hopeless and betray him to save their own skin. In the midst of all the madness, some people have retained their sanity. Professor Schenck, a German Doctor, tries to help the wounded soldiers and civilians when his own government abandons them. Berlin is in ruins and people are left to fend for themselves. An old man tries to convince soldiers who are no more than thirteen that there is no point in fighting, but to no avail. Eva Braun's brother-in-law Fegelein tries to convince Braun to leave Berlin, but she cannot leave the Fuhrer. We sympathize with these people, and they only show how insane the Third Reich was. People commit suicide out of devotion to the Fuhrer. Corinna Harfouch plays a chilling Magda Goebbels; the scene where she pleads with Hitler not to kill himself was outstanding. The star of this movie though, is Bruno Ganz. His performance as Hitler feels so authentic it is frightening. If I ever had to recommend a movie just to see one performance, this would be one of them. Hitler has been played by great actors like Anthony Hopkins and Alec Guinness, but Ganz has received the most praise. I will seek out more of Ganz's movies based on this performance. At the end of the film, an excerpt from an interview with the real Traudl Junge is shown. She says that at the time of the Nuremberg trials she was shocked by what had happened in the Concentration Camps but did not consider herself responsible. Now she admits that she had no excuse. I would imagine this is how many Germans from her generation feel. I highly recommend Der Untergang to anyone who is interested in The Third Reich or anyone who appreciates good film making.
Seriously, I wasn't expecting much, but this was one of the best movies period. The actors and acting was terrific, the sets were incredible (St. Petersburg, Russia), the emotions... I felt like I was in Berlin during the last few days, I felt like I was in the bunker with Hitler. It is the most realistic depiction of the situation I had ever seen, and I almost felt a tear in my eye. And that is something, coming from a 40 year old Army veteran. The last 5 minutes, I was on the edge of my seat, when the Russians showed up. Anyway, this movie is totally recommended by me, but brush up on your Nazi history first, or you won't know who is who.I also liked it because it showed Hitler as a real human, and not the usual Anthony Hopkins/Alec Guiness "nutbag" Hitler, or the stereotypical "demon" Hitler. It showed him as he was, a broken down egomaniac. I will totally buy this movie and add it to my collection, which is rare for me to do these days.


                
This is an important film and absolutely a must for anyone who has ever pondered how WWII, the Holocaust and all that was at all possible.Der Untergang has sometimes been criticized for making Hitler and the Nazis look sympathetic and human. I saw it like this: the most horrifying thing about Hitler and Nazis is that they WERE humans, not some caricature monsters of hell. The movie displays this very well, without sympathizing or underlining the evil of these human beings.If you're a human being equipped with normal feelings, you ARE right in feeling slightly compassionate towards a crying Hitler. But at the same time, if you're a normal person, your compassion vanishes when you remember why he's crying. He's not regretting his inhuman deeds. He's not feeling remorse for the suffering of other people. He's crying because his horrible plans have failed, because he thinks the German people have failed him.I also think Der Untergang points out an important thing about the Nazi ideology. It was and is evil because it is based on intense hate and the conscious rejection of compassion. People blinded by this kind of ideology are also blinded by hatred, and as we know this phenomenon is unfortunately alive and well in today's world, in the East and the West as well. Movies like Der Untergang give us an important lesson in understanding this dangerous way of thought and the utter madness and vanity of war. Go see this if you can.


                
You couldn't really expect to make a 'typical' movie out of the story of last days of the archetypal fascist dictator. 'Untergang' seeks to illustrate the situation of 'sane' people under the control of a madman; that and the impending arrival of the Red Army is the only dramatic jeopardy available - no romantic interlude, nothing to achieve, no sentimental buddy rescue shtick. We witness the reactions of people like you and me (and don't be silly enough to imagine I include Goebbels, etc. - I mean people doing their jobs under impending calamity) who happened to be in the wrongest place at the wrongest time. If this dilemma doesn't absorb you, it's a fault of your imagination, not of the utterly brilliant recreation of something very few people survived to bear witness to. 'Untergang' doesn't seek to make a judgment of Hitler because it doesn't need to: all you need to appreciate is his increasing detachment from reality and the way that this divides the people stuck with him. If there's any sort of judgment, it's of the herd mentality of people as a whole. The film becomes a series of stunning docu-vignettes of the various levels of humanity involved, each one posing the question 'What would YOU have done?'. This film is thought-provoking, and that naturally makes many denizens of the internet uncomfortable.


                
This film is an absolutely stupendous achievement. Every aspect of this production is perfect. Brilliantly photographed, keenly written & directed, and filled with stellar performances led by Bruno Ganz, Der Untergang piqued my curiosity and made my skin crawl.I was aghast at the insanity and the horror that was the final days of the Third Reich. And leading the crazed was the Fuhrer himself, a miserable, twisted, twitching wretch of a man. Bruno Ganz is amazing as he lets us see all aspects of the man's personality, from kindly father to deranged psychopath. We see Hitler as a polite, well-mannered diner. We see Hitler as a screaming lunatic, ordering his generals to marshal forces which no longer exist. We see him as a devoted dog lover and vegetarian. We see him as a man who has no mercy for the brother of his longtime mistress (and soon-to-be wife). Mr. Ganz is worth 10 stars alone, even if you saw & heard nothing else in this film.I would be remiss were I not to also sing the praises of Alexandra Maria Lara, who portrays Traudl Junge, one of Hitler's secretaries. The film is told primarily from her point of view, and Ms. Lara's performance was compelling. I have no idea how you prepare for a role like this; portraying the hopelessness of being trapped with lunatics while bombs destroy everything except your locale cannot be easy, but Ms. Lara made me feel it every time she was on the screen. (It doesn't hurt that she is breathtakingly beautiful, either.)The script (by producer Bernd Eichinger) is excellent, covering a lot of ground succintly and elegantly. The direction is top-notch, providing us with the grit of real battles and the surreal atmosphere of Hitler's bunker. Locations, costumes, lighting, sets... every technical aspect of this film is perfect. It is as if they were able to somehow film the past.The horrors of Nazi Germany are well documented and publicized, as we strive to prevent that particular piece of history from repeating itself. Der Untergang's greatest achievement is that it is able to so perfectly place us in the middle of 10 of the worst days in the lives of some of the worst people ever to walk the planet. To see them as human beings, and not caricatures, is amazing. I tell you, I was unable to stop myself at times from simply muttering "that's crazy! Madness!" How can human's become so twisted, so deranged?Film is an inherently powerful medium, bombarding our senses like no other form of entertainment. As such, viewing this film in the larger context of the desirability of promulgating and maintaining a warlike culture may have a lasting impact on the viewer.A masterful achievement. All involved should be proud.


                
I feel the praise of this movie has been sung many times already on this site, so I will not go into all that it does right. However, after reading some of the reviews that are rightfully in the back pages here, I do think there is an issue that needs to be addressed here.Apparently some people think we are all ignorant children, who need to be spoon-fed a message about how "inhuman" the Nazis were. I have even seen reviews that called this movie dangerous, because it sympathized with Hitler.If you haven't seen this film yet, don't get fooled by these misguided comments. If this movie is dangerous, it is dangerous to people who wish to believe that Adolf Hitler was Satan incarnate, and that all who followed him were bloodthirsty demons who fed on baby corpses. I can hardly believe this fact offends people but: he wasn't, and they weren't. Both Hitler and his followers were human beings, who did things human beings do. They were friendly to each other, they cared for the people close to them, while at the same time plotting to kill millions of innocent people. They enjoyed cake and embraced their lovers, and then decided to send twelve year old boys to sacrifice their lives to keep off the Russian army for a couple of hours more.This is what Der Untergang shows, and why it was hailed with so much praise. It actually moved beyond the cardboard cut-out cliché of movie Nazis. Just show a man utterly devoid of any humanity, a death machine, and stick him in a nazi uniform, and hey presto, an accurate depiction of a nazi. That has all been done thousands of times, and it makes us feel safe, because we can identify them as bad guys from a mile away, and we can then morally judge the idiots that fell for the whole nazi movement. We would never fall for anyone that evil. This movie chooses selfconsciously not to go for that approach, but instead show us the true insanity of the nazi-regime. That they actually believed that what they were doing was for the good of the German people.If people see Der Untergang as a campaign to show the Nazis as the good guys, let them explain the scene in which Frau Goebbels killed her own children, the scene in which Hitler condemns the German people for being weaklings who deserve death, or the scene where Joseph Goebbels tells an army officer that the German people brought their destruction on themselves, with a smirk on his face, showing he enjoys this consequence of his decision (or, for that matter, one of the many other scenes which show the cruelty of the Nazis). Do you really believe this movie will make anyone believe the Nazis were just idealistic dreamers who should be sympathized with for not achieving their goals?
I am not very much into history events, so cant be sure about any historical goof in the movie but I have to admit that I have never seen such a FLAWLESS movie before. screenplay and direction is simply awesome, and what makes the movie a 'classic' is the acting. Bruno Ganz, Alexandra Maria Lara and Juliane Köhler have given one of the best performances ever. They have lived through the characters, simply irresistible. This movie has actuated me to explore more movies from the director and the actors. I would have enjoyed movie more if I knew German as I had to ping pong between subtitles and the movie. Personally, I would rate this movie higher than Godfather or any other movie.


                
The outstanding qualities of this film have already been discussed at length, I want to address some of the criticisms levelled against this film by 'the experts' (critics and historians).Why are they so outraged by a film that portrays the nazi leadership as human beings? The actions and mannerisms shown in this film are entirely consistent with how those people acted in real life. Yes, Hitler was a genocidal leader, but he was just a man, not a demon. He was capable of great cruelty but was it is often remarked that he was capable of decent conversation with people and was generally amiable but patronising in his dealings with subordinates. These attributes, I feel, were accurately portrayed in the film.What about the film portraying war criminals (eg, keitel, jodl, speer) in a positive light, as brave and honourable men? This film made it clear that it was a representation of the final days and hours of the nazi regime. the death camps have been liberated by the advancing allies, the victories of 1939-41 a distant memory. Yes, these people were guilty of war crimes but that doesn't mean they would act like in a cowardly or dishonourable way when their homeland was under siege.Take a look at any good film, book or just at humanity in general, you will see that ALL people are capable of cruelty but also of honour, bravery and loyalty.Why is it controversial to portray the nazi leadership in such a way? I think the film displays well the internal tug-of-war - loyalty to their leader against reality and self-preservation - taking place in each persons head while they deal with the inevitable capitulation.Finally, where are these critics when Hollywood produces some awful pap that portrays historical events emerges? Whether they re-write history (eg. braveheart or mel gibsons patriot) or try and play 13th century characters with 21st century liberal emotions (eg. kingdom of heaven) these films escape the large scale criticisms levelled at der untergang.Why does Hollywood produce this nonsense? Is the true story of what happened (the American revolution, the crusades, ww2) not interesting enough for cinema viewing? I think it is and the accurate, human portrayal of Hitler and the German people in der untergang proves this.
World War 2 is to a large extent a myth. It is a video game. It is the never ending virtual battle of Normandy. It is a teenager called "killer-x" online fragging n00bs. World War 2 is when the glorious, noble west defeated the Great Satan. World War 2 lasted six years and yet it never ended. We in the west keep finding new Hitlers to kill, new evils to fight. Yet, the World War II is filled with uncomfortable facts. I should know. For my country was allied with the Nazi Germany fighting Soviet Union. And It was the cold Russian winters that broke the Nazi war machine.That's why I don't watch WW2 movies. Only Das Boot has managed to capture the madness and the futility of war properly. It is only when you have lost everything, that you are forced to come to terms with what you have done.Der Untergang is the finest war movie I have ever seen in my entire life.Bruno Ganz is simply mesmerizing as Adolf Hitler. Hitler is the Roman Emperor watching his once mighty Empire come to a bitter end, refusing to accept it. Sanity has been abandoned long time a go. Hitler is moving imaginary armies on a map. Coming up with plans to outflank the Soviet beast that is fast approaching the new Rome, Berlin. Sometimes the devil is overcome with fartherly love towards his flawed little children, who can't perform even the simplest of tasks in his powerful presence. He understands their shortcomings and shows patience. He charms the people and minutes later curses his Generals for betraying him. "The best Germans died long a go! I am surrounded with weaklings!" He yells. Eva Brauns refusal to come to terms with what is happening (The Empire is ending), is a true testament to human madness. Bombs go off just meters away but she'll be damned before that stops her from dancing and throwing a party. "Why are people so depressing? Let's have some fun!" For a few minutes we see the young ladies go outside the bunker to have a cigarette. We learn that life actually does go on. Bombs go off again and we descend back into the madhouse. Back into the bunker. Mass suicides, decadence of the human soul continue inside Hitlers house of insanity. At least Eva has the love of her life beside her now. Now at the end Hitler is hers. The reasons why the Nazi regime fought till the bitter end, was because of the allied policy of Unconditional surrender, Morgenthau Plan and World War 1. Not because of some insane loyalty towards a brutal dictator. People rarely like dictators. Der Untergang shows no love towards the dictator either, but for the first time the Dictator is human. And that is the big lesson. The Great Devils are in fact human. They represent the ultimate failure of the human spirit.
While I didn't see Downfall in theaters, I had heard the great word of mouth that it had received and quickly picked it up on DVD. The movie totally took me by surprise and not only amazed, but also shocked and, in an unanticipated turn of events, saddened me. It is something that I did not expect from a picture about the death of Adolf Hitler. Downfall tells the tragic tale of a madman, a person who, while still very human, is the ultimate victim of the sins that man, in his very nature, embodies.The film is based on the memoirs of Traudl Junge (Alexandra Maria Lara), who was Hitler's appointed secretary. The plot also uses Inside Hitler's Bunker by Joachim Fest in order to keep the plot as historically accurate as possible. Hitler (player to a T by the remarkable Bruno Ganz) is always the main focus of the movie, and even when he is not on camera his shadow on the events that happen on screen is always felt. Minor grave endeavors are shown throughout the movie and director Oliver Hirschbiegel does a good job of connecting them to the main problem <U+0096> the Nazi Party. These happenings range from instances of violence on the streets, to a shocking scene in which a mother poisons her own children as instructed by the Fuhrer himself.The most intriguing part of the film is not the realistic reproduction of a bombed city, or the amazing acting by all involved, although these things are startling and deserve awards. No, the best part is definitely the way Hitler is illustrated. During his last ten days, he didn't have control over anything, not the country, not the army, and not even the Nazi party itself. While the movie depicts those things really well, it goes even deeper and acknowledges that the Fuhrer couldn't even control himself. It was something not even he realized until those final moments in that dark bunker, where he shot himself.The movie looks great thanks to the cinematography of Rainer Klausmann, with battle scenes and aftermaths colored in strikingly cheerless tones. Credit also has to go to director Hirschbiegel for the choices he made as far as what to film and where in the movie to put it. It is also to his credit, the way he directs the actors. Bruno Ganz practically embodies Hitler, portraying both his flaws, and few positive traits. All the actors around him, while turning in great performances are simply sidekicks, remarkably mirroring the roles their characters played in Hitler's real life.So in this film you get not only an enormously accurate picture of World War II itself, but also an accurate portrait of the life of the most important and flawed man in arguably all of human history. Downfall is an endlessly rewarding motion picture and one of the best of the year. So if you don't mind the German language and having to read subtitles, you will be able to acknowledge the importance of Oliver Hirschbiegel's Downfall, and its way of delving deep beneath the skin of its main character.
I admit that I only heard of this movie through watching Youtube spoofs of Hitler's tirade scene, but the film interested me so much that I had to see for myself. I only EVER give reviews to movies which I feel are either terrible or extraordinary. This movie was the latter. It is by far one of the best WWII films ever made, and the best made in the 21st century.I was blown away when I finished the film, stunned by its visual effect quality, precise acting, and near perfect play-out of the plot. The film shows the tumultuous and rocky end of the Reich's last 12 days, as you witness the end of Hitler's empire in his very bunker. The screenplay gives marvelous insight into the inner conflict that the Fuhrer himself suffers as well as the conflict with his most loyal commanders and generals. Seeing the story from the eyes of Traudl Junge (played by the beautiful and talented Alexandra Maria Lara)is another special treat, as you see her own struggle between loyalty to the Reich and personal conscience.The film is by far superior to many of its "end-of-the-Reich" predecessors. For its brilliant screenplay, superb acting, and intense storytelling, it gets a 10 from me.


                
"I was not an enthusiastic Nazi," a woman's voice-over tells us at the opening of "Downfall," as if to underscore her lack of complicity in Germany's actions in the second World War, or perhaps to convince herself. It is 1943 when director Oliver Hirschbiegel's film about the last tormented days of Adolph Hitler begins, and that voice belongs to the real Traudl Junge (played here by Alexandra Maria Lara), one of several young women smuggled into the Führer's headquarters in East Prussia to interview for a position as his private secretary. When she messes up the first go-round at dictation, Traudl, whose curiosity about Hitler is the catalyst for her adventure, is moved by the dictator's gentleness and generosity. A moment later she is jumping for joy to land such a prestigious position.Two and a half years later, things are considerably different. The German military has suffered severe losses, Berlin is under artillery attack by the advancing Russians, the great experiment in National Socialism is crumbling like the city, and Hitler (Bruno Ganz) and his key commandants have retreated to the leader's private bunker. But the megalomaniacal Hitler, who irrationally still believes he can produce a Third Reich that is a German "treasure house of art and culture" comparable to that of the ancient Greek and Roman civilizations, not only refuses to give up, but also shouts at his minions that a new military strategy is in effect that will help them win the war. How delusional! Despite their resolute faith in the Führer, even some of the elite members of the SS have come to mistrust his judgment. Albert Speer (Heino Ferch), the famed architect of the Third Reich, looks askance at Hitler over a table top model of the cultural structures he planned to create for the master race. Field marshall Hermann Göring cannot (or will not) obey orders. Nazi doctors refuse to let civilians and young men die without some attempt at medical attention. When Hitler is told that "fifteen to twenty thousand" of those young men were lost in an effort to fight off the Russians, his heartlessly-spewed response is: "that's what they're for." But he will go out onto the street during a lull in the shelling to honor youngsters as heroes who "history will take note of," and pinch the cheek of one particularly innocent- looking lad.The bipolarity of a man who himself has gone down in history as one of its greatest monsters is at the heart of "Downfall," the screenplay (by Bernd Eichinger) for which is based on historian Joachim Fest's book (The Downfall: Inside Hitler's Bunker, The Last Days of the Third Reich) and on the memoir of the real Traudl Junge (Until the Final Hour: Hitler's Last Secretary). The film does not ask us to sympathize with this madman (given his actions, how could it?), but it does present a profile of a man who, despite his obvious dementia, still managed to hold sway over those who earlier pledged their loyalty to him and were determined to maintain it to the bitter end. And is it ever bitter.The claustrophobic confines of the elaborately designed bunker (by Production Designer Bernd Lepel) are reminiscent of the submarine in the German film "Das Boot." We can practically smell its fetid air and feel the walls closing in on us as the Russians close in on the city. Given these circumstances, we can understand how Eva Braun ("Nowhere in Africa's" Juliane Köhler in another terrific performance) can say to Traudl, "The shelling has stopped, let's go for a walk," even if the suggestion is as insane as staying with Hitler. But like the others who stick it out and who, in many instances, make inhuman, incomprehensible sacrifices to do so, both women descend yet again to that labyrinth of madness.Aside from the exploration of Hitler's increasingly fragile grip on reality, what is most fascinating about how he is depicted is his appeal, particularly to women. In addition to Traudl and Eva Braun, the short, mustachioed man with the thinning comb-over mesmerized such otherwise strong-willed women as pilot Hanna Reitsch (Anna Thalbach), and Magda Goebbels (Corinna Harfouch), wife of Nazi propagandist Joseph Goebbels (Ulrich Matthes). As such, "Downfall's" strength is greatest when it sticks to these human dynamics rather than when it sidetracks to subplots outside the bunker that have little or nothing to do with the story that unfolds in that enclosed world.War is the ugliest, or among the ugliest of human actions, and "Downfall" does not glamorize it. On the contrary, despite its technically superb cinematography (by Rainer Klausmann, who also shot "Head On"), there are a number of graphic sequences that underscore the horrors of war, as if we needed reminding. Then again, perhaps we do. "Downfall" does not necessarily present new information on those last twelve days of Hitler's life, but it does present it in a worthwhile way. In a time of war, such as the one we are currently living in, it is important to remember that monsters are made, not born, and that they lurk beneath the surface of some otherwise very ordinary humans.


                
What an amazing film. I'm at a loss for words.First of all, this project which took two years of director Oliver Hirschbiegel's life was an incredibly brave thing to tackle, seeing as there hasn't been a film chronicling Hitlers last days for 30+ years.The attention to detail is there to see as well and as far as I can tell, is factually as accurate as it possibly can be. There is debate as to some of the possible events such as how exactly Hitler's body was disposed but it also seems in order Chronologically. On top of that it also feels very frank and honest and without compromise. Bruno Ganz is simply awesome as Hitler. His detailed research and analysis of Hitler and his mannerisms pays off spectacularly. It really feels like it could be him, and to pull that off in a much copied and more importantly, parodied figure is truly genius. Some of the scenes such as his various rants at his officers and generals, where Speer tells him of his betrayals had me in awe of this mans performance.There were some incredibly shocking scenes also like where the German officer kills his family for not being able to leave Berlin.Akin to 'The Pianist' this is simple, but honest film-making at it's best, which demands the utmost from cast and crew in order to succeed, typified by the final scene with the Goebbels children and the Goebbels themselves. I must say, I thought the casting for Goebbels was tremendous.Put simply, this is a film that, like 'All quiet on the Western Front', will be remembered in 100 years time


                
