Usually I don't write a comment. Especially not when it's a good movie, because everybody sees something slightly else in it. But since I'm quite outraged about this one, I needed to write something. Hitler with human traits, sure I can see that. Fair enough, this makes it all the more worrying, if he's human, we all are able to make the same horrific mistakes. Great acting performances by basically everyone. No problem there. But.... Hitler and Goebbels are the two rotten apples in the basket the movie seems to be telling us. And Goebbels (the brilliant intellectual who re-invented propaganda) is depicted as a loyal moron dog. Ein "voll-idiot" as they may say in German. The rest of the bunker crowd are either loyal but stupid, or realists who have cowardice as their biggest vice. The last ones are all depicted as people who want to talk some sense in this raving megalomaniac, as people who want to save the German population, but in the end were not able to stand up against big uncle Adolf. They meant so well after all.... To me, it came across as a feel-good movie, there were 2 madman (and a couple of loyal wives and secretaries), but the rest wasn't so bad after all, really. We can all go to bed safely now. Sure, a lot of Germans (most probably, in fact)were not responsible for the atrocities that went on, but to claim the same for the bunker crowd is stretching it. They too were human, bound to make mistakes, yes, but here most of them are almost angel material, cowardly angels, stupid angels, but nevertheless...........a sad, very sad story indeed....


                
The good: solid photography, good acting, very high production values.The bad: the movie constantly seem to thread on eggs, and is only comfortable with itself when it falls into the age old 'black' vs 'white' characterization. For each instance he shows a 'human' aspect of Hitler, the director feels obliged to show 2 were Hitler appears as a deluded, pathetic old man, sick both physically and mentally. At some point I was reminded of the Charlie Chaplin 'Dictator' performance. It's a real shame because the acting is solid and you can tell the actor who plays Hitler tries very hard to avoid falling in a caricature. But I guess he has to work with the material he's given.Political correctness is everywhere, even when the credit rolls. The participants who died hanged and executed in Soviet war camps were not really 'executed' - they just 'died in captivity'. Hitler's 'secretary', the only real-life participant the producers got on tape, simply 'didn't know' about the concentration camps, and of course is 'full of guilt' after she 'learned the truth' during the Nuremberg trials. Yeah right! The actress who portrays her during the movie, as this innocent looking, ultra-naive involuntary participant is frankly nerve grating in her absurdness as a character.Overall, it's a feel-good movie, believe it or not. After watching this, you feel good knowing that it's Hitler who arranged for his own population to die during the conflict, that the top brass of the SS all paid for their crimes, and that the rest of the population was simply hypnotized into blind obedience to a small bunch of evil men. You can now finish your popcorn and exit by the nearest door. Thank you for your custom.
Spending over 2 ½ hours witnessing the last hours of Adolf Hitler's life doesn't sound like an exhilarating time, and director Oliver Hirschbiegel's 2004 German-language film has to be one of the more deflating experiences I've had at the movies recently. But that's not to say there aren't moments of great power and passionate, truthful performances. In fact, it feels like quite a breakthrough to have the story actually done in German as it seems targeted to the German populace versus the rest of us interested only in the historical details from the outside. Regardless, the overall effect is enervating from the intentionally methodical approach the filmmaker takes in chronicling the waning moments of the Third Reich. The focal point obviously is the Führer, and Bruno Ganz is powerfully persuasive in alternating between gentility and irrationality but all the while descending into a palpable dementia. It's a vividly rendered performance, which captures all his seeping paranoia and despicable philosophies. The trick for Hirschbiegel and Ganz is not to humanize him to the point of having the viewer feel compassion for this mass murderer because even sixty years after the end of World War II, he continues to exert a powerful fascination. We are intrigued by the psychological forces that gave rise to German National Socialism and shaped its leader, and they successfully pull off the queasy balance of presenting a man who -- before he commits suicide -- speaks with pride about his annihilation of the Jews in Europe. For Hitler and his immediate supporters, the idea of facing the opposition and accounting for those war crimes was unthinkable.Despite Hitler's dominance in the story, it is mostly viewed from the perspective of his personal secretary Traudl Junge, who was just 22 when the Führer hired her in 1942. For example, the anticipated suicide scene is done behind a closed door as Junge realizes what is happening from the outside. Alexandra Maria Lara portrays Junge with an open naïveté that makes her blind devotion understandable to a great degree, but her character is not interesting enough to hold our interest throughout. Consequently, there is a gallery of characters, Hitler's inner circle, who experiences the end of the war on their own terms. Of course, there is Eva Braun, Hitler's infamous mistress whom he married in the last moments of their lives. As portrayed ebulliently by Juliane Köhler, she is a caretaker for the whole bunker, attempting to get everyone's spirits up with liquor, tabletop dancing and the occasional walk outside for a cigarette. She gradually reveals a more tortured soul worrying about her pregnant sister and confessing her increasing discomfort but remaining steadfast in her devotion to the Führer. But the most fascinating and frightening character is Magda Goebbels, portrayed with a cold veneer of calm by Corinna Harfouch. In certain ways, it's an even gutsier performance than Ganz's. Her real-life character's dedication to the Führer reaches such pathological levels that in the movie's most shocking scene, she forces ampoules of cyanide into the mouths of her sleeping children rather than subject them to the grim prospect of "a world without National Socialism".Aside from these elements and the shock-inducing recreation of the bombings, the movie is rather dull visually lacking, for example, the panache that Jean-Pierre Jeunet displays in his recent "A Very Long Engagement". Mostly, it has the unimaginative feel of a TV-movie, or given its excessive length, more accurately a miniseries completely driven by dialogue often focused on military tactics and sometimes on the human plight involved. The downbeat tone is relentless, as Hirschbiegel shifts his story between the increasingly desperate military situation above ground in Berlin and the oddly eccentric situation in the bunker underneath it. Perhaps the film's greatest value is the implicit absolution of the German people in blindly following Hitler. When he refuses to express compassion for the civilians, and declares that the Germans have brought their fate upon themselves, the movie is conveying that ordinary Germans were as much victims of Nazism as anyone else, a point raised and refuted 44 years ago in Stanley Kramer's "Judgment at Nuremberg". It's a valid perspective but unfortunately it's buried in an overlong and desultory film.


                
I have just watched the film, and I have the impression that this film do not deserve to be in the top 250 movies. I think it is a good and realistic portrait of Adolf Hitler's last days, and all the madness that surrounded him. I utterly disagree with those who say this film gives a pro-Nazi vision. I have paid much attention more than two hours and I haven't found the slightest sign of Nazi Propaganda in this film. But I was willing to watch a film and what I found was a documentary. And I am not happy with that. The film didn't arose my interest at most points. Why? Mainly because it is too long, it's more of a documentary than a film, and doesn't add any interesting special feature to make it more interesting. I particularly don't feel any suspense during the film. What I am trying to say is that when you are doing a film about something people already know (most people know a lot about Hitler and particularly that he committed suicide)you have to add something to the film to make it interesting, or to add your personal view to an historical event. And none of these things have been done in the present film. Therefore, I see this film more as a boring documentary than as a film.


                
I left the screening after almost two hours, because I did not realize what this movie wants to tell. Yes, there is fine acting (Bruno Ganz is really great!) and it seems to be authentic, but for what is it good for, to watch the suicide of some nazi monsters? It tells you nothing, except that these people remain true to their principles until death. It tells you nothing about their crimes, it tells you nothing about their powers. It tells you only something about their characters, what nobody needs to know. The movie is also a tightrope walk, because it shows the destroying of Berlin, it shows many victims and it shows the Nazis trapped in the Führerbunker. Someone might get the impression, all the disaster is coming from the Allies, which try to conquer Berlin.


                
it is a well-made, well-acted movie. i am just not sure that it gives a perspective that was needed. i, for one, never doubted that Hitler was a human being. i don't feel enriched by the experience of actually seeing him be a human being on screen.i am sure that the movie is accurate enough and it certainly is convincingly realistic. it forces no viewpoint, passes no judgment. and it is, for the main part, confounded to the bunker and events there. and that is a part of the problem for me. in a way, perhaps we can assume that everyone knows the facts of what has gone on outside and it is hard to make a movie showing all side, it is already 2.5 hrs long. but. by limiting the action to the bunker, all we see are people under extreme stress. what is the point of that? we do not explore what the actions of the people have brought onto everyone else. we are simply dealing with human reactions when their world collapses.it is clear that Hitler, at least by the time he is in the bunker, is deranged. it is clear that most of his followers are equally deranged in their devotion to the fuhrer. it is also clear that some of his top officials lied to him and yet others did not. all are human, human, human. so what? did anyone actually ever doubt it? it is an interesting movie that deals with real events and how people react under extreme stress. but i did not need to see *these* people under extreme stress if all there is to it is their plight. and that is what the movie is about. i have a problem with that.
