The first 15 minutes made me doubt the qualities of this movie. The situations were a bit forced and the cuts were strange. But after the uncomfortable beginning the movie took momentum and kept it until the end.I think the choice of depicting Hitler as a human being with a dispassionate and modest direction was excellent. The film never tries to force viewers into an opinion. Everybody can form his own opinion. Too often the horrors of WWII led writers and directors to depict Nazis as monsters. Perfectly normal human beings can be cruel and merciless if they are blinded (by hate for example), which should never be forgotten.In a way, a human Hitler to me is more guilty than a raving monster. He had the choice and he chose to do wrong. He could choose life and he chose murder and destruction. A human being lost respect for the life of other human beings and led a country into genocide. Ultimately he loses respect for all life and starts sacrificing his own soldiers at random. This is what I value this film for, making the idea of a human Hitler tangible.It was very brave to make this film, given that controversy was almost certain to arise. One of the highlights of this year, to be sure.


                
Downfall seeks to chart the final days of the Third Reich as both Germany and Adolf Hitler stand on the brink of collapse, as the Russians advance to the heart of Berlin.It is difficult to gauge whether or not Downfall is a great film or not. It seems that any film offering alternative insight to the Second World War is generally well received as either outstanding (Das Boot, 1981) or at worst, thought provoking and slightly unnerving (Max, 2002), and Downfall is a combination of all these factors.To a certain extent, it's well acted. Bruno Ganz puts in an intense performance as Hitler, his mood swaying from quiet mourning to the brutal ruthlessness we all know him for, as he visibly degenerates as the war takes its toll on his sanity. What is important is that he remains unlikeable. Ganz makes him a bit more human, without engaging the audience on terms of empathy. He isn't seeking sympathy for the Devil, but is creating an accurate portrait of a man with history watching his every move. I know very little about history and the films accuracy, making the other characters simple types for me. They do an effective job but I've got nothing to base them on.Downfall doesn't shy away from the more harrowing scenes of war either, focusing largely on the children drawn into it. Audiences are used to seeing soldiers and civilians die, largely thanks to Steven Spielberg, but seeing Nazi Youth soldiers executed by their superiors before they're killed by the Russians is more than what we're used to. The scene in which Magda Goebbels (Corinna Harfouch) poisons all of her children is the best (not quite the right word) example of this and is obviously chilling, as the innocents are punished for the crimes of their parents, in their sleep, no less. I was very relieved none of them woke up.However, there is no one to root for here. We all know how it ends (although not exactly how) and Traudl Junge (Alexandra Maria Lara) is perhaps too simple a character to really engage with. For this reason, Downfall is second best to character based efforts such as Spielberg's Schindler's List (1993) and Polanski's The Pianist (2002).While it is heavy stuff, and more than a little though provoking, there isn't enough emotional connection here for it to be a classic.
I have a friend that does something she calls "art therapy." So calls it art because it uses the same material artists do and produces similar artifacts. When other people do this, I accept it as art, meaning that I allow it to penetrate all of my inner selves it can and make whatever changes it may. After all, aren't all artists engaged with their work in messy, tearful, dangerous ways?But with my friend, it is different. I know how she is damaged. I know why and a bit of how she produced her paintings. The artifact comes to me with that context. Her relationship to it is embossed on my relation to it, so it cannot dissolve into my soul. It only knows the pores of her soul. I suppose if I wanted to somehow re-enact her life it would be useful, but in truth, her stuff is useless to me. More than useless, because I can make art out of neutral found items, but hers aren't neutral.One could say that I might see her demons, but I defy anyone to examine that closely and believe it true. It is not the nature of therapy to serve things for others.I thought of my sad friend all throughout this film. Yes, it is skillfully produced in many ways. Yes, if you pull out this performance or that, you can admire decisions the actors have made. But films are not performances, they are narratives that resonate or not.This is one of the grand therapeutic gestures the Germans are making to resolve the past and distance themselves from it. The twists of character, certain embellishments of phrase, placement of the designated watcher all got in the way for me. I knew that this was a dialog Germans were having with themselves that I was eavesdropping on and grasping for a reason why.But having invested in it, both in time and emotional exercise, it does give me some value.Hitler intuited the role of ceremonial theater, of defining the narrative for a people. He only allowed choreographed films and photos, and never in private moments when he wasn't performing. His most important adviser was Speer, a dramatist who found and designed the stage for the superman. Speer was the most effective dramatist in history, measured by immediate deaths at least. Speer and Reifenstahl created the first effective political propaganda film, a masterpiece by any measure.Until the end, Speer as stage manager orchestrated the drama. He enters this story at the beginning, telling his man that he needs to be "on the stage when the curtain comes down." Later, when it really is, he visits his actor and tells him to spare the German people (which is denied as much as Hitler can). I get the feeling that this movie was as much directed by Speer to save the people as anything else he did. So within the drama, we have the director, the designated watcher (our doubly seen stenographer), and historical characters playing not so much those characters but well established German stereotypes. All in all, the construction is clever, and the execution slick. But it is therapeutic art. And we know it, and why it exists, and the specific damage associated with it. So even though it looks like art, it cannot be. It cannot change us.See "Conspiracy" for something from this era that perhaps could. Shucks, I see my comment for that has been deleted.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching. The film.


                
Although it's a good film, it was just as interesting to read the comments <U+0097> especially from Germany. It's true, whenever a film such as this comes out portraying the Third Reich not as an Indiana Jones-type Empire of Evil, we Germans turn around in advance protesting: "This is not meant to justify anything! Of course Hitler was a monster!" I don't think anyone seriously judges young Germans today by what their great-grandparents did, but it's of course something never to be forgotten. Sadly, it's also a convenient stereotype in politics and movie-making that tends show demons instead of humans, with the effect that we no longer understand just how on earth such things were possible. Hopefully it will take a very long time before the Nazis are surpassed in evil. But closing our eyes to the real Hitler, Stalin or Mao and their minions in favor of a legend will prevent us from ever understanding how these things work. "If you look into the Abyss, it looks back into you" (Nietzsche?). Movies like this one challenge the viewer's ability to look and do some honest self-reflection, or we all might wake up one day to the same bad realization, that we chased a dream and killed millions along the way."The Downfall" suggests how hard it was to be an outsider and not be affected by Nazi propaganda, and how well Hitler had managed to brainwash his troupe, especially the SS, into believing Germany was to be Sparta reincarnated, whose code of honor called upon everyone to fight to the death and without mercy. He ruled his admirers by being the source of their ideals (read: delusions of grandeur), pride, hope and fear. Bruno Ganz has justly been praised for his performance, and what he did was just enough <U+0097> to make Hitler more mesmerizing as well as menacing would have invited unnecessary criticism. But imagine for once Anthony Hopkins in that role <U+0097> the outcries of indignation! And the stacks of fan letters ...! (Hopkins actually played Hitler on TV in dark pre-Lecter times.) This Hitler is rather funny in his spitting and raving.I was often annoyed by the kitschy music when suffering civilians and wounded are shown <U+0097> scenes like these are stronger without it <U+0097> and also by the urge to show "good" Germans, in the moral sense of the word. Not one of them, except the SS commandos hanging "traitors" in the streets, is fanatic enough to be entirely unsympathetic. There are some really memorable quotes by Hitler which serve as historical cues: "Mercy is a crime against the people" is the most remarkable. Juliane Köhler is striking as Eva Braun <U+0097> she speaks volumes with her eyes, as is Magda Goebbels (Corinna Harfouch) who kills her children in cold blood (and allegedly had a thing for Hitler, but that's subtle in the film) <U+0097> the "bravest mother of the Third Reich" indeed, by Hitler's standards! Joseph Goebbels, apart from a superficial resemblance, remains bland and not half the intellectual, charismatic orator he really was, and the rest of the cast is not particularly impressive either. The film's atmospheric moments are inside the bunker, when a grenade hits and suddenly the wild merriment stops, and you feel a claustrophobia and sense of dread that makes the goings-on seem like a mad fever dream. That was when I felt the fiction was real.Some commentators have called this the best WW2-movie they ever saw. It's maybe the most complex recent "big screen" issue about Germany's Hitler madness <U+0097> so far. My "favorite" is a Russian film (I can't recall the title) that shows what Germans <U+0097> and Russians <U+0097> did on the Eastern front, mostly seen through the eyes of a Russian boy whose village is burned down with its inhabitants locked inside the church, to which the SS set fire. Though not as grisly in detail as "Saving Private Ryan", it depicts the events Hitler's "table talk" set into motion in all their bestiality and without all false sentimentality. We should not forget that most of the war victims besides Jews were Russians, and for the latter the killing was far from over after 1945. They have their own story about killing for ideology or conformity that I'd really like to see made into a film as challenging as this one.


                
Der Untergang, does what no other WWII movie has ever done before, it makes you look a Hitler as a human being. And that makes it even stronger, when you realize that this tired, worn out man was responsible for the deaths of 5 million Jews. Bruno Ganz playing Hitler is phenomenal, and casting and acting is generally what makes the movie so memorable.But then why a 7? simply put it's way to long. It shouldn't have been longer then 90 min. It repeats itself a lot, all of Hitlers meetings with his generals is surely to show how he wouldn't accept reality, but that is not something we need repeated that many times. As goes for a lot of other scenes. I like the movie, but I think the length is killing it. I simply do not feel like watching it again.


                
Der Untergang was a good movie, but actually it did not quite live up to my expectations. First, I would have preferred a classic dramatic plot structure, rather than this docu-dramatization. The storytelling style was that of a bystander and not a filmmaker. I think the movie could have been much more effective with a more stylized narrative structure.Also, the movie didn't really go into the political philosophy aspects of Hitler's Nazi regime. There were tiny snippets of it in the dialogue, but the monstrosities, pseudo-science and sheer idiocy of the Nazi ideology were barely touched upon at all. And the Jews weren't even mentioned until the movie was almost over.I don't know the decisions underlying these choices of what to show and what not to, but I did not feel we got the whole story, nor an adequate impression of the nature of Nazism (and thus of Hitler). We got a personally focused "reality"-style drama mostly set in a bunker - we got as incomplete a picture of the whole as some soldier who had been present in the bunker at the time would have gotten. Not a heck of a lot more.Still, it was a serious and no doubt cathartic movie (for the Germans), and it opened up some sore wounds and commenced the process of healing them. The acting was great, and I have no objection to showing Hitler with a human face - though a lot of people may not realize it, Hitler *was* a human being. The monstrosities he was part of was not wholly of his doing; it was to a very great degree a result of larger social trends in the population at large. No one among the ordinary people knew where it would go, so no one can be blamed. We can only learn from our mistakes and do our damnedest not to repeat them.7 out of 10.


                
There have been lots of movies about the events of the Second World War but this is different to take the last few hours of hitlers life and show what he was going through when things were slipping away from him. It is a very interesting watch and the acting is superb


                
April 1945. The Allies are marching towards Berlin. Within his hidden, reinforced bunker, Adolf Hitler celebrates his 56th birthday. A few days later he will commit suicide, heralding the end of World War Two. This is the story of those few days, largely based on the memoirs of Traudl Junge, Hitler's personal secretary.A provocative subject, if nothing else. Especially because it takes the bold step to portray Hitler as a human being. A horrible, twisted and utterly racist human being, who has been given way too much power. But a human being, nonetheless. A point of view that is much rarer than you'd think. It's actually a common joke that the first thing you should do with a time machine is to go and prevent Hitler from being born. Yet at the same time it is a widely accepted theory that Germany would have rebelled and started another war even without this one man from Austria-Hungary. Perhaps it would not have been such a large war, and it's quite likely that the Jews would not have suffered so greatly. But Europe would have bled.Still, even this Hitler is very much a caricature . Bruno Granz plays him in a way that to me speaks of wanting to distance himself from the character. His Hitler is a ruin. A stuttering, shaking shell of a man, human only in form. Granted, this has some basis in reality, based on multiple accounts of those final days in the bunker. Still, this Hitler would be a pitiful sight, if he wasn't who he is.And perhaps that's the point. Hitler's evils were horrible and devastating in nature, but they weren't the result of some outside force, cosmic imbalance or anything else like that. We're not given that comfort. Rather they were the result of human nature. Which is a bitter truth to swallow, but a necessary one.An interesting movie and recommended for fans of war and period films. High production values, good acting, tense atmosphere and a subject matter that isn't examined that often.


                
Good film, good performances by most of the actors, it is excellent to be a German film and not from another country, with its privileged view of the historical events that occurred in his own country and that were caused by the same.
I think the film could still be better, I think there was something to it, because it is one of the most remarkable events in the history of the twentieth century.
As for the controversy that the film generated, I think it has no reason to be, I think even the film is not very controversial considering its theme, in this aspect I think it could have gone further.
I do not agree with anyone who says that the film "humanizes" Hitler. I do not see anything in the film that strikes me as this sense or objective, because in several scenes Hitler refers to his pride in the "works" he has performed, among which the extermination of about 6 million Jews.


                
Great film. I'm not a German, although some of my ancestors were from Hamburg, apparently. It's somewhat ironic that many of the good/evil fairy tales we grew up with emanate from that land-locked, fearful but extraordinary country.What a shocking turn of events to have that man assume power over one of the most sophisticated, innovative and proud people on the globe. What a frickin waste! The Soviet Union would have collapsed in about 1944 except that Hitler breathed life into it by virtue of attacking it. They lost 26 million people in less than 4 years. I cannot get my head around that figure - the Germans themselves lost about 6 million in the war with Russia. How did such senior Generals mess up the assassination plan so badly in 1944? Tough job, I know, but there has to be a backup plan. Still so many questions about all that.Thank God it came to an end. 'Downfall' was an ambitious movie and nailed the target pretty well. I have never understood why the German people followed this Bavarian fool so blindly - the part playing Goebbels didn't convince me. Nor did actress playing his wife. Yet, it happened. I don't think any actor can really portray such utter perversion. Nice try, though.Albert Speer is a fascinating character. I wonder what he did for amusement in his 10 years in Spandau. He was portrayed quite subtlety. I was glad to see that. Hitler loved him like a son and Speer told him the truth at the end, which I think was historically accurate.Horrible, horrible business all round. Europe destroyed itself twice in 30 years - Hitler, Stalin, Churchill and De Gualle should have just gone to Samoa where people swim, fish, play sport, goof around, eat, sleep and relax under a coconut palm for most of the day.That's what I call domination. (Now that I think of it, the Germans DID get involved in Samoa but lost it after WW1 - I think they built a brewery - Danke Deutchsmen


                
While this movie wasn't exceptionally flashy or stylistic, its pretty unique in the cannon of "Nazi films". As an under-informed American, these facts and this perspective were new to me, even as some one that has studied WWII and the Nazi state extensively, in university and independently. I feel that, unfortunately, there will be detractors about any movie about this or any other emotionally charged and polarizing subject matter. There are no universal aesthetics the filmmakers could use that would please everyone; the caricature of the Nazis as monsters and the German civilians as blind followers has preformed the rest of the world's opinions as to what is the most "accurate" portrayal of this subject. I was afraid that I wouldn't be able to forget the caricatures and Riefenstahl's immortal presentation of these historical figures, and see them as flawed, deluded and twisted human beings. Because these WERE humans, and I find that to be the most important thing to remember when learning about Nazi Germany, Stalinist Russia, The Great Leap Forward, the hard-line Islamic take-over of Iran, the removal and extermination campaigns waged against indigenous people in the New World...name your tragedy, and there is a logical "noble" philosophy behind it, being adhered to with blinded fervor. It was carried out by human beings, not monsters, not madmen. People following a deadly and cold line of logic to a bitter and bloody end. That was what this movie made all the more clear to me.


                
While there is no doubt that this movie has been very well made, there are certain aspects of which left me feeling very uncomfortable.The movie has been put together very well, the acting is quite excellent, and the storyline is engrossing. The portrayal of Hitler in his last days in the bunker in Berlin is quite gripping and gives some good insights into the way his mental health deteriorated during that period. In particular it shows the paranoia which overtook him as he began to doubt the loyalty of his various German military leaders in carrying out his orders. It also shows that he was quite paranoid about his body being captured by the Soviets and displayed publicly. Accordingly he gave instructions to his staff to ensure that his body was incinerated so that the Soviets could not capture and display his body.While this movie has a lot to recommend it, the thing which made me very uncomfortable was the way in which Hitler was portrayed. It appeared focus quite often during the movie on his humanity towards various people who were it with him in the bunker for example, his personal assistant. These scenes showed Hitler to be a quite caring and sensitive to the those around him, and very concerned about their personal safety. I must admit that this particular image of Hitler was contrary to what I understood about the man.While I understand the movie is quite historical in the way it portrays those final days, I got the feeling that the directors may be a little bit sympathetic towards Hitler which caused me some concern.


                
Certainly well done as the actor playing Hitler really brought out his personality. For me the interest though was not in watching Hitler as the people around him struggle or accept the mess they are in. Maybe that is why the movie doesn't rise to great for me. The supporting case doesn't rise to a level that really makes one care about them or what is going to happen. This despite the makers attempting and I believe showing what it really was like in Berlin during those 10 days. I suppose knowing how it comes out in the end doesn't help any. Minor crit: I wish the movie had done a better job of identifying the names of the people around him. Himmler and Goering were identifiable but I didn't realize until the end who was playing Keitel and Jodl for example.


                
I'm not entirely sure about this film. On the one hand, it is undoubtedly a very well-directed and acted work of art, with an interesting and important story to tell; on the other, I felt an ambivalence - whether in the director, the actors, the story itself, I can't yet say - regarding the figures that were being portrayed. While the fallibility of Hitler, Eva Braun and the terrifying Goebbels family is immediately apparent (incidentally, I don't think I've ever seen a better and more frightening description of the dark side of motherhood than in Mrs Goebbels in this film), nevertheless I was left with a question mark: were these people really the savage misanthropes history has shown them to be, or idealists martyred to a cause they believed in, however misled? I think there is a danger in the film here, that it could be misused if it fell into the wrong hands. I was also somehow upset by some of the symbolism: the German 12-year-old who is able to destroy two enemy tanks, the drunk and disorderly Russian invaders. Are there fascist associations to this film? If so, are they consciously or unconsciously present? To what extent can a German director make a film of this sort responsibly? Eichinger certainly does a good job, but can he transcend his national origins?It may be useful, while watching it, to bear this question in mind. Nevertheless, a film worth watching.


                
The movie opens with the real Traudl Junge (since she died in 2002, the footage is taken from an earlier documentary) talking about her experience as Hitler's secretary.It matters a great deal how this movie starts for the simple reason we know how it's all going to end. Since 1955, this is the forth movie that focuses solely on Hitler's last 10 days.In that respect, we're fortunate that the first scene where Hitler chooses his future secretary provides a unique perspective to Hitler <U+0096> a warm, paternal leader who generously offers 20-year old Traudl a second chance to record his speech. Once this hors d'oeuvre is over, however, we are treated to a main dish (wursts!) that's been heated again and again in the last 60 years.Even if you don't know ANYTHING about the Third Reich, you know that Hitler was a raging lunatic; you know that Goebbels had unconditional faith in the Fuhrer, and so on.For the first 60 minutes, it's actually fun to place names to faces because the casting and the acting is so good (I do give credit where credit is due). Goebbels and Himler are an excellent match. I recently viewed "Triumph of the Will"(1934) and the resemblance is uncanny. Bruno Ganz portrays a broken man whose rages feed on each piece of bad news and in 1945 every news is bad news: the Red Army is inside Berlin, Hitler's closest aides desert him<U+0085> The rages don't last very long and leave a smaller, even more broken Fuhrer.Arguing that the director wants us to sympathize will be far-fetched. The stated intention was to make Hitler appear more "human." Hitler's manic/depressive scenes are balanced with acts of kindness to his cook, his secretaries, and his German Shepard, Blondi. This more "human" Hitler is even more disturbing than the iconic monster. All his impulses are focused on destruction: first, the Russian armies, then the traitors and the German people, and finally himself.The movie's most disturbing scene comes after Hitler's death. Frau Goebbels carries out Hitler's will of self-destruction by taking the lives of her six children <U+0096> angels too good to live in a world without National Socialism.Unfortunately, this is not the only disturbing scene in the movie. Personally, I have a problem with the movie's depiction of good-hearted SS doctors or SS officers heroically committing suicide not to get into Russian hands. I also have a problem with the fate of the surviving officers. Some of them lived well into their nineties which cannot be said for some 50 million people who died in the war.My last gripe: talking about Russian hands, why isn't there any reference to the Red Army's atrocities in the battle for Berlin and the immediate aftermath? In a real tragic sense, they carried out Hitler's last will <U+0096> the humiliation and destruction of the German people. (A new book on the subject, Berlin: The Downfall 1945, is causing an outrage among senior Russian officials with some hard-hitting statistics on the number of rapes and murders.) Downfall is a good title for a movie that deals with Hitler's last days. It's also a good indication of what happened to my expectations as I sat through the movie's 140 minutes. It was disappointing to see one known fact follow another. Even more disappointing was the focus on just a handful of facts without a broader picture or a moral judgment. Despite it's budget and high production values, Downfall doesn't measure up on the epic scale. It's not good triumphs over evil, it's evil eats its heart out.Visit my movie Blog: FilmDailies.com -
Yes, Hitler was an unlikely leader of nations but was not a king nor an emperor but was duly elected into office by a supportive populace. The driving force of his impossible vision was due to two main things not often told or even known....one, his deeply neurotic mother love which gradually transformed itself into his deeply neurotic mother love of his(replacement)mother country and two, the character warping accomplished by this utopian artist's unshakable idealistic vision of the perfect world where all perfect things are forever perfectly in their places, just as in a perfect painting on a canvas created by a "perfect" artist such as he. An impossible combination, but always possible to him.The mongrelized and thus, to him, imperfect world around him could never be the glorious Aryan world he wanted it to be, but he could not see that truth until the broken end of his fantasy dream, and the film showed well the harrowing result of that break through his collapse into madness and physical debilitation when the real truth of defeat became no longer avoidable.In the future, all determined Utopia-builders will be forever feared, hated and defeated every time they arise, and this fact is in large part due to Hitler's undeniable but personally unknown contribution to the future of mankind and world history though his defeat. Unfortunately, this very same lesson has been obviously shown to us over and over throughout man's long history, but successive generations from each such event seem to have to relearn, through their own tragic experiences, this cruel lesson, the cost of which is always unspeakable human suffering that could have been essentially avoided if we humans could only better learn this oft-repeated historical lesson. One would think that, for man to endure, this lesson must stick tight to humanity one fine day.Perhaps this defect indicates in part the real potential of human cloning as a future way to hopefully avoid the gross historical mistakes from which we humans cannot now seem to learn in order to co-exist in peace. Cloning scares me greatly, but we have to be open to its unknown possibilities for improving human beings as a species.About the film....the main story of the film was the Russian invasion of Berlin, but it was so drawn-out and inconsistent, as they were near the bunker and then not, near again, and then not, and then again, until they finally were there and triumphed. Obviously it was done this way for greater dramatic effect as it made for a more exiting film, but even small changes in well documented war history annoy me when only done for entertainment's sake, thus more profit. True history demands greater honor than that.Hitler's secretary was an important part of the film and of the true bunker story....but Fraulein Jumps' marriage and name change to Frau Junge was not even mentioned.....a sensitive congrats from Hitler that actually occurred was overlooked in the film, possibly in order to not humanize Hitler too much. In reality, Hitler was very fond of his Bunker "inmates" throughout the siege and thanked them often for their contribution to the cause, which proves that even monstrously sick people such as he can sometimes do nice and very human things on the long and uneven road to infamy.Overall, the film was very effective in showing the main downside to the personal impact of infamy, that for some of them the only way to escape the terror of inescapable immense public hatred and humiliation resulting from a fall from grace is through the coward's door of suicide, and many criminals along with Hitler have passed through that inglorious door to eternal silence without ever having to face the incredible damage of their actions.


                
Overall, the movie has good storytelling. The acting is solid and the whole war sequence is well- filmed. The only downside perhaps is that Hitler is represented in a more humane light than he likely deserves. It appears that the idea was to show him from the eyes of his followers, which the movie achieves but there is little coverage of his hateful ideology and quite a bit of romanticizing. As a viewer, I continued to be puzzled by his halo effect on those around him. Obviously his character continues to be a bit of a mystery in the sense that so many romanticized him and did not truly acknowledge the extent of terror that his regime inflicted- some even to this day. It does appear that people will continue to look for false messiahs- and he must have been the proverbial "wolf in sheep's clothing" to his followers and much worse to everyone else.


                
Who would like this movie - I recommend this movie to the folks who likes historical movies, especially related to world war. Being a history lover I enjoyed every bit of it. Best part of the movie - The movie opening and the climax is perfect. Camera, sound tracks / effects will take you into the real war field. The color of the movie is perfect.I somehow felt that the image of Hitler in this movie has been shown little different than what I read it in history. When I forget the interview of the real world Traudl, I found him as a good person. Don't miss to watch the complete movie including the interview of corresponding real life characters. I am learning German language and I found it useful there as well.


                
The story rolls out very nicely, Having most of the scenes done in the bunker setting makes this movie prone to being boring at some point of its more than two hour duration. But this movie handled it well by depicting striking images and great shocking moments. What's lacking in my opinion is that the war scenes don't really get the real war aura, especially after we see what's done in Saving Private Ryan. But then again, the main focus of Hitler's surroundings on his final days at the bunker really captivated me as I watched this movie. Bruno Ganz acted out nicely in this movie. Before I see this movie, I have seen parodies of the angry Hitler scenes here and there and I wondered what movie was those from. Now that I found the original movie, it makes sense why people choose Ganz's Hitler character as the closest to the real person.


                
Downfall is very well acted but hard to watch. It could have been trimmed down by 10 minutes or so. Since its focus on a lot of the high ranking nazi's there is no real sympathy for anybody expect a few of the young kids and the dog! It is a disturbing film to see all these people blindly following Hitler. Bruno Ganz really impressed me as Hitler,he did an amazing job. It really felt like watching the real Hitler. Juliane Köhler was wonderful as Eva as well. It is quite a violent movie but I think in a movie like this it's needed. The scene where the children were poisoned was very hard to watch,especially as the oldest seemed to know what her mother was giving her. I do think having some prior knowledge of the last days of world war 2 and who the high ranking nazi are and what they did helps.
With a stunning visual, complete with ravaged sets, realistic uniforms and murky cinematography, Der Untergang still has a greater asset: Bruno Ganz's mesmerizing performance. In the main role, he manages to follow all the lines the screenplay draws to him, varying from a decadent tyrant whose fits of anger sprout every minute, to a decaying Parkinson victim, to the gentleman that gained millions of Germans' trust with gentleman-ship. As faults, there is the awful lot of supporting roles that you barely remember at the end (the movie explains their destinies, but you can't recall what exactly they've done) and Alexandra Maria Lara's character, the uninteresting secretary of Hitler who never deserves the attention the film gives her - and Lara does little to make us like her. It was correct to show Hitler in all manners possible, because it leaves for viewers to decide when he makes sense and when he deserves the label of insane demon he has got. A daring character study that tries to give visibility to a man, not the legendary monster. He is still a monster, but this is no ideological movie: it just shows every sides of the story.


                
Being interested in war movie I decided to buy this DVD because I was all the time wondering what really happened in the last days with the Führer. My high expectations have been fulfilled and I will add this Oscar nominated work for best foreign language film no doubt to my best of DVD collection. It's fast paced with lot of emotional, dramatic and action scenes and I never got bored. Sometimes I had even to laugh on some ridiculous decisions of Hitler. I have to admit that there were perhaps too many bloody suicides in this story. Anyway, director Hirschbiegel shows in a very authentic way the dramatic end of the third Reich. I am also surprised how great Bruno Ganz was in characterizing Hitler so deep and with its voice. All the humanity should never forget that this murder is responsible for the death of millions of innocent people and I recommend to watch this documentation to every one. I hope there will never be a WWIII. Rating: 7.5/10.


                
