Truly great movies are few and far between these days; but Der Untergang most definitely represents one of those rare occasions. Oliver Hirschbiegel, who brought us the wonderful 'Das Experiment' has produced a film that is very nearly perfect. Depicting the final ten days of Hitler and the National Socialist regime, Der Untergang or 'The Downfall' to give it it's English title is an expose of failure and the way that a madman can bend a whole nation into doing his bidding. The film is very realistic, and an excellent ensemble cast breathe life and believability into the roles of the various members of the Nazi party and because every performance is picture perfect, the whole thing comes together brilliantly as one whole piece. Bruno Ganz gives the central performance as the Fuhrer himself and it is one of the greatest performances I've ever seen in a film. His portrayal of Hitler in the middle of his downfall is absolutely perfect, and Ganz excellently portrays the man's every emotion. It must be difficult to play such a notorious character as Hitler himself, but Ganz rises to the occasion and gives it his all.It is not the acting or the realism that is Der Untergang's main claim to greatness, however - it's the double meaning behind every scene. Each one is perfectly composed, and all the time you're watching you can not only see what's happening on screen but also take note of the implications surrounding it. Through every scene, there's always the notion that a nation is falling. That's another thing that's great about this movie - the way that it manipulates the audience into an awkward situation. On the one hand, we know that Hitler and the Nazi regime were unspeakably evil; but while we're watching this almost great nation crumble around it's leader, it is hard to watch without feeling some sympathy for the country, in spite of the ideals that were preached. I thought it would be impossible to generate feelings for the Nazi's; but Der Untergang has managed even that. 'The Downfall' is an apt title for this movie, as aside from depicting an important event in history; the film is fundamentally about failure. The entire movie focuses on one man's huge downfall, and it is both a heartbreaking and powerful cinematic experience. Der Untergang is not to be missed.


                
I tuned in late to this film, not expected very much, because we have all I suppose seen so many documentaries of Hitler's last days in the bunker, and a reconstruction with Alec Guiness thrown in for good measure. Many of these presentations depend on interviews with Trudl Junge, Hitler's secretary at the time. Her descriptions of the goings on during the final days are cool, precise, and dispassionate. First Hitler said this, then Eva Braun said that, and then they went up into the garden. A human surveillance camera who seems to have no personal mechanism for judgments.She was, however, quite human after all. The last shot of the film is from an interview with her before her death in 2002. She explains to us that, young as she was, she had always put aside any feeling of guilt for her involvement in the Third Reich, negligible as it was. But then, one day, she passed a monument to Sophie Scholl who sacrificed herself in the course of resisting Naziism, and Frau Junge tells the camera -- and the rest of the world -- that she realized at that moment that youth and naiveté could no longer serve as her excuse.I missed the first half hour or so, but I stayed for the rest. This is an extremely powerful movie. The events in the bunker are keenly observed. There is virtually nothing in the way of sentiment or dramatic displays. If the director, Hirschbiegel, wants two officers to commit suicide he may have them walk into a room and close the door behind them, then allow us to hear two shots a bit later.No one talks about despair. Instead, the officers and some of the ladies sit around a table in one of the bunker's rooms and get drunk as skunks.This is a tragic ending to an insane war, and it is all enacted by human beings, not demons. Goebbels and his wife have 5 beautiful young children, a boy and four girls. They deliberately give them knockout drops, then Frau Goebbels puts a capsule of fast-acting poison in each of their mouths, one after another, and crunches the capsule by pressing each child's teeth together. Then, wordlessly, Goebbels and his wife walk up into the open where, still wordlessly, he shoots her and then himself -- off camera. The soldiers who have been waiting impatiently for this ritual to end, then scurry forward with cans of gasoline to dispose of the bodies.The episode is impossible to watch without being moved. What have Goebbels and his wife died for? What did their children, who knew nothing of war or racism, die for? And, implicitly, the film asks, what did some 50 million people die for between 1939 and 1945? I am grateful to the director and the actors for keeping things so matter of fact. Preparations for a predictable death are pretty gruesome even with the most tasteful intentions, and too often executions and suicides seem to have the filmmakers' attention lavished on them for not much reason other than to pander to a morbid interest in watching someone else die, a kind of arousal jag.How easy it would have been for a trashy sensibility to give us the death of Hitler's German shepherd, Blondi, in all its horror. A DOG yet! Those of us who might have cheered at Hitler's death would now have a chance to weep over Blondi's. Instead, except for a few instructive inserts, Blondi's poisoning is only glimpsed in a clumsy shot through an open doorway.Congratulations to everyone involved in this production. They've given us a well-executed film, made for adults. They come along so rarely.
The film deals with the history of Hitler's last days in underground bunker , it's the true story of the historic downfall and death (at age 55 in 1945) of the infamous Nazi dictator's culprit of death of 50 million people during second war world and killing of 6 million Jewish in concentration camps . The Fuhrer's last few tortured days in his underground bunker against a Berlin background . Hitler had height five feet , seven inches , eyes black , hair black , shaggy locks hung over forehead , complexion sallow , wide mustache , various hairs on each side ; besides he had marked devotion to brown shirts and old trench-coat and always surrounded by armed thugs and expert gunmen . He had demented gaze with tendency to become hysterical on slight provocation with delusions , particularly upon his place in history and his powers over vast numbers of people and addicted to public hysteria on race purity , and known to throw himself on the floor and gnaw rugs, guttural voice apt to rise to shrill tones when excited or thwarted . He was a congenital liar suffering from dreams of persecution . Almost all these physical descriptions and particulars of Hitler are perfectly incarnated by Bruno Ganz who even studied Parkinson's disease patients in a Swiss hospital to prepare for his role . Thus , he magnificently plays him as a sadistic , malicious , dangerous , vengeful, mystical and maniacal man .Bruno Ganz's portrayal is the perfection in the Hitler role one would expect at least on the surface , he gives insight to his madness and with persuasive qualities of his interpretation . A flawless casting with excellent German actors such as Alexandra Maria Lara (personal secretary Traudl Junge and the picture is based on his book) as co-protagonist , Juliane Kohler (Eva Braun) and distinguished players as Ulrich Matthes (Joseph Goebbles) , Corinna Harfouch (Magda Goebbles) and Thomas Kretschman . Besides , a nice support cast who play to famous characters as Martin Borman , Alber Speer , General Keitel , General Jodl and Hermann Goering and specially Heimrich Himmler who will betray to Hitler deciding along with the count Bernardotte to agree peace with the Allies , originating his hysteria splendidly reflected in the movie . In spite of Berlin is surrounded and meanwhile the bloody war with enormous bombing fall about the survivors and last defending , Hitler prepares the sad farewell very well narrated by the director Oliver Hirschbiegel and superbly captured the atmosphere by the cameras . The motion picture is one of the best war movies ever made , on pair with ¨Das Boot (also German movie and directed by Wolfgang Petersen) and ¨Saving private Ryan¨ (Steven Spielberg) . The flick will appeal to historical cinema enthusiasts and warlike genre fans. Rating : Above average and astounding , being interesting and thoughtful .


                
First of all, because I think it matters, I am from Germany.Almost everyday in our lives, we young German people are still confronted with what happened 60 years ago. Sometimes, we still have to be careful what we say about strangers, about people of foreign countries, about people of a different religion. 60 years after our grandparents made a few terrible mistakes. So far, so good. My generation has no idea, what it has meant to live in the 3rd Reich, how people could follow a sick man like Hitler, follow his pervert ideas, obey anything this mentally insane man. But still we have to carry our heritage, every day we have to remember what happened 60 years ago. We have to. And films like Downfall, Schindlers List or The Pianist let us not forget, let us learn and remember. And that's why movies like Downfall are necessary, are important. Especially, if they of such great quality as this one. Only in one point this film is dangerous: It creates a picture of Hitler as a man, not as a monster. A sick man, a man with pervert ideas attitudes, okay, but a man who can also be polite and regarding. A human being. It is no question, that this is an almost perfect personification of Hitler, Bruno Ganz is amazing and the scriptwriters were brilliantly informed about the Fuehrer as a person. But as I said, some people who still have these radical ideas and see Hitler as a God-like figure (and they exist, not only in Germany!) might misunderstand this personification. "Der Untergang"is a masterpiece of German cinema, but it is nothing for a narrow-minded audience....


                
Watching DER UNTERGANG is something of a unique experience for me . It's not often I'd go out of my way to watch a foreign film , far less one that is often talkative and where the outcome is in no doubt . Even more remarkable is the fact that I sometimes rewatch this movie from start to end unable to take my eyes off screen . The reason ? It's one of the few films where the acting is truly compelling I heard a lot of controversy about DER UNTERGANG as soon as Bruno Ganz had been cast and together with director Oliver Hirschbiegel they both decided to make a film where every minor detail about Hitler's last days should be totally accurate . They succeeded and that's not only my opinion because every professional historian has remarked that Ganz interpretation is the only truly accurate portrayal of Adolph Hitler . You find yourself unable to take your eyes off screen every time Hitler appears . Also of worthy note is Ulrich Matthes as Joseph Goebbles . Note how often Matthes appears on screen where he doesn't have to say a word , his burning presence is enough to hold the audience attention and radiates great evil . It's almost as if the audience have jumped into a time machine and landed in Hitler's bunker in the spring of 1945 . It's so convincing it's almost enough to give you nightmares I would have happily given DER UNTERGANG 10 out of 10 but it loses a couple of points because of a serious problem and that is the way it somehow tries to make out the people of Nazi Germany are also victims of the Nazi regime . Notice the speech by Goebbles where he sneers he's not interested in the suffering of the German civilian population because " They voted for us and now their throats will be slit ". If you have little knowledge of European history 1939-45 ( I'm afraid such people are becoming more and more numerous as the years pass ) then you'll find yourself asking why don't the Germans just surrender ? It's easily explained by the fact that the Nazi regime murdered million upon millions of people in Eastern Europe and it's payback time as the red army advances into the heart of the Nazi regime . It's also interesting to note that we never see Soviet soldiers raping German women in their thousands . Again if someone with no knowledge of the period would ask why are the Soviets doing that ? And again the answer is simple - Revenge against a country /regime that was responsible for the deaths of almost 15% of the Soviet population . Don't you get the feeling the film wants to avoid awkward questions ? This type of controversy seems to be responsible for Ganz , Matthes , Hirschbiegel and the film itself being very under rewarded at international film festivals which while being slightly understandable does seem wrong . There is no doubt in my mind that Ganz deserved the Oscar for best actor that year since it's the best performance I've ever seen by a non English speaking actor in a movie . If no one discovers time travel then this will be the closest we'll find out what it was like in the days leading up to the death of history's most hated figure


                
Wow, what a grim movie. How I stuck with this for 155 minutes, I don't know, but it's a fairly involving story once you get into it and you want to see how it's all played out.A main reason I use the word "grim" is that there are more scenes with people committing suicide in this movie than all the movies (thousands) I've seen put together. This German movie deals with the last days Of Hitler and the Nazis in Berlin in April of 1945. In the end, most of the people in the film either kill themselves, as mentioned, or execute their loved ones in order to avoid capture by the Russians, who overtook the city. This includes poisoning a group of young children.While not overly gory, some of the scenes are shocking, ones I suspect would linger in anyone's memory..Bruno Ganz as Adolph Hitler was intriguing, to say the least. As an American, I can recall very few, if any, films in which Hitler was shown to this degree with this much dialog. Being such a famous figure in history, it was one of the reasons, frankly, I stayed with the film. I never this man portrayed on film.Alexandra Maria Lara as "Traudl Junge" was the bright spot in this dismal story, a beautiful and wholesome-looking woman with an expressive face. She was the only character in the film that I cared about. Everyone else is pretty cold. Junge "won" the job as a secretary for Hitler and is pictured as sweet and naive woman...and just one more of the millions of victims of World War II. Victims can be survivors, too, as the story concludes, if for nothing else, for suffering with a guilty conscience for decades.This war movie definitely can be classified as "different" and memorable. I doubt if I'd ever watch this again, but it was worth the one viewing, that's for sure.


                
Ever since his death in a Berlin bunker at the end of World War II, there has been endless speculation and conjecture surrounding the final days of Adolph Hitler and his long time mistress Eva Braun. A few years back, a documentary entitled "Blind Spot: Hitler's Secretary" interviewed one of the few people who claimed to be an eyewitness to those events, a young woman hired to take dictation for Der Fuehrer for the last two and a half years of his life. "Downfall" is a dramatized account of what she saw.Indeed, this new film begins and ends with clips from that earlier work, in which a now aged Traudl Junge attempts to explain why she allowed herself to become a devotee of both Hitler and the Nazi party (she chalks it up, basically, to "curiosity"). After that brief preamble, "Downfall" plunges us immediately into that hellish time when the world lay in ruins and The Third Reich was breathing its long overdue final gasp.The beauty of "Downfall" is not merely that it affords us a glimpse into one of the most fascinating bits of 20th Century history, but that it opens up aspects of human nature that we may not always wish to acknowledge. It shows Hitler as a man accustomed to being able to control events and the people around him suddenly rendered impotent in the face of a force - in this case the Russian army battering away at Germany's capital city - greater than himself. As events spiral more and more out of control, the dictator becomes ever more paranoid and divorced from reality (by the end he's issuing orders to an army that , quite literally, no longer exists). For him, the world suddenly divides itself up into those who will remain loyal and faithful to the bitter end and those who will become traitors both to him and to the "glorious cause" that defined their lives for so many years. For one thing the movie is clear to acknowledge is that, even in his final moments, Hitler remains unrepentant and convinced that not only was he right in what he did, but that future generations would come to recognize that rightness and honor him for it. In many ways, this is the story of any failed dictator whose dreams of worldwide domination end in the smoldering ruins of his own hubris.But it is not merely Hitler who exhibits bizarre behavior in the face of onrushing doom. Even though most of the people who have chosen to remain in the bunker with their leader are fully aware of the fate that awaits them, they maintain many of the rituals and accoutrements of "civilized," "gracious" living: they hold dances, sing patriotic songs, drink champagne from crystal glasses, read magazines, all the while calmly discussing the ideal way to kill themselves. Despite their fear, they are so caught up in the vision and the man to whom they have sworn allegiance that they are willing to die - and take their children with them into death - rather than live in a world without their beloved Fuehrer.The makers of "Downfall" run the risk common to any work that attempts to provide a three-dimensional portrait of Hitler: the accusation that they are trying to "humanize" a man whose epic disregard for human life puts him in the category of the greatest monsters who ever lived. And, indeed, the movie does show Hitler displaying moments of warmth and tenderness, mainly aimed towards the women in his life (and, of course, his dog). Yet, who among us really believes that Hitler NEVER showed affection to those who were close to him? It was the fact that he COULD treat the people he loved in this way yet was unable to extend that same sense of empathy and concern to the faceless, nameless millions he slaughtered that made him the true incarnation of evil on earth.The film also does a great job showing the varied reaction of Hitler's military commanders as they argue back and forth over whether to level with him about the hopelessness of the situation and thereby risk incurring his wrath or to continue to feed his delusions and let him go out thinking he was still master of his fate.The performances are all first rate, but I would like to single out especially the lively and vivacious Juliane Kohler who manages to make Eva Braun's blind devotion to a murderous madman and fearlessness in the face of death touching, understandable, and - dare I say it? - strangely heroic. As Junge, Alexandra Maria Lara shrewdly portrays a woman whose own devotion to the man and the cause is tempered by a certain degree of rationality and fear, to the point where she can ask, in a moment of candor, how Hitler can be so kind on a personal level, yet so brutal in his comments and actions. And, of course, Bruno Ganz gives a bravura performance as Hitler, running the gamut from full-throttle mania to tender solicitude while never losing sight of the man at the core.Despite being set in the past, "Downfall" has a great deal of relevance to our own time. To see Magda Goebbels methodically and systematically poisoning each one of her own children before having herself killed is to understand a little better how family men can fly planes filled with innocent men, women and children into skyscrapers. It's a scary and sobering sight indeed. Now if only we as a species could learn some of the lessons put forth by this film.
"Downfall" is a fascinating and compelling look at the mindset of the German people at the end of WWII, inspired mostly by the firsthand account of one of Hitler's secretaries who survived the madness that was his bunker in those last days. Here we have an excellent performance from Bruno Ganz as Adolph Hitler, who shows the man's insanity, inhumanity, and his cunning way with people in his intimate circle that allowed him to seduce those around him and the German population at large. Even as everything was falling apart he still had both men and women falling at his knees begging for his next proclamation and willing to follow any order her decreed. In the end, the crushing defeat of his grand ideals, coupled with his irrational hatred for Jewish people that is actually a projection of his own inner hatred for himself and Germany ("The Germans seal their own fate. I have no sympathy for the so-called civilians," he says towards the end of days), lead him into paranoid despair and eventual suicide. Likewise, we get a searing performance from Julian Kohler (a fantastic actress best known for her lead in "Nowhere in Africa") as Eva Braun, representing perfectly the German elite seduced by the promises of a Utopian Third Reich, and who are in utter and complete denial of the horrors around them right up to the last minute as everything they fought for comes spiraling down into their own self-made hell.One of the few flaws of the film is that it can't decide at times whether to be a straightforward docu-drama (there are often too many of Hitler's inner circle to keep track of) or a soaring WWII epic (there's some compelling subplots revolving around Hitler's youth movement added for dramatic effect). While it may not reach the sublime artistic ideals of "The Pianist" or have the emotional heft of "Schindler's List" or "Saving Private Ryan," "Downfall" deserves a place next to those films for it's unique perspective, for better or worse, on one of the most influential men of the last hundred years and the defining moments of the 20th century.


                
Much will be written about the performances and historians will no doubt quibble about minor details. They have nothing better to do. But you should see this movie. Everyone should see this movie.The debate over whether or not it paints Adolf Hitler in too human a light is specious. The problem with high ranking members of the Third Reich, Hitler included, is not that they were inhuman. The problem is that they were quite human, and thus they show us what all human beings, ourselves included, are capable of being when devotion to a twisted ideology is carried to the right-wing extremes of fascism. To dismiss these people as easily recognizable monsters is to absolve ourselves from the duty of watching out for them in our midst. The movie reminds us that Hitler didn't come to power as a result of some coup d'etat, nor did he fall from the sky. His party was elected and legally enacted the laws that led to their rise to power. Little by little the German people sacrificed their freedoms in the name of their "national security" and grandiose visions of their imagined global destiny, until the state had so much power, no one could speak up against it for fear of marginalization, imprisonment and, ultimately death. Do you see where I'm going? And silence in the face of growing horrors during time of war was considered patriotic, - then just as it is now. Everything about the movie is first rate, the performances and direction are nothing short of stellar, and one can't help but feel better for having seen it. Pay particularly attention to the epilogues, which include a caveat from Traudl Junge herself, taped shortly before her death last decade. She reminds us that our naivete is no excuse. The price of freedom is eternal vigilance. See this fine movie and never forget.8


                
This is the best WWII movie ever, and i do not really see why they gave the academy award to Amenabar's "Mar Adentro (The Sea Inside)". Bruno Ganz as Adolf Hitler was the obvious most important performance for 2004 - or perhaps he should perform an American icon to receive the award? His acting was so impressive to me that i finally thought that he was *actually* the Fuhrer, even though i have seen him playing Damiel in Far Away So Close (Wim Wenders, 1993). But also: Just Germans themselves could have shown the real madness in Nazi people (think about Berlin being protected only by children). A 10/10, a must-see definitely.


                
I have seen quite many WW2 films in the past, yet very few of them managed to amaze and shock me as "Der Untergang" aka "The Downfall" did. Under Oliver Hirschbiegel's excellent direction, we watch the agonizing last hours inside Hitler's bunker, as accounted for by his young secretary Traudl Junge. We watch Hitler, in his peak of his insanity, as he awaits for imaginary troops to save him and his motherland, while his closest associates start to realize that the game is over and begin to desert him en masses. We watch Eva Braun (Juliane Kohler), who amidst the turmoil and destruction, her main preoccupation is to die looking beautiful, so she chooses the poison instead of the bullet. Few films have dared to touch WW2 objectively from a German point of view; Most of the movies are shot and told from the Allied point of view. But this movie is shot completely from the German point of view."The Downfall" tells the story of Fuhrer's final hours, his last critical 12 days in a fortified bunker below the Reich Chancellery in Berlin, while the Soviet Army was slowly taking over Berlin and their artillery bombarding the whole city<U+0085> Based on the book "Inside Hitler's Bunker" by Joachim Fest. "The Downfall" is in a word, shocking. The last act in the great horrific play of the Third Reich plays out like that of a cult so many men and woman who swore allegiance to Hitler commit suicide by either shooting themselves in the head or by ingesting poison capsules. But the madness of Hitler himself is horrifically captivating. He changes his mind and opinion on a whim. One moment he advises his SS-Guards and Generals to leave the city after learning that he does not have enough troops to protect Berlin. A particular one named Gruppenführer Hermann Fegelein , who was Eva Braun's brother-in-law, takes the Fuhrer for his word and leaves Berlin. When Hitler realizes this, he denounces Fegelein and orders him executed. What is more, Hitler discusses the final demise of the German people. He explains that this failure is not only that of the military, but of the civilians themselves. As such, his soldiers do not protect the people from the coming onslaught of the Soviet Army. He advises, "In a war as such there are no civilians." Hitler is recreated by the superlative performance of Bruno Ganz, who appeared in the 2004 remake of "The Manchurian Candidate." Ganz captures the movement, voice, even the involuntary shaking of Hitler's left hand so well, that the audience would feel as if they are watching the dictator himself. We are often left with shivers down our spine at how realistic Ganz's depiction is. It is amazing to see how wonderful country like Germany survived to the chaos, destruction and lack of command, arrived from the ashes like Phoenix and sixty years later is again one of the greatest nations. And for those who love war, I really recommend to watch this magnificent anti-war movie, and see the behavior of the leaders and population when a war is lost. "The Downfall" is an impressive and brilliant piece of film making and ingenuity. The film is completely in German so do not forget to get a DVD which has English sub titles unless of course you are well versed in German.


                
German film about Hitler's last days in his bunker at the end of WW2.This was nominated for an Oscar and i can see why - its a very interesting subject, not something WW2 films tend to concentrate on and it was interesting to see a German-made WW2 film. It looks really good - the reproduction of the period, the battle scenes, Bruno Ganz's performance as Hitler.As it goes on and things get more desperate i got into it a lot more and the thing that affected me most were the suicides, the information about what happened to the people around Hitler (and discovering quite a lot of them only died a few years ago and one was still alive when the film was released) and also the modern day interview with Hitler's secretary that bookends the film.Its quite long and a bit of a downer - not the sort of film i'd want to watch again anytime soon - but well worth seeing.
"Downfall" is the dramatisation of Joachim Fest's marvellous book, detailing the thankfully premature end of Hitler's Thousand-Year Reich.We follow Traudl Junge, who in 1942 is given the immense privilege of becoming Hitler's personal secretary. The real Traudl provides commentary at the beginning and end of the film that helps provide a moral compass reading for this immaculately detailed and forceful dramatisation.I expected to see something much more stagy and claustrophobic, but the film counterpoints the stark, sterile bunker against the gutted streets of battlefield Berlin, this is clearly no made-for-TV historical drama, the evocation of a city, and a people on the edge of destruction are grimly realistic and clinically accurate. The violence seems somewhat inconsistent, we see very little blood and guts, we see something of the horrors of a make-shift surgery, along with hack-saw amputations, but this is far removed from "Saving Private Ryan". Maybe Oliver Hirschbiegel thought that overt gore might be considered a distraction from what's really important, maybe so, but this for me stood as the only real inconsistency in the production.The dark heart of the film is of course Adolf Hitler. Bruno Ganz provides a portrayal of Hitler that transcends impersonation, we see a man who is greater than the sum of his world famous odd-ball mannerisms, Ganz provides a level of humanity and reality that makes the unfolding events all the more compelling to watch. We meet Hitler the tee-total, dog-loving vegetarian, a man who often shows great compassion and humility. The Hitler we expect to see, the man gripped by nationalistic paranoia and chilling racism is ever present, ready at any moment to launch into venomous rants that become increasingly irrational and unhinged as he descends into the titular downfall.While Ganz is always enthralling to watch, we know what we're getting with Hitler, much more interesting are the Nazi clique. Amongst Hitler's closest confidants we have Joseph and Magfa Goebbels, whose zeal for Hitler's new order renders them into suicide-cultists, unable to accept the possibility of life after the death of their leader, even for their six children. Likewise for Eva Braun, whose devotion to her beloved Hitler is so complete that she wantonly shares his fate.The film gained most controversy with its representation Nazis like Prof. Ernst-Günter Schenck (humanitarian and rationalist). You are reminded that you can no more judge a man by his uniform, than a book by its cover. You never sense that the film is trying to mitigate Nazi crimes, but remind you that the crimes were committed by humans with varying degrees of complicity.In the end "Downfall" is an important reminder that we demonize the Nazis at our very great peril. Winning the war on our terms we were able to paint Nazism as some kind of supernatural plague. I often hear people say how important it is that we remember what the Germans did, so that such evil can never again be allowed to go unchecked. What's wrong with this? Since 1945 the unspeakable evil of the Nazis seems to have worked as an effective camouflage for numerous horrors, from the ravages of Stalinism and China's Cultural Revolution right up to Rwanda and Yugoslavia. It seems to me that the only lesson we have learnt from the Nazis is that if you want to perpetrate massive acts of unspeakable evil, keep the noise down, complacent super powers are trying to sleep!


                
With "The Downfall" Oliver Hirschbiegel and Bernd Eichinger created a cinema experience, which had seemed to be too delicate for German movie makers till then; the portrayal of Adolf Hitler and the depiction of the last twelve days of the Third Reich. Historically precise and provided with an enormous amount of artistic intensity, "The Downfall" managed to form a cinematic coming to terms with apparently one of the most tragic and in equal terms catastrophic chapters of German history. The more and more appearing senselessness of war and the decaying conception of national socialism are contrasted to the aim of Hitler and his leading elites to continue the war by all means necessary. By the same token the incapability of the principal generals of staff, who are unable to manage, respectively are not willing, to instruct Hitler about the absolutely hopeless situation he maneuvered himself into, is depicted plausibly. In this regard it is essential to point out the acting performed by the main characters resp. the entire cast, for it is the brilliant acting which makes the movie such an intense experience for the audience. Several critics stated that "The Downfall" would picture Hitler to human, too much in private moments and that those scenes would distract people from recognizing the delusionally controlled and hate-driven person of Hitler. But it has to be stressed, that just due to the fact it does not conceal Hitlers human and private side but displays it quite obviously, a notion within the audience rises that the evil, the most obnoxious and even the most inhuman ideology might lurk inside of everyone and could possibly find its manifestation. In other words, the danger of such ideology could not be concentrated in this one abstracted evil but in every human at all.


                
Traudl Junge, the final secretary for Adolf Hitler (Bruno Ganz), tells of the Nazi dictator's final days in his Berlin bunker at the end of WWII.The difficulty of any film focused on Germany during World War II is how to portray the humanity of the people without sympathizing with the Nazi cause. One does not want to make Hitler out to be human (although he was), but it is also unfair to paint an entire country as monsters.The Hollywood cliché is that German soldiers were cruel and ruthless, but were they? Here we have Hitler's secretary, who saw much of the last days. If anyone can be said to be both inside the circle and yet innocent, it is her. If we are to believe the real Traudl Junge, such decisions as regarded concentration camps were never made known to her. She was a secretary, but apparently not typing up the most terrible documents.


                
The last 10 days of the 3rd Reich has been fodder for plenty of films over the years, easy to make a 3-act structure around and showcase the fascinating final days of a corrupt dictator losing touch with reality. It's easy too fall into the realm of cliche with every character in one form or another having to cope with the fact that within a few days, nothing in their lives will ever be the same again... their system of government, their jobs, their family life, their society. Everything is soon to end.Compared with THE BUNKER (1981) and HITLER: THE LAST 10 DAYS (1973), this film feels much more "real". Similarly with the others, it makes Albert Speer the natural voice of reason but strangely enough also puts Hermann Fegelein in this role once Speer leaves. Traudl Junge, though very much of Hitler's entourage, serves as the center of the film's point of view, giving the audience someone to side with due to her pure naivety.Good narrative technique here showcases some truly spectacular performances, principally Bruno Ganz as Hitler. He doesn't quite capture Hitler's look as well as Alec Guinness and his voice sounds too raspy and high-pitched, but his mannerisms and commitment to the part are truly a part to behold. He plays his role not of a screaming tyrant (like Anthony Hopkins) but of a human being exhibiting both the ego-driven confidence of a superstar yet the panicked tantrums of a 4-year-old when he does't get his way. Of all the historical films I've seen, this is the most difficult in which to forget that I'm just watching a movie and haven't been somehow transported magically back to the past no matter how many times I've seen it.The main rewatchability for me now comes from anaylzing the supporting players, all of Hitler's generals and "friends" who stuck by his side to the end. Some, such as Jodl, Mohkne, and Speer were more clear-thinking, while others such as Goebbels had likely lost touch with reality even more-so. It's fascinating to see how people cope with their world crumbling in around them, helpless to do much about it, yet at the same time obeying the rules of their corrupt system and worshiping tyrants who made their own megalomania and insanity that much clearer by the day. In a rarity for films of this kind, a few characters belonging to the SS (namely Mohnke and Schenk) are even given a sympathetic portrayal trying to save lives and end unnecessary bloodshed, giving this film authenticity in terms of presenting the events in moral shades of grey as opposed to black and white.That said, DOWNFALL shuffles a lot of historical events around for sake of its narrative which bothered me. Goering, for instance, sent his telegram prior to Hitler's birthday and the shelling of Berlin by the Soviets. Fegelein was arrested prior to Himmler's "betrayal" too and events only played out vaguely in the chronology that the film presents. I suppose that is one of the greatest difficulties of making a historical film; accurately conveying causality and fairness to historical characters while at the same time keeping things interesting to the audience.


                
Unfortunately there are still many people around the world in denial that these atrocities ever took place. Today's youth don't even know much about WWII (if at all) and when asked who Hitler was, quite a number think that he is a current president of some country, but most just don't know.This movie is probably the best and most accurate portrayal of the last days in the bunker based on the book written by Hitler's secretary. Most other war films are fictional and dramatized and eye account documentaries on this subject become scarcer as time goes by.Important lessons are learnt from history, but without this acquired knowledge wars reoccur and many are raging around the world as we speak.


                
Not just another "See Hitler Get It" movie, with Alec Guiness or someone with a little mustache going mad. I stumbled into this and couldn't leave, gripped by the fine acting and credibility of events.It's a sad movie. Hitler and his Myrmidons may have reaped what they sowed but it's still depressing to see an entire social structure fall apart. And then there is poor dumb Eva Braun, and the half dozen beautiful children of Mister and Mrs. Goebbels, who didnt know the meaning of the word "war", poisoned and murderered by their own mother. And that's only to mention the unwitting passing of Hitler's dog Blondi. It's a long story but it had to be. The climax is not Hitler's suicide in the bunker but the harrowing escape of his secretary, Trudl Junge, through the Russian blockade to safety.


                
"Downfall" takes you into Hitler's bunker during the fall of the third Reich and the last ten days of the battle for Berlin. This historical docudrama spends its time examining one of history's most enigmatic and inscrutable dictators as he descend into paranoia to the bewilderment of his inner circle and, in particular, one young woman stenographer who, in real life, survived the war and published her memoirs providing one of the few historical records of that time and place. The film is well done as a stand alone dramatic presentation. However, it excels as an historical drama by providing insights into Hitler's last days; something never dealt with in such detail before in film. An engrossing 2.5 hour watch with a splendid performance by Bruno Ganz as Hitler. Who better to make such a film than the Germans? Bravo. (B+)


                
Frau Traudl Junge, Hitler's secretary, is the focal point of this 2004 German-made Bunker film. She is portrayed by Alexandra Maria Lara. In her comments at the beginning and end of the film, the real Traudl reflects on the forces that led her to be in the position she was and the immorality of Hitler and the Nazi regime. In the movie, the young Traudl has an innocent and despondent demeanor from the time she was chosen as Hitler's secretary in November 1942 until the end, when she and a group of other Bunker persons have fled, seeking to escape the Russians.Director Oliver Hirschbiegel does an amazing job in continually making the viewer feel the sense of siege. What is most striking about "Untergang" is its graphic realism. All the scenes of shells dropping bring the viewer there, as if the viewer is experiencing it. In one scene, officers and other Nazis are dancing and making merry in the Old Reich Chancellery (connected to the Bunker by a tunnel) and a wall is blown up by a shell. This is a true story per Traudl's account. The realism of "Saving Private Ryan" may have come a few years before, but in urban battle scenes that use darker colors, military green, and grayish shading, Hirschbiegel makes things interesting in his own way, very vivid. Furthermore, he presents a number of scenes involving the wounded awaiting or undergoing medical treatment, including amputations, that are very graphic and gruesome. There was plenty of morphine available, but other medical supplies were scarce.As for the characters, the Germans are divided between fanatical Nazis and those who are reasonable, those who have compassion for people suffering from the physical agonies of war. One of the central figures is Dr. Ernst-Gunter Schenck, played by Christian Berkel. He serves to symbolize the force of reason, as he objects to evacuations of installations and supplies that victimize remaining civilians, seeks morphine and other medical supplies, and questions the meaningless honorable-death mindset of remaining fanatical Nazis. Bur realities are remaining fanatics, wandering terrorized civilians, and the agonizing wounded. The scenes showing the human suffering serve to accentuate the evils of Hitler. He chose to commit suicide to avoid capture by the Russians, so he would not have to experience what everyone else was suffering through. In the meantime, many young German children, which could include females, were serving militarily and being killed or mutilated.Hitler is played by Bruno Ganz. He is the ranter devoid of reason with whom most people are familiar. Ganz is a more wrinkled Hitler than in real life, but he does a good job with the mannerisms, the ravings, and the tremors. He is a totally evil person, as shown in his demand to implement a scorched earth policy even though it would leave German civilians without any necessities. That is on top of his lecture on the savagery of apes, who trample on outsiders; Hitler says humans should learn to be like apes. On this comments board and boards for other Bunker films, it is often noted that the Nazis and others in the Bunker have human feelings and are not totally evil. This observation includes Hitler, who thanks his cooks for things etc. But to me, "Untergang," like other Bunker films, still shows Hitler, Dr. Goebbels, Martin Bormann, and some others as consummately evil, as they should be shown. There are some who seem not to be, military officers or whoever, yet even as they question what Hitler does, they are still loyal. He had a hypnotic effect on people. Even after Hitler refuses Eva Braun (Juliane Kohler) the favor of rescinding his order to execute her brother in law, a favor requested with all trappings of emotion, she says, "You're the Fuhrer." Magda Goebbels (Corinna Harfouch) worships Hitler like her husband does and is willing to kill her seven children and herself to avoid a world without him. A well-acted emotional moment, for right or for wrong, is when she holds Hitler and falls to his feet, before he commits suicide. How sad will be life without Hitler.One of the final scenes, after Hitler's suicide, involves Traudl in a group of Bunker escapees deciding what to do next. In combat garb, accompanied by a young boy, she is permitted to pass through the Russian lines with the watching Russian soldiers still. I guess it is silly to compare it to "The Birds," for Traudl is not Tippi Hedren. But as in "The Birds," when "Untergang" ends the viewer is left with the sense of having been relieved from a siege in a turbulent epic.


                
I feel quite ambivalent to the movie Der Untergang. On the one hand, there is a chilling realism in the way Hitler is portrayed by Bruno Ganz. The war wounds are realistic, unlike the usual Hollywood/War Department movie garbage. However, there are the apparent historical inaccuracies and cinematic devices. For instance...1) How innocent was Traudl Junge? Her birth name was Gertrude Humps (no pun intended), and she received the name Junge when she married *SS officer* Hans-Hermann Junge. Considering her age, mustn't she also have been a Jungmaedl (the girl equivalent of the Hitler Youth)? She refers to herself as "not a fanatical nazi", but of course, she was a nazi nonetheless. People don't just end up employed in Adolf Hitler's bunker by accident. In the movie, she is taken aback by Hitler's anti-semitism, but she does have an apparent dislike of the Russians - whom the Nazis hated for the same insane and pseudoscientific racist reasons they hated Jews, Gypsies, and most Eastern Europeans. I don't know...2) At the end of the movie, we see Traudl Junge, played by the gorgeous Alexandra Maria Lara, make her escape by walking through a large group of Russian soldiers. My problem is that it was known that "every woman in Berlin" was raped by Russian soldiers. So how did a gorgeous girl with huge eyes, wearing an army helmet with *SS* in huge markings on the side of it, make her way safely through a crowd of drunken, war weary and traumatized Russian troops? The little boy she takes off with didn't exist and is there as a cinematic device, signifying hope? Traudle Junge cycles off with him into the future, when in reality she was sent to a Russian prison camp. 3) How plausible is it that a top level nazi "just didn't know"? I don't buy it. To quote Traudl Junge, "We should listen to the voice of conscience. It does not take nearly as much courage as one might think to admit to our mistakes and learn from them. Human beings are in this world to learn and to change themselves in learning." But the German Socialists knew the Nazis were scum - so did the Communists, Humanists, etc. I'm sure they didn't understand fully how crazy Hitler was, how far he would go in carrying out his ideas, etc. But they knew he was bad news, even back in the thirties. 4) The Timeline. Traudl Junge became Hitler's personal secretary in 1942, two years _before_ her SS officer husband was killed. And yet, she is presented as a wide eyed innocent, who doesn't really believe in nazism, and is picked by Hitler in the middle of the night, for no apparent reason. The movie never obviously flashes forward three years to Hitler's last hours in the bunker in 1945. I think the movie needed at least one sympathetic character, and either the director or Junge herself played up her innocence.


                
I read the book from Traudl Junge ("Bis zur letzten Stunde") by coincidence a couple of week before the movie was released and from my point of view, this was a perfect adaptation.Hitler, the German 2nd world war is such a complex, but so interesting topic and such a movie had to be made and the makers of The downfall has understood it better than anyone.What I like most in this movie is that it avoids the black and white approach and do not force the viewer to see the movie from a particular side.Nevertheless, I think a good historical know-how is a must, else it could be hard to follow (And that could be the reason why it didn't get the Oscar).


                
Despite the context of the politics (of which I mean; they were Nazis), set amongst the bleak contrasts of the intentions it remains so emotionally draining I was on the edge of tears. It's so haunting yet never feels manipulative. Bruno Ganz is a brute force not to be reckoned with, and I hate not giving him the win but Giamatti is most triumphant. Somehow he managed to add a grand depth to Hitler, especially in his passive moments of deep thought - completely humanizing his 'character'. Entwined with the scenes of Hitler are war scenes, yet unglorified sections of one nearby area being attacked. So gritty yet stark makes for exhilarating viewing; outstanding cinematography and sound. It had perfect pacing, matching the subtext of events to make it more affecting, which was extremely effective despite not always being so subtle. I thought it was a wise choice to not make Hitler's suicide anything special over the other suicides, which were often more shocking. Watching the men re-evaluate their last thoughts was tremendous. The last image was beautiful, if contrived; showing us a last glimpse of hope for the truly innocent.8/10


                
With the interest to see a balanced view of Hitler during the 2008 holocaust week, this movie was recommended by colleague Andreas Hensel.The movie is partly based on the book written by Traudl Junge (Alexandria Maria Lara), the final private secretary of Adolf Hitler (Bruno Ganz) and it narrates the story of the final downfall of Germany to Allied forces. It shows Hitler in a very pensive, defeated mood due to the losses in the war. The movie also shows a more balance portrayal of Hitler (and not one-track characterization) as shown in the other movie Hitler <U+0096> the Rise of Evil.Bruno Ganz has done a great job in being Hitler. Again like I said for Robert Carlyle who played Hitler in Rise of Evil, it is hard to believe any other person playing the role of Hitler as Bruno has done. Comparison is bound to take place, but both these actors have done justice to their roles <U+0096> that show different portions of Hitler's life.The over-shadowing dominance of Hitler over his commanders, and the helplessness of the situation the German army was in <U+0096> worn out, marginalized, defeated <U+0096> but still fighting, is saddening to see. Hitler was blindly worshipped by Germans, and there were people who literally believed that he is the ultimate savior <U+0096> the God, and his words are final.Hitler deciding his own suicide rather than surrendering, so that he can be remembered as a great hero <U+0096> has not lasted in the pages of history, or did not last after the World War II. Today everyone treats him like a monster, and realizes the blunders of the holocaust.An excellent movie by Director Oliver Hirschbiegel. Sadly this movie <U+0096> though a brilliant one <U+0096> did not win an Oscar in best foreign film category. I hear that there were people who did not like its nomination too in Oscars.But I still wait for a real balanced portrayal of Hitler in a movie format. Does anyone know of such a movie that exists that I can watch? (Stars 8 out of 10)


                
Everyone knows how WWII turned out, unless they don't teach it in schools anymore. A man called Adolf Hitler stepped into the political vacuum left behind after WWI, united the German people behind him and tried to conquer the world. He was one of the most charismatic leaders of the 20th Century and within a decade he had most of western Europe under his control.Unfortunately for Hitler, he chose to take on the might of the USSR and the USA so by 1945 (when the film is set) his "Thousand Year Empire" was shrinking down to the hundred or so square miles around Berlin, Germany's capital city."Der Untergang" (Downfall) dares to portray Hitler as a human being and has been criticised for doing so. I think that this is unfair because the film does not set out to give us a history lesson. The atrocities committed in Hitler's name are hardly mentioned, but why should they be? Why should every film about WWII have to tell us why it had to be fought? "Der Untergang" was made by intelligent people and it asks us to be intelligent as we view it. Hitler never saw what his followers did at Belsen. Hitler never saw what his followers did to Russian civilians. Hitler never fought at Stalingrad, Salerno or the Ardennes. During WWII, he never waded in blood. He just gave orders and dreamed of a German empire. "Der Untergang" shows him as reality finally intrudes on his fantasies. It also shows some of his most loyal followers trying to deal with the fact that their leader has been revealed as psychologically damaged and physically broken. Bruno Ganz is outstanding as the man who ordered counterattacks by armies that had already been wiped out. If "Der Untergang" is guilty of anything, it is guilty of showing us the suffering of the German people as their Fuhrer abandoned them to their fate.


                
