Der Untergang makes you live the horrors and craziness of war. Bruno Ganz's interpretation of Adolf Hitler is worthy of an Oscar. He is completely believable. Also the rest of the cast performs admirably. You feel transported to Berlin as it was bombarded by the Russians. You get a very clear insight (or an impression?) in how the military decisions were taken during those final days of the war. The movie balances well between large-scale effects of bombs exploding in ruined streets and depictions of different persons going though the experience <U+0096> from Hitler and his staff in the well-protected bunkers to the principal military commanders torn between reason and loyalty and German civilians trapped in an inferno. The movie is neither pro-Nazi nor does it depict all Nazis as mindless monsters. It gives an impression of utter realism. Go see it in a good cinema <U+0096> your seat will tremble as the bombs explode. A nine out of ten.


                
Downfall is the gripping depiction of the last few days of the Second World War in Europe, as the Russians advance into Berlin and approach ever nearer the bunker of Adolf Hitler who still believes their advance can be stopped...Bruno Ganz turns in a terrific performance as Hitler, paying great attention to detail (including the regional accent and the effects of Parkinson's disease) that really make him into a believable person which is a lot more frightening to watch than the usual two-dimensional characterisations that are usually seen on screen. Ganz manages to dominate the screen with the same effectiveness that allowed Hitler to get followers of such devotion that despite his atrocities and the horror of the situation many are prepared to stay with him and fight to the death while the possibility of escape or surrender remains open to them. He is almost schizophrenic - at some moments he is almost gentle, such as some of the scenes with his secretary, then shortly afterwards he is practically foaming at the mouth in his contempt for the civilian population of Berlin who he will not raise a finger to try to save by surrendering to the Allies.The other actors are not very well known - at least on the international arena, but this added greatly to the authentic feel. Some of the senior Nazi leaders are hardly more sympathetic than their Fuhrer - Himmler in particular shows only personal ambition while pretending loyalty. Other characters such as the caring SS doctor who finds elderly patients simply abandoned in a hospital or the father who desperately tries to persuade his son who must be around 12-14 not to get involved and perish in a hopeless cause are succinctly realised.The film is expertly shot, with the unreal atmosphere in the bunker captured perfectly where Hitler raves about army units that barely or cease to exist coming to the rescue of the Reich and orders oilfields re-captured for 'long distance missions' when the Russian troops are barely a few hundred metres away.There is no glory shown in the battle scenes as the outcome is always a foregone conclusion making the resulting deaths even more moving. Watching young children and old men trying to hold off the Russian advance with inadequate weaponry is tragic in the knowledge that they are dying for no real purpose other than the whims of a handful of madmen.Very few films have depicted the tragic waste of life that war provokes better than Downfall and this turns out to be one of the best movies concerning the conflict that claimed over 50 million lives.
Few films have dared to touch WWII objectively from a German point of view; most use the Germans as great villains and Allied forces as great heroes... Movies like "Patton" show brief sights into German military thinking while "The Pianist" finds a good cultured German officer in a nightmare scenario<U+0085> "Downfall" tells the story of the Führer's final hours, his last critical 12 days in a fortified bunker below the Reich Chancellery, while the Soviet Army was slowly taking over Berlin and their artillery bombarding the whole the city<U+0085> Mostly through the eyes of his young Bavarian secretary, Traudl Junge (Alexandra Maria Lara) we see the ailing and obviously delusional Führer allowing no negotiation with the Allied forces, raving about how his generals betrayed him, ordering the movement of troops that do not exist, screaming that the German people do not deserve to survive for their apparent treachery and cowardice<U+0085>But what has come under criticism is the film's attempt at giving Hitler<U+0097>whose face has become symbolic for the epitome of evil<U+0097>a compassionate side<U+0085> He's "Uncle Hitler" to the children of Josef Goebbles who happily sings for him, so loving for his blonde wife Eva Brown, so kind to his pet dog Blondi, so caring when he awards a young boy (who showed great bravery in the face of the enemy) with a medal and pinches his cheek, and so gentle when he pins a medal on Magda Goebbels for being the 'bravest mother in the Reich'.It's easy to see why the film was nominated for an Oscar in the Best Foreign Film Category<U+0085> It takes you inside the minds of Hitler's faithful, showing you how it was that one infamous man could be so charismatic and magnetic<U+0085> Although his closest advisors, the remaining dedicated members of the Nazi government, know that there is no hope, no one was seen willing to challenge his orders or attempt to seize power<U+0085> And many opted for suicide after living out their final hours in obscene denial, singing and dancing champagne glass in hand<U+0085>But Hitler's dark side is also shown when the film depicts his hate and antipathy for the Jews; when one of the more "rational" members of the Nazi hierarchy, Albert Speer (Heino Ferch), stated gently but bluntly to him that the war was lost and he did not follow his orders to destroy the infrastructure in German cities; also when he becomes convinced that Heinrich Himmler (Ulrich Noethen) has betrayed him and must be executed; and when Eva Braun pleads him for her brother-in-law's life, the tormented Hermann Fegelin (Thomas Kretschmann), and he furiously rejected her request<U+0085>One of the most horrifying sequences that is unforgettable was that of Magda Goebbles played by Corinna Harfouch<U+0085> It is astonishing to witness how an unstoppable steely mother, with no hesitation or remorse, is capable of such atrocities for a blind and irrational loyalty to a 'charming' monster<U+0085>Ganz's character is equally psychotic and human, capable of shooting even his most loyal followers and utterly believable as Uncle Hitler<U+0085>Juliane Köhler complements Ganz's exceptional performance with her own chillingly fine one as the ultimate blind follower whose loyalty to her Führer never flagged<U+0085> Köhler shows us how she can be drunkenly carefree dancing to swing as bombs and artillery shake the walls of the bunker one day, and in another day applying a fresh coat of red lipstick to her fleshy lips before she takes one cyanide tablet for the man she preferred not to live without<U+0085>"Downfall" may be considered powerful and historically significant<U+0085> It is a must for history buffs<U+0085>
Who better to make a WWII film than the Germans themselves? This is possibly the best WWII film I have seen yet. It is a very intense movie about the final days of Adolf Hitler (a SUPERB roll played by Bruno Ganz, he should get at least one Oscar for this...) which had me coming back to see the movie a second and even a third time (I saw T3 only twice, he he). And not only Bruno Ganz has done a great performance, the entire cast gives it all their best. Very good film indeed.As I said, it's a film about Adolf Hitlers final days, trapped in a bunker in Berlin, while the Russians are slowly moving closer. Hitler losing his faith in a 'good' outcome, the final bullet, everything is has happened for real. But when I left the cinema I had the idea I had just been watching a fictional story. A perfect script, made in real life 59 years ago. Not much to say about anything else. If you are interested in WWII stuff, go see it in the cinema, it's worth every penny.


                
Now here is a novel idea, making a movie from the "enemy's" point of view, attaching a human face to probably the most notorious institute of evil in human history. Before watching this film, I had reservations over how much I would enjoy it and what I might gain from it. I was concerned that the film may be an attempt to show the human side of the Nazi party, to make us sympathetic not to their cause, but to their human nature. I had to think to myself, do I really want to attach a human element to people who history has painted as monsters? The film begins with Hitler recruiting Traudl Junge as a new secretary in 1942, from this point onwards the film is predominantly (but not entirely) seen through her eyes. This key scene at the beginning of the film shows how people reacted to their leader with fanatical loyalty, holding him high in reverence. This gives us a brief insight into the belief of his followers that what they were doing would lead them to a golden utopia, a better world. All to often in films concerning Nazi's, they are portrayed as evil personified, killing for killing's sake, being evil for the sake of being evil. What we get throughout this film is a more realistic viewpoint of people's attitudes. The people who followed Hitler may have no entirely agreed with everything he said, may have not hung on his every word, but believed that he would lead them to a greater future, as such they followed.Bruno Ganz, does a magnificent job of playing one of history's most notorious and documented individuals. He plays the role as, what I feel, accurately and realistically as possible. He resists the temptation to play Hitler as an uber-evil super-villain, disregarding all life who opposes him and wiping out humans at a whim. He plays the roles as an ageing leader, loosing grip on his health, his sanity and his conquest. A man who was kind, considerate and caring to children, his dog and his civilian staff, but who also attempted to wipe out an entire race of people and was proud of himself for doing it. It shows a man willing to send young children into the street to resist enemy advancement, it shows a man who believes that the civilian population would not be evacuated, as it was their chance to rise up (women and children, the old and sick, un armed) and prove they deserved victory. This film raises the question, was Hitler an evil man who practised evil deeds through his beliefs? or were his evil deeds a result of his absolute pursuit of his beliefs? Watching Ganz's performance, you get the feeling all Hitler had left before he took his life, was his ideals (not that this is anything to be proud of). He had lost the war, he had lost the respect of several of his commanding officers and he had lost his grip on reality.The film also shows Hitler's closest officers and staff, it shows how they react to the downfall. Some have blind and fanatical faith that Hitler will act as their saviour and devise a scheme to turn the battle around. Some accept that their leader has lost his grip, but follow with blind devotion anyway. Some are not so sure and see the cracks in the beliefs they were fighting for. The film shows these often horrifying moments and realisations in all to realistic detail.Ultimately, Downfall shows the human and personal element of the end of the war for Hitler and the Nazis. It shows how real people, people who tell jokes, drink, socialise, listen to songs and dance, also followed national socialism with a devotion that drove them to do the terrible things they did. It shows how they did not believe what they were doing was wrong, in their minds they were paving the way for their glorious future. It also shows their fanatical devotion and blind faith in their goal, led to their downfall, both as a movement and as human beings.Downfall is an amazing and powerful film, documenting an unseen side of a major historical event. The film ends with video footage of the real Traudl Junge talking about her feelings towards the war and he involvement with the Nazis. She says that when she first became involved with the Nazis, she was in awe of their power and beliefs, she may have not agreed with everything they did, but what difference would her being involved or not make? She was ignorant to their deeds and as such held a clean conscience. Then she says has realised over time she had the power not to be ignorant to their deeds, that she should have stayed away from them, realising them for the evil that they were. I felt she was warning what ignorance can lead to, that no matter how tiny one person is in the scheme of things, it is no excuse to contribute towards the wrong cause.Excellent historical film, highly recommended.


                
This ultimate meme generator is one great, seriously made movie. Its authenticity is its best asset, as it shows the last days of the fallen German regime as it was. The downfall is of interest to anyone wanting to learn about history, and history is the best teacher of life. The most famous son of Austria is not portrayed entirely as a monster, which is a plus given the authenticity is the goal. But it is the crumbling empire and the atmosphere of utter despair, as the Ruskies come to deliver some well deserved come uponce and tough justice to the country that get a bit over themselves one time too many. NATo and Americans, take note. This is where arrogance and criminality on world stage has ended in history and not once, but EVERY time. Take a good, fresh look what happened to Germany, and then take a good fresh look in the mirror, and perhaps ponder a bit about fate, before making next mindless meme out of some of the many rants of the favorite son of the German nation of the times. Perspective can change, it might take a few well placed bombs from the ever unforgiving Russians, but you can get there eventually.


                
I would give this an 7.5 or 8, if it were not for Bruno Ganz. In fact, I will dare say that the biggest crime surrounding this film is that Ganz was not lauded with every single acting award available. Never before has such dimensionality and care been applied to a performance of, quite possibly, the most vile human who ever lived (with the exception, perhaps, of his cohort Himmler). It's a confusing, sharp yet tender mix of sorrow, pity, anger, and ultimately, frustration. Initially, I figured this would be a very low budget chamber piece. But it is as epic in scope as a Spielberg war film, with effects to match. A real surprise. But don't be fooled by eye candy. Der Untergang is a human story. It is an amazing built film. And it is unreal. A must-see.


                
The first internationally released German production to feature Hitler as a central figure, "Downfall" (2004) takes place in the dismal gloomy Berlin during April - May 1945 in anticipation of the inevitable German defeat. The film shows the last days of Hitler and those close to him through the eyes of his young secretary, Traudl Junge.Oliver Hirschbiegel's film has been criticized by some circles as presenting a "too sympathetic" portrait of the Fuhrer. I don't believe anything in the film suggests that its creators sympathize with the Nazi regime and those who had orchestrated it.Showing Hitler as a human being (amazing performance by Bruno Ganz), a man who loved his dog, was a vegetarian and could display some moments of tenderness did not undermine the overall image of a lonely, domineering, conscienceless, and hateful man who believed that his people, his compatriots, women and children deserve to die because they are no longer deserve to live and because "in a war as such there are no civilians".Did those who think that that the film "humanized" Hitler forget the most chilling scene in the movie, the one that shows Frau Goebbels crush the ampoules with cyanide between her children's teeth, after they had been dosed with a sleeping draught? She did it not because she was scared of what would happen to them after the war, no, her reason was, "The country without National Socialism and its party is not worth living in". How dangerous Hitler was if he could induce such a blind devotion that could convince a mother of six to murder her children in cold blood.Bernd Eichinger, the producer and scriptwriter of "Downfall" emphasized, the greatest danger he saw in making a film about Hitler was the temptation to show him as a psychopath or madman: "Hitler possessed an enormous criminal and destructive energy, and he was a barbarian in the most fundamental sense of the term... But I am convinced that he was totally of sound mind until the very end, which is why leadership never slipped from his hands." The film's director Oliver Hirschbiege says that, in the same way it was evil of Hitler to see Jews as less than human beings - i.e. as "insects" - it would be equally wrong to portray Hitler as a madman, because that would excuse him of culpability: "I think the biggest mistake is to have an image of Hitler as insane - that he was not a human being but a monster. The most important point to realize is that Hitler was not a madman, not a psychopath or someone on drugs, which implies that he wasn't responsible for what he was doing. Of course he was responsible! "For me, (this film is) paying homage to and truly honoring the victims, because we fall short if we explain the Holocaust by stating that they were all out of their minds. They knew what they were doing!" I believe that the result of their work, the film I saw last night is absolutely unforgettable - honest, powerful and devastating. It is a masterwork of film-making and a very important in its objectivity historical document.9.5/10


                
It has sometimes been said that because men no longer believed in the Devil, God created Adolf Hitler to serve as a symbol of absolute evil. This film, which tells the story of the last few days of World War II in Europe, largely seen from the perspective of Hitler and members of his inner circle as the victorious Russian army approaches the gates of Berlin, avoids that concept and tries to show us Hitler the man rather than Hitler the devil. It has been criticised in some circles for that approach, but in my opinion the criticism is not a valid one. Hitler was precisely that- a man, no less human for also being evil. We will never succeed in understanding the crimes of the Nazis if we persist in trying to see Hitler as the spawn of Satan or as some bizarre, inhuman alien being. He was, in Nietzsche's words, menschlich, allzu menschlich. (Human, all too human).To make someone seem human is not necessarily to make them seem sympathetic, but we must remember that Hitler had succeeded in obtaining more than 40% of the vote in free elections, had won the fanatical loyalty of millions of Germans and had succeeded in retaining the loyalty of many of them even when it seemed obvious that his cause was lost. (We see some of that loyalty reflected in the film, especially among the fanatical young soldiers prepared to fight to the death). If he had been an obviously evil psychopath he would never have done any of those things, but would have remained the leader of a tiny movement on the lunatic fringe of German politics, winning the loyalty of only a small fraternity of kindred spirits. He could not have succeeded without possessing immense reserves of charm and charisma.This film tries to show some of the characteristics which helped Hitler in his rise to power. We see him being kind to his secretary, Traudl Junge, on whose memoirs the film was partly based, affable and friendly to the young soldiers he decorates for their desperate acts of bravery, affectionate to his dog Blondi and loving to his mistress Eva Braun. (We like to think that, sexually, Hitler must have been either abnormally perverted or abnormally repressed because we do not like the idea that so monstrous an individual had a fairly mundane sex life, a monogamous heterosexual relationship with an attractive blonde girlfriend).We do, of course, see far more of the opposite side of his character. By the end of the war Hitler had lost all contact with reality, and when we first see him he is unrealistically optimistic, believing that the German army will still succeed in driving the Allies back, issuing commands to non-existent fighting units and even congratulating himself on his strategic skill which has led the enemy into a trap. Later, when even he cannot deny the imminence of defeat, he falls into self-pity, raging against the cruelty of fate or against the German people who have proved unworthy of him. We see that he was not only brutal towards his own enemies but also completely callous towards his own people, refusing to surrender and not caring how many more lives might be lost. The role of Hitler must be one of the most difficult that any actor could be called on to play, but Bruno Ganz meets the challenge magnificently. He meets the physical demands of the role, bringing out Hitler's strong Austrian accent and the paralysed arm tucked behind his back. (Hitler had been injured in a failed assassination attempt the previous year). More importantly, he also rises to its emotional demands, showing the mixture of reckless optimism and despair, impotent rage, hatred and and self-pity which characterised the Fuehrer in his last days. The one thing, however, that Hitler never does is to express any sort of contrition for his crimes, which means that although he is human he is never pitiable.We also see the moral blindness of the rest of Hitler's circle. The most chilling is Corinna Harfouch's portrayal of Magda Goebbels, wife of the infamous propaganda minister, who calmly poisons her own children because she does not want them to grow up in a world without National Socialism. Himmler, as deluded as his leader, vainly hopes that he can negotiate a separate peace with the Western powers that will leave him in power. Albert Speer, more realistic, sees that the war is lost and tries in vain to persuade Hitler to surrender, but he too fails to realise that it is the crimes of the Nazis, in which he played his part, that have brought this disaster upon Germany. Some relief is provided by Alexandra Maria Lara as the naive young Traudl; we also see excerpts from interviews with the real Traudl Junge towards the end of her life, when she confesses that neither her youth nor her naivety can excuse her failure to realise the true nature of the regime she served.This is a bleak, grim film, set against scenes of a ruined city, with an ever-present sense of death and destruction. It is, however, a brave and powerful film which should be seen not only by anyone with an interest in the history of the Second World War but also by anyone who wants to understand the roots of human evil. No-one who has really watched it could make the mistake of considering it pro-Nazi. Oliver Hirschbiegel is to be congratulated for confronting this dark chapter in his nation's history with such courage and honesty. Congratulations are also due to Channel 4 for flying in the face of the British public's normal disdain for foreign-language films when they recently showed this important film at peak evening viewing time. 9/10


                
For those unfamiliar with the film, Downfall portrays the last two weeks of the Nazi government flitting from the bunker beneath the Chancellery to the civilian bomb shelters to the embattled streets of the ruined capital.It's astonishing achievement is to put a human face to some of the most infamous figures in history; it strips away the stereotypes and hyperbole and absurd dramatics to let you see the people behind the caricatures without diminishing the horrors they wrought. It brings home the meaning of Hannah Arendt's chilling phrase, "the banality of evil". Yet the film never descends into banality for more than a few minutes, and always to contrast it with the chaos and brutality that evil engenders.Bruno Ganz is brilliant in his portrayal of Hitler; you can see the charm and charisma that won people to him and the monster that dwelt within. Unlike earlier portrayals which dwelt on the injections and sera he used, Ganz shows a palsied dictator with full command of his intellect (if not his emotions) right to the end. This is more horrifying than seeing a drug-addled psychopath as has become stereotypical in movies on the Third Reich... though sometimes the horror takes time to settle in, as it did for many who met the dictator in person. Ganz's Hitler is not mad but deeply in denial of the consequences of his actions and so wed to his doctrine of the fuererprincip that he is incapable of understanding defeat. His chilling switches between compassion for those in his immediate surroundings and utter ruthlessness towards everyone else are made all the more terrifying as a result, as is his repeated refusal to shoulder any blame for the disasters and desertions around him.As is entirely appropriate, the film focuses on Hitler; however, it does so mainly through the eyes of his private secretary Traudl Junge (played by Alexandra Maria Lara). The film begins and ends with a voice-over by the real-life Junge (not to be missed) and the action starts by showing, as a prologue, the young Junge's application and interview for the job in 1942. We see in her the unthinking loyalty shown to her leader, often against her better judgment; though she plainly wishes to leave the bunker, she finds herself unable to do so until after the dictator's suicide. Lara's performance is overshadowed by Ganz's but this is no reflection upon her skills; and once we see her leave the Bunker we get a much clearer demonstration in her acting ability as she navigates the ruins to safety.We see the horrors of the final battle primarily through the character of Peter Krantz (Donevan Gunia), a twelve-year-old awarded with the Iron Cross in Hitler's last birthday review of the troops for destroying two Soviet tanks. Krantz's desperate eagerness to strike at the enemy gives way, after a final and horrible defeat, to a child-like retreat to home and family only to see it torn apart; the irony is that it's not at the hands of vengeful Russian troops, but by Nazi vigilantes punishing "desertion" and disloyalty.Juliane Kohler's Eva Braun shows just how shallow and banal people in high places can get. A party girl trapped in a holocaust, we see her cling to alcohol and music and routine distractions to shut out the horror. More horribly, she succeeds... her stunning (and yet entirely believable) reversal from weeping petitioner when her brother-in-law is about to be shot for desertion to obedient bride of Hitler takes the breath away. Kohler doesn't let us see much of what's inside Braun simply because there's so little there in the character; Braun is an empty shell who fills herself with the attention of others, a mere veneer of vivacity around a human void as shown by her chatty final testament (narrated over a sequence of soldiers and civilians dying brutally in the rubble above).Diametrically opposed, yet in strange harmony, is Corinna Harfouch's portrayal of Magda Gobbels. She is coldly intelligent and powerful yet entirely subservient to her fuehrer. Her poisoning of the children to "save" them from a world without Nazism is gut-churningly impossible to shut out; her shrugging off of a comforting touch by husband Joseph Gobbels (Ulrich Matthes) afterward followed by a studious application to a game of solitaire is just as wrenching, as is her pathetic final plea to a suicidal Hitler to flee the city. Matthes' doctrinaire yet emotional portrayal of the Propaganda Minister is also chilling, as is his strange helplessness and inability to face the deaths of family and leader.The other performances in the film are all excellent; I only avoid mentioning further details to keep the length of this review manageable. See the film to see the dedication of the doctors within and the bizarre mix of power and powerlessness, courage and poltroonery, and insight and vapidity in the assembled generals.The set dressing is thorough and good; militaria enthusiasts will see great attention to detail shown in the costuming, though alas there are some minor deficits in equipment that admittedly only those who have studied the period closely will notice. The sound is superbly authentic.I'll wind this down by saying that the movie succeeds in its goal of bringing home the human face of an inhuman tragedy. I won't forget this film.


                
(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it at Amazon.)It was agreeable to see Hitler reduced to a bent, defeated, raving madman, and there is no question that Bruno Ganz looked the part. The endearments he gave to the children and to his bunker mates contrasted horrifically with his plan for them and his "love" for the German people. In a sense the way the final days are presented in this film reminded me of what the victims of the Nazis suffered, and that was also apropos and agreeable. Still most people do not like to see human suffering even to those who may, by all that is right, have it coming; and so it was essentially a depressing experience to watch this film.Alexandria Maria Lara, who played Hitler's last personal secretary, Traudl Junge, provided the only bright spot in this necessarily grim picture. She is a fine actress, but somehow she seemed too normal, too smart actually to be the sort of worshipful underling that she must have been. Incidentally, it is from the book by the real Traudl Junge, Biz sur letzten Stunde, and from Joachim Fest's Der Untergang that this movie was adapted. The fine screenplay was written by Bernd Eichinger. Junge appears at the beginning of the film from an interview in 2001, a year before her death, to say a few words and at the end where she explains that she is essentially not that naive young person she once was who should have looked further than the fuhrer's face to see what was really going on. But she was with Hitler for three years and knew his philosophy well. Truth is she was so pleased to be his secretary that she turned a deaf ear to the truth that was in front of her.Of course she was hardly the only one. An entire nation was seduced and led down the path to genocide, humiliation, starvation, near-starvation, and ignominious defeat. One thing the film does to help us understand how this could have happened is to show the blind loyalty that even some of the highest ranking officers felt toward Hitler regardless of his bumbling, his stupidity and his blatant disregard for the feelings and lives of anyone who got in his way--his essential immorality. Some say there was something in the German character that accounts for this blind obedience to authority regardless of how corrupted and evil that authority might be. Maybe in a more pluralistic and multicultural society something like this could not happen. There might be something to that, but I doubt it. Too many monsters have grown in too many different soils and in so many different cultures, I am persuaded it could happen anywhere, but perhaps not as easily and as completely as it happened in Germany.It is interesting that Oliver Hirshbiegel, who directed, did not show the Red Army atrocities as they stormed into Berlin. I don't think he wanted to dilute the sense of the moral culpability of the German people.I was also struck by Hitler's obsession with loyalty. This is how all dictators, warlords and, unfortunately, some respected heads of state operate: they demand unquestioned loyalty, and they ruthlessly eliminate anyone they suspect of anything but that unquestioned loyalty while rewarding the loyal. And so in such governments the head of state becomes surrounded by sycophants and toadies who tell him what he wants to hear and who live in fear of their own lives should they somehow be seen as disloyal. Indeed they sneak around trying to undermine others in other to protect themselves. They live in secrecy amid lies, intrigue and murder.The film is long, 155 minutes, the bunker is dreary and most of the characters are sickies of the worse sort. We as an audience are reduced to those who see inside a cave, the floor covered with bat guano crawling with despicable creatures who feed off of one another. The stench is overwhelming. We watch transfixed for a while at the ugly, unsavory spectacle and then we turn away.Can it happen again? Can it happen here? Let's hope not, but that freedom that the right assures us is not free requires more than loyalty. It requires vigilance and a willingness to speak out, the kind of vigilance that can see the danger when the government begins to deal almost exclusively in lies and misinformation, that invades other countries for dubious gain, deals in propaganda and points fingers at perceived enemies and promotes only those loyal to the leader instead of those most qualified.(I said I would write this review without mentioning a certain personage, and I did, but the allusions are probably more than obvious.) See this for veteran Swiss-German actor Bruno Ganz who gave a fine performance as Hitler.


                
I call this the "Passion of the Anti-Christ" because there are, although strained, similarities in how this movie effect me.This movie is about a character from history that is larger than history. Hitler has become a symbol of evil, and certainly I am not the first person to place Adolf Hitler as the ultimate nemesis anti-Christ. But this is the surface of this movie.Underneath, this movie is about the German people. The ability of one man to take advantage of the post-WWI trauma of a culture and manipulate it until the lines of compassion and inhumanity become blurred. Conformity and hypocrisy were not the only traits of the German people.I have always been unable to create a scenario in which I could see how anyone could justify Hilter's world as a good thing. Even with the fear of the power of the Nazi party, the end of war should have given those with fear of the government should have been emboldened.But this portrayal creates a very real world. There were those in Hitler's inner circle who were fanatical followers, but that was not true of everyone. What we do see is a culture who in its last days floundered to grasp onto any hope-- hope to keep out the Russians, hope to keep the national pride that Hitler brought them from the ashes of a great depression, and the hope that the continued blind faith they gave to the "Fuhrer" would take them through.It was amazing that even in the last hours of Hitler's life the power he commanded. Even in his seemingly "normal" understated life those closest to him worshiped him.In his "work life," generals would bicker and plead with their leader on the last moments to end the insanity, but never once disobeyed an order, even when it was to submit themselves to be shot.Just like "the Passion," there is a message there that is important to us as humans. It is a warning about the tragedy of man and our ability to give our free will up in exchange for group think. It is also a message that evil is only the face of the movement, and that the people behind the mask are just like you and me.The fact that anyone has the potential to be evil. Even worse, that we can all delude ourselves that the horror within can easily be confused for passion, loyalty, and good.It is a hard movie to watch, because it is so well done that it is easy to look past the iconic mustache, swastikas and clicking heels and look at a people much like ourselves and think "There but by the grace of God go I."


                
If anything was horrifying, it must have been the years in which Hitler reigned over Germany, especially during World War II. Nothing has been more commented on, almost everybody knows what happened during his reign. So when people decided that movies ought to be made to show us the hows, whens and whats, these were made. Unfortunately, Nazi-Germans spoke English, as they were played by Americans and Englishmen. It was very easy to qualify the German people as 'evil'. Now, after 60 years, we see the story from the inside. Little by little we understand that the German people suffered as much as anybody suffered from the terror used by the Nazi-regime. Bruno Ganz may well have played the role of his life, I have never seen an actor playing Hitler so realistically, showing him being normal, frightening, aggressive and mad. This movie, showing the WWII from a non-allied point of view, is a must for all those who easily speak of Germans, when they mean Nazis.


                
I got to see 'Der Untergang' only now, on DVD, but maybe this is the right format for it. The film is a docu-drama, with all the goo things and the limitations of the genre, and as a docu-drama is better to be seen on the small screen than in a theater.And it is one of the best docu-dramas I saw in years, maybe the best. Director Oliver Hirschbiegel brings to screen the last days of the Nazi regime and of its leaders, crowded in a bunker with a seemingly infinite Web of corridors, terrorized by the louder and louder noises of the approaching Red Army attacks and living the last phantasms of the nightmare their sick minds created, the nightmare that swallowed the whole world.A lot was written and said about Bruno Granz's rendition of Hitler. There is no Oscar for no-English speaking actors, and it's a good thing, because Granz deserves not a Oscar but a Nobel prize for acting, if such thing existed. Hitler's madness exceeded the limits of human understanding, it was madness at history level. Was Hitler a man, or the incarnation of Devil in man's skin? His success in turning his nation into a Evil Empire and half of the world in hell was the result of a mix of historic context, but also the result of a magnetic personality, that Granz analyzes and recomposes with art. Granz's Hitler is a master in human manipulation, the majority of his foes stay devoted to him until the last moment. Granz's Hitler is charismatic, physically sick and mentally mad, he lives in a world that mixes messianic faith with murderous hate for his enemies and especially against the Jews, a world fill of phantasms and military fantasies. He is completely isolated from reality, as all dictators, because dictators inspire fear, fear inspires lies, and you cannot build strategies on lies.Almost all acting is superb. The Nazi leaders, one more sinister than the other are brought to life with art. Julianne Kohler's Eva Braune is a frivole, living the day in the shade of the Great Leader. The Goebbels pair played by Ulrich Matthes and Corinna Harfouch are sick and fanatic, they commit the absolute family crime by killing their children before taking their own lives, and killing with them the myths of the German Nazi family. There is some controversy abut the image of Albert Speer, the Nazi minister of economy and the architect of what would have been the capital of the 1000 years Reich, the film presents him in a more human light, but life and history was also more understanding with him, making him the only Nazi leader who ended his life in his own bed.A few words about the character of Traudl Junge, Hitler's young secretary acted by Alexandra Maria Lara. The movie presents her as completely fallen under Hitler and Eva Braun magnetic powers, she is genuinely devastated not by the end of the war but by the personal loss and death of his masters. Only when she gets out of the bunker and sees the smoking ruins of what became of Germany she starts to understand the dimension of the tragedy brought by her superiors to her country and to the whole world. However, the total understanding may have come later, and we understand it when the real Traudl Junge, at his old age tells us, looking into the eyes of the camera 'I should have known!'.Docu-drama has limits, the purpose and quality lies more in the accurate rendition of the history than in looking for the deeper truth. Still, for whoever sees this film, the last days of Hitler will remain as they are described here. There is no one movie that can encompass all the lessons of history, but this movie made from the German perspective provides a veridical and true version of the human dimension of the absolute horror.
A film that takes you into the heart of darkness that was Adolf Hitler. An absorbing central performance by Bruno Ganz that allowed me to imagine what it must have been like in that bunker as the second world war drew to a close. I found the film completely believable and one of those rare things in cinema, a film that stays with you and which returns to you weeks, even months after you see it. A disturbing and unsettling film in that the intimate portrayal of Hitler as a fallible human being invites us to empathise with him, despite all that we know about his political fanaticism and monstrous actions. In this regard, this is an important film from Germany about German history. It is courageous and bravura film making and an important contribution to understanding how fascism came to power in Germany and why, of course, it must never be allowed to do so anywhere else again.


                
Hirschbiegel wanted to make sure that this film was directed by a German, and done right, so that the story was put forth cautiously and in the proper hands. It was heavily researched, and is based primarily on interviews with the sort of 'narration' character, a secretary to Hitler named Traudl Junge, who was 22 at the time, and was excused after the war, considered one of the 'young and innocent' - the youth who were caught up in the Nazi Machine without being considered 'at fault'. Excerpts of her interview make the perfect bookend to this film, as we enter and exit from the story with some powerful thoughts to process. It's also based somewhat on interviews with Albert Speer at Spandau, and shortly after he was released, and on a book by one of the world's foremost historians/researchers on the subject. It's aura is exhaustingly real, unbelievably intense. Even now, three days later, I'm still somewhat numb. This is definitely not Hollywood melodrama...This film is extremely important, because it forces us to realize that Hitler - along with everyone else surrounding him - was one of our species. It does not pull punches, and certainly doesn't make him sympathetic, doesn't 'humanize' him, and highlights his delusions to make sure there's no mistake about his mindset. But it's a film that forces us to realize that it was a human being who did this - who committed some of the worst crimes humanity has ever witnessed, and that is an eye-opener that some people, I think, need to have. Because if we simply dismiss Hitler as an inhuman monster rather and a human one, then we are trivializing the deaths of tens of millions of people, each of whom died in order for us to learn what human beings are truly capable of. 9/10.


                
I think that in a thousand years of Western History, there has not been a more dramatic saga than that of the rise and fall of the Third Reich. No screenwriter could come up with a harder hitting tale than the rise of a man like Hitler and his eventual demise. It seems too incredible in an era of constant entertainment that this actually took place, but what makes it even more amazing is the way the whole story ended.The whole history really took place in an astonishingly short time period: Hitler rises up out of epic conflict, spreads his evil message to his villainous followers, people join in his evil plots for their own self interests and lust for power, they spread misery and destruction over the world with their fantastic destructive weapons, and finally they are vanquished and driven by their enemies underground where they die at their own hands, while their country is destroyed around them...No wonder fiction writers have been working on this same basic premise for more than sixty years.This story is not fictitious. This is one of those rare movies where the real events could only have differed only slightly from what is depicted on screen. This is an amazing decision on the filmmaker's part, to unfold the events in a semi-documentary fashion, to avoid dramatic overacting, which is too easy to do in depicting these types of people, and provide an unbiased look at the events of the end of the war.There have been a lot of movies made about Hitler's last days, but I think the reason this one stands out is that it unfolds at such a calm and steady pace. Certainly here is the best depiction of Hitler on-screen. Too human? Maybe, but that makes him all the more disturbing. Viewers might question how far each evil Nazi officer is removed from each one of us, and whether we might have the guts to take a higher path when it comes down to it.I would have liked to have seen a few more battle scenes featuring individual combat, but the movie squeezes a lot of info and characters into its running time, and not a shot is wasted. Among war movies it's most similar to "The Longest Day", and like that film it works because it stays away from nationalist sentimentality. Very disturbing, but entertaining and fascinating all at the same time.


                
First of all, I am not commenting on the morality or immorality of the depicted contents. I am commenting on the film as such. And that film was really catching. Hitler was portrayed in an extremely believable way. His private moments revealed the cracks in his confidence, yet, they stressed his stubbornness. All of the used décor seemed original. The military language and acting -even that of the extras- was precisely investigated and seemed believable. At no point, I had the feeling "oh, this is just dumb dramaturgy". I could feel the imminent collapse of a once so powerful oppression system. Still, in this apocalypse, the myrmidons lost their countenance only slowly. This film has let me live through all of this. Very well made!


                
My Rating : 9/10'Der Untergang' or 'Downfall' is a movie experience I can't get out of my head. Bruno Ganz as Adolf Hitler is both terrifying and seductive. His mannerisms are too surreal.I remember the first time I watched it I wanted to watch it again immediately. Powerful, gripping, ruthless and shocking drama about Hitler's last days.
This is what you call a true gem of cinema (unlike Schindler's List, Forrest Gump or Saving Private Ryan which are annoyingly overpraised).


                
This was obviously a difficult subject to tackle, but somehow they were able to give the overall essence of what Hitlers bunker and the surrounding rubble of Berlin was like in 1945. War pictures are not meant to be historical documents, as many would believe. The movie industry will never make historically accurate films. Historically based films should do their best to interpret text, photographs, footage; and then only attempt to paint a coherent picture of what happened. Details are important(i.e. whether a Waffen SS soldier was wearing the correct uniform) but what is more important is that the tone and overall feel of the film captures the moment. Take a look at the jingoistic approach to American WW2 film making. The German soldier is essentially Satan. Which is not true. Each German soldier had motivations; Whether it was love of country, loyalty to the Nazi regime, or a family to protect or the taste of power. That is what we get from this film. Normal people trapped in their own machinations. The movie DAS BOOT for instance does the same thing. It doesn't attempt to bulk the German people into one category. Instead it attempt to show each individually. Downfall is another great German films that only a German could do properly.


                
We have seen numerous portrayals of Adolph Hitler in films before but we've never seen one like this that uses facts to give viewers an incredibly honest portrayal. In my voting I gave this film an 8 but I'm ready to give it an even higher number because it's one of those amazing films that will stay with viewers for years to come and I think has the greatness in it to be thought of as a classic and should be studied by students of film. Story is about the last few days of the Third Reich where we see Berlin crumbling from the Russian forces and Adolph Hitler (Bruno Ganz) and those around him having to go underground in a bunker. Hitler is approaching his 56th birthday and we see him displaying emotional outbursts when his orders are not carried through and we also see the deterioration of his health as one of his arms trembles from a previous assassination attempt and the ravages of Parkinsons disease.*****SPOILER ALERT***** Most of the films story is told through the eyes of Hitler's stenographer Traudl Junge (Alexandra Maria Lara) who is loyal to her employer but has started to wake up and see first hand what is really happening to Germany and how others are reacting. Eva Braun (Juliane Kohler) not only stays with Hitler but attempts to cheer everyone up with parties and lots of drinking and eventually she and Hitler marry in a small ceremony less than two days before they both commit suicide. Joseph Goebbels (Ulrich Matthes) moves his wife Magda (Corinna Harfouch) and their children into the bunker also and when it appears that Germany has lost the war they decide to commit suicide rather than live without National Socialism. In a harrowing scene Magda slips cyanide capsules into the mouths of her children as they sleep and then she and her husband prepare to kill themselves as well.This is directed by Oliver Hirschbiegel who's source of material is inspired by the memoirs of the real Traudl Junge and the book "Inside Hitler's Bunker" by Joachim Fest and while it's historically accurate it does an even better job of showing the blind loyalty of Hitler's followers. We have seen countless films where Nazis are portrayed in the usual over the top manner but this is the first time (that I have seen, anyway) where their point of view is shown in such an ambiguous light. Not only is their perspective shown but also the point of view from the secretaries who at first thought of Hitler as a father figure and than the realization (and incredible disappointment) of who he really is. While the production design and historical accuracy put this in a class by itself this film is still enhanced by an utterly magnificent and haunting performance from Ganz. His portrayal of Hitler is nothing like the caricatures we have seen before and Ganz actually studied rare tapes of Hitler engaging in normal conversations to get the proper tone of his voice which is vastly different than the one that shouts at crowds. There are those who criticize this film because it shows Hitler in a more human light but let's face it, the guy was human and did things that others do as well. He wasn't screaming and frothing at the mouth every second and did partake in everyday events like walking his dog and having tea with his mistress which isn't going to make anyone forget how evil and psychotic he was. Ganz's performance is so eerily accurate that he shows the trembling in one arm from the Parkinson's that he dealt with in the last 12 years of his life. This is one of those rare films that is achieved through historical fact and brought to life with some truly haunting performances and it's a film that makes a solid claim to greatness.
I must confess that this movie is quiet an experience. But I'm not sure that we can describe it as a war movie. If we compare it with Saving Private Ryan, we get the difference pretty fast. This film try to be objective and want to get a clean radiography of the German way of thinking. I get really impressed with the German patriotism and I stop for a moment and think about something Steven Spielberg's film didn't show. How must had been for the German people to lost that war, for much people the conflict was everything. That is why I think this film is much better than Saving Private Ryan. Oliver Hirschbiegel is not a conformist and doesn't agree with Spielberg simplicity. Good soldiers, bad soldiers and an evil empire. I ignore if Hirschbiegel's film is historically exact, but I'm happy to see at least something new, with great actor as Bruno Ganz in a film that waste emotion.


                
Der Untergang is a realistic story of the last days of Hitler as seen through the (beautiful) eyes of his favourite secretary Fräulein Traudl Junge. The film shows us the slaughter and murders above the ground, the terrible blasts of the Soviet artillery fire on the governmental district of the capital Berlin. Under the ground life is peaceful and almost normal. The strength of the movie is that it shows us very acceptable, human and normal people around the broken Hitler. The most macabre scenes involve Magda Goebels murdering her beautiful children after she gives them a drink to sleep. The persons act very convincing, speak German as they did and also had the faces of Germans so typical for that period in history.The only thing I missed was some more realistic pictures of Berlin as it was in those last days. Only (a model of) the heavily damaged chancellary and the Voss-strasse is shown and one big office building was used which is acceptable as a building which could have been located in Berlin, but other buildings or streets were NOT typical for builtup and ravaged Berlin. The Tiger I tank was a model used in Private Ryan. In reality there were a couple of the big Königstigers around. The same is true for the Flak gun which was a Soviet 85mm gun, where in reality there were German 88mm Flak guns. At the end the movie follows Traudl Junge and her flight out of Berlin. In the last scene she is a very old (but still beautiful) lady and tells us about her experience more than 55 years ago and how she felt pleased to join Hitler as his secretary and knew nothing of the crimes Hitler committed to the Jews. She was totally innocent and a victim of history. Most people around Hilter have died now, recently also: Traudl Junge and Hitlers personal adjutant: Otto Günsche and strong character Wilhelm Mohnke, which was also present in the battles in Normandy, in the Ardennes and Hungary as a divisional commander of the 1st SS Panzer division. The only one still living today is the man which also left the bunker as the last person to see it: Rochus Misch. The technical operator of the generators of the bunker.Compared to "The Bunker" of 1981 this movie is less romantic, less clean and more realistic.


                
There have been hundreds of actors over the years who have portrayed Adolf Hitler but I'm pretty sure there has been no better depiction of the Nazi leader than the one done by Bruno Ganz. This is a brilliant film about the final hours of Hitler, his foot soldiers and the people who worked and lived around him in his bunker.Unlike most war films this is a German made movie with German actors and this gives this so much more authenticity. Not surprisingly this was nominated for an Oscar and i have no doubt if this had been an American film , Bruno Ganz would have won the best actor award.There is one heartbreaking scene where Magda Goebbels gives her children poison while they are asleep and it just goes to show how far some of the top Nazi's would go not to surrender under any circumstances. Downfall is one of the best films i have seen about the end of WWII and if you the slightest bit interested in what happened in that infamous bunker you have to see this film.


                
Having heard many positive reviews of "The Downfall," I expected a unique and interesting film when I watched the opening scenes. By the time the credits began to roll, I was taken aback by how incredible it turned out to be.To begin, Bruno Ganz as Adolf Hitler absolutely makes this film what it is. At certain times throughout the film I had forgotten that an actor was playing him, and actually thought I was watching the real person. His demeanor, personality shifts, loud outbursts, even facial expressions are so dead on it's incredible. In fact, the entire cast as a whole delivers an extraordinary performance. It is clear that careful thought went into the selection of actors/actresses.The film tells the grim story of Hitler and his right-hand men during the last days of his life. We see a man grow increasingly insane as he refuses to accept the ultimate end of his lifetime goal. We also see the differences in the characters around him, some believing in his ideas until death, some showing the slightest ounce of disbelief in the world around them. It offers an extraordinary look into the past, a first hand look into the mind of Hitler, and takes a concept that has been tried hundreds of times before and makes it right.Simply put, "The Downfall" is a must see film that will leave you curious and intrigued for days after the final credits roll.


                
