One night I was listening to talk radio and they had Leslie Nielsen on the program. He went on to explain why there were only 6 shows. 'With TV shows like MASH you could go to the fridge to get a beer and as long as you heard what was going on you didn't miss anything. But with Police Squad, you HAD to watch the show, with the sight gags you missed a whole lot if you didn't see them. Who could forget "... the part of town known as "Little Italy"..." with the coliseum in the background.Even the movies relied heavily on the sight gags, but then again being in the theater you were a captive audience.Leslie also said the one reason the show, movies and other movies like Airplane were funny is because they didn't attempt to tell what was funny. It was up to the viewer to get the jokes.Well that's just my 2 cents.


                
To say that this is a good show is not to say anything at all. After all, this show is made by the same crew responsible for Airplane and other hilarious and brilliant movies. Writing is superb. Even though the show is built on one-liners, they don't become overbearing or annoying. Leslie Nielsen is flexing his comedy muscle to the full extent as if saying: You ain't seen nothing yet. The format was definitely polished to introduce Naked Gun. When watching these movies, notice how many schticks are taken from the TV show. The brilliant part is that they don't have to be changed too much. The show was truly a testing ground for bigger and better versions to come later.


                
I watched this series after I had seen the Naked Gun films.   I found it much better than the films, and I thought the films were great!  This series literally glues you to the television set in anticipation of the next pun, sight gag, or funny situation (the all night wicker place, club flamingo). I don't think I've ever laughed as hard at a TV series in my life, even after seeing the movies first and thus knowing some of the jokes.  I think its a shame that only six episodes were produced, but I agree that the writers would be very hard pressed to maintain this level of comedy for any more episodes.  Overall, the series is a must see for those who like puns, bad jokes, and slapstick sight-gags.


                
Extremely funny. More gags in each one of these episodes than in ten years of Friends. And with a good (ie. funny) Nordberg, not the fab-only-casted OJ Simpson in the movies. When will these episodes emerge on DVD?...


                
After reading over all these reviews I'm very surprised to see that no one has even once noted that this show was based on the 1957 to 1960 NBC cop show "M Squad" starring Lee Marvin, i read reviews comparing it to "Dragnet" and some of the Quinn Martin police shows, but if you watch M Squad you'll see it was based on it. In the late 1958 episodes of M Squad onwards, you'll see Lee Marvin who plays Lieutenant Detective Frank Ballinger get out of his car and then hes shot at,and he shoots back, the beginning of Police Squad is basically the same ( including the Jazz music) and then Lee Marvin narrates what goes on, (Im Lieutenant Detective Frank Ballinger,M Squad,a special department of the Chicago police) and in Police Squad Leslie Neilsen does the same (Im Detective Lieutenant Frank Drebin, Police Squad, a special division of the Police Department) and so on, in one of the M Squad episodes there's even the Johnny the shoeshine guy character and in a M Squad episode entitled " More Deadly" there's a Police Squad episode entitled "A Substantial Gift (The Broken Promise)" which is the same story!


                
I still count "Police Squad!" as the absolute funniest TV show of the 1980s. Somewhere, on BetaMax no less, I have all six episodes. I knew that a show this good wouldn't last and that I had to preserve it for myself. How stupid was ABC? They were quoted as saying that viewers didn't know that "Police Squad!" was a comedy because it had no laugh track! Right! When Drebin has a line like "You take chances just getting up in the morning, driving to work, or sticking your face in a fan.", how can THAT be comedy!?!? I've seen every episode at least ten times and still see something new I missed before. Even the deep backgrounds always have gags ongoing. Don't miss it if you have chance to see an episode, but if you're reading this then you probably already have copies squirreled away someplace as I do.


                
Two years after 'Airplane!' took off, Jim Abrahams, Jerry and David Zucker cast one of its stars - Leslie Nielsen - in this hilarious television series, a glorious take-off of old U.S. detective shows such as 'Dragnet'. Nielsen played Frank Drebin, America's answer to 'Inspector Clouseau'. It had the same style of humour as 'Airplane!'; clever visual gags in the background, unnoticed absurdities, and recurring characters such as Johnny the shoe-shine boy who seems to know everything about everything. Guest-stars ( including William Shatner! ) were killed off in the opening credits. 'Police Squad' was the first U.S. sitcom since 'Batman' to lack a laugh track. Many have lamented the fact that only six episodes were made, but I think it was about right. The concept could never have sustained a full 24-episode run. Five years later, 'Police Squad' made a successful transfer to the big screen, when the first of the 'Naked Gun' trilogy was released. Jim, Jerry, David, and Leslie had the last laugh.


                
The funniest show ever on TV, albeit the humor is not for everyone. I realize it would have been hard to keep the show fresh if it had ran longer, but it's a shame only six episodes were filmed. The gags fly rapidly from the opening credits until the very end, when you would see Drebin and his boss, Ed Hocken, pretending to be in freeze frame as the closing credits rolled, during which the criminal (still moving) would see everyone else motionless and try to escape. In another episode, the building started collapsing around them as Drebin and Hocken remained in freeze mode.Leslie Nielsen was comedic brilliance as Frank Drebin and the perfect fit for this show <U+0085> how he managed to keep a straight face through some of this is beyond me. Because the jokes and sight gags came so often and quick, you can watch the episodes a 2nd and 3rd time and catch things you missed the first time. If you're like me, you can watch them over and over and still find yourself laughing. Even the jokes that made no sense nor seemingly had any reason to them, such as the "Rex Hamilton as Abraham Lincoln" tag-line in the opening announcement, somehow worked <U+0085> perhaps they were thrown in there precisely for that reason.Cleverly spoofing the old Quinn Martin detective/cop shows of the 1970s, Police Squad would return from commercial break with the words "Act Two" appearing on the screen, which was immediately followed by "Yankees One" or some other quip. On the opening credits, the episode's title would appear on the screen, but the announcer would utter a completely different title. My favorite jokes and lines from this series are way too numerous to list, but one of my favorites is when Drebin asks a down-on-his-luck boxer who has previously tanked fights, "Do you think you can beat the Champ?" The boxer responds, "I can take him blindfolded!" To which Drebin responds back, "But what if he's not blindfolded?" A minute later, in reference to the boxer's small, dingy apartment, Drebin tells him, "I'm going to help you get out of this sewer." The next thing you see, Drebin is popping up through a manhole cover on the street! In another episode, Drebin and Hocken are questioning a bombing suspect's flimsy alibi. Drebin, not believing him, says, "Alright, let's say you did go the movies." After a slight pause, Drebin, Hocken, and the suspect all look at the camera and in unison say, "You did go the movies." A few moments later, when Drebin is forced to let the suspected bomber walk free due to lack of evidence, he storms away and angrily yells, "Tell that bomber to take off!" What's seen next is a cop giving the thumbs-up signal to a WWII-style plane on a runway right outside the building! While there were many classic Drebin quotes, one particularly memorable one was, "Sorry to bother you Mrs. Twice. We would have come earlier, but your husband wasn't dead then." Another classic was, "I'm a locksmith <U+0085> and, I'm a locksmith." When a visibly shaken kidnap victim's father asks Drebin, "What I do I do?" <U+0085> Drebin, in classic deadpan fashion, responds back, "Well, as I understand it, you're in the textile business." As I said, the humor is not for everyone <U+0085> many people simply will not "get" it. During the show's brief run, I remember the reaction being very mixed. Some people thought it was absolutely hysterical and one of the funniest things around, while others thought it was the stupid and unfunny. For me, Police Squad, even 20+ years later, is the funniest thing I've ever seen on TV. For younger viewers who enjoy this type of humor but who have never seen Police Squad because they were too young when the series initially aired, I highly recommend. I found the six episodes to be even funnier than the subsequent "Naked Gun" movies.


                
Having long disdained network television programming, I remember the first time I caught an episode of "Police Squad!". It was totally by accident. It was during the show's initial network run on ABC in early 1982. I am a chronic channel surfer and was flipping the dial one evening when suddenly appeared "Police Squad!"'s opening credit sequence on my TV screen. I immediately recognized it as a sendup of the opening credits of "M-Squad" starring Lee Marvin, one of my all-time favorite cop shows. I stopped surfing. Then of course came headquarters getting shot up, followed by the immortal Rex Hamilton as Abraham Lincoln. By now I was saying to myself "What the heck is THIS??". Then came "special guest star" Georg Stanford Brown getting flattened by a plummeting safe. I was hooked from that moment. The episode was "Ring of Fear/A Dangerous Assignment", with its comic references to "On The Waterfront", and "Muhammed Ali", but most memorable of course were all the sight gags and non sequiturs. Leslie Nielsen and Alan North in their loose parody of Lee Marvin and Paul Newlan of "M Squad" were an absolute riot. "Finally", I said to myself, "A network television program truly worth watching!!!". Wouldn't you know it would be canceled just a few weeks later. Leave it to the networks -- I should have known. Anyway, I just bought the DVD collection of all six episodes and they are just as funny today as they were 27 years ago. The "Naked Gun" movies were terrific as well, but I really missed Alan North (he was so good as Ed Hocken), Peter Lupus as Nordberg (what were they thinking casting OJ in that part?), and especially William Duell's "Johnny" the shoeshine guy. Great stuff.


                
I first remember bumping into this zaniness from the Zucker brothers and Jim Abrahams, back in the early days at Comedy Central. Back in those days (the 90's) their programming consisted of Benny Hill reruns and the original MST3k, complete with bearded host.Capt. Frank Drebin (played by the stone-faced, dead-pan filibuster, Leslie Nielson) is a process created first from the amalgamation of various stereotypical police television show protagonists (think Dragnet meets Starsky & Hutch the Show), boiled in a flask full of well-known police television show plots and scenarios. This is distilled, 3 times to produce the most pure policeman every made. Forget about Simon Pegg in Hot Fuzz (for now. save it for later). Frank Drebin is clueless at most times, a terrible driver, a terrible shot, macho yet sensitive and vulnerable. He is a master of the police investigative methodology (a.k.a - ask Johnny the Leathery Old Shoe-Shine Boy). This does not make him a bad cop. Cops get lucky also. Capt Drebin (notice he's a Captain here) has perfected it. Along with his partner, Nordberg, and the rest of force, perfectly parody the police drama over the course of 6 golden episodes.The show is a treasure trove of hilarious dialog and quotable quote-ables. Most of the sight gags are a bit dated and silly. The magic never came from the sight gags,however. At its core was a nonsensical and straight-faced conversation and activities in the foreground, with crazy things occurring in the background. The movies can best be described as 90 minute compilations of the best gags from this series. Think of Monty Python's And Now For Something Completely Different.....If you liked Airplane 1 & 2, Naked Gun 1,2,3, or Top Secret, then you will definitely enjoy this. I always liked the series better than the movies, even though I saw the movies first. Why? 2 words : No O.J.


                
The kind of comedy displayed in police squad is my favorite kind of comedy. The kind where all characters are in on the jokes, and the jokes themselves are kind of absurd, but really well thought. The jokes in this show are EVERYWHERE, and sometimes they're subtle, and there are so many I sometimes rewatch the show and laugh out loud at some of the jokes I had forgotten.If you like literal comedy, or old comedy, or absurd comedy, then this is definitely the show for you.


                
This series follows Detective Lieutenant Sergeant Frank Drebin of Police Squad as he investigates a series of cases.That might not sound like a basis for a comedy but this series contains more gags per minute than just about other any series I can think of. There are recurring jokes; such as the guest star who dies within seconds of appearing and a shoe-shine man who seems to know everything about everything. The rest of the time we are assaulted by a series of puns, sight-gags and other hilarious moments... if you don't get one gag another will occur in seconds. Leslie Nielson does a really good job as Drebin, he, along with the rest of the cast, manage to play things straight even during the most ridiculous moments. Overall I'd say the biggest mystery here is why there are only six episodes... at least it returned on the big screen as the 'Naked Gun' Trilogy... A must see.


                
"Police Squad" was one of the shortest lived television series in history...lasting a paltry six episodes. Looking at them now on the DVD collection, you wonder why. The jokes were hilarious and just what you'd find in the "Airplane!" and "Naked Gun" movies...which were made by the same folks who made the show. All that is obvious is that the network didn't have any faith in the program and just killed it. It's a shame...but other great shows have also failed...only to be discovered later (such as the movie spin-offs). So my advice is to go to Amazon.com or another site which offers the DVD and buy it. If you don't like it...you're probably dead.


                
How this only lasted six episodes is beyond me. This is just as funny as the film series. Did the humour go over peoples heads at the time of release? When the film proved a success, you would have thought someone would have tried to revive this series.The sight gags are priceless and the title sequence(in Quinn Martin style)cracks me up. The Rex Hamilton, as Abraham Lincoln! bit gets me every single time.Frank Drebin(Leslie Nielson)investigates and solves crimes with the help of his colleagues. As in the films it is Nielson's line delivery and physical comedy that make many scenes funny, he plays it straight and that makes the ridiculous situations even funnier.As with the films you have to pay attention in every scene here, because there are things happening in the back ground to make you laugh too.If you love Leslie and The Naked Gun and Airplane films, then you should check this series out.
With the success of Airplane the creative behind this film turned to a TV series and turned their focus on police shows of the era.Police Squad parodied the Quinn Martin Productions that were better known in the 1970s for The Streets of San Francisco, Cannon, Barnaby Jones.The Episode would begin with the announcer proclaiming: 'From the files of Police squad' going through the special guest stars who would only appear for the announcement and then promptly disappear or get killed off.In fact William (Frank Cannon) Conrad was one of the special guests who briefly appeared.At the end of the show there was always an Epilogue with the episode closing on a joke and some laughter and a freeze frame that is not frozen.The jokes were very much in the style of Airplane, a mixture of puns and physical slapstick, with Leslie Nielsen's Frank Drebin playing it straight despite the chaos he caused all around.The funniest part of the show was when he would go to the shoe shine man for the word on the street, the man who literally knew everything. After Drebin left the shoe shine man another person would consult him such as Dick Clark wanting to know of the latest trends in music.The series flopped in the USA and only lasted six episodes. In the UK it became cult viewing even though it was never fully networked when first shown but the British rather appreciated the humour more.Of course this type of comedy was never going to be able to sustain the course of a full length US series.Never to let a good idea lie low, the makers relaunched the Frank Drebin as the hit Naked Gun film series and they even used many of the same gags from the TV show.


                
Most TV comedies share common ingredients: an intrusive laugh track, lots of inane dialogue, very little plot, and an attractive cardboard cast. "Police Squad!" broke from the pack, and what a funny series it was. Although it was only around for six episodes in 1982, it's part of 1980s TV lore.Leslie Nielsen established his role as Frank Drebin, probably the dumbest detective ever to appear on the screen. He was supported by Alan North (detective Ed Hocken), Peter Lupus (officer Nordberg), and others. The series had lots of funny running gags, hilarious dialogue, and convoluted plots. An especially funny sequence always had the show's special guest star (Lorne Greene, Robert Goulet, Florence Henderson, and others) killed off during the opening credits! The gags came fast and furious, and the show's situations were always funny and well-done."Police Squad!" did not have a laugh track (although the network tried to insert one) and demanded that the viewer pay attention to the plot. This one-of-a-kind show was canceled in short order, reportedly because audiences weren't used to paying attention. I cherish the six episodes that were made...and it's such a shame that we'll never see more of them.
police squad is the debut of frank drebin played hilariously by leslie nielsen who would later have 3 movie(the naked gun trilogy) and is as hilarious here as he is in the hilarious movies, the six episodes that were made are hilarious gag filled spoofs in the vein of airplane and ofcaurse the naked gun movies, they are all hilarious and classic leslie nielsen, sadly the show was cancelled after just 6 shows as people had to 'watch it' to get it, but the 6 epsisodes here are classics and hilarious and still hold up years later. the DVD is great too and is full of special features about the show, so pick up this and the naked gun trilogy and witness the adventures of the funniest character in media history.
The inspiration for the "Naked Gun" movies casts Leslie Nielsen - who had only recently started doing comedy* - as the incompetent but heroic Frank Drebin, always having to solve an absurd case. Like "Airplane!" and the movies based on the series, the humor relies on Mel Brooks-style spot gags and silly comments (namely the "yes it is" remarks), along with the fact that Nielsen remains very serious despite the nonsense around him. And of course, the final frame, in which something keeps moving.It's too bad that the show only had six episodes. At least it spawned the movies. You can't go wrong with Leslie Nielsen in these sorts of roles. I suspect that they all had fun filming it. Really funny.*Before "Airplane!", Leslie Nielsen had starred in movies like "Forbidden Planet", "Harlow" and "The Poseidon Adventure". As late as 1987 he co-starred in "Nuts" alongside Barbra Streisand and Richard Dreyfuss. But since the first "Naked Gun" movie it's been all comedy all the time.


                
Leslie Nielson was very underrated.This show was funnier than 90% of what has been on TV or in comedy films for 20 years.He always hits a trashcan with his squad car.The sightgags are great. You always find something new.The jokes are corny, but Leslie's straight-faced seriousness makes it funny.The guest stars are killed or forgotten immediately, though they were big names like William Shatner LOL.This show doesn't take anything seriously, and it is so bizarre and dark, that you have to laugh. Guys getting off an elevator and Indians are shooting arrows inside as if they are in a Western. The cops destroy an entire car before deciding to look in the glove box, where the coke was the whole time.The names are like the ones from Austin Powers or James Bond, with stupid innuendo, but it works.A mime is thrown through a window to deliver a ransom message.Peter Lupus says he is going to tap the phones, and installs a beer tap. Then describes to the grieving parents that their daughter is probably already mutilated or dead or something. LOL.This show was given only a few episodes?!?!?! I was so disappointed when my parents showed it to me years ago, and there were no more after episode 6. We got the Naked Gun movies, but the show was brilliant, and guaranteed to make you laugh.
Parodies are my favorite genre in comedy because it's not just about turning something familiar upside down but also it contains creative freedom where just about anything can happen. This is another childhood relic of mine, I remember seeing this show when I was about 8. Despite how short the show really was it really left an impression on me, it was the first parody comedy I've ever seen and if it wasn't for this show I wouldn't of gotten into the Naked Gun films.The show really was one of the parodies that really helped pave the way for the many other parody shows like the Adult Swim shows "Childrens Hospital", "Eagleheart", "Robot Chicken" as well as the underrated "Garth Melagei's Darkplace" and "The Spoils of Babalyon".There really isn't a lot I can say for this show, it's basically a parody on all the cop and detective shows from long ago to the late seventies. I love the theme song it's one of my favorite themes because it's just fun and just spews cop action.Each episode is just great all of them are rich in both visual and verbal humor, they cleverly make fun of all of the clichés in the usual shows and turn most of them on their head. It would honestly take more than one watch to get them all but their there.Like the beginning it always advertises a special guest for each episode but then seconds later they die from one reason or another. It's funny because sometimes that happens whenever guests are on a TV episode, they'd either get killed off or forgotten the next day. Or even at the end of each episode everyone is on pause except for the suspect whom is still moving and is both escaping and steeling things while everyone is in that mode, I can't help but crack up because it really breaks the convention of everyone on pause.But of course what really powers this show is the late great Lesile Nelsen. This guy is one of the king actors of parodies along side with Mel Brooks since both have acted in more than one of them. Frank Drebin is my favorite role from him. It's just hilarious how much he plays it straight despite so much craziness going on around him and he of course contributes to it. From his deadpan delivery, it's hard for me to keep a straight face because in most of those shows back then all cop characters always delivered dialog in a rather fast strange manner most notably "Dragnet". But what also makes Frank stick out is the fact is in his unorthodox and absurd methods of dealing with things, or just plain clumsiness or stupidity. For example in a shoot out scene in an episode one crook uses a civilian as a human shield, but then Frank then does the same thing. I find it blackly funny because it's not something you'd expect to happen.The only bad thing about the show is simply that it was too short, it would of been cool to see it have the long haul treatment, I would of liked to see what more trouble Frank Drebin gets into. Yeah, I know we have the "Naked Gun" films but still it's just not quite the same; but oh well.Overall, if your a fan of the parody genre then this show is worth checking out, it's arresting hilarity.Rating: 4 stars


                
