The creative team that brought us Police Squad - and the Naked Gun derived from it - said in interview that they were told by their network contact that the show would be canceled, after their delivery of the first episode. Basically, the show was never given any chance. Typical Hollywood. The contact apparently told the team that the problem with the show was that, for the show to be funny, the viewer would actually need to watch it; most shows are presented on TV with the understanding that the viewer needed to get up and miss a few minutes while getting food, or going to the toilet, etc.The humor of the show is extremely dry (it uses no laugh-track), and the universe the characters inhabit is one in which anything can happen, regardless of logic, as long as it was totally unbelievable; so, for instance in one episode a surgeon has to bribe an informant on the street in order to get a tip on heart surgery.Those familiar with the Naked Gun films should be warned that there are a number of interesting disjunctions between the show and the films. In the films, Nielsen developed a particular "take" approach - that is, eyes widened when confronted with the unexpected. This doesn't happen in the show, where Nielsen's Drebin is the center around which the rest of the universe revolves - nothing is unexpected to him. Also, there are no romances in the show, and no parodies of MTV. Finally, the show takes certain risks that the films avoid; in the first episode, Drebin, to "re-enact the crime", has a squad of homicide detectives shoot each other from a number of different angles - ballistics the hard way. This is actually a risky bit of humor, since we need to accept that it's perfectly normal for policemen to kill each other while investigating a crime, for no other reason than experimentation. This sort of thing rarely happens in the films.Taken individually, each of the episodes is actually funnier than any one of the Naked Gun films, since they are both more compact (more happens in a shorter time-frame), yet more leisurely paced (there's not the rush for a punch-line as sometimes happens in the films). There are some inconsistencies that happen in the films (primarily "2" and "3") that never occur in the show's shorter time-frame.Of course, there's no doubt that Naked Gun (the first film) is one of the great comedies of theatrical cinema. And if you watch the TV show episode after episode in one sitting, the dry quality of the humor might wear away one's tolerance.None the less, it would be useful to have a DVD of this, and watch an episode a day for a few weeks - If laughter has, as some claim, medicinal value, watching this show is good for one's health.


                
Police Squad! (1982) was a funny show that ended too soon. But I guess it had it's run before it got too repetitive and unfunny like so many American television shows. The geniuses behind this funny show were the team of Zucker, Abrahams and Zucker. Every since his straight act in the comedy hit AIRPLANE!, Leslie Nielsen has found a new career as a comedian. In this short lived t.v. series he had the chance to play the straight man in a wacky comedy once more. The bizarre titles to each episode gave away the ending. But Lt. Drebrin (Leslie Nielsen) got into so many weird cases that they have to be seen to be believed.Tooo bad they never released this on D.V.D. If a show needed to be re-released it would have to be this one. A whole new generation is waiting to see this show!Highly recommended!


                
I remember watching Police Squad! when it first came on ABC in 1982 and I thought it was a very funny show, thanks to the many sight gags, non sequitors and scripts filled with word play. In one episode, there was a line where a man named Once was shot twice. But unfortunately, ABC canceled the show after only six episodes. I felt it deserved a much longer run but a network executive thought the show demanded too much attention of the viewer because of all the sight gags in each episode. One that I remember was in the opening where the episode's title was different from the one shown on the screen. Leslie Nielsen's portrayal of Frank Drebin was deadpan, yet very funny and his role was in the narrative style of Jack Webb of Dragnet. Alan North did well and Peter Lupus, in one of his few roles since Mission: Impossible wasn't bad as Norberg, But the one character that stood out was Johnny the Shoeshine Boy, played by William Duell. After giving advice to Drebin, there were cameos from Dick Clark, Dr. Joyce Brothers and then Dodger manager Tommy LaSorda. Even though Police Squad! had a short life on ABC, the Zucker Brothers didn't give up on the concept which turned out even more successful in the Naked Gun movie franchise. I'll close with a regular closing gag. Freeze the ending right here.


                
Detective Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) is a veteran of the Police Squad led by Captain Ed Hocken. Each episode starts with the police siren and ends with the fake freeze frame. It's the team of Zucker, Abrahams, and Zucker who created the iconic Airplane! movie. After the show's quick cancellation, the team would take it to the big screen as the Naked Gun franchise. As silly as the ABC cancellation seems, it's probably for the best to move it to the theaters. It says more about the network brass than the audience at large who certainly got the humor in the movies. It's great that the guys can recycle some of the jokes into their movies.The jokes come fast and furious. The Frank interviewing Sally scene is hilarious. I haven't laughed that hard for a long time. It's as good as any "Who's on First" routine. Leslie's deadpan delivery gets me right away. The audience gets hit with that joke early in the first episode and it doesn't slow down. The jokes, both visual and verbal, are not going to stop. It's unlike anything I can recall during that TV era. It's Airplane! on steroids. Even now, the style of outrageous spoof is mostly in the animated field. It has few compatriots and no real competition. Peter Lupus is a bit stiff as Norberg although with hindsight, he's a much better choice than O.J. Simpson.


                
Though only six episodes, this is a very funny TV series starring Leslie Nielson as the bumbling Lt. Frank Drebin of Police Squad, out to rid the city of dangerous criminals - with his hilarious and unorthodox ways, of course.It's one funny spoof, gag and joke after another, with some suspenseful and exciting story lines to boot and convincing and spot-on acting that kept the characters serious. Some of the jokes made it to the movies as well, as you will instantly recognize the dialog and gags from the series.Fun stuff here that will keep you entertained from start to finish!Grade A


                
So good. Sumblimely original and excellently penned. Kind of like Gznollo but more slapstick. Never quite receives the plaudits it deserves. The films it spawned are also excellent and far superior to any of the spoof movies that exist today, although these would never have come to be without Police Squad! It is a thorough shame that there were not more of these made and also that the spoof genre has descended into utter populism.Hail Frank Drebin and the rest of Police Squad!(More re-runs please!)


                
The series spoofs a variety of older (or at least more old-fashioned) cop shows. The writing is very clever indeed and the jokes are many and varied : visual, verbal, textual, auditive, and so on. Many of these jokes are of the "blink, and you miss it" variety, meaning that the series demands close and attentive watching. This may be one of the reasons why the work was cancelled so soon, in spite of its riotous invention and intelligent farce."Police Squad!" also contains some running jokes, the best of which (at least in my humble opinion) involves one of the police detectives finding out the "word on the street". This means talking to his regular source : a small, shifty, rat-faced individual who is not only capable of providing up-to-date information on criminal matters, but who is an expert in practically every field of human endeavour. Slip him a few dollar bills and he'll help you out with any problem you can think of : theological, medical, societal, etcetera.The series inspired the various "Naked Gun" movies. Opinions may differ but I for one think it is better than the movies : more focused, more concise, more varied.Excellent theme music, by the way.
