I have been watching the show since season one, which was off the charts. The show made a solid foundation with first two seasons depicting the exact difficulty an entrepreneur faces in building a business but season 3 and 4 has swapped the comical drama with senseless banter. Season 3/4 cannot be reviewed without talking about season 1. Season 1 had great promises, it impeccably depicted the socially immature, not so successful engineers who accidentally invent a software that would change the whole networking world. Converting the idea into a successful business was a strong story to tell. It was like watching THE BIG BANG THEORY with a plot. But now each character acts as if they have not been given a script. I don't understand why the writer has introduced senseless problems that has no possible way of occurring.Now,the show is trying very hard to make us laugh and fails miserably. I think the main problem is that it should have been wrapped up way earlier. Now the crap has spread so far that it's impossible to clean. Only cast and music remains constant and rest has gone downhill in the worst way. I recommend not to watch the show because you don't need to.


                
Wonderful show! Great show that follows a group of people as they develop an app/programming and figure out coming of age issues in their life. Smart, well written, and flows well. While I really like Silicon Valley, Betas is a better show! To a large degree, I would say that Silicon Valley copied the Betas show and put a slightly older character twist to it. The original is always better! If you get the chance to watch Betas, take it. Both shows have a single female in the programming group, however, Betas treat theirs as an equal, and are more of a team. Silicon, on the other hand, seem more cut throat and competitive. Instead of working together, they are often undermining one another.Dayne


                
The support cast is very nice the characteristics are funny and relationships between cast is perfect. Except protagonist he is very annoying and unfunny.


                
When I saw a trailer for the series and the first few minutes of the first episodes I feared it was going to be a weird combination between Big Bang Theory and The Internship. Fearing that the series would make thousands of references to Palo Alto, or Facebook, Google what have you. That would be sort of a image of the tech industries need to be so innovative that they look silly. But now I think I have come to the conclusion that the series tries to mock this. Like Peter Gregory and Gavin Belson is actually a clever satire of how investors and business executives behaves. Like Gavin using Asian business methods for punishing employees by not having them work, so they will feel ashamed.I did also fear that the show would sort of follow into this Zuckerberg story, where a brilliant inexperienced tech-guy manages to come up with a brilliant idea worth billions, and setting up a successful company. But they seem to paint a rather realistic picture of have difficult it is to do something even if you have great ideas, and that success comes and goes and are very fleeting.Along the way the humor grows into being something else than tech-people in California, and geeks having trouble in completely normal social situations. Jared revealing his actual name and no one paying any attention to it, Jared being locked up in a automatic car and being trapped on a automatic Island, was just one of the most funniest things I have seen in a while.The whole debate on how much cock Erlich would have to jerk of before the jury would like them, was one of the highlight of the season, and just pure comic gold. Silicon Valley is not laugh out hysterical, is not the best written or acted comedy series that have been on the market the last year. But surprisingly it is funny, and a joy to watch it.
Jing Yang is the worst character in the show: selfish, s l u t t e r y, impervious, and m o n k e y i s h without and any humanistic inner feelings. Me and all other people I know who watched it feel disgusted at him. I'm not sure what happened to the creators so there is such prejudice against China, yet the discrimination and stigmatization don't bring this show any better reputation.Except for this part, the show itself is excellent.


                
