It's hard to find the words to explain how TRULY AWFUL this film is. I'll try to do a list:1) There's no context: They never show the victims of the fraud. We see the sales effort but not the people they're selling to. How can you do a movie about people perpetrating a fraud without showing the fraud & its effects??? 2) There's no character development: They all start out as disgusting creeps and they all end up being disgusting creeps. 3) There's not much of a plot: It's 2 and 1/2 hours of debauchery and then 1/2 hour of getting caught. The debauchery part goes on forever and gets boring really fast. Not to mention disturbing & disgusting. Did Scorsese really make this movie just to show all this debauchery? What's the point of showing 2 and 1/2 hours of it? We get the point that they are gross lunatics pretty fast. Why keep going with seemingly endless variations of it? There is no point to it. So, when all is said & done, this is basically a movie about debauchery. It should have been called "Satyrs of Long Island" instead of "Wolves of Wall Street" because these turkeys operated from LI and there's practically nothing in the movie about actual Wall Street firms.
Martin Scorsese could have created a Real Movie about Real Characters who committed terrible acts on Wall Stree. Instead he chose to create a comedy farce for the sole purpose of a box office hit in order to generate tons of cash just like the character Belfort. There is no mention of the victims of Belfort's scams. I cannot believe he has been nominated for Best Director for this piece of Trash. I don't understand how this movie received 8.7 on IMDb.The formula for the Box Office hit Pot Pourri is simple: Wild Parties, Fast Cars, Expensive Houses, Huge Yachts, Drunken Helicopter Pilots, Lots of drinking, drugs, Naked Women, Orgies, guns, Cheating husbands, Money laundering, Slimy Swiss bankers, seducing hot babes, seducing ex-babes (grandmas, And finally,Idiotic Extreme Behavior by brokers who act super smart in one scene And pathetically stupid in another scene. If Tarantino had been the director, I would have said, fine, that is his style, but Marty, I expected a bit more class from him. This movie Glorifies Scumbags who manipulate people who entrust them with their hard earned dollars The scumbags have no moral or ethical dilemmas. The movie turns them into heroes to be emulated. Belfort's sentencing agreement mandates a total of $110 million in restitution yet the victims have received little of this. The script at times makes you think it was written by a hyper-hormoned immature male high school dropout teenager. It tries extremely hard to be funny, yet it falls flat on its face in this arena. Reminded me of a 22 minute sit com on TV, yet no one in my row was laughing at the jokes. The story could have been summarized in 30 minutes, Get ready for 180 minutes We are forced to watch one unnecessary scene after another, the same topic is repeated over and over again, Same arguments, same sales pitches "Sell me this Pen", OK I got it, Belfort is a charismatic Speaker and a great Sales Person, I don't need to have it hammered in my brain. The Range of behaviors of the characters go from one Serious Extreme to completely irresponsible infantile idiotic and unbelievably stupid levels. Watch Donnie (Jonah Hill) Play with himself in public when he first takes a look at Naomi Lapaglia ( Margot Robbie ). Remember that he is the Number 2 Lead at the Investment firm and Later in charge of running Stratton Oakmont. How can he be so stupid and so smart at the same time. The Characters are Caricatures of the real people they are supposed to depict. The tone was set after the first few minutes of Belfort's (DiCaprio) narrative while he is starring at the camera. It did not work for me. There are only two decent scenes in this movie that stand out for their realism. When DiCaprio first Seduces his future blonde wife at dinner in the restaurant When The two Fed agents board Belfort's Yacht Nadine and Belfort in a sly arrogant manner attempts to bribe the investigators. Some movies are must see movies Because they change your view of the world and you never forget them. This movie changes nothing.
Even though Jordan Belfort is a convicted con man, Scorsese & DiCaprio were apparently too dense to realize that his book was yet another of his scams. They leapt on Belfort's book like pigs on a pile of slop and thought everyone would be just as enamored as they were with the alleged life story of a sociopathic, sleazeball swindler. One example of how they got conned: In real life, Belfort never warned his cohorts that he was wearing a wire! In reality, he was a cry-baby snitch who immediately agreed to testify against his co-conspirators, never giving any of them a word of warning. It's rather amusing to watch Scorsese & DiCaprio as they try to explain that this movie isn't a glorification of Belfort's swindling & debauchery. C'mom, guys, 'fess up, all three hours of the movie is a celebration of it! You wasted $100 million to make an homage to a drug- addicted, misogynistic low-life who swindled people out of their hard- earned money! Proud of yourselves? Here's the "Spoiler Alert": You are being conned if you go to this movie. But go ahead and give your hard-earned money to this convicted swindler and the "Hollywood sophisticates" who think his pathetically sad life is worth being turned into a movie. Just know that Belfort is laughing all the way to the bank, and you are his latest victim.
I've always thought that there must be a very good reason for a movie to last 3 hours. Wolf of wall street does last 3 hours but there no shadow of a good reason for it. It could have lasted 1 hour and it would have been already too long.It is difficult to summarize all the things I didn't like but let's try:1- Characters development is simply not existent. There is no depth, just one-dimension flat characters that only do drugs, sex, and money. I am not against showing drugs or sex or money in a movie, if it helps the plot. But in this case, it didn't. It was 2 hours of absolute useless display of all the possible debaucheries on earth, without them helping in building up the characters. 2- If a guy manages to build up an empire based on a fraud, I'd like to see what happens to his victims too, and, sorry if I am not a master of Wall street, but I'd like to have 5 minutes of the movie spent in explaining what was this fraud about. 3- If the guy, once again, not only builds his own empire, but also drags other people in that, I suppose he must have some smartness, or intelligence, or be a master manipulator.. whatever it is, it cannot be just (once again) cocaine and prostitute. If they wanted to depict the guys as villains, they failed miserably. 4- the only relatively interesting part (the trial etc) is cut to 30-45 minutes max. Once again, I supposed it could have been a good chance to show some introspection of the characters, some development..something! But no, once again, nothing. We only notice that now the beer is not alcoholic. So sad. 5-Finally, DiCaprio performance: he did his job, probably, but he was alway over the top (and not in a good sense). Too much of everything, to the point that he fell into being ridiculous more than believable.Ah, one last note. Wall Street? Where is it in all the story? I expected to see some connections to WS in fact, like what was going on in the meantime but there is - sorry to repeat myself- basically nothing about it.
De Caprio is the heart of the film, a daredevil whose motivation seems to be a misguided desire to acquire as much money as possible. He lives his life as a constant dare, using and abusing the investments of others, gambling with his personal relationships and his own health. He constantly endangers his life and those who are closest to him. It seems like he is capable of stopping this fall, but he keeps sinking and sinking. We could say he has a survivor's nature, but he carries with a very intense death wish, too.Usually, it's easy to understand how people like him become so successful. There's gotta be a bit of charisma to their natures, so that we can see how they seduce the rest of the world into following them. Unfortunately, the main lead here lacks that quality, and in one of the worst casting choices in recent history, what we get is a man who is not full of life and youth. He himself become his own iceberg as he reveals his "age" early in the film, and De Caprio hasn't looked that youthful in decades. This is not to say that De Caprio doesn't try, but he's not a good fit for this role. About three years ago, in "The Social Network" we could see the recklessness and drive of man who could lure you into a trap. There's no way that seems believable here, especially when you see the people he surrounds himself with. His wolf can't cast a spell, and he can hardly bite.Mercifully, we are not treated to the hyper kinetic editing and camera work we usually encounter in Scorcese's films, but he's found other ways to annoy us. He intermingles "Infomercials" throughout the movie, as if we need reinforcement about the seductive power of his character. They are sometimes ridiculous, and I doubt that is the intent. There are also liberties with the source, and it's a pity because the text is a delight to read, giving us the opportunity to wonder how something that is definitely based on reality can appear so unbelievable. The movie tries desperately to portray the excess and trappings of wealth, but there is nothing sexy about the constant parade of prostitutes and the overuse of obscenities, which occur at least every other minute. The books gives us time to breathe. Nothing like that is ever possible here, and that's why the film feels flat, not necessarily boring, but it fails to crackle because it's just too much of the same, never showing us where all the madness originates. There's little fire, just an endless portrayal of stupidity.Not all is lost (like in that other film) because we have a rising star here. Margot Robbie makes quite an entrance and gives the best and most solid performance here, enhanced by the mess the rest of the cast comes up with. She's a formidable beauty, with lots of ambition, an overpowering stare that will let you see that she is not afraid to seek ambition, but she is still a full human being, capable of distinguishing between right and wrong. She reminds you of a more powerful Sharon Stone in her earlier films, and she is as talented as she is gorgeous. Here we see how one person can become obsessed with another, but it also makes you wonder why anyone would even stray from such a beauty. Oh, yes, I forgot it's perfectly obvious drugs can totally ruin your life and turn you into a monster.The film is way too long, with more than a dozen scenes that could have been eliminated because they don't add anything to the story flow. We wish we could see more of the FBI agents, and it would be helpful to see why Wolf doesn't seem to find any way to listen to his father, a wonderful and underused Reiner.We can guess the film's ending from its early frames. It seems as if all the energy goes into the presentation of the material, and little consideration is giving to the dialogue, other than peppering the conversations with redundant expletives. Parading naked people around, having snorting line after line of that white powder, or coming up with sound blasting songs to underscore a point is a brutal point to deliver a message. Just recently the Coens gives us a more dimensional creation with no more than a few ungrateful remarks here and there. All the time I could only wonder how it was that this film escaped the stamping of that NC 17 rating because its only success was the abuse of visual imagery and irritating language that loses its impact as it appears in an endless barrage of mind numbing utterances.
Cricky, lets start of with saying how long and drawn out this movie was. Gosh 3 hours to sit through watching a porn movie(basically) along side drug abuse and lying cheating behavior. Quite a few people actually got up and left during the movie,maybe it got a bit to much for them seeing that you saw naked woman every couple of minutes. Overall the movie glamorized greed. Sad part is there was only about 15 minutes of the whole movie that showed any consequence to this false immoral lifestyle. I feel the message of the movie was wrong and the movie could have had a lot more emotional impact if they had showed this lifestyle in a less glamorous way.
How can a film this bad costing $100M get past any adult review process. It seemed like Scorcese and DiCaprio made it for their own egos -- big budget/Gatsby-level theatrics and face-time respectively. DiCaprio does a good job in the role but we all (age range 25 to 65) kept waiting for the movie to come to the point. Hours of redundancy of plot and gratuitous over use of swearing and sex scenes the message and context could have been delivered with about sixty percent less: we kept waiting for a fatal drug overdose to change the direction of the plot and give it some purpose . . We almost walked out a couple of times but did not and waited for the plot to come to a point. We didn't and suffered the full three hours.
SPOILER ALERTBased on the autobiography of convicted fraudster Jordan Belfort, The Wolf of Wall Street is as much a scam as Belfort himself. While the former swindles investors out of their money, the latter cheats the viewers of their time.There are numerous reasons why this film is an utter failure.Firstly, there is no depth to the characters and character development is non-existent. They start of as superficial, one dimensional caricatures and end as such.Secondly, there is no context. We aren't afforded the opportunity to understand where the madness began. We are never shown the victims and the effects of the perpetrators' fraud.Thirdly, there is no plot. This film is simply three hours of persistent, droning debauchery. In fact, it almost appears that Scorsese's aim was just to exhibit endless variation of depravity, with no plot and no context to justify it. And that's my main gripe: the film is just three hours of gratuitous obscenity, with a redundant plot, no sense of direction and absolutely no purpose. We wait for the film to 'take off' but it never really does. It, quite simply becomes a gluttonous and disturbingly self-indulgent seminal celebration of human piggishness, rot and squalor.Which brings me to my final point: the film is an unapologetic celebration of human baseness and predation. We are left to absorb the gamut of tedious depravity and obscenity without any particular meaning or point to it; besides perhaps crass titillation.With its rave reviews, box office success and Oscar nominations, I think it's fitting to refer to The Wolf of Wall Street as the Emperor; with no clothes.
Martin Scorsese scores a huge hit in this seminal celebration of human piggishness, rot and squalor. Sure one will face daunting challenges to self-indulgence, but if he tries hard enough and stays the course in dissipation and exploitation, he can become a King like Jordan Belfort, with a fawning, obsequious following. And what's wrong with that? What's wrong with living the good life, by whatever means necessary, if you have the talent and only care about yourself? Human baseness and predation are honored in the film through Belfort's graphic gluttonous sex and extraordinary drug use, constantly extolled as giving the edge one needs to dominate and manipulate. That, with unapologetic predation, are critical parts of the road map to the good life in the Scorsese model.And with that, Scorsese proves a master in describing a modern day Inferno (like Dante's) with the new paradigm that being bad is not so bad after all if you win in the end.
The title of my review says it all. The Wolf of Wall Street was literally the WORST movie I have seen in my entire life. My opinion might not be quite so negative if the movie hadn't dragged its disorganized, rambling plot on for THREE WHOLE HOURS. At about the one hour mark I was already checking the clock out of boredom and disinterest, and continued to do so throughout the rest of the movie.I appreciate good film-making, and I appreciate that Martin Scorsese is widely recognized as a film genius, but I think this one was an artistic flop. The movie starts off entertaining, but it never really feels like the film takes off. Instead, I felt as if the film was rambling, always promising to find the point where the action gets good, but never quite getting there. The pacing is slower than molasses, and the dialogue inundated with largely meaningless conversations consisting mainly of expletives. While the movie focuses on Jordan Belfort's (DiCaprio) addictions to money, sex, and drugs, we never see Belfort hit rock bottom as we would usually expect of such a movie. Nor does the movie glorify his addictions, so the audience is left merely absorbing the gamut of his largely taboo experience without any meaning or particular point to it. The nudity in this film, too, is needlessly gratuitous and seemingly serves no purpose other than to continuously drive the point to the audience that Belfort is an uncommonly selfish ass who enjoys the sexual underbelly of the underworld -- a point which could have been made just as effectively with about half the nudity and sexual scenes. Throughout the film we see none of the characters grow, nor do we see their actions have any other consequence besides generating more money, aside from Belfort's divorce and imprisonment at the end of the film, which seem to carry absolutely no weight. The characters are flat and shallow -- not the kind of people you would want to spend three hours with. DiCaprio's performance as Belfort was strong and believable, although the character was so thoroughly unlikable that it was difficult to enjoy his performance. Jonah Hill also gave a solid performance, but again, the character was too unlikable for me to care.Scorsese also used little visual and narrative tricks (such as slowing the film down to focus on a ticking clock flying through the air, or having DiCaprio narrate Belfort's thoughts) to break up the flow of the story that, had they been used more consistently, more frequently, or in conjunction with any sort of meaning, would have had a positive stylistic impact on the film, but their usage was sporadic, giving the film a disjointed and uneven feeling.I will be sorely disappointed if the academy nominates this film for best picture, as it felt more like an unedited rough draft that was prematurely loosed on theater-goers rather than a carefully constructed, polished piece of cinema.
If you are looking to waste three hours of your life watching the glorification of a narcissistic, douche-bag sociopath who makes a hobby out of exploiting every aspect of business and the people in his life, this is the movie for you.Based on Jordan Belfort's life (the real life narcissist) this movie is misogyny, corruption, and exploitation on parade. There is no moral, just the showcasing of the worst humanity has to offer. To a man with no conscience, conning people and spending their money frivolously is the only joy life has to offer. Why anyone would want to make a movie showcasing such a disgusting, sad human condition is beyond me.My main issue with this movie was it's failure to show the repercussions of Belfort's actions on his victims. Real narcissists and sociopaths ruin the lives of their victims and often drive them to suicide. The Wolf of Wall Street negates the real affect of these toxic people in our lives, especially the ones at the top like Mr. Belfort, the ones who operate the top corporations and are literally conning our money out from under us.The seriousness of the damage Mr. Belfort is committing is eclipsed by the extravagance of naked women & one man, copious drugs (nothing innovative there), and money.The Wolf of Wall Street is the worst movie I have seen in over a year.


                
Motivational Speakers have gotten a bad reputation throughout the years, and perhaps rightly so. They can talk up a storm yet there's not much behind the curtain...The same can be said of Leonardo DiCaprio's energetic performance in THE WOLF OF WALL STREET, providing intense pep-rally speeches without any real games to follow: In fact the narration by DiCaprio's con artist stockbroker Jordan Belfort gives just about everything away. Imagine if, during the first minute of GOODFELLAS, Ray Liotta described the mafia as a bunch of worthless, lowlife, backstabbing killers: What's left to learn and experience? Based on a true story centering on unapologetic greed and making gross amounts of money, director Martin Scorsese provides so much flash there's very little substance, despite several attempts for a worthwhile baseline...When Belfort starts his career as a low-end stockbroker, he almost suffers a necessary hunger before getting a quick bellyful of other people's money. Instead, right off the bat, his boss (Matthew McConaughey) unveils the nefarious sleight-of-hand before it's even played out. And later on, as Belfort's team of shady brokers join his own Wall Street corporation, with the exception of sidekick Donnie Azoff, played by A-list sidekick Jonah Hill, no one<U+0085> not even Belfort's gorgeous trophy wife<U+0085> amounts to anything beyond wallpaper.One scene works the best: when a straight-laced FBI agent meets with Belfort on his yacht, there's a beginning, middle and end to a somewhat intriguing conversation. Here we finally learn what our antihero's up against. Perhaps an example of an "honest stockbroker," one not targeted by the feds, would make us learn more about what makes Belfort particularly crooked. Besides an immense rockstar appetite for women and drugs, we never get past the man's perpetual debauchery.This bloated and overlong howler of a WOLF could very well contend with SHOWGIRLS if an otherwise talented movie star, along with his iconic director/collaborator, weren't on board...When Belfort and Donnie take too many Quaaludes there's a surreal twenty minutes that seemed like part of another movie<U+0085> perhaps LESS THAN ZERO if written by a sixth grader<U+0085> Which is nothing compared to a storm-riding yacht sequence that should have ended like Leo's other ship movie, sparing us an extra half-hour...Bringing us back to the Motivational Speaker concept: If DiCaprio's best moments involve convincing a group of born cheaters they'd be better off rich and dishonest, he's merely preaching to the choir. The rest of us might need a reason to trust this jovially narcissistic, intentionally likable shyster before buying three long hours of his crap.
Hi, I never write reviews here.. ever.However, I need to say something about how terrible this movie is.I told my wife one evening, "Hey, there's a really high IMDb rated movie do you want to see it?" She says yes.We literally get through maybe 30 minutes of the movie before turning to each other and saying, "This is horrible." and turning it off.The gratuitous nudity and debauchery seemed to be all encompassing, completely drowning out any semblance of a 'story' in this movie. It is literally a non-stop bombardment of softcore porn for the first 30 minutes..If you go to see this movie, keep that in mind. If you can get past the half hour mark before being bored with it, then maybe there's a movie in there somewhere.I don't think there is, though...


                
I really can't believe anyone likes this movie. It is an over-budgeted indulgence in offensive (intentionally, I think)...what I guess you would call "soft porn"...that seems to have no point. The filmmakers seem to show the same contempt for the audience that the "wolf" shows to his clients. Throw a bunch of lewd, disgusting debauchery into EVERY frame, every scene, over and over again, and they will eat it up as if there was something there. But there is nothing there. There is no real story, no real character development, no real reason to watch these immoral characters indulge themselves. I truly felt traumatized, and with no that reason I could see. Unless you love porn, and senseless violence on every level, don't go see this movie. You deserve better.


                
A group of us watched this film with high expectations, but by a third of the way through everybody seemed to be shuffling in their seats with the repetitive boredom of it all; but no-one daring to actually say out loud what they were thinking. It seemed to be an over indulgent love-in of quality actors overplaying everything, the director trying to show off how fast he could get the cast to talk over each other with irrelevant excruciatingly long conversations of no interest to anybody except presumably the writer; and every character a ridiculous overplayed cartoon cutout. Even the steadfast investigating cop had to become a wisecracking Caprio mark 2 when the pair finally got together for their "showdown". The movie ground on relentlessly with orgy and coke snorting scenes: OK, we've seen you can do that: please can we have some plot now and learn in much more detail how he got to the top and how he fell from grace? A waste of too much time.


                
Everything nowadays is so over hyped like breaking bad the dark knight and now this crap this movie is such a mess it's a comedy that is 3 hours long that's right a comedy that is so long and so over the top and it drags on and on and on. This movie is what other country's see us as stupid people that spend money on drugs and take from people to waste it . This movie is so stupid you will ask your self did I really pay $8:50 for this and why and you will find out that your day was wasted too. This movie is just a movie that will be forgotten in a year from now no one will know what it is because no one will remember this crap it is not a classic like scarface it is a anti American film that show' show great Jordan Belford with his middle school language and intellect that make you feel dumb that you watch it. It's a trashy movie with no real meaning but to waste your time and life so stay away if you have one this movie is just a nether epic fail that might get a award because it was over-hyped and this movie will be on a award mistake list in the near future.
This was like watching a cheap soft porn flick. The drugs were glamorized as if they were harmless, like crack being smoked as if it had no more harm than a cigarette. The sex was like watching a cheap porn flick, with full frontal female nudity in several scenes and the sex scenes left little to the imagination. The only thing not shown in the sex scenes was penetration. But the sex, too, was careless sex, like whores who use condoms, unless you pay them more, which is what he claims to do and then another statements when he went nuts over a beautiful woman, that he does not care if he gets aids from her, he just wants sex with her. This movie was recklessly and carelessly done for the younger viewers.


                
I wish I could say anything positive about it, but I feel the responsibility to keep people, especially kids and teenagers, away from this movie. This is literally the worst movie ever and one of the few I walked out on. I do not understand that this movie can be entertaining in any way. The scenes are merely numbing and the time span could be reduced to an hour at most. The plot is nothing new. Even worse, left alone as it seems. The possible moral value that it has to carry is not traceable. It appears that the producers caught themselves too much in the story. Therefore, they could not see that they are actually displaying something that should be categorized in the "adult section".
Thoroughly abysmal. Yes, I *got* it. But, if this is a black comedy or A cautionary tale (which is it, Leo? It can't be both, so make up your mind) then it missed the mark. If we're supposed to learn something from this, then please show me how his life was ruined (less than two years in prison for scamming tens of thousands of people out of their life savings forcing countless people to lose their homes? Spending millions of dollars on hookers and drugs? And he still lands on his feet in the end. How is this cautionary?) Yes, yes, I know that some villains escape retribution and (even worse) don't seem to have learned anything from their downfall -- this is beautifully portrayed in the flawless GOODFELLAS. But this movie applauds rather than excoriates this steaming dog turd Belfort - most of the men in the audience I was with seemed to enthusiastically admire Belfort and thought he had it made. They didn't seem in the least appalled by the sociopathic manner in which he treated his customers (inexplicably, none of whom we ever see, nor do we see the aftermath of their ruined lives courtesy of The Demon Belfort - you see, that would detract from the good ole fun porn movie Leo and Marty so enjoyed making - let's keep those libidos high and the laughs coming!) Any woman unlucky enough to move into his sphere is treated like a whore, then condemned for being so. The most vile behavior of the characters is played for laughs (I guess these scenes are supposed to be the black comedy parts but neither Marty nor Leo seem to understand what constitutes black comedy). You failed, Leo and Marty. You failed miserably. Unless of course your aim was to make a corporate "Porky's" in which case you succeeded. And apparently, there is an inexhaustible supply of grotesquely pathetic women in Hollywood who will strip for the camera any time, anywhere, for any reason whatsoever thereby making it difficult for the rest of the female population to be viewed as anything other than bodies to be used and then thrown away - thanks a lot. The Academy has become increasingly more psychotic over the years, but seeing this cow patty nominated for a slew of Oscars is the final straw. I have no faith in Oscar anymore. It has become completely meaningless.
In theory the Wolf of Wall Street seems to have it all. High scoring actors like Leonardo Di Caprio, Jonah Hill and Margot Robbie, and well- known director Martin Scorsese. However, non of them helped the movie to become the great piece of art it is proclaimed to be. So where did it go wrong?it starts already with the first scene in which a lion walks around the office for no reason at all. Right from the beginning I was annoyed by the lack of a comprehensive and telling storyline. Rahter than focusing on an aspect of Jordan Belfart's life Martin Scorsese choose for the approach of trying to fit in as much as possible. The result: an nearly 3 hours during movie containing sex scenes and even more sex scenes, without any addition to the story-line, since we get the fact that he is rich, uses drugs and has sex after 10 minutes already. This does not have to be enhanced and repeated over and over again. To be honest, I have never seen an movie which is nominated for an Oscar being so absulotly terrible. Really, why is this nominated for even a single Oscar? I don't get it. Perhaps it is because the Oscars are American, and if there is one thing they like most it is the " American dream": something which this movie is all about. However even that is not explained thoroughly: when Leonardo Di Caprio starts explaining, he cuts himself of and says all you need to know is that it was illegal. Perhaps it was because some people find it absolutely funny, and it was funny. For the first 10 minutes only. As a final comment I want to say that I was shocked at the way the movie dealt with homosexuality,(which was not positive i can tell you that) and the last scene was perhaps most hateful of all: as Jordan Belfart asks white members of the audience to sell them his pen (which I didn't get at all: why would people want advice from a criminal?) he asks several people, than skips the black member of the audience, and asks another white guy, why? Do you intend to be racist, or just a very bad mistake?In conclusion: I advice you not to see this movie, since it is a complete waist of your time.
***This movie may contain spoilers***Having been a Di Caprio and Scorsese fan for as long as I can remember I found the Wolf of Wall Street disappointing in every way. I can't believe that a Director and actor of such talent would want to make a movie celebrating the life of a complete low life (I can't say use the words I would like to) like Belfort. Think hard before you spend your hard earned on this because some of the money that you spend goes to a man that sent a wrecking ball through the lives of thousands and then rolled all the people who helped him do it so he could get a reduced sentence. I actually feel sick that I wasted my own money on it.If you want to spend 3 hours watching vacuous morons cheat, steal, lie, screw and celebrate that like they are conquering heroes then go ahead. There is nothing redeeming in the story, there is no mention of what happened to the people that were cheated, nothing to show that Belfort actually learned anything or changed in any way. It's just excess in every sense that goes on and on, 3 hours in fact.The title the Wolf of Wall Street says it all. Belfort sees himself as leader of the pack, rounding up the vulnerable and feasting on them whenever possible. Through this movie he's still feasting, on your money. Don't be fooled!


                
This was a terrible movie. One couple left the theater after 45 minutes. This is an utterly boring movie that dragged on for 3 hours. I don't know what part of the movie made it to the cutting room floor. The entire plot can be aired in no more than an hour and a half. I do believe I saw more t-n-a than I have in the past decade in this movie. The amount of drug and money glorification was sickening, but only to be out done when the main character punches his "wife", steals their kid while on a cocaine high and crashes the car with the child in the front seat. Sadly I stayed until the end only to be courteous to my out-of-town guests. Otherwise, I would have bailed!
Extremely horrible movie with no motive other than making money by showing horrible content including sexuality, drugs and inhumane scenes, which has unfortunately become the fashion of today and is enjoyed by many.If a movie this horrible can gain such popularity it only means that human kind is asking for their own destruction, and I am afraid at this rate they will get it soon! One must think what base are they preparing for their future generations and I don't think they are doing a very good job by encouraging such kind of movies, where there is nothing good at all.My comments might seem a bit harsh but sadly its the truth.


                
I wanted to like this movie, I really did. Leonardo DiCaprio has been epic in his previous movies, and had done Gatsby so much wonderful credit from the book I couldn't help but to wonder if he himself was a fan. After King of Wallstreet, and the high reviews this movie had received, I was excited and I really, really wanted to like this movie. I walked away feeling as if I had wasted not just the price of a movie ticket, but a painful, excruciatingly long 180 minutes of my time that felt closer to 300 minutes.Not only did this movie utterly fail in knowing when to cut things off (there were multiple times in the movie I expected the next scene to conclude the story, only to be dragged through more scenes that weren't needed), but it couldn't seem to decide what it wanted to be. The humor is a wash between slapstick, big-lipped alligator moments, god-awful prejudice against an assortment of groups, with a bit of witty commentary on the ridiculousness of the stock market and what big suckers most buyers are. Just a bit though, after all, let's not take things too seriously since there's drug addiction, adultery, and idiocy galore! I had suspected that some fridge logic was involved in all this since there was just enough wit to keep me in my seat. I felt like despite the movie's horrendous length, maybe I had missed something in the storyline that would wrap everything up in such a way as to explain the high rating and reviews and that this would be brilliant. Well, weeks later, I'm still left feeling utterly at a lost at how this movie is still rated so high. I'm starting to think that the movie industry is beginning to be plagued by what I lovingly refer to as the "Napolean Dynamite Desease", where a movie falls so short of a delivery and yet is rated at such critical acclaim. Hell, at least Napolean Dynamite had some okay quotes to make up for its anticlimatical ending. Wolf of Wallstreet just left me feeling empty inside. The only saving grace was the bit of comedy that didn't go so deep into the utterly ridiculous that it was actually funny.If you want to waste your time and money on this excuse to throw midgets around, go right ahead. Give me King of Wallstreet any day of the week.


                
This was one of the worst movies I have seen for a long time. Bloated, self indulgent, lacking in story line and plot. No idea why everyone seems to like it unless they just really enjoy watching men be totally disgusting for 3 hours because that is all there was to it. And I am a man who does not mind getting disgusting once in a while. I am no prude and not easily offended but this was like watching porn. Once you see the first orgasm in the first 10 minutes its 170 minutes of all the same after that.There was what could have been a moderately interesting subplot about a straight arrow FBI agent chasing the "Wolf" around which might have been slightly interesting in a seen that 10 times before way but it amounted to nothing.It is a bit disturbing how Scorcese glorifies the use of drugs, degrades women to nothing more then F@#$bags as they say in the movie, shows wife abuse and child abuse with no consequences and shows all the morally conscious people as ugly, dull boring individuals. You can say he is just telling a story, but he can tell any story he wanted to and decided to tell this one, so what does that say about him?A clear case of no one wants to say anything bad about a Scorcese movie. I really can't think of anything good to say about it.


                
