Dear Hollywood: It's time for something new.Firstly, this film is entertaining enough and has a great director/cast/performances, blah blah blah -- However we should expect more after this many years of the same tripe from indeed talented people who have done better before. And seriously, how many times can we be entertained by basically the same thing over and over and over, just repackaged? People snorting cocaine. People having sex. Hookers. Bad behavior. Shocking male genitalia in an R-Rated movie when we usually only see bush and knockers. Give me a break. Hate to tell you, although the audience may be comprised of giddy man-children who laugh at dick jokes: Shock value does not equal brilliance. The film started out good and held my attention but the lack of depth written for any character besides Leonardo was awful. Everyone is a caricature of characters we have seen in countless other movies. And I learned less about Jordan Belfort from this three hour film than a three line bio on wikipedia. And: What was the point of this movie? I honestly still have no idea and the ending was especially disappointing and anti-climatic.Bravo for Di Caprio in the role but that is honestly about it. Why was John Favreu even in this film? Why was Mathew McNaughahay wasted for 5 minutes of screen time? It could have challenged the audience by not giving us the stereotypical black and white character development and extra predictable plotting.Scorcese has done a good job of making mob figures and murderers seem charismatic and cool, but this film teaches neither the character or the audience anything at all.I'm rich, so this resort style jail is not that bad. Time to get an inspirational speaking gig and make a Hollywood movie officially validating me as legit. Enough is enough, we need to ask for more out of these "based on true story" indulgences. Between Belfort and Hollywood, I would say the latter has ripped off average people the most.
Over the top cursing, drug abuse, dirty talk, dirty act, lying, cheating people out of their money, homosexual and regular orgies, sexual masochism, public masturbation, drunkenness, over 700 profanities and blasphemy; adultery, child endangerment, reckless driving, incest, international money laundering, low level bribery, prostitution and occasional fleeting tender or dramatic moment. A scumbag's rise and fall and return to despicable life of greed, conceit and moral void. Scorsese and DiCaprio revel with the revelers in this flick to show...actually for an unknown reason. There is no moral reference point in the film, rather a neutral excitement about the cunning of the main character. There is not one good or sympathetic person depicted in this film. All are scumbags with no hope or desire for any form of redemption, remorse or a lasting human feeling. Very dark and depressing movie; actually misanthropic. The macabre disregard of any value is well hidden behind dark or foul humor and a blur of debauchery, crime and excessive luxury.The one thing that maybe deserves attention is the depiction of Belfort as a magnetic and captivating speaker, a preacher of mammon. He seemed to me more of a cult leader than a con man and a trader. Whoever made this movie hates man with a fiendish craftiness. Also evident in the very last scene.


                
This has to be among the worst films I've seen featuring one of my all time favourite actors;DiCaprio. Whom all together gave a lack-lustre just plain boring performance. This film is simply a waste of time. It centres around a group of creeps led by upcoming wall street big-shot Jordan Belfort (DiCaprio). Who thrive conning white-collar's out of their money until the government catches on to their scams and the ploy inevitably crashes and burns. The main problem I had with this movie surprisingly was not its glorifying of terrible human behaviour, greed, drugs and full-throttle misogyny throughout (which I did have a problem with), but the fact that it was all pointless, and continuously depicts the the same crap over and over; something that gets very old. Very fast. It is possible to show debauchery and distasteful conduct in context and with a POINT (I', not some crazy who can't bear to see nudity or cringes at the sound of profanity). But this movie is deprived of anything close to a message or even a dialogue trying to give any form of meaning whatsoever. It seems to show these things just to shock or for cheap laughs (I didn't laugh. But had I they would've been incredibly cheap.). And that is what I have a problem with, the movie glorifying these things for what seems like no reason, or for a reason the makers failed miserably to get across, it just makes the film itself seem rampant, immature and stupid.Another huge problem with this film is the fact that it constantly barrages you with this debauchery brought about by DiCaprio and his cohorts, but never gives it any real substance, no blowback, no depth to it nothing (as I've already said) this in turn makes the characters look like exactly what everyone in this movie seems to be: immoral scum. None of the characters have any redeeming qualities whatsoever, they are all creepy greedy sexist pricks with nothing to show for. And this is where the movie falls ultimately flat. Its not a "love to hate" relationship between the characters and the viewer, it is a simple loathing of pretty much every cardboard cut-out in this terrible film, the writing is awful, almost seeming like they cut corners on purpose to avoid giving any characters or acts any depth or meat at all.Overall its an immature film that Hollywood will eat-up. Ridden with dick-jokes and the grade of humour that appeals to most teenage boys. Its not quite boring, but flatlines of anything memorable throughout. Maybe there was some sort of thought and effort originally put into this movie as shown by all the A-listers who appear. But all this movie offers is a waste of time, a waste of effort (if there were any), a waste of talent and a waste of money. Its simply not funny and will leave anyone above the average 7th grader maturity level feeling like they have to wash their hands for a couple minutes after watching.


                
Painfully long - this could have been a 90minute movie with pace and precision - instead it was a 180minute nose bleed full of irrelevancy that should have been left on the cutting room floor.Really slack storytelling - key bits never explained or exposed and often rushed. Dull peripheral stuff laboured over for 20 minutes a time.Such an obvious plot - after the first 10 minutes you knew EXACTLY what was going to happen - and then it did and then finally you got to go home.This is a classic case of a A List actor and director being allowed to do just whatever they damn well wanted to do. They needed a really strong script editor and a real producer who wasn't going to put up with their prima donna nonsense. Overall a wasted opportunity - although Leonardo's performance was really pretty good which is where the 2 points come from.


                
t is with a long due that I am writing my opinion on "The Wolf of Wall Street". I first wanted to inquire a bit into the opinions of my friends, and check myself whether I am missing something. Seems that I did not. I approach the issue of Wolf of Wall Street (WWS) movie with the question what was the main point of the movie? When people do or create things, they usually aim to make a point, at least 95% of the cases, excluding those that are doing things just for the sake of it. Here we talk about a movie. Here are some of the possible points WWS (in this case its director Scorsese) tried to make, and whether the means he used to make the point, actually served its purpose. Even if one does not want to moralize the story and just watch, a couple of ideas yet are hinted.According to the last part of the movie we might propose that the point was to learn how to sell a pen- first create a demand. This is I think quite a cheap point for an excessively long movie, since it is lesson 101 in each economy class. I wonder why this was depicted with the deep look in Belfort's eyes by the end of the movie when he was holding a seminar. I would have understood it as the starting point of an interesting, challenging money game that unravels throughout the movie, but this was basically it! Just make people believe they need this particular product! But hold on, this came only after he experienced personality transformation, got terribly rich by fraud and enjoyed sex, drugs and money to its fullest. Yet he has a lesson for us.Second point might be that power corrupts. But did we really need to swallow all that nudity, promiscuity, and orgies to get this point? Many movies capture this perfectly by telling a story, describing a historical event, even great fiction, but not taping semi- porn.The legal system holes. Probably movies can present realities, hence raise awareness of the issues with legislation and its paradoxes, the flourishing of corruption, and the easily corruptible heart of men (as Lord of the Rings clearly and nicely depicts). But by the sheer snugger to these facts, this movie says rather go get them than go fix them! I also wonder whether the point was to bluntly present reality of Wall Street. Then this is kind of a descriptive argument, for which I think a documentary rather then a classical movie is required. Why watch 3 hours reality of Wall Street, instead of watching a good documentary with a warning of the contaminating content it contains.Good performance of DiCaprio? Yes, he is witty, courageously teaching us directly speaking to the camera, amusing us with the Lamborghini part performance<U+0085> but really, is there anyone who decided that this is this movie's take away lesson?Additionally to these murky points, this movie also puzzles its audience with absurdity rather then cleverness. Has anybody noticed how on earth the nice looking young boy, just married, with a fuse to go work, earn, build a carrier and future, just in a second turns into fraudulent, tainted mind?I also wonder whether the director at all cares about the audience of the movie. Probably not, but generally, young and ambitions people are drawn to watch the movie, learn some more about money making or find at least bits of explanations why the economic crisis happens. Of course many young boys come to see it since the trailer promises fun, young buddy enjoying girls, cars, and using his super intelligence to get rich. But I guess most thought this was simply the context of a grander narrative. Well no, this was it. And these young boys simply take away this message to be very cool!I am not demanding a light at the end of the tunnel (the movie), but I expect myself to finish watching the movie, and have either an "aha" moment, or at least a question mark. This time my question mark really regards the very sake of making the movie, not the content itself. In this case, the end of the tunnel was the transformed Wolf teaching people how to sell a pen. If only they knew how this little trick has broader implications for turning the business world around them upside down and build them a temple to worship their deceit! The motives but foremost the point of this movie are entirely dubious.Dear Hollywood and Scorsese, in today's culture, the last thing we needed was yet another glorification of greed- there is plenty of it, both in movies and reality. How about some counter action to the media, fashion magazines and shiny attractive starry skies of materialism? How about many many more movies on personalities that do not just grasp opportunity whatever the price, but act and strive for what is right? Even if the motive for the movie was simply depiction of Belfort's life, Scorsese and Belfort and whoever thinking the project was worthwhile, should also know that no matter how meaningless, ideas have and will have consequences. The movie sets lowers the bar of decency, and I wonder what will be coming up next out of Hollywood in this vein?


                
Some genius slapped Scorcese and Leonard DiCaprio together and knew that the world would love the turd baby, that is, The Wolf of Wall Street. Add some drugs, hookers and a narcissist (somehow they even screwed up the typical 'loveable asshole'- there is nothing likable or sympathetic about this character). 8.5/10? Really? Nothing stands out in this movie except for the fact that it is certainly verrry loooong winded and, wow, I don't think i could watch another character-narrated Martin Scorsese film without being reminded of the bitter stench of this stinker. The Wolf of Wall Street, my god. I liked Jonah Hill before. So dull. Poor acting. Unintelligent.


                
While Leonardo is one talented actor and does an incredible job in this movie, the film could have been shortened to 2 hours to make its point. Stronger cautions of content should been out there. Pornography was clearly evident Several people left the theater and we thought about it midway through. Seemed like 2000 f-bombs versus the reported 500+ were voiced. We liked Leonardo way better in "To Catch a Thief and "Titanic". People have mentioned a possible Oscar nod for Mr. DeCaprio for this, but my preference would be for him would to get it one day for a future body of work. Actually writing this review is not a good use of my time, so...stopping here.


                
I would just like to say that I got absolutely nothing out of the viewing of The Wolf Of Wall Street. It is easily the worst effort ever from Martin Scorsese. The story line is almost non existent , DiCaprio is just a loser with a loud mouth, and all the surrounding characters are one dimensional. I don't see any moral battle being fought, I don't care about seeing hookers, lots of drugs being taken , or stupid parties, very boring. The real role model in the story cites his hero's as Gordon Gekko of Wall Street, Don Johnson of Miami Vice, and Richard Gere in Pretty Woman, what a completely shallow loser, even in todays bottom feeding America. The whole effort is simple B movie territory, not just because of the 80's and 90's settings. Couple this film with American Hustle, and you have a pretty awful state of 2014 film-making.


                
I confess I had some curiosity and some expectations when I went to see this movie. Scorcese and Di Caprio are two of the biggest names in the current film scene, and both have provided us with some nice films. So I wasn't surprised with the fuss around the movie but, when I saw it, I was very disappointed.The film is based on an autobiographical book written by Jordan Belfort, a stockbroker who quickly enriched, through financial maneuvers of high risk and zero legality. The book describes not only the business but the life of luxury, drugs and sex that he took, and the way he eventually paid for it. The film, as far as we understand, is quite faithful to the book's account, and the book also makes an apparently true story. The film resembles "Goodfellas" in many ways, but with great differences in which the gangster movie gets the better of it. The main problem of this film lies in three essential points: The first point is the apparent glorification of the fraud and Belfort's dissolute lifestyle. The message passed by the film is "crime pays". It spends more than an hour telling us, in detail, the outrages of Belfort and his team of bastards without any need, shocking some public, who leave the cinema with the feeling that the film passes an ethically wrong message, and society does not need to receive it because it receives enough bad influences.The second essential point is the absence of a counterpoint to the scenes of excesses shown. Okay, Belfort is a swine, drug addict and corrupt who has gotten rich too fast and too easy. So? Where is the counterpoint to that? He committed crimes, but what are the effects of his crimes? Who lost out on Belfort's crimes? How can audiences truly realize the size of his mistakes? The public never gets these answers because the film gets too lost in the details of Belfort's scandals. The movie makes people think that Belfort never harmed anyone, and that he was just crazy, or smart.The third negative point is the construction of the characters. They are black-and-white, without the psychological complexity and refinement that we find in "Goodfellas", for example. There's no such thing here. The characters are summed up as junkies, sex offenders, eccentrics, some bored cops and little else. DiCaprio was well enough in his role, but being such an abject role, it's impossible to like and enjoy his performance.I think Scorcese thought this film as a comedy, but the truth is that it is not funny. The film is morally shocking, not funny. So, it was a bad idea. This film would have been excellent if it had been conceived as a drama and had behind it some moral balance. That was not the case. It is a mad journey through senseless immorality, without notion and without any pretext than easy laughter, and this is quite unpleasant.


                
People for whom money matters please don't watch this in theatre. Please read the negative reviews by others. They are writing the truth.Movie is extremely brash, audacious and full of ......Some urinating scenes, number of times Di Caprio or some others use the expletives like M***** F****** or any other equally horrible expletives is unbelievable. And number of times he keeps shouting is equally horrible and disgusting. Is shouting justified as acting? Di Caprio's last best film is Inception.I hope people who didn't watch will take the negative reviews seriously. Some might have a good laugh and enjoy the movie but please ask yourself. Do you really want to pay for this kind of movie? Remember you are paying your hard earned money not like they earn in the movie. I spent my time on this movie but not my money. Please make a wise decision. Watch it on TV/computer/other device. Please don't get fooled.


                
How IMDb ends up rating this 8+ would make a better story than this piece of junk. Scorcese should be ashamed to release this trash. did this really run 3 hours? I wouldn't know because I kept walking way, then coming back, and the same crap was going on, different locale. Sex and drugs and money. Really, did we need that for 3 hours to get the point that these a-holes were low life scum that scammed millions and loved it? No. we didn't need that. I ended up ejecting it after I don't remember how many scenes of masturbation and peeing into waste baskets and similar ridiculous excuses for movie making. Scorcese - this movie sucked. The only reason I have it two stars was because the actors did a good job portraying their characters. But the director, screenplay writers, and the producers let this one get way out of control.Skip this piece of junk. It stinks!


                
From the very first scenes, the film is embarrassingly crass and vulgar, setting new lows in cinematic tastes, and assaults the ears with a volume of swearwords that would not have been found on the stands of Millwall Fc. It astounds me that Martin Scores and Leonardo Di Carrie would allow themselves to be involved with such trash. The only reason for allotting 2 stars is the quality of colour, audio and scenography.I really looked forward to seeing an updated and improved Wall Street but ended up with 3 hours of torment. Save your time and money and do not encourage Hollywood to make such disgusting nonsense in future.


                
This movie is controversial for a reason. THIS MOVIE.... GOD! What was Scorsese trying to tell us? That being firkin rich is the life of the party where you can have sex and cheat on your wife and you swear 500 dang times a day and drink martinis constantly and do cocaine? WELL EXCUSE ME. This is not how people act and I do not care if this is based on a true story. This movie is vile garbage. Scorsese has made some amazing films in his career, but this has to be one of his worst.All this film is, is just a porno with an extremely high budget that has no point but to be as cruel and disgusting as possible. I gave this movie a chance. But after I have seen Jonah Hill Masturbate on screen, I have had enough. This movie is also very unrealistic. I swear sometimes, but not 123 times a day! What a disgraceful film to the legendary director. I can't believe they allowed them to make such a film. This is by far the most explicit non violent film I have ever saw and with good reason. I understand why people may want to see this because it wastes a good three hours of your time and its direction can be quite good. This is not filmmaking. This is not Scorsese. This is someone trying to imitate Scorsese. This is someone who wanted to make the most evil movie ever created. Im scared that people will imitate the behavior of the anti heroes in this film and it must not be shown. It should be banned so that no one can do what they did.Please do not waste your money on such a disgusting atrocity. Martin Scorsese, you're a great director. BUT PLEASE! For your next film, please do something more subtle! Maybe its because Im a teen and I do not understand the appeal of this movie as it is nominated for Oscars. I don't know. But what I do know is that I am not a bad guy. I am a guy that does not want to make mistakes. I am just a film critic who wants to enjoy the magic of movies. The magic is nowhere to be seen in this film. I do not want to be like Jordan Belfort. I want to be me.21/100 D-
"Best movie of the year"? Really? If this is the best we can get from a so-called great director, then we're really missing the mark. The story was totally lost in the debauchery, extreme full nudity, foul language rather than good scripting, etc., etc. I don't care about what a director thinks is "art" but for crying out loud, don't give it an "R" rating when it's got so much porn in it. Who paid off whom to get this an "R" rating? I'm angry with those who call this art. Art is taking a probably interesting story and not resorting to an overuse of trashy scenes and language to tell that story in an "R" rated movie. OK, sure, this man's life was excessive and degrading to the human spirit, but the actual story was lost in the crap I saw on screen over and over. I did not read the book so I'm not sure how close the movie stayed to it. But it seems to me that M.S. just wanted to push the envelope without telling anyone how much he pushed it until you bought you ticket and were in your seat expecting to see a good flick with a good actor. Disappointing to me and other than what I've already written, there is nothing about this movie that makes it noteworthy to me. Leonardo needs a great script again to stand up to his acting prowess. He's great...too great for trashy movies. I'm losing it for Martin Scorsese quickly.
Can't understand why this movie is getting the acclaim that it is getting. Yes, there's many like me who found the three hours squirm-inducing,dull and much in need of an editing scissors. For a much better choice in the same subject matter, try "Boiler Room", better acting, better story, and much more disciplined direction and editing. Although it is contrary to my nature and even though I'm writing a review which is essentially saying that this movie is overlong, too wordy, repetitive, and should be edited down to remove all the superfluous fluff, I find myself repeating myself here even though my credibility as someone who appreciates conciseness is now in jeopardy.


                
It can have lot of display of nudity. It can show drug usage as if it gives lot of pleasure. It can use lot of foul language in the pretext that people use , and foul language in pressure or when they are in a high.but using the name of Wall St and Wolf makes one look for some details of intelligent or rather cunning manipulations of Wall St in some way, the main personality would have resorted to in a better manner, but the movie was more of all the former rather than any of the latter. I have looked at the name of the movie and then the reviews in IMDb and just by looking at these two went to the movie., but am proved wrong because the movie is not what the name suggests it to be ... i mean out of the 3 hrs in the movie less than 20% focuses on what the name suggests and hence i was disappointed.


                
i saw this film at the 1st showing for Producer Guild members where they had a Q&A with the producers and it was a looooong film! it was difficult seeing this after work when i was tired anyway but i agree with other reviewers that the film was 1 hour too long. acting was great and everybody did a good job but the character development was weak in that you didn't care about any of the characters- maybe because it was satire format. i do feel the sex/drugs was way over glorified and deemed - "try me, im fun"! not good for immature viewers who might take this more imitable- the spoiler part which i must comment on is the part where jordan is "ironically" in a sinking ship and he sees a plane exploding in the air which just seems silly and comical but for the character "supposedly" it is a wake up call but as the audience you don't buy it because all the silliness and excess which is Scorsece's downfallin this film. I am of a German background and you will get nothing from me but the raw truth and that as a future female director and current producer in the biggest flaw in this film. i laughed at that scene and i don't think it was the intention.....then at the end, it didn't seem that jordan has any remorse and again just to me not a satisfying finish for such a long film. i am not a fan of satirical films and would rather sit down and watch "the departed" instead. Still I greatly love and respect Scorsece for trying something out of the box for him but it didn't hit the mark for me-i prob would not watch this again and i don't think it will win any academy awards especially the kind of films the academy recognizes which this is not one of them!
People might, and unsurprisingly so, go into this movie expecting that it's a stellar drama with fantastic everything, but in reality it's just a giant frat part. Yes, that's right, a frat party, you know the kind, Jackass and all that, yes, this is exactly like that. Sure there is an underlining message, that Wall Street brokers and bankers are soulless money hungry animals, but then we already knew that, and so there was really little need to nail that point in 5000 times in this movie. This sort of has a story, but it's mostly just people doing drugs, having crazy parties and showing the average IQ span of about 50, once again, like the American Pie movies, and when you do eventually find the story it's not that great, pretty much just "guy cons people....gets rich....then gets caught. The story, perhaps because it's so weak, has been filled with endless interludes of Lenardo DeCaprio doing cocaine; he does cocaine of his desk, he does cocaine of a plate, he does cocaine of a hooker's tits, he does cocaine on a boat deck, he does cocaine of his side table, he does cocaine.....oh well you get the picture. In short, watch this if you want to see an amalgamation of the Jackass movies and a Spring Break party.
I didn't like it, I've seen the hedonist-to-riches-to-rags story before, as in the bigger they rise the harder they fall, yada, yada, yada....If they're going to make a movie that pushes the envelope, which this movie does, moviegoers should have as much warning as possible as to what they are about to endure. Sure, some people might think that "It's a Scorsese movie, you know what you're getting into," and for some people that's true, but there are people who don't research every movie they go to, and who feel they usually get enough information from a preview, or they decide to go spontaneously. More upbeat: the movie had some good irreverent humour.At the rate of moral decay on screen, we will be watching porn on the big screen in just a few years now. My feeling on the matter is that I can stay at home and jerk off to porn for free, so why do I want to pay money to go see porn in the theatre.
Save yourself and avoid this one! I give this a 2 only because some of the acting is good. Scorcese is going for something here, so it's not lazy filmmaking. But I feel like I got the message about 45 minutes into the movie and it didn't go anywhere from there. In all fairness, I missed the last 20-30 minutes because I just couldn't take it anymore. Some ruthless cutting of the screenplay would have helped some, but I don't know if there's much to salvage. The experience of seeing this was rather like having a really stressful day at work where nothing actually gets accomplished. A lot of the ladies are beautiful, but the sex is ugly - demeaning to both women and men. Oh, but I guess it's really about Wall Street. And the motivational speeches to the troops go on forever. I don't think there was a scene in this film that employed any economy of storytelling whatsoever. One critic (approvingly) described this as the last half hour of Goodfellas stretched out to three hours and that's pretty true. It reminded me a bit of the single-mindedness of Raging Bull, but was much harder to sit through. I think it's a bad sign when you start hoping that some of the characters will die of an overdose just so they'll shut up.


                
This is a horrible movie. Surprised to see that this comes from Martin Scorsese, Leonardo DiCaprio etc.The movie is full of foul language, sex , drugs with nothing else. It tries to be comic at times, at times sentimental, and at times just showcases the high life.THe movie is based on the real life story of Jordan Belfort. Though his story seems to be an interesting one, it did not translate into an interesting movie.I was pretty bored and was ready to leave halfway through. But I stayed till the end in the hope that there would be something good in a Martin Scorsese movie. Eventually, I was proved wrong.Another irritant was the length of the movie - it is too long. Many scenes were stretched and some were unnecessary.


                
Well I thought a movie that averaged over 8/10 would be better than this.Pretty standard fare, I thought, not all that clever or inventively done, not all that well characterized, and man did I lose all respect for DiCaprio's character when his wife turned him into a neutered sex starved puppy. That was in fact the point I switched off, so disgusted was I by this cheap garbage.I don't get the enthusiasm. The story is just not all that interesting, the characters not at all compelling. There are dozens of better rags to riches stories, and a little reading indicates this film is not particularly true to life either.Once again I'm in the minority, while the majority of the herd moos their appreciation for something that looks like it is a good movie, as long as you don't watch it too closely or expect a rich story driven by compelling characters.


                
I'm getting tired of Scorsese getting lauded just cos, hey man, it's Scorsese. This film was so excruciatingly mundane. I read in the "Trivia" section that there is a 4 hour cut somewhere. Christ. It's mostly improvised and you can tell as a lot of the actors are not capable improvisers. McConaughey is fine at it, as is Hill with his comedy background but the others? Pfft. DiCaprio just ends up chewing up the scenery and Robbie, god love her, tries her best but is usually overwhelmed by DiCaprio's voracious chewing. The problem with relying on improv to cover up your lack of a script is that you need a very very good editor, which Scorsese does not anymore. I also read in the"Trivia" section that Scorsese said the editing was intentionally 'odd' to heighten scenes where the characters take drugs. Bullcrap. Maybe in a couple of instances, but the rest of the time the editing is just awful. Continuity mistakes all over the place, lazy use of still shots, and one scene where there was a dissolve transition literally in the middle of a shot. Wft? But the main problem with the editing is the instances where there wasn't any. Soooo many obviously improved scenes were made even more obvious by the inability of the editor to do their job and cut at the right time. I'm all on for long continuous shots but they have to be justified. This film was like a student film-maker wanting to leave in all the footage cos, huh huh, my mates, huh huh, they're hilarious, huh huh. You wouldn't think Schoonmaker has over 40 years of editing experience. Since Kundun her work has been steadily declining, Gangs of New York, The Departed and Hugo stand out as particularly badly edited in recent times. And this one joins the list. So, overall, this film is over long, over indulgent and over praised. Kind of like the main character, but not intentionally so.


                
Well ... yawn.Here we have yet another Leo Dicaprio film where Leo Dicaprio plays Leo Dicaprio channelling someone or other and probably getting an Oscar as a result.I am sick to the back teeth of Leo Dicaprio films these days. He's not the only actor in the world. He's not even a particularly good character actor any more, as he always plays the same person in all his films. And all the films he's in seem to be about him.This aside, WOWS is a bad film. It's a long, long film. Seriously I don't think it was edited. It's a film that portrays a disgusting, degenerate, greed-driven conman who actually ruined the lives and futures of many, many REAL hard working people. And now he makes money while you watch this sordid bit of propaganda which essentially walks you through how he enjoyed wasting these ill-gotten gains and having sex and basically groping women along the way.But wait - this is where it mis-steps once again. He doesn't even ENJOY wasting the money he conned out of these people. In fact the film seems to be a walk-through of the life of a man who has everything, but isn't happy - at all - with his lot.Okay okay already! I get it - very rich and privileged people want you to know that it's a serious burden being rich. Wow, er ... thanks?That is literally the only point or message I can think to take away from this film.So if this sounds good to you - well - be my guest and add another wad load of cash to this guy's pension fund. I'll let you decide if you think anybody involved with this film deserves it.I've already made my mind up.


                
Here comes another Wall Street cliché. A young, smart, motivated whizzkid is introduced to stock market. He redefines success, makes lot of money, goes deep in the world of drugs and sex. Dreams of getting rich day by day makes him blinder and he joins the gang of criminals. Smartass FBI guys comes after him, both sides attack and finally the material boy gets busted. He loses his money, friends, wife and children and restarts his life. Of course with the same blindness. Another failure for DiCaprio after Gatsby, which was full of showy scenes, "wise (!)" dialogues, expensive decors, image of young, handsome, brilliant character but still lacks some elements of a superb film. I don't need to criticize many ridiculous scenes (Like taking dozens of stacks of money abroad on them, DiCaprio's car driving after he gets paralyzed by drugs, Donnie's drowning, Donnie's and Brad's hassle in the street etc.) because maybe these scenes are supposed to be "comic". The main idea of the movie seems to be catching people's attention with the help of some explicit and exaggerated content. For those, who are to watch a movie about Wall Street for the first time and teenagers who like to see some hot women bodies, this movie is a good choice but for the rest it's a crap. One final note for Jean Dujardin, it's not a wise idea to act such a trivial character for an Oscar-winner actor, just because this is a Hollywood movie which is directed by Scorcese.
