I have two main points to say, first being Mr.DiCaprio has delivered a cracker of a performance. Second being Mr.Scorsese has made a farce out of movie which could have been something else.I once heard a joke that if there was a movie made on Mr.DiCaprio in which the actor playing him had actually won an Oscar for the performance it would be damn hilarious as Mr.DiCaprio can never earn one himself. This joke i think struck Mr.DiCaprio rather hard, as you can see the desperation in his performance in this movie. Of course he has delivered many a memorable performances in "Inception", "The Beach", "Catch Me If You Can" and "The Man in the Iron Mask". This movie is different, it is different for him very much as never has he been so bang on in creating a riotous comic scene with the true conviction of a actor. Some scenes in this movie have been written for Mr.DiCaprio and he fits into the shoes like a veteran with such ease that it amazes you.Mr.Hill complements him very well as the awkward homo erotic klutz who is a steadfast friend. The pleasant surprise was Mr. Kyle Chandler with a determined and charismatic role. Mr.McConaughey in a brief but important role was a added asset to the cast. Miss Margot Robbie was ever so gorgeous as all the leading ladies in Mr.Scorsese movies are.Mr.Scorsese has been strong in weaving tales which grip you like a "f**king" iron vice, he hasn't faltered in this one too. Who am i to be even be able to review the great Mr.Scorsese but all i can say is "tut tut", as this movie could have been made into classic but it seems to have been settled down for a entertaining farce of urban gimmicks like drugs, stupid men who swear a lot and lot of "A" rated scenes.Kudos to Mr.Terence Winter for writing a entertaining script with such plot points which you can expect before hand yet can't help but admire. Cinematography by Rodrigo Prieto is crisp yet rich.Nevertheless some scenes hit you like a concrete wall and you cannot help but cringe at the crudity of life as it is shoved onto your face.


                
Jordan Belfort (Leonardo DiCaprio) is a regular guy from Long Island working at the ground level in a Wall Street firm where Mark Hanna (Matthew McConaughey) is the star broker. On the first day of him becoming a licensed stockbroker, the market crashes in Black Monday. His firm goes bankrupt and he's thrown into the streets. With the support of his wife Teresa (Cristin Milioti), he ends up working in a Long Island boiler room dealing in penny stocks. He starts his own firm gathering a group of questionable salesman like Donnie Azoff (Jonah Hill). He quickly rises gaining the attention of FBI Agent Patrick Denham (Kyle Chandler). It is a drug-filled, stripper-strutting, midget-throwing wild-partying office. Jordan has an affair with Naomi Lapaglia (Margot Robbie) and eventually even marrying her. However the high life doesn't last even with their own Swiss banker.This has some funny moments and sometimes even gut busting hilarity. I do have a small problem trying to enjoy this movie at the start. Jordan becomes essentially a con man. The joke is that they're having all this fun but I can never forget that the fun is done on everybody else's dime. The characters laugh while I cringe. About halfway through, I do get acclimatized and feel more at ease with the movie. There are some great scenes. The scene of Jordan rallying the troops for the Steve Madden IPO is amazing. Leo gives a full-out performance.


                
"The Wolf of Wall Street" is about the rise and fall of one Jordan Belfort, a fast-talking con man selling penny stocks to unsuspecting clients to earn that whopping 50% commission, until he built up a financial empire with simply too much money than they know what to do with. Jordan and his cohorts, led by the loud and obnoxious Donnie Azoff, lead a life of unbridled debauchery, until the arms of the law finally catch up with them.While this film seemed like it was celebrating the crime Belfort was perpetrating, director Martin Scorsese told it in a very frenetic and entertaining way. The structure of the film was odd though, as the first two hours plus was about the wild lifestyle Belfort had in the lap of luxury, but only the last 40 minutes or so was about his inevitable fall and retribution. Leonardo DiCaprio summons again his inimitable charm and charisma we saw before in "Catch Me If You Can" to higher stakes criminal activity as Belfort. Leonardo amped up his millionaire characters in "The Aviator" and "The Great Gatsby", giving everything he had for this role and his burning passion that oozes through the screen. He has this hilarious sequence when he had a catatonic fit after taking a strong drug, never knew Leo was capable of such physical comedy.Jonah Hill playing Belfort's reckless partner Donnie with rabid perversity, like "This Is The End" goes to New York high society. He has excellent chemistry with DiCaprio. The classy, beautiful and sexy Margot Robbie plays Naomi, the hot socialite who swept Belfort off his feet. In smaller but still notable roles were Matthew McConaughey with a very short stint as Belfort's first Wall Street mentor, Rob Reiner as Belfort's prudent father, Jean Dujardin as Belfort's European contact and Kyle Chandler as the FBI agent who wanted to bring Belfort down at all costs.After the first one and half hours of the over-the-top excessively obscene lifestyle Jordan and pals live, you will feel that all of this depiction of debauchery is kind of getting too repetitive and long for comfort. There will be scenes of sexual orgies of all kinds to the point of misogyny. There will be multiple scenes of almost everybody taking drugs and all the wild effects. Your ears will feel numbed with all the foul language that was integrated in seemingly every one of their sentences. However, the pedigree of the people behind this film, Scorsese and DiCaprio, the brilliant cinematography and opulent production design, all remind us that this is still an A-list project, not some raunchy blue movie drowning in kilos of cocaine and naked prostitutes. I just think the first two hours felt like they could have been shortened without significantly affecting the plot. It could have lost some of the excessive scenes of excess. We got the point already. 7/10.
Okayy Leo Di Caprio was just amazing in this film!!! His performance could have absolutely won him an Oscar and it was such a shame he didn't get one. Also, I have to say it was one of Scorsese's best films as there were some unbelievable scenes!! I really liked the screenplay but I have to say that the movie was just endless!! (about 3 hours?) In the beginning I just loved it but then somewhere in the middle it started getting really tiring and at points even quite boring..there were many scenes that were a complete waste of time and a repetition of something we had already seen before..I mean seriously if it was half an hour shorter I would have rated it with a 9! Anyway, overall I think it was a great movie and despite its duration, it's totally worth watching!!


                
I'm sorry to say but for the first time, the critics were pretty spot on with this. The acting performances of both Leonardo DeCaprio and Jonah Hill were top notch and most definitely worthy of the accolades they have received, but the movie it self seemed like it was on massive quantities of drugs. It was a great story, but it was told in such a choppy manner, some of the scenes were so over the top I felt like I was watching another Tucker Maxx movie. I was really hoping for more. Great acting (Rob Reiner deserved an Oscar nomination too)...OK movie...and it was WAY too long!!! I don't know how he did it, but Scorsese managed to drag this out for almost 3 full hours. He couldn't do a 3 hour version of Goodfellas or The Departed, but managed to extend the life of this for 3 hours? Again, I was really hoping for more.


                
Where to begin with this one? There's no question that the events depicted are fascinating and that Scorsese is a superb director. There are actually a few laugh-out-loud moments sprinkled throughout this film. Still, the movie is three hours long and, at times, feels that way. I kept expecting it to end half hour before it actually did. As has been noted everywhere, there is absolutely no one to root for or like during this entire running time. However, the performances are all quite good. You don't see many Oscar contenders like Leo get nominated for a film in which a candle appears in his ass. On that note, so much of this film focuses on the extremely vulgar and extremely decedent living. That certainly was the point but is it possible to drive home that point too much? Excess living depicted through excess film making? One thing's for sure, this is NOT a film to take your parents or grandparents to.
The Wolf of Wall Street (2013)First of all—yes, this is a zany, hepped up ride, and it's intense and tiring and impressive. But<U+0085>As crazy as the hedonism here is, this is a notably straightforward telling of the tale of a stockbroker's rise and fall. And as energized as it is, it's also monotonous. You can't quite say it's boring—or maybe you can, because after the fifth or fifteenth party overflowing with drugs and prostitutes you go from numb to restless —but it occurs to you later: the story is thin, as a narrative structure.Too bad. This could have been edited to a 90 minute movie—it's TWICE that as it stands—and it would have had even more velocity and energy. And maybe a few details would be left out, but you know what? They wouldn't matter! In fact, all that matters is the single large arc as Belfort builds a stock trading company out of nothing—out of a garage, literally—and then sees the FBI roll in toward the end.Don't get me wrong—Leonardo DiCaprio is amazing, covering the whole terrain from drugged out of his mind to inspirational speaker, from down in the dumps to innocently hopeful. He's so "on" in every scene it's a marvel. And around him are some equally strong players, such as Jonah Hill as his second in command. The women have less to do (more on that in a sec) but the woman playing Belfort's wife, Margot Robbie, gives the character more depth than you might expect, and with a great New Yorker working class accent.Scorsese directs this as he always directs—with absolute force. He doesn't know the word subtle, which is fine (which is great overall—we have other, subtle directors). Whether you look at "Shutter Island" or "Hugo" or this movie (all recent examples), you see someone who is worth following closely. He's one of the great directors we have. If all of these movies have flaws, they have so many other things going for them you end up impressed, and maybe even moved.But moved—emotionally moved—is not the result of this film. You can say that was on purpose (people have). Fine. But that means the bacchanalia is what it is. You watch and watch. And it's such a man's world—and I mean men with their testosterone unchecked, supplemented, worshipped—that women are almost totally there as toys and companions. For sex and for sex. It doesn't matter if you agree or not, if you're a woman or not, or if you have politics on this one way or the other. It remains clear that we see nothing from their point of view, and we are made to accept (as a viewer in a chair) this unevenness. It's actually sickening, if you give it the time of day. And if you really study it, you see that "The Wolf of Wall Street" is yet another film that trumpets a male over female system as good, or as inevitable.Maybe it is! (I'm not defending sexism here, hold on.) But maybe you need the testosterone to be as greedy, cruel, mindless, and driven as all the men in this movie are (including the FBI guy in his "dignified" way). Maybe this is another way to condemn the mosh pit of Wall Street completely. Maybe there's another way to run an economy, to have corporations make things in a competitive world.Probably not, but you do strain a bit to give the movie some rationale. The real content here is more gut level—intensity and insanity. It's amazing. But it is what it is, too, an expert docudrama with surprisingly few surprises.


                
It's comforting to imagine that everything Martin Scorsese touches turns to gold, but it's not true. The same rules of thoroughness that apply to every other filmmaker also apply to Scorsese. If he rushes through a compressed editing schedule to meet an Oscar-friendly release date – as he did on The Wolf of Wall Street – his work suffers. Scorsese's latest clocks in at 180 minutes, not because its characters or narrative demand that kind of exhaustive treatment, but because Scorsese didn't have time to find a more focused, impactful shape for the film. Exploring the personal and professional corruption of notorious stockbroker Jordan Belfort, The Wolf of Wall Street has several memorable sequences, but it plays like a clumsy, repetitive work-in-progress.Praise has already been heaped upon Leonardo DiCaprio and Jonah Hill for their charismatic performances, but it's important to note that this is wacky comic acting more concerned with eliciting shock and amusement than any deeper human truth. This miscalculation of emphasis also infects the storytelling in a more general sense. Scorsese and screenwriter Terence Winter focus nearly all of their attention on the excesses – sex, drugs, greed – that drive these characters, rarely placing them in a context that might reveal complicating texture or shading. It's perfectly logical to portray these characters as one-note imbeciles with an absence of inner life, but this also makes for stifling, unsatisfying drama.The Wolf of Wall Street never finds its bearings, but it becomes more tolerable in its second half when Belfort finally encounters some resistance (in the form of FBI agent Patrick Denham, played by Kyle Chandler) and sees his warped life of excess start to unravel. But even then, the film is dragged down by its reliance on Belfort's moronic perspective – the film is derived from his self-mythologizing memoir – which gives an Animal House frivolity to his constant misbehaviour, a smokescreen that distracts from the devastation of his professional crimes.Simply recycling sensibilities from Goodfellas and The Departed may seem like a logical strategy, but there's a crucial difference this time around. Whereas gangsters generally do harm to other gangsters, Belfort's victims are relatively innocent, draining this film's lawlessness of charm and fascination. Scorsese's ability to find humanity in reprehensible characters has always been one of his greatest strengths, but he doesn't even attempt to humanize the characters in The Wolf of Wall Street. This wilful oversight results in one of the director's most disposable, nihilistic films, a half-hearted effort that abandons the complexities of his own world view in favour of Belfort's clueless primitivism. This might have made for a uniquely compelling Todd Phillips (The Hangover) movie, but in the hands of Scorsese, this mildly entertaining diversion feels hopelessly erratic and insubstantial.


                
Martin Scorsese's latest is based on the memoirs of Jordan Belfort, a New York stockbroker and founder of Stratton Oakmont, a company which engaged in securities fraud and corruption on Wall Street during the nineties. First off, the performances are top-notch. Leonardo DiCaprio has managed to find new depths by playing a character that is even debatably worse than the racist plantation owner in Django Unchained. DiCaprio has done more than enough to win his Oscar, and winning for The Wolf of Wall Street is as good any of his other roles. My favorite DiCaprio performance is still Howard Hughes in The Aviator. Though my vote goes to McConaughey for Dallas Buyers Club this year. Speaking of which, McConaughey has a great cameo as Jordan's mentor, who gives Belfort the inspirational push. However, Jonah Hill is the standout as Belfort's psychotic sidekick Donnie Azoff, delivering an even more impressive performance than in Moneyball.At a 3-hour running time, the film is too long and it easily could have been shorter with less party scenes and throwing midgets into giant dartboards at the office. As a rise-and-fall story, it has too much 'rise' and not enough 'fall'. I wanted the story to move on and inform us about the financial damage this all caused and all the lives it hurt in the process, but Scorsese does not seem interested in the forensics. Overall there are some very good party set pieces and funny scenes, but after a while, I was just numb.The story is essentially told from the villain's point of view. Extending this idea to the classic children's storybook The True Story of the Three Little Pigs, which is told from the Big Bad Wolf's perspective. The Wolf retells the Three Little Pigs story and asks the reader to consider his side of the story. The Wolf was simply trying to bake a cake for his grandmother's birthday while nursing a bad cold, and things got out of hand. Therein lies my criticism: there is nothing redeemable from the Jordan Belfort character in The Wolf of Wall Street. Or at the very least, the filmmakers do not seem interested in showing anything beyond the surface. The breaking-the-4th-wall story device of having the villain narrate his story to the audience is raunchy and creative, but Scorsese totally forgets that it is supposed to be ironical. The premise of the black comedy is that we're supposed to laugh at how vile and putrid these people are. But by the nth orgy scene, the characters are matted into two dimensions and we never get beneath the surface. The morality play tips over to the other side and it mistakenly justifies itself. Just because this a tale about self-indulgent shallow people doesn't mean we have to tell their story in a self-indulgent shallow fashion.The bad taste left in my mouth at the end is not the film's self-indulgence, but out of worry that The Wolf of Wall Street is so unclear about its cautionary message, that there are certain viewers that will admire this lifestyle and become inspired to become a stock broker. For the rest of that find the Belfort character repugnant will feel empty wondering what justified the three-hour running time.For more reviews, please visit my film blog @ http://hkauteur.wordpress.com


                
A surprising film indeed. What is it about? First of all it is about 45 minutes too long. The sex scenes and the orgies could have been cut short to a simple ellipse instead of a graphic depiction. That is one easy shortening that should have been used. Same thing with the drug scenes that are by far too numerous and too long. We got the message very fast that to succeed in Wall Street you have to be a sex addict, a drug-cocktail addict, an alcohol addict, a money addict, a money-lifting addict, a thief, a liar and a few other little things like that. We know that, we knew that and we have known it since at least American Psycho. So, what is the original message?It is simple. Anyone can succeed like that wolf in the USA in the most ruthless way possible with the most illegal and unethical means possible because the system is a filter-less abyss. There is no real filter to prevent these crimes and other offenses. There is no protection of any kind to prevent criminal minds to get into the business. The American system after 1987, date of the beginning of the wolf's career, is absolutely deregulated and it will be so till a very recent period, till a couple of years after the 2009 crisis. What's more most of those who are supposed to look after the various crimes committed in the financial field can be bought for a pittance, at times a little bit more, be they American, or Swiss, or whatever affiliation they have as for financial paradise. Yet the FBI cannot be bought up. They are incorruptible, which I doubt very much. But well we can always think there is an Eliot Ness in every FBI special agent.The worst part is that these people when they are caught will become, in their own interest, the most talkative monsters you can imagine. They will accept a deal at once. The principle is simple: "In Wall Street there is NO friend!" Partners, associates, colleagues, collaborators are ALL, all of them, nothing but competitors, enemies. As long as they can work as a pack they will, but as soon as the pack is under a real menace each one will go alone against the pack if necessary. A starving pack in the Rocky Mountains may die though if it comes to that the outcome will be ONE survivor and ONE survivor only. Wolves are cannibals in situations where survival is at stake. As for a meaning that is very light and very naïve. "Lupus est homo homini, non homo, non quom qualis sit novit" (wolf is man to man, no man when he does not know who the other is). Erasmus (15th-16th centuries) quoted it from Plautus (3rd-2nd centuries BCE), the original author, and then Thomas Hobbes in the 17th century made it a central concept of his vision of humanity in his work Leviathan. Nothing new under the sun. This phrase "Man is wolf to man" has become a catch phrase with the Industrial Revolution and Marxism. Though capitalism, and any form of it, did not invent it. Gladiators were Romans. The Celts burnt their criminals. And the modern times invented a lot of such cruel treatment of human beings as slaves or as playthings for sadistic or didactic practices, even calling it the death sentence. A woman was recently raped in public by more than fifteen men in a village in eastern India on the order of the village elders because she refused to break off with a man, her lover, who was from another village that was sexually off limits for these elders. Maybe the saying does not apply to women?When we thus look at the film and wonder what makes it in anyway different, original, new, we have to say it is a brilliant cinematographic illustration of a common place idea and situation. The catch phrase of the film is that New Zealand has become the haven, paradise, refuge and shelter of all those criminals, financial, copyright or data all together and the same, where they can go on striving without any menace from the FBI. Australia is a second haven of the type and then Russia too is trying to set her feet in that juicy field. The juice is not only money, it is also a lot of blood. That last remark, the catch phrase, the final scene of the film is the most powerful argument for a shorter film, a film that could have been a lot shorter. "Sell me that pen" becomes very shallow and trite after three hours of ranting, raving, partying, raping, raging, and so many other off-normalcy attitudes, actions and principles. The film is in itself an orgy of ever and endlessly repeating sequences: we are framed in a million images of exactly the same value and tinge and color and hue. What a shame! Scorsese could do better.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU
I think this is a very well crafted movie. The performances are excellent and the director and all his staff made a wonderful job. And this has the best dialog I have heard in years - despite the frequent f-words. Yes, this is one of the rags-to-riches-and-then-to-jail -movie. But somehow I missed the larger-in-life -character Gordon Gekko, who has already become a living legend although he is only a fiction from Stone's Wall Street. The main character is just a brat with addictions: drug, sex and money. Like a teenager-for-ever -type. He never grows and he never learns. At the end he is still making money for himself and some avid listeners. I hope his methods are legitimate now. But there is virtually no reference to the outside world. No political or philosophical connotations. And during this time inside Wall street was happening a lot! Later we found out what... So my only complaint is that this movie tries to be a Novel (apparently Epic Novel for 3 hours!)but manages in only being a short story.
Three hours is simply too much of a half good thing. Scorsese probably wanted to emanate in the montage the coke fueled consciousness of stock broker Di Caprio who can't decide if he wants to portray the main character as a parody or as a biography.How many drug and sex inspired scenes can one endure in three hours, without getting bored by the repetition? After the first amusing hour, the movie goes over the top and hysterical and one can't help to be relived of the ramblings. The Wolf of Wall Street wants to be dramatic and funny at the same time but only achieves half of both. You'll get a few laughs out of it (mostly out of embarrassment) , but if this wasn't announced as a Scorsese in big letters, one would probably not think it's a Scorsese movie in the first place.Not 'bad' by any means, but under par for Scorsese.


                
The Wolf of Wall Street is a loud, flashy, and unfathomably vulgar movie populated by a wide variety of repulsive and narcissistic characters. In the hands of a lesser director, it could have easily ended up being unpleasant and unwatchable. However, thanks to acclaimed director Martin Scorsese's clever satirical touch and a witty script that surprises at every turn, The Wolf of Wall Street is a wild and uninhibited thrill-ride of a movie that's hard to forget.The movie tells the true story of Jordan Belfort (Leonardo DiCaprio), a man who went from struggling to pay his bills to being one of the most wealthy but immoral and corrupt stockbrokers in the country. As he leads an increasingly reckless and dishonest life, Belfort quickly transforms from a law-abiding citizen to an uncaring white-collar criminal.Leonardo DiCaprio may have finally found his Oscar-winning role playing Jordan Belfort. Although his character is far too selfish to be likable, DiCaprio's spirited performance makes Jordan endlessly fascinating in his depravity. Jonah Hill gives an equally impressive performance as Donnie, Jordan's best friend and the co-founder of his firm. Hill's loud-mouthed and often inconsiderate behavior as Donnie makes for some of the funniest scenes in the movie.Although many of the scenes are far from light-hearted, The Wolf of Wall Street is ultimately a comedy. The characters' wildly reckless and irresponsible actions provide most of the humor. One particularly funny and memorable scene involves Jordan trying in vain to reach his car and drive home while under the influence of drugs he had taken. Unable to stand up and walk to the car, Jordan is forced to slide and drag his way across the floor, all the while yelling incoherent slurred sentences.Running in at 165 minutes, The Wolf of Wall Street is not a short movie by any means. Although it's always enthralling, there are a few scenes that could have easily been cut to shorten the running time. One series of scenes that wasn't necessary involves Jordan Belfort getting into a dispute with a butler over $50,000 in cash that went missing. The scenes are entertaining enough, but they have no relevance to the story as a whole and aren't essential to the movie.The Wolf of Wall Street is not the sort of movie one would expect a 71 year-old man to direct. Director Martin Scorsese is far from an ordinary 71 year-old man though, and with The Wolf of Wall Street he has crafted his most lively, compelling, and outrageous movie in years.


                
Didn't have the charm of a typical Scorsese Movie. Leo did great but everything he does and almost the entire move feels one-dimensional. It lacks the depth that leads to deeper thinking and reflecting, which I'm sure Mr. Scorsese would love the audience to have. People all say Jonah Hill is great, but I'm not sure he can hold up such a big supporting role against Leo, with all due respect of course. I loved his small roles across the board which were all absolutely hilarious, but in this one, again, I think his role lacks depth too. All said, Matthew Mcconaughey is absolutely brilliant in his short appearance. I'm glad he and Leo both won Golden Globe, but I'm gonna have to go with him for the Oscar even though Leo is long due for sure.


                
Scorsese and DiCaprio's fifth venture together, this might be their most mainstream attempt till now. This black-hearted comedy, filled with colour, glamour, parties, money, corruption, drugs and sex, oozes of energy throughout it's three-hour long run-time. I admit it's a fun-filled ride throughout, and it never gets boring. But after a certain point, the narration, the jokes and the parties get monotonous. For such a long movie, the character-development and character-exploration is very poor, and there are so many characters and scenes which don't have any special relevance or importance in the whole story being told. I can't believe it's Terence Winter (from 'The Sopranos' and 'Boardwalk Empire') who wrote the script. The main distraction while watching a biopic like this is that the things shown on screen (fabulous office parties, amount of drugs each of the them take within a day, their ability to function properly in such high, the money lavishly spent around, and so many other things) always make you wonder how much of it is accurate and how much of it is complete exaggeration; you don't get a clear picture of the people and lifestyle of that place and era.But whatever you say, with whatever is given to him, Leonardo audaciously gets into the skin of the character and is fascinating to watch. Moira MacDonald from Seattle Times aptly says, "DiCaprio is positively reptilian; he spits out his lines with a nasty glee. You're both horrified and enchanted by this creature - a monster in Armani". And Jonah Hill is almost as integral to the movie as DiCaprio himself; he's hilariously terrific from beginning till end.I like that the movie doesn't shy away from being filthy. Plus Scorsese's depiction of a modern tragedy as an epic farce works to its advantage. Looks like Scorsese was in quite a fun mood or pretty high (like the movie's characters) while making this. Though it's a hysterical and thoroughly-entertaining journey, I still don't understand why Scorsese and DiCaprio jumped into making this completely exaggerated alleged life of a convicted swindler. Anyway, the feature is good not great. With a little more depth, the movie could have been timeless.


                
If this movie wasn't so outrageous mess up funny. It would be so unlikable to watch. In my opinion, should had been call, 'The Wolves of Wall Street'. Nobody has any morals balls in this movie as every character in this film is pretty greedy liars. They all felt like one-dimensional greed caricatures than human beings. Most of the character really need more well-rounded depth to them. Based on 2007's memoirs, true story of Jordan Belfort. The movie focus on Jordan (Leonardo DiCaprio) rise to a wealthy stockbroker through the use of corruption scams; while under the watchful eyes of the federal government in the 1990s. The black comedy directed by Martin Scorsese, is pretty well-made. Still, it really felt too much of a glamorization of the lifestyle, than a moral tale, in my opinion. It felt like lets show as much f*ck up things as we can for 2 hours, and then in the last few minutes, show the negative results of what happen. It was bit one-sided argument. It made the film seem a bit unrealistic, with how many crude things, these people could get away with. This movie will likely inspiring others to do the same mistakes, rather than teach them, not to do what Belfort did. After all, the real Belfort got paid for this movie, a million dollar and a cameo. Since 2013, the opening of this movie, Belfort hasn't pay enough money back to the victims of his crimes. The U.S. government is not holding Belfort in default of his payments, but it is unclear when the full amount of the mandated restitution will ever be paid by him. He's pretty much, got Scot free in his case, and that really sucks to hear, if he stole money from you. The acting is really alright. Leonardo DiCaprio can really put out the charm. He can also do the yelling, that he been known for. He wasn't afraid of going over the top with this. Still, this role wasn't anything new for him. After all, he played similar characters in both 2013's Great Gatsby and 2002's Catch Me if you can. Instead of playing it straight, he just went 100% crazy with this role with all the sex scenes and drug use. Honestly, with all the drug use, Jordan portray in the film doing, how is this guy even alive? The one person that deeply surprise me was Jonah Hill as his partner in crime, Donny Azoff. You really didn't see this type of acting coming from him. The supporting cast was pretty good for the most part. I have to say, while his premise on film is short, Matthew McConaughey as Mark Hanna, Jordan's mentor, was pretty memorable. The women characters were pretty typecast as trophy wives, money hungry girlfriends, or eye candy hookers, who mostly go around, full frontal nudity, or having sex. If they're not, doing that, they portray as bitchy gold-diggers with no sense of morals. Margot Robbie is a pretty face, but gees, she couldn't act. At the beginning of her presence, she had an Australian accent that made more sense since her aunt is British. Then,out of the blue, you hear this awful screeching New Yorker/New Jersey Guido accent that sounds like something out of Jersey Shore. She couldn't show depth in her character, if Martin Scorsese wanted to. It's really uncomfortable and offended how women were portray in the film. The only female character was somebody to root for, was Aunt Emma (Joanna Lumley), but she ain't no angel. I have to say, for men, at less, we got a counter-protagonist fighting against the antagonist Jordan in Agent Patrick Denham (Kyle Chandler) who did wonderful in his role. He wasn't one-dimensional pencil pusher, Boy Scout. He was willing to go one on one with Jordan. The movie even have a somewhat moral character in Jordan's father, Max (Rob Reiner) who tries hard to get Jordan to live life, the right way, but always his son to make the mistakes, needed to grow. I love the idea, how Martin Scorsese film it, with the use of wide ends, slow motion and others to show the effects of the drugs or heavy party scenes. The movie really felt like it could had work in a 3D settling. I love how he aged the film for the infomercial sequence to make it look like something that came out in the 1990s. I love all the commercials footage used from Benihana to Steve Madden. The CGI in the film is a bit choppy. You can see, how bad, it was in the storm scenes, but there is rare mistakes made this film. Great use of establish music to set the mood of the film. The humor is a hit or miss. Some of them were really just crude like the homophobic, sexism and racism comments. While, others were pretty clever and funny. I love all the fourth wall jokes with Jordan gives lengthy explanations of Stockbroker terminology; only to drop it midway through. I love pop culture references like Moby Dick, Gordon Gekko, Freaks, James Bond, Willy Wonka and others. The movie had a cluster F-Bomb with 544 uses of the word. Some of them seem natural; while other seem oddly place. This film has the record for the most uses of the word in a fiction film. The movie is 3 hours long with its pacing. You can't really tell, with the pacing, due to not a lot of slow scenes. Still, there were few gags did go on way too much. You can cut the movie to 1hr and 30 minutes, and get the same results. I was deeply surprised, that this movie wasn't NC-17 with its strong sexual content, graphic nudity, drug use and language throughout, and for some violence. It's one of the movies that should be. Overall: Well-made movie that was kinda offended, but still watchable.
Overall i thought that this film was very well done. De Caprio once again steals the show with a very good performance, this is a role that is original for him and i thought that he did very well overall.Jonah Hill was great as well.In my opinion, the reason this film did not get a higher score was because the last hour of the film did not quite live up to the first two hours of the film. Jordan Belforts rise to power was very well written and well acted but i was not a fan of the quaalude scene. I did not find it funny and it was way to long. Still a movie well worth watching and i would watch it again.
Entertaining, fast-paced, funny and morally ambiguous -- in a lot of ways, very typical Scorcese, and as usual, it's tough to dislike despite generally despicable characters. When I first heard about this movie, I was surprised the director had chosen to take on the story, because Wall Street greed seems like one of the easiest things to hate these days, full of real-life "despicable characters" and shady behavior. That this movie was based on truth is almost beside the point: nobody likes guys like Leonardo DiCaprio's Jordan Belfort. In fact, most people hate guys like this.Of course, Jordan Belfort is a real person, and the larger-than-life escapades of drugs, hookers, big money stock trading, and (many) more drugs make for easy eye candy in Scorsese's hands. He's done it before -- Wolf of Wall Street resembles nothing so much as the director's 1990 masterpiece Goodfellas, from the charismatic protagonist who worked his way up from nothing to obtaining huge power, the backdrop of glorified crime, the FBI investigations, the gluttonous vices, to the faithful wife who finally has enough, and the soundtrack full of classic rock, blues and punk. Some of these things are tried and true Scorcese hallmarks, while others do admittedly feel a bit retreaded.There are two main differences between Wolf and Goodfellas: the first is that despite a breakneck pace (featuring more varieties of coke snorting and pill-popping than I actually knew existed), the film is too long. There is a lot of good (and truly funny) dialogue in the movie, but a couple of scenes simply seem to go on too long, slowing the movie down without adding much depth to the story. Wolf is three hours long, and had it been edited into a Goodfellas-esque two hours or so, it might have stood along side the earlier film as kind of a sub-masterpiece in a genre that Scorcese pretty much owns.The other difference is that unlike Henry Hill, you never get the feeling that Jordan Belfort learned any real lesson. He eventually loses everything: his wife, his house, his company, money and friends (one of which is the monstrously and comically greedy Donnie Azoff, played by Jonah Hill) -- and at the end, though taken down a peg as far as monetary success is concerned, doesn't seem particularly emotionally different than when he started. He's a gifted (albeit slimy and terminally selfish) salesperson, and that's probably all he could ever be.All this said, Wolf is very entertaining. There are lots of funny moments, and plenty more scenes that make your pulse race, if only out of suspense of when someone's going to have a heart attack from doing so many drugs. It does arguably glorify the lifestyle of these traders, but at the same time, it's hard to come out of it thinking you'd ever want to be a part of that world. Scorcese, perhaps better than any filmmaker in history, again demonstrates how success/failure and good/evil are nothing more than sides of a coin, and one's reaction to Jordan Belfort and the other wolves on Wall Street could very well be down to where one stands at the end of the trading day.
It is difficult to watch a movie that you absolutely know how it will end. Scorsese is known for casting Leo diCaprio as the young energetic underdog that gets the world, only to lose it wholesale. The other movies of this sort, though, were interesting because they featured the criminal underworld or some other bizarre and exotic environment. The Wolf..., in comparison, is a movie about spammers and thieves that get drunk and high all the time in order to keep up with their own fantasies about their lives. Really, you could make it about Romanian hackers and it would have been a much better and fun film, with the same general ideas.Even worse for this three hour movie, Matthew McConaughey appears in a tiny role at the start of the film and explains it all: you don't want to make money for the client, you want to keep him betting on stocks, getting fabulously rich - on paper, while you get hard cash from commissions. The basic trade that we are supposed to empathize with is phone spamming and conning greedy and uninformed clients.The money that gets generated for the stock traders "more than we knew what to do with" doesn't go into "diversification", doesn't go into growing the people that until then were hungry bastards looking to pay their mortgage, it isn't invested into anything. It just goes on expensive cars, yachts, prostitutes, drugs and trophy wives. And while I admit many people would sell their soul to get to the point where they can do that, the outcome of such a behavior is obviously not good if that is all you do.And I am not being moralizing here. Hell, screw the bitches and snort the dope, but do something with yourself, plan for when the money will not be so good, make sure you will never get screwed over by technicalities, government agents, false friends or accidents. Instead the characters in the film act like there is no tomorrow. Literally they behave like the end of the world is around the corner. For three hours. It quickly gets old.There is some value in the ending, when DiCaprio's character is terrified he is going to get to jail, only to discover than when you have money, it isn't that bad at all, but other than that I just wanted to see the film end. There is no cat and mouse game with the FBI, nothing comes as a surprise, it just goes on and on with how wonderful it is to have enough money to spend it stupidly when you earn it by praying on people even more stupid than yourself.Bottom line: while DiCaprio makes a good role - after all, he is a damn good actor - the film itself is only mildly entertaining. Considering it is based on an autobiographical book, you might forgive the film for being too real and too boring, but there is still the matter of why someone would choose to make a movie on such a material. I watched the film with two other people and they were both awed by the opulence depicted in the film and the comparison of their own lives to that of the protagonists. I guess there is that; learn that if you are ingenious enough, hungry enough, you can make yourself have all the money in the world. Perhaps Scorsese wanted this, or perhaps he missed the point with me, because all I felt when the film was over is that I am happy with my life and I am glad the movie finally ended.It is interesting to read about Jordan Belfort, that's a real person. Also, his story is told in another movie from 2000, called Boiler Room, with Giovanni Ribisi and Vin Diesel. Might be worth a look.


                
It is always difficult to properly review legendary directors. There always comes a point where movie-making trends and styles have passed them by or the creative juices have simply stopped flowing. This is the case for Scorsese, at least by judging The Wolf of Wall Street. All of his hallmarks are put to good use in the film. The immediacy and visual assault of the cinematography in particular was exceptional. The dark comedic touches are put to the forefront to great effect. I don't recall ever laughing out loud at Scorsese film before, but there are many such moments here. The story itself is one of the oldest movie clichés, man overcomes humble beginnings, becomes wealthy, is seduced by money and power, is consumed by his excesses and ultimately redeemed. The performances are intentionally bombastic and over the top and greatly add to the theme of excess. Jonah Hill especially loses himself in the role and delivers a lot of laughs and some depth to an otherwise shallow and one dimensional character. DiCaprio, while convincing as charismatic and flawed Jordan Belfort, grew tiresome over the course of the film as his character flies directly into the sun and then spectacularly crashes and burns. Unfortunately the theme of excess extends to the length of the film as well; it is simply way too long. I felt like I was watching a director's cut in the theater. I know the general trend in movies today is longer run times, but at almost 3 hours it is just too much. What should be a highly entertaining two hour wild ride just drags in some places. The outlandish action and comedy scenes lose their bite in the last half of the film as the viewer is just numb from the assault at that point. The dramatic scenes are not well thought out and did not establish an emotional connection with the characters and their downfall as I should.All in all, a very enjoyable, exciting film but it misses the mark in characterization and left me wanting less bombast and more meat in the story. I see an aging director trying to stay relevant and not wanting to make compromises this movie badly needs.


                
This is one of those films that will make the smart consumer think about what it means to "like" a piece of art work (if you can call Hollywood filmmaking that). Is the film glorifying the horrible crimes that Belfort and his cronies committed, and if so, can one still judge the film and the actors based on their performance and not on the morality of its subject matter? It's difficult, and I respect both types of opinions. Just looking at the film as a fictional story (which I am sure it is, mostly, since Belfort seems to have a knack for embellishing the truth and making a seemingly uninteresting thing the most exciting thing in the world to sell it as best as he can), the plot is rather formulaic for Hollywood standards. Character development is not the main point here, as the characters are larger than life caricatures, even down to the "boy scout" FBI guy who has it in for the bad guy (whose motives and story are almost entirely unknown to us, since the story is narrated by Belfort). DiCaprio is in top form, but the rest of the actors and actresses take the prize in genuinely thrilling performances. The acting is probably the best aspect of the film (apart from the glimmer and shine), as every single main and supporting role is played to full potential and perfectly to fit the caricature written out for it.Perhaps the most interesting character is Belfort's number 1, Donnie. We see more character development here, where the nerdy and greedy guy rises to the top and lives a very large life. His morals seem even more lacking than Belfort's, but this is perhaps because Belfort is telling the story. The other interesting, though not novel, part of the story is the role of drugs in Wall Street. Drugs and inevitably sex. It is perhaps alarming that the markets that can ruin our lives by crashing, etc. are run by people who abuse drugs all the time. Belfort is not the one to say this first, and I am sure he won't be the last, either.All in all, the film is "entertaining," if not cringe-worthy. Some moments that are absolutely hilarious in their absurdity can make you cry if you lost a lot of money in the market or lost your job in the recent economic crisis, because in reality, they are not funny. That a company can make billions within hours of a launch, well, that is just sickening no matter what your world view is, unless you are the guy who is making all the money (in which case it is kind of sickening, still, but in a different way).Moralistically, the film is like any art work that deals with humans who commit crimes. I did not find it more glorifying than mafia films where the godfather orders people's deaths "for the family." The truth is most humans have a moral understanding and ways to justify their actions according to some moral structure, no matter how twisted or unorthodox the rest of the people might think their structure is. Belfort justified his actions in some ways, and his actions hurt people (including his family), like any other criminal. I did not come away with a message from the film that said "What Belfort did was awesome!" It was certainly something more like "Belfort was successful. His success hurt other people and helped some others. In general, he was an asshole, who did not care much about anyone, but himself and for anything, but getting rich."The real message is: don't invest your money in the stock market unless you are filthy rich. And even then, don't invest too much of it.


                
Some movies simply have to be pleasing. They have to provide a certain amount of satisfaction to movie goers because they are directed by a renowned director or they cast actors who give their best in each and every role they play. The Wolf of Wall Street should have been one of these movies. This feature gets off to a strong start. For a while this initial putsch keeps you moving forward, expecting something to happen, something that would make you think, "Yes! This is the movie I've been waiting for so long that I've forgotten what a good movie feels like". Sadly, it does not get to be this movie. While getting to know the plot and the main characters something creeps into the mind of the observer. The nagging in the background becomes slightly louder with each new scene or dialog. In the end, the nagging becomes so loud that one can only shout, "Shut up! , I want this to be a good movie, I want it to make me feel good." Still, despite excellent performances by the actors and Martin Scorsese's best efforts, it fails to be this movie. Perhaps I'm spoiled, accustomed to certain probably unfairly high standards and expectations from the names of DiCaprio and Scorsese in the credits. Even if it were so, this movie is still full of much of which is unnecessary. So many narcotics floating around in the scenes that I ask myself, how is it even possible that these people could stand on their feet every morning. There are also a couple of scenes where there was no reason to show nudity. Don't get me wrong, I love nudity in movies. I do, honestly, but I also expect it to be a part of the story, a part that independently and harmoniously knits the plot together with all other elements of the story telling. In this feature, some of the nudity is simply embarrassing. Margot Robbie did not need to bare it all. All compliments to Ms. Robbie, but she should have thought harder before agreeing to the scene. Jonah Hill's pleasure trip during the party scene was also a bit over the top for me. What I liked best about this movie is Leonardo. I do not want to sound like a broken record, but the man is an excellent actor. He gave his best to this movie and it is simply not his fault I did not enjoy the movie as much as I wanted to. Fortunately enough there is one scene in the movie which alone makes it worth seeing. After taking more than a few Quaalude Lemmon 714 pills, DiCaprio's character looses the use of his speech and of his legs. This is when we get to see DiCaprio give one of his best performances I have seen since he portrayed Arnie Grape in What's Eating Gilbert Grape. In these few minutes he shows us what a great actor he is, and how little is required to make a masterpiece of a short sequence. This is not a bad movie by any standards. I did like it, but not to the extent I wanted to. I expected more. I would still tell you all to go and see it. Perhaps we can compare notes? Cheers.
I'll start saying that I liked this movie, is fun and doesn't have the typical Hollywood filters and censure, that makes it authentic and explicit (sometimes that's good, or at least fun). It reminded me a lot to "Fear and loathing in Las Vegas" which I love. That said, I don't think it is the masterpiece that most of the critics are proclaiming. DiCaprios acting is undeniably good, he's being growing up as an actor for many years and he has made very clear that he can make a movie good on his own, and this is one of those cases. The support actors are good in their roles (especially the short but excellent part of McConaughey) but the irreplaceable here is Di Caprio, he steals the show. Not much more than a showcase of fun events involving a group of drug addicts enjoying excess in every way possible, and how they go to hell for what they do. From my point of view, not a great story, and it could have been shorter too... Photography wasn't anything exceptional neither. But the good writing (even if it's a bit repetitive as a consequence of being so long) made me enjoy this movie a lot.Very good acting and writing, good/average photography and story.The movie is really good fun, if you have 3 hours to spend watching it!!


                
This is not black comedy, this is utter boldness. It climbs on your body and takes hold of your whole damn face and then barks on your ears, flashes on your eyes & talks sitting on your mouth. This is cinema at its most vulnerable phase, harnessed to tell a story which cannot be told in any other possibly charismatic way.Martin Scorsese has fascinated me with his themes and not his works themselves; he finds details in the simplest story & barfs it into hell of a script. With The Wolf..., he does the same. Telling a story was not enough, so he extrapolates. The life & times of a maverick stockbroker told from all points of view. There is nudity, sex, drugs, porn, society, money, business, animals, wild human beings and genius. 3 hours of maddeningly extraordinary tale of a person concludes to a magnificent climax and that is what I loved about it the most, the climax.The performances are immense and intense. Leonardo DiCaprio is hands down, a phenomenal actor. Jonah Hill has catapulted his power & career to the space. Supporting cast is excellent. The music is good but I am not happy with the editing, which could've been more tight had they given attention to the post-processing.But, the question is do we need such hybrid boldness to depict something so simple? It solely depends on the watcher. I for one got bored at some point in the film with all the shenanigans the mischief machines do during the second half, but the humor kept me hanging there. It also is factor to consider that when you observe closely, it talks nothing new as such. So, with a brilliant screenplay, what does it achieve? Maybe send a message? Nope. The message is already conveyed by some other movie. All it does is imbibe audacity into the themes of power, money, corruption & sex. But I appreciate what the makers have done to give respect to the talent of Jordan Belfort.BOTTOM LINE: Everyone should give this a try & think for themselves how it can be analyzed as a cinema & where it stands aesthetically & culturally. For movie buffs, this is a good 3-hour noon show. Nothing more.Can be watched with a typical Indian family? NO (It has all the things Indian parents don't approve of; so it'd be better if you don't even utter the title of the film. It is also the film with most use of the F word, FYI.)


                
After watching this movie I am proud of myself that I didn't go to the cinema with expectations that Marty will bring us something that would be as brilliant as what he did back in the '80s and '90s. It was not that good, but enjoyable. I need to mention that the whole structure of the movie was pretty similar to that of Goodfellas, but I won't tell more to avoid spoilers. I laughed through whole of the drug/alcohol/prostitute circle that this movie was. Maybe it was a little to long for me. Some scenes were pretty repetitive and could have been deleted to make it thirty minutes shorter. If you want to laugh and entertain yourself it is certainly movie for you. If you liked other stock- oriented films like Wall Street or Boiler Room you certainly won't be disappointed.


                
