Unless you call this movie a masterpiece. Then you are.Damn 1,000 word limit. Gotta make this quick.Spoilers.The film is 2.5 hours long, yet feels like 5.2, and there are a few reasons for this. One of which is the fact that a preponderance of the first act is amateurish, conflict-free exposition, which does not bode well for repeat viewings.The "learning about the dream world" scene is atrocious. No conflict. Both Leo and Page's characters already knew what was being explained. The similar "learning about the matrix" scene in The Matrix did it right by having one character not know anything. Plus, there was conflict. Neo gets his ass kicked and fails to make the building jump. Much more entertaining.There's another problem with the whole section of bending the landscape where Leo explains the negative aspects of altering the dream world. The closest we get to seeing the dream world altered was Leo becoming Mr. Charlie, yet the most that happens then is a bunch of extras turn and look at Leo. That's it. The idea was not exploited. You literally have to go out of your way to miss that opportunity. Hell, that Mr. Charles scene is shorter than the scene that explains why altering the dream world is bad! Let's not forget this whole idea of one corporation one-upping another has absolutely no personal ramifications for anyone on screen or in the audience. It would have greatly amped up the internal conflict if Leo had to struggle with the notion that helping the guy who could help him would endanger someone else close to him, or us, or someone else. ANYTHING could have worked better than an energy contract that means less to me than my neighbor's bath mat. Come on. The totems were handled very poorly. All we need to know is their purpose. We don't need to know anything else, yet the film keeps piling on needless information.If this is a heist film, where is the threat of being caught? A van falls for an endless amount of time. Joseph Gordon-Levitt floats bodies down a hallway for half an hour, real-time. The guy from Bronson does his thing, whatever the hell that was. These are not complex tasks or events, but rather straight-forward in nature. Dragging them out for a solid chunk of the film is what creates the glacial pace and makes a long film seem even longer.Inception has no real villain. You can make a case for Cotillard, but she is an internal enemy. She never takes a "physical" presence and never threatens anyone except Leo. Everyone else is dealing with faceless assassins. That makes it feel distant from the rest of the action. It doesn't even have anything to do, emotionally, with Leo's goal of getting home to see his kids. None of this is tied together. Leo didn't even know what the hell was going on with Cillian and never even knew of the outcome until after the fact. He's separated from the physical manifestation of his goal for a majority of the film. I ended up not caring if the plan succeeded. If it was all somehow tied together, the audience would be able to experience that great emotional catharsis that everyone was talking about...but that didn't happen.In fact, Leo is so separated from the actual plot that you can literally put Levitt in his place and not even need the hero in the dream world at all! Hell, you can even put Page there, since all she does after designing the boring and lifeless dream worlds is hang out with the guys and tell Leo he's crazy. I really wish she had something else to do besides play the part of the fifth wheel.Leo's lack of involvement in the main action of the story creates a 'so what?' moment when the problem is solved for him, and I can think of absolutely no reason why the hero should not be the one to conquer the main conflict. Brody kills the shark in Jaws. He doesn't send Hooper and Quint out to do his dirty work while he stays behind to deal with his fear of water. It's integrated. The hero is forced into dealing with the physical, and in turn, but learn to conquer his internal fears before he can conquer his external opponent. This is Screen writing 101, Lesson 1, and Nolan got that wrong. That's why I don't believe the reports that he spent 10 years writing the script since it only took me 148 minutes to figure out exactly what was wrong with it.Not to mention the conceit that to enter someone else's dream and control it means that you would have to control your own subconscious, which they state elsewhere is impossible. Way to go, genius.Pretty much everything this film does wrong, The Matrix does right. Watch that instead.PS: The 'taking a scene from the middle and putting it at the beginning' gag reached its peak effectiveness in 2002 and has absolutely no place in modern films. It's getting as bad as that tired old 'It's all a dream' scenario. Oh, wait...
I will start by saying that Inception does indeed have a clever premise, or at least one that sounds good on paper: A group of people who steal information from people's dreams are hired to put an idea in someone's head. Cobb's back story and the way he was haunted by his mental image of his ex-wife was genuinely fascinating. However, all of these nice, fresh ideas are lost in a hurricane of absolutely awful and pretentious storytelling. People have often praised this film for having clever writing, but it strikes me that the film is just deliberately trying to be needlessly complicated to appear smarter than it really is. I say "needlessly" because, when you get right down to it, the overall plot of Inception is not all that complex, so the film just comes across as pretentious.One of the first problems I had with the film is something I thought was present in Christopher Nolan's Batman films to a lesser extent (but those films had the benefit of having straightforward story lines and memorable characters): We are presented to a concept that could never happen in real life. That's not the problem. The problem is that the film delivers its ludicrous plot in such a straight-faced dead serious manner that it breaks my willing suspension of disbelief. In a film that took itself slightly less seriously, I might not wonder as much about where the technology to travel into someone's dreams came from, but here, it just begs for an explanation. If the film weren't trying to have a realistic atmosphere, I might buy that you can do this by injecting chemicals into your arm, then dream up more chemicals to travel into dreams within dreams, but here, it just comes across as absolute nonsense.None of the characters in the film, with the possible exceptions of Cobb, Mal and Fischer, were interesting or memorable in the least. In fact, most of the characters don't really even feel like people as much as they feel like soulless chess pieces that exist only for the purpose of advancing the plot. As a result of this, I could not have cared less about what was happening in the film, and towards the action sequences at the end, I was on the verge of falling asleep. I'm sorry, but watching people with no personalities battling generic gun wielding masses (who, in a stunning lack of originality, are apparently supposed to represent Fischer's subconscious) just isn't entertaining.Bottom line, Inception is a boring, pretentious and rather nonsensical film. It has a nice premise that sounds good on paper, which is why I really expected to like it, but found it a letdown.
It beggars belief how both critics and movie-goers have been won over by this pseudo-intellectual piece of garbage. Really world? I thought better of you.There were three key problems for me in this movie. The first was the love story. Blah. I mean really, BLAH. This was an action based thriller, whose ultimate fate was rested on DiCaprio's characters obsession with his dead wife. Ultimately the film could have achieved its original thought provoking intentions had it dumped the obligatory Hollywood love story entirely.My second issue with this movie was the teams motivation for going into the energy tycoons son was weak. If you really want to get your audience thinking, why not try to get a politician to push through a new law, or stop the production of nuclear warheads? Why focus an entire movie, so well shot and expertly produced, in trying to get someone to break down a business? Finally, and maybe this was just me because I was disconnecting with the film at this point, but some of the dialogue was just way too cheesy and over the top. "A dream within a dream within a dream? It's never been done before!" All in all a big let down, mainly because the concept was great and some of the scenes were incredibly filmed, yet the producers bowed to the same old Hollywood model. Not all of us need to see a love story in order to engage our brains y'know.
Like we had the Coen's love in, we now have the Nolan love in.This movie is in the TOP 11 movies of all time according to the masses.To be fair, I loved Nolan's 'Memento' and 'The Prestige'. I settled down to watch this in great anticipation. IMDb had it at NO.1 at the time. Better than Shawshank? Godfather? This must be something else!I can only sum this movie up in sentence.They make it up as they go along. Really. The way the 'plot' needs to be continually explained by characters is a give away. This guy's dream affects this guy but the surroundings are made by this dude this totem will work here and....come on guys. This is ridiculous. Yes, it's Sci-Fi but good vs evil on another world is more believable than this.Utterly disappointed with this movie. Get a grip fanboys. This is a movie about some dudes dreams.You can easily (as I did) tear this 'plot' to pieces in minutes. He wants to go and see his kids. He can't leave the country.Are we agreed that that's the plot?Couldn't the kids have flown out to him?Now who's the one who doesn't get it?If you've got ADHD or similar you may like it. My cat likes it when you dangle a shiny toy in front of him. He liked Inception.
OK, I just joined the fun. Did not know I have to fill in at least 10 lines, well so be it then. I just wanted to drag the movie down a bit since it is quite crappy. Surprisingly just a few days ago I watched the imaginarium of Dr. Panassus. How Surprising? They are both comparable, they both suck big time. They both have mediocre ideas which could have been turned into a decent movie and both failed. And actually how does a Kreisel that just keeps on spinning when you imagine it do so when you are in a dream helps you to distinguish between dream and reality when you imagine your dream to be reality and you therefore can not imagine the Kreisel to keep on spinning for that is not possible in reality? And how come you exist in three different dream levels and the time is managed in the way the director invented it, how good timing then that you wake up in all three levels at precisely the same point of time, I mean that is fine planning if you ask me. But then, being able to be shot at for a felt 20 minutes while sitting in van and not being hit seems also unlikely. So maybe they did dream it all up to be precisely the way it went. I guess then the Japanese guy was not to good at dreaming, stupid dream tourists. All in all I did like something about the movie (therefore 3 stars) but I do not remember what it was.
When a liquid is poured into a container, the liquid assumes the container's shape is a well known law of Phsyics. The underlying theme of this movie is Energy production. This story uses one's stages of dream states in individuals. Now comes Inception with its notion that it can change the liquid poured into the container, a chosen human target, thus altering that man's dreams and his consciousness for a desired outcome; A Dream within a Dream at deeper levels and stages of the human mind's dream states. This sums up the production of this nonsense spectacular special effects production, onward with baloney gibberish dialogs! It's ending is as pathetic as anyone could hope for! I felt disappointed with this movie, despite of the enormous efforts that were put into it by this production's Special Effects Unit who had copied and duplicated their special effects from "Men in Black" and from "The Matrix." All in all, this Sci-Fi story is an over publicized ESPIONAGE NONSENSE! I MEAN AN UTTER AND TOTAL NONSENSE!!
I can't believe this movie is voted #4 best movie, this movie start with such an interesting topic and I truly hoped for a amazing, sophisticated and well executed movie but...,the story could be sublime however the execution is just clumsy, the director tried too hard and wanted the movie to be big. But beside dreams, this movie is nothing but a collage of scenes with major capitol cities; crime involves rich person dying; repetitive, half ass architectural and interior designs, and of course, endless people and car chasing plus everlasting fights..this movie is a combo of many movies, you don't need to see this movie if you have seen some of the followings: 80's James Bonds, The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen, Memento, butterfly effect, Ronin, the day after tomorrow (another really lousy movie)..., the worst thing is many scenes in Inception are quite directly replicated from those movies.the art design of the movie is terrible, I can see the art director only knows M.C. Escher and may consult some mediocre architects, I highly recommend he or she to try some acid or just simply ask people about how their dreams are like.by the way, in the theater seeing this movie, I felt annoyed every time when i see a logo, especially seeing the logo of Hyundai a thousand times, I started thinking about how much money Hyundai endorse and forgot the car chasing is still going on! Also I keep wondering about this: considering 5 minutes equal one hour per layer of a dream, do those people feel thirsty or wanting to go to the bathroom in their 50 year long dreams?For people saying that we should have some imagination to appreciate this movie, I truly believe that these people are just finding excuses for this movie and for themselves too. sorry I just can't stare at a pile of crap and imagine that's filet mignon :p
This movie is completely overrated. Just because they's going into people's dreams does not make this film intelligent, and it does not compensate for the bad plot and underdeveloped characters. I found myself just wanting it to be over an hour into it. I had no problem understanding the concept, i just thought it was nothing exceptional. Let's not only enter one dream but enter three! It was completely ridiculous. I realize that it was a movie and they don't necessarily have to be realistic but i think the idea to enter three dreams was just a sad attempt to make the movie have more depth and fake complexity. This film easily could have been shortened down if it didn't have the unnecessary dragged out gun fights. When ever a new gun fight came up i would grown knowing i'd have to sit and watch it for another twenty minutes or so. They never developed the characters to make you feel bad for them if they died or got hurt. I even thought while watching how much i wouldn't care if they got stuck in the dream forever and went into limbo or whatever, as long as it ends soon and i can leave! I would never have thought that if they would have made the characters relatable and not so indulgent. The movie itself took itself a little too seriously also. I got a vibe the whole time just with the over dramatic music and over the top effects that the people who made it obviously thought too highly of it which i never find appealing. The only reason i give this movie any stars at all is for the cinematography and acting. Otherwise this movie is just an overrated indulgent film that is just pitiful attempt to call a 9/10 star movie. Pathetic.
Damn this film rates high on IMDb, but I am not one for ratings. I think a great film is like food, we have all different taste, and this did not taste well for me. Sure it's glossy, great special effects, great cast. But this film is all over the place, just to many angle's with in an angle. Leonardo has made some great films, but after Shutter Island I became less of a fan. I rate Shutter Island only slightly better, but both are a let down for me. I am sure lots of people will dislike my take on this over hyped film, what kills the story for me, it has all these different layers inside layers, sure the idea is O.K but it is not very well done in this film, just one big mess of special effects, that leaves me just feeling very flat. I gave it a 3 out of 10, as visually it is pleasing.


                
For the amount of effort that went into this production, I found the result to be ultimately pretty dull. Like nearly 99% of what has come out of Hollywood in the past 15 years or so, this film has loads of technique but little heart. It offers little to care for, and therefore little to remember.Yes, there's some fancy graphics, but that's about it. The internal logic of the nested dreams is routinely disrupted, the action sequences don't make much sense (why all the shooting, really?) and none of the characters are emotionally involving. Di Caprio's character has a nominal story arc at best, and the angst he's supposed to feel is not grounded because we don't know neither his nor his wife's history, or how they got together.Yes, Inception is a fun mind game. But like most mind games, it ultimately doesn't make for a worthwhile experience. And at 2.5 hours this mind game is far too overblown. Its lack of proportion (too much talk, too many levels, too much trivial action, complicated for the sake of complicated) unfortunately makes things worse. The incessant music, typical of Zimmer, is trivially repetitive, as are much of the action sequences. Ultimately these become much more intrusive and annoying as the film progressives.When I compare this film to older ones, like The Woman in the Window, which achieves so much more of a memorable experience and story, yet with so little, one has to wonder if technology and truckloads of cash are getting in the way of memorable storytelling.This film would have fared much better as a comedy, or maybe as round-table discussion about dreams, or maybe as a survey of a Facebook clique of friends sharing dreams. But the film needed to have far more fantasy to really evoke the sensation of dreamscapes. And most importantly, it needed a far more soulful and compelling story with characters we are allowed to learn about and therefore care about.


                
Based on reviews I was hoping this was a "different" American film in the sense that it will have substance, subtlety and that it will make me think. It did not, it did not and it did not again. It is your typical Hollywood flick with car chases, shooting galore, explosions, fistfights, pretty boys and girls - the whole nine yards to sell tickets to the ADHD generation of teenagers. I gave it 3 stars - instead of just 2 - because the special effects are absolutely astonishing. This film wishes to be clever but really is not and does not make a lot of sense either. It reminded me of the teachers/professors who were confusing on purpose in order to make us believe they are smarter than we were.


                
While it seems ingenious to invent a cunning conceit such as the one deployed in this film it is like a novel that uses neologisms and errant grammar and punctuation: it's effects tire and it seems less than it wishes it to be.The dramaturgy and logic of Inception is very simple and relies on a 'reductio' argument which is quite clear within 10 minutes,(and is absurd because of the logical impossibility of the argument itself like Wittgenstein's proof against skepticism) but it's true failing is not that: it is in fact the use of change and sudden effects as plot devices because once employed they heighten awe but kill any suspense or connection with the characters in the film. There is no reason or emotion in caring about characters that are chaff in a rather ordinary logician's game.Years ago Thomas Pynchon was considered an important writer, and the author and critic (and sometime film critic) Peter Ackroyd wrote an astute review of his major work, "Gravity's Rainbow", in which he ridiculed the ease of such writing; it's deceptive cleverness; it's egoism, and its immaturity because it is so overtly obvious, and like anything childish, of no real lasting interest artistically. Inception is that too. Instantly forgettable.


                
Over the top special effects movie that overshadow the plot and interesting concept. Actually a very very simple plot. Visually excellent, if you are impressed with studio effects that you see in so many action movies. I guess.Simple plot line but complicated presentation that left me lost twice lost until about 10 minutes later. Then, "I got it." After one or two of those you get the hang of it. This is how the movie is structured – they tell you and then reinforce. Kindergarten for adults. It is all very clear but you have to pay attention The problem is the action scenes are over the top. How many snow chases have you seen? There are bad guys that can't shoot and good guys who seem to be wimps that beat the heck out of the soldiers and thugs. This isn't real life. How many times do we need to watch the fight scene in the hotel hallway? Why do they go on and on? Boy is this tedious! There is a lot of time and special effects used for a simple plot line.It's a ying and yang movie. I guess I would call it a cognition or attribution movie coupled with overly done, seen it before shoot it up scenes used to present what were interesting concepts. It is simple action movie and I think it could have been a thinker's movie.


                
This film should have been awarded a Razzie for having the worst plot, that is if such an award exists. The plot was immensely difficult to follow. I remember reading one of a free cinema magazines while watching it at the cinema. The plot is in a dream, that is in another dream that is in a dream while he is dreaming, or something along those lines. For the first half an hour or so I was engaged with the film's plot. Who wouldn't be interested in the idea that Nolan was playing with? But he took his ideas too far in the case of 'Inception.' The whole thing just became ridiculous. The bizarre plot had an effect on the other aspects of the film. The otherwise brilliant action scenes became surprisingly dull. As I often had little idea of what was going on, to me the action scenes just seemed pointless as I did not know what the characters motives were.Despite this, the action scenes and the cinematography did offer a real spectacle.Again, one of the positives was that the acting was, admittedly of a good quality. DiCaprio, Page, Caine and Postlewaite all had good performances. But is was such a shame that I was not able to follow the development of the characters because of the plot.Overall, if you enjoy a mind-boggling plot then 'Inception' will be for you. If you want a film that you will enjoy from start to finish without having to get into it, 'Inception' will not be for you.


                
Of course, I had heard lots about this movie and actually love track #12 from the OST (by Zimmer), but I'd never made an effort to go watch it. Something in my mind told me it wouldn't be worth it. Besides, I'm not much impressed by DiCaprio's acting skills.Still, after a long while I wanted to see what the fuss is about. I am checking out numerous films people recommend as 'best of 2010' to me.Inception was waaaaay too shallow for me. It's a superficial action film that admittedly looks visually nice, but there's no real drama. It actually bored me. Left me cold.If you want to see a 2010 film including DiCaprio, go see Shutter Island. Much, much better, but not great, which is too bad.Anyway, I don't want to spend too many words on this Inception creation. Yawn.


                
Boring movie with no meaning and only a few fancy special effects. Special effects were not even all that good. Just a few slow motion anti-gravity scenes. Even the Matrix would have been boring without some kind of "meaning of life" stuff. You need more than star power to make a good movie. I kept thinking the movie would have intriguing thought provoking idea, but it was so predictable. It turned into a real snooze. The premise of the movie is not enough to carry the entire movie. Using dreams to influence behavior is a concept that has been used many times effectively. Such as SG-1 when the Harcesus teaches Daniel that power would corrupt him through a dream. But this movie has no uplifting message.


                
I found Inception to consist mostly of drawn out, overblown idiotic chases and shootouts. Mostly boring and some hilariously so.I found the floating, gravity defying scenes downright silly. Especially funny was when the 'Arthur' character stacked and tied up the rest of the sleeping crew in the hotel and floated them around.This film was a good 30-45 minutes too long in that respect. Way too much time spend on chasesThis whole idea of 'is this a dream or reality' thing is as old as the hills, even though I do in fact subscribe to many variants of the idea as part of my own philosophy. It doesn't, or shouldn't come off as some really 'deep thought' of a movie to most people. Unless, the genius lies in whether or not the poor film goer can follow the action or not.I just happen to think the movie was a cheap cgi infested shoot em up wrapped in a cynically presented metaphysical wrapper.Personally I enjoyed "The Nines" much much better in terms of this whole 'what is reality' movie theme.
"Inception" seems to be taking the premises of such films as "Peter Ibbetson," "Altered States," "Being John Malkovich" and "The Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" to more elaborate lengths. Throughout this action flick – and that is what it truly is, despite its pretenses – I couldn't help thinking of the most recent James Bond thriller in which I lost track of who was who among the secondary characters because the identities they started with were revealed as false, but then the revelation itself was proved equally false (or at least dubious), to the point where you couldn't believe a word they were saying and ultimately you ceased to care. With "Inception" we get a lot of technical jabbering from the mouths of Leonardo DiCaprio, Joseph Gordon-Levitt and Ellen Page about what everything means or might mean as they "share" and "engineer" other people's dreams in order to infiltrate their subconscious to achieve their corporate goals. These dream states are filled with the usual action staples of racing and crashing vehicles, explosions and the liberal use of automatic weapons, accompanied here by huge crumbling cityscapes (less effective than the more modest melting away of various smaller environments in "Eternal Sunshine"). There is nothing particularly dreamy about writer-director Christopher Nolan's dream world; aside from a few interesting computer-generated images like a whole city appearing to fold over upon itself, none of the effects stick in the mind or affect the viewer's juices. Marion Cotillard contributes her trademark broken heartedness. Page gives the same performance we are familiar with from her telesystems commercials. Cillian Murphy emotes richly as the kidnapped son of an energy industry magnate. The heaving score by Hans Zimmer sounds like hundreds of others.


                
Went to see this film recently and was very disappointed. I was expecting something amazing given the extremely high IMDb rating - couldn't have been more disappointed with this movie.The special effects were good, but apart from that, I think the film didn't work particularly well and it's totally over-rated.The acting was nothing amazing and the story is not as clever as it pretends to be. I agree with some other reviewers on here, that this film passes itself off as being very intelligent and clever but only for people who don't have any intelligence and are easily pleased.I like Nolan's other work - Dark Knight was excellent, however, this movie is nowhere near as good and felt pretty lame.I think a lot of people who don't even understand this movie, just gave it a high rating assuming it was a clever movie when it actually wasn't that good at all.This movie is certainly 'not' a masterpiece or anything even close. It felt like a Matrix wannabe, but I have to say The Matrix blows this movie out of the water by a huge margin.As I write this review, this movie is currently in the top 3 movies of all time?? I've never been more shocked - get real people. It seems the film companies are paying people to vote on here and boost their films - there can be no other explanation. Very disappointing and was expecting so much more from this movie. Don't bother paying to see it in the cinema as you will feel let down.


                
INCEPTION The dialogue in this film is preoccupied with explaining what is happening, rather than being natural. This is very possibly due to the director feeling the concept of the film was too complicated for mere cinema goers to comprehend and instead of enhancing the film as a good flowing natural dialogue might it in fact has a tendency to spoil the film. It is also very repetitive, continually repeating the rules of inception, the inner workings of the dream construction. It becomes very annoying and I'm sure Inception holds the world record for saying the word 'dream' more times than any other.There is a concept in teaching, developed by the Americans which goes like this, tell the people what you are going to teach them, then teach it to them, then tell them what is was you just taught them. It seems the director has adopted this method of explaining to the audience, just in case they are too stupid to get it for themselves, what the film is about and what is happening.Di Caprio who in my opinion is a talented actor that often picks challenging roles was neither commanding nor outstanding. Partly due to the lack of any real structure to the film as the whole thing seemed too fluid and poured out in a tsunami of CGI. Additionally there is no kind of character development, something Di Caprio is generally masterful at, leaving the film feeling hollow and a waste of an otherwise talented cast. Something Hollywood studios will often do when trying to portray highly intelligent criminals (or evil masterminds) is cast British actors, and it is noticeable in Inception that director Christopher Nolan has not broken away from the stereotype.A previous reviewer wrote "The stupid dialog is there, because Nolan did not know, how to push the plot forward in an integrated way" and i totally agree.I've heard a lot about how Inception is the new Matrix and I must confess I have never watched Matrix, I did sit down and try, on three occasions to do so, but all three times i fell asleep out of sheer boredom. That is not sarcasm it is real. I know the Matrix story as it's so well known, whether or not Inception is the new Matrix i cannot say but I can confess it's a fairly redundant mediocre film with an over contrived plot strung together by cliché action scenes. The plot concept is not so difficult to comprehend and seems to be hyped up for what it really is. The only real thought needed is that of the closing shot, (this is not a spoiler ).. does it tip or does it keep spinning? I smell a sequel.3/10


                
I rarely post but felt the need after seeing the rave reviews on this film that I clearly disagree with. I felt obligated to vote to bring this score down to reality. I've read the terms benchmark, intelligent, masterpiece and greatest ever. After seeing the movie I find those terms and the current rating of 9.2 insulting. Yes for some reason I feel personally insulted by this. Is this because I was expecting the world after the great reviews and was truly disappointed? Was it the fact that I believe most feel the movie wasn't that great but are jumping on the bandwagon? I'm not the most intelligent individual in the world and can't understand how anyone intelligent could actually enjoy the story line with so many obvious holes. All I know is these layers upon layers of poor plots left a sour feeling in my mouth. I've read the comment and agree this is 'a smart movie for ignorant people'. They do say ignorance is bliss. Keep rating this ten you smart folk.Overrated, unengaging and far too long (let me scream that from the roof tops) are my thoughts. I paid top dollar to view this in my lovely electric reclining leather chair being waited on hand a foot in a 'gold class' cinema and I wanted to escape the comfort of my chair after 30 minutes. Long and painful movie experience. I urge you to filter through the positive reviews and read some well articulated negative responses. I have chose to keep this post short and sweet and leave the well articulated responses to the well articulated (lord knows every second person here thinks they are a literary genius). I really did want to post a 1 out of 10. I am a realist though and I have seen worse films. On a positive note Leonardo DiCaprio, Tom Hardy and Joseph Gordon-Levitt were great. They boosted my score from a one to a three. Leo and Joseph finally went through went through puberty and were believable as adults. Give me back the 148 minutes of my life wasted watching this film.


                
Having read a couple of glowing initial critics' reviews for this movie, I ventured out to catch Inception on its opening weekend. I wouldn't call myself a regular movie-goer and I usually prefer to wait and get some positive feedback on a movie before I invest my time and money. I felt confident that Inception would be worth both. I was wrong. This movie is so heavy on confusing, superficial action, yet void of any emotional connection, that it's difficult to remain attentive to it. Fortunately, even though the movie is overly long at 2.5 hours, the initial scenes give you an indication pretty early on whether it is your kind of movie or not. If you can grasp the first 15-20 minutes or so, and like what you see, then you may enjoy the movie or at least find it somewhat intriguing; if not, I can assure you it doesn't get any better, and you will feel confused and jilted by the end. I won't go into the plot - that has been delved into and debated in numerous previous reviews; suffice it to say, it's very convoluted, "layered" and needs your rapt attention. Nothing really, in my mind, stands out as being its saving grace. The acting is adequate but, again, the characters are not developed to the point where you really have any feelings for their ultimate fates. The special effects, save for the hallway zero gravity fight scene, are nothing out of the ordinary. The movie jumps around a lot, and DeCaprio's reoccurring interaction with his late wife is particularly annoying and confusing (what's a dream and what's reality?). I left the theatre wondering what all the buzz was about, although the majority of attendees at my showing had the same reaction as myself. I came home and checked out this site and, again, wondered what the heck I was missing in this movie that made it so spectacular,a "masterpiece" according to some. Now, a couple of weeks later, I see more realistic and accurate reviews and am gratified to know that I am neither insane nor stupid. This movie is obviously geared demographically to a youthful audience and/or those who consider themselves aficionados of this genre. I honestly think some have talked themselves into believing all the hype about this movie. Personally, I'm just relieved to know that I am not that far off the mark about this film. I'm going to check back again in about a month to see where this movie stands and I have no doubt it will have dropped off the radar altogether.
In my opinion the IMDb review by Carl_Tait from New York, NY is about the best summation of the film. A great concept but lost in translation. And to think Mr. Nolan wrote the story for "Inception"!!! I include "Inception" among the film genre that have come to be known as "mind**ck" films. I don't agree with every list of films characterized thus on the web but this is an unmistakable genre. And "Inception" definitely belongs there.I suspect there are a lot of viewers out there who see a complex but convoluted film and find it gripping because BAM!! it hits them so hard on the head that they dare not concede they don't understand it because they are afraid someone will find out that they didn't :-) But there are a number of IMDb reviewers who have given "Inception" 10/10 or close to that rating. The way these reviewers have articulated their reasoning is definitely more comprehensible and cogent than the film is in my opinion. I wish Mr. Nolan had consulted them before making the film as I am sure they could bring some clarity to the mix.To my mind "Inception" has a convoluted and twisted narrative (if there is one) which *seems* multi-layered, but actually throws just about everything it can into the mix, never mind the sink, it throws in even the kitchen itself. I will say that the CGI effects are pretty amazing. But the film is overpopulated with characters and it was hard to figure out why more than half of them were there.And as another reviewer commented, what the heck are the guns and explosions doing in a film based on a shared dream paradigm."Inception" gave me no reason to care for any of the characters, excepting to some degree Ellen Page's character Ariadne. I had no reason to care for Marion Cotillard's character Mal, and found her portrayal somewhat of a female stereotype playing the neurotic unhinged foil.I am sure Mr. Nolan is an excellent film maker who has definitely come into his own as far as the box office is concerned. But so far the only films he has done that I have truly admired are "Insomnia" and "Batman Begins". Before "Batman Begins" I was never a fan of any of the Batman films.While watching "Inception" there was many a time that I felt like stopping and watching something else but gave it the benefit of doubt that the film might pick-up. Sorry to say it never did.I do hope Mr.Nolan gives a little more attention to maintaining a narrative and character development in his films rather than just bombarding us with complexity (or more accurately confusion!) and CGI effects.All I can say is that "Inception" is exhausting viewing and represents complexity for the sake of complexity or something like that.....


                
there are some great ideas that blow your mind when you first see them on screen. in the inception genre, matrix did that. it was fresh and left an impact long after one had seen the movie. great plot, screenplay, direction, editing... the 'dream' idea had that potential but inception hardly does justice to it. the plot is not engaging, it's confusing. the action sequences are lame and clichéd and hardly grab you. there are some nice special effects but for them you don't need to see the movie, the trailer is enough. i wonder what's wrong with movie watchers. they have played right into the hands of the marketing team and bought the hype. rather than using their own sensibilities, i think they are too embarrassed to call a lemon a lemon, fearing 'how can i call it bad when everyone is going ga ga over it.' a below average movie, rated highly by below average audience.


                
The visuals in the first third of the movie are stunning. But then the story gets in the way. The multi-layered experience of the characters is so spoiled by all the crashes, shooting, and gratuitous action/violence. DiCaprio is doing a lot of weird stuff these days. See Shutter Island, for example. And he is better than this. I think this movie was made for adolescent boys. In the screening I saw they made up 2/3 of the audience. And they loved it. But I didn't hear any girls or women praising it. Altogether the cast was very good but they had little to do except go with the narrative. And it's a poor narrative. Boo.


                
