What is going on with the IMDb user reviews lately? It's like the masses can no longer be trusted. In the last month, the users have decreed "Airbender" the worst abomination ever, when in fact it's just an average movie. User reviews raved over "Despicable Me", when it was about as entertaining as a "Dexter's Lab" rerun. And now? "Inception" is the 3rd best movie ever made? Are you kidding me? This was a very creative and interesting flick that went waaaayyy overboard. The problem with this genre (you know the genre -- was it a dream? or a dream about a dream? or a parallel universe where people dream they're dreaming about parallel universes while pretending to dream) is sooner or later you stop caring about the actual action because it's a dream. So the 20 minutes spent watching gunfights and car crashes in the pouring rain, and the 30 minutes spent watching these guys shoot up a ski fortress, and another 30 minutes watching what's-his-name float around a hotel just didn't do it for me. Not a terrible movie, but 3rd greatest movie ever? You must be dreaming.
"What's the most resilient parasite? An idea. A single idea from the human mind can build cities. An idea can transform the world and rewrite all the rules. Which is why I have to steal it." That is the motto of "Inception". It is a very intriguing idea in itself, but one which the film only goes superficially to explore. To cover for this superficiality, the plot is given a superficially complex guise, but actually it's pretty straightforward.Leonardo DiCaprio and his team invade people's dreams to steal information from their subconscious. However, their new mission in "Inception" is not to steal information, bur rather to "plant" it, therefore causing the inception of a new idea in the target's subconscious. To do this, they form dreams within dreams (which in the film actually work as three separate dreams rather than actual dreams within dreams), therefore accessing a more vulnerable form of the target's subconscious.For some reason (which the film doesn't adequately explain) within the dream there is a symbol of the subconscious motive (say, a safe) whereas you can find the desired information, or whereas you can plant the desired information. But there's a catch. If for some reason you "die" in a dream within a dream, you remain in subconscious limbo (which again is not adequately explained) which nevertheless can resemble a form of reality in itself.Amidst all that, Christopher Nolan makes an action film, with car chases, gunshots etc etc.Here is the thing with Nolan. As a director he only offers intrigue. He approaches an ambitious idea, touches the surface of it, but then hesitates to proceed any further, and reverts to the action film prototype. Furthermore, he has done it so many times already, that even the action segments look pompous and clichéd (too much reliance on editing and warping of real time).This is a confused film, which tries to hide it's inadequacies in a needlessly confusing plot.Once again with a Nolan film, ambiguity prevails. When DiCaprio and his wife are stuck in subconscious limbo, the wife "locks" the idea of doubting an objective reality, and throws away the key. DiCaprio invades her subconscious and replants the idea, thus when they re-enter real life the idea remains. But the idea was there in the first place, wasn't it? The sub-plot with Robert Fischer is stated in such a way so that it impresses with it's artificial "complexity" (in the first "layer" of dream, DiCaprio's team plant seeds of doubt; in the second layer of dream they direct Fischer into facing this doubt; and in the third layer of dream he faces it, duh), but it is suggested that the seeds of Fischer's discomfort were already rooted in real life, with DiCaprio's team merely fast-forwarding them (hence ambiguity again). The icing on the cake is we never learn whether DiCaprio has returned to real life or not (ambiguity).What a mess. The only thing this multiple dream architecture serves is that it spices up what is essentially a simple plot: that somebody enters someone's dream in order to plant an idea. That's all there is to it.As it is, ambiguity characterizes Christopher Nolan very nicely, as he seems eternally torn between the commercial action film and.. something else (without that "something else" ever taking shape). Nolan must stop hinting at a grander scope and actually embrace it.
Its all flash and little substance in Christopher Nolan's over long story of people able to go into the dreams of others.I'm not going to go into the plot, partly to play fair with those of you who haven't see the film, but Nolan has constructed a film so needlessly messy that its damn near impossible to summarize simply.Yes the visuals are spectacular, though most of them are obviously CGI creations. There are also fewer than you would think since the dream weavers of the story have to keep thing real in order to achieve their ends.For me the story isn't much of anything,certainly not enough to support a two and a half hour tale. The deepness of Nolan's "philosophy" is also over done, and ultimately meaningless since Nolan is on record as saying it's all been made up and exists purely to drive his plot.I like the story I just wish it didn't take so long to get where it was going.I also hate that Nolan changes the rules about half way in as a means of making things more exciting. Its not fair and I was so annoyed I walked out of the theater the first time I saw the film.Good not great, its worth a look see down the road.
Brilliant technical wizardry. Heady, at least apparently so. A ride more than a movie but a movie none the less. Chris Nolan is rapidly becoming the director of his generation and I'm longing to find out what is he trying to say. He has established his technical power again and again but if I think of "Memento" for instance I remember the gimmick but not what the story was really about. I suspect the same will be said of "Inception". I'm not putting down, I'm just wondering. I left the theater full of questions and nobody could actually give me any answers. I'm not talking about the plot but at the way Christopher Nolan chose to tell the story. Leonardo Di Caprio is acquiring some extra gravitas as an adult presence on the screen.Loved Cillian Murphy, I always do. Riveted by Tom Hardy. Enchanted by Marion Cotillard. Amused by Joseph Gordon-Levitt and delighted by Ellen Page. I wonder what Mr Nolan will do for an encore.


                
Inception is an interesting movie without a doubt (refer to one of the countless other reviews for why that is). What I am going to focus on is why I think it's not a 9/10 which is what the IMDb voters on average have given it. I will also make the presumption you have seen the movie, as it's not productive to repeat the plot. The second reason is because a fair amount of time has gone since I saw the movie (twice), and although that means I've had lots of time to think it through, I don't remember all the details.First, let me state the most immediate reason to why I didn't like the movie that much: The second half of the movie is a long string of bog standard action sequences. Yes, it's trying to be tense, but it doesn't manage to surprise me one bit - the ending is nearly completely predictable. Throughout, I care about only a few of the characters, and about none of the endless imaginary minions they are facing. If this fairly large flaw had been absent, the movie would at least have been a 9/10 for me.Now for the more subtle problems: I feel that not enough was done to emphasize that the mission takes place in a dream world. Most of the time, the movie's "dream" world is indistinguishable to the real world. This similarity is intended (it is argued that the dreamer otherwise would become suspicious and wake up, or reject inception). Unfortunately, it means there are few chances to surprise us... That's where we return to "bog standard action sequences": Sure there are a few cool twists that illustrate the characters are in a dream, like the city being turned upside down; but these devices are for the most part absent once the inception mission starts, and thus have minor impact in total.Obviously, this movie defies all physical laws, which would be okay if there is an alternative set of rules to cover for reality. It doesn't have such a coherent rule set however; instead, it is mostly reminiscent of movies where anything convenient is made up for whatever is supposed to be happening on screen. The bad guys perform wildly differently depending on whether the protagonists are supposed to be able to escape or not, rules for various dream levels diverge too much, and so on. In short, the script fails to lend itself credibility - one cannot simply say "it's a dream, we don't have to care about plausibility".Aside from more than a few inconsistencies and 'too implausible to be believable'-facts, is is noticeable the background story/universe is mostly invented from scratch for this film. Perhaps it would have benefited Inception if a clearer connection to some existing religious or other fantasy theme had been made. We can only speculate for now, but I do hope someone decides to make another movie with the "entering dreams of others" theme with stronger ties to some existing mythology.All in all, these complaints are pretty minor (except for the aforementioned way Inception attempts too much to be an action/thriller movie towards the latter parts). I'm giving it 7/10, since it made me stare at my watch several times to determine when I would no longer have to endure more clinical action sequences without substance.
Well, I didn't think it lived up to all the hype, but nonetheless it was still a pretty good film. I don't think the story came out quite the way Nolan had hoped, after working on it for over a decade. In my view the story is basically a combination of Vanilla Sky meets The Matrix, but really it ends up being less meaningful than both (A combination of the mystical waking dream and the matrix of consciousness). This is Nolan's version of Edgar Allan Poe's A Dream Within A Dream, or the like. However I don't think the film really comes across this way as well as it should, or especially, the way it was meant to.Take this kiss upon the brow! And, in parting from you now, Thus much let me avow- You are not wrong, who deem that my days have been a dream; Yet if hope has flown away in a night, or in a day, In a vision, or in none, Is it therefore the less gone? All that we see or seem Is but a dream within a dream.I stand amid the roar Of a surf-tormented shore, And I hold within my hand Grains of the golden sand- How few! yet how they creep Through my fingers to the deep, While I weep- while I weep! O God! Can I not grasp Them with a tighter clasp? O God! Can I not save One from the pitiless wave? Is all that we see or seem But a dream within a dream? The film overall feels forced and clunky, it lacks any kind of good rhythm. For me to see this film ranked in the top 15 films ever made according to the IMDb voters only goes to prove one thing; The IMDb top 250 list is good for nothing at all but a laugh. I thought Inception was pretty good. However pretty good is stretching it as far as I would ever go. This film is a long long way from great.7/10


                
I was keen to see this film given the high IMDb rating, as I agree with nearly all ratings I've seen on the site, but I appear to be one of the minority who think it is overrated. I couldn't emotionally engage with the characters for some reason, and so was not too concerned on the outcome for them.Whilst there were some complexities to the plot, it is reasonably easy to understand. I agree with some other comments I've seen that many characters accepted the quite fantastical premise very readily, and were prepared to place themselves at considerable risk for no real reason. So some reactions were not what you would expect for the situation.Having had time to reflect I would watch the film again, but do not think I will keep coming back to this unlike the Matrix which has a similar feel but is a much better film.


                
There is no doubt that Nolan is a very talented director, and I like a lot of his films, but sadly I think like a number of other hugely successful directors before him (Peter Jackson springs to mind) his success has led to a detrimental degree of freedom for him to churn out his own poorly-written scripts unchecked, and make films that are about an hour longer than they need to be. I know I'm swimming against the tide of public opinion here, but while I was hugely excited about seeing Inception back when it came out, I was absolutely crushed on first viewing. I found it terribly written (the film begins with enough exposition scenes to fill a normal film's running time!), incomprehensible (editing was all over the place, action dull and repetitive), visually disappointing (all the best bits were revealed in the trailer and were all contained in the exposition scenes rather than having anything to do with the story) and with a concept that just didn't hold water (the dream sequences seemed to always resemble Matrix out-takes and were held together by a logic that just wasn't very dream-like)!Perhaps if Nolan had a studio breathing down his neck and someone to revise his shaky script this could have turned out well, but after the success of TDK he can effectively write his own ticket and is (sadly) free to churn out this kind of lazy and self-indulgent snooze-fest. The same thing happened with Peter Jackson after LOTR with King Kong (an hour too long, too much freedom etc.)Hans Zimmer's incredible score was about the only positive I took out of Inception (Zimmer's brilliant scores are increasingly the glue that holds Nolan's films together and makes them seem better than they are). Despite his obvious talents and love of film (I love him for shooting Batman stuff in IMAX 70mm!) Nolan has some very bad habits (mainly relying on his and his brother's writing) which I think really hamper his films these days. I loved TDK, but it frustrates me in almost equal measure, and though I haven't seen The Dark Knight Rises yet, I will go in with very low expectations based on his apparently dwindling form.


                
I went into this movie expecting one of the best movies of all time. However, that is not what I saw. The runtime is extremely long and I found myself checking the time several times throughout the film. It was an interesting film to see, but it definitely does not belong on a list with the likes of "Shawshank" or "Godfather". The story was very confusing.There seemed to be plot holes and loose story lines that were never really tied up. The concept of the film is very intriguing and you will leave the theater wondering what it was all about. However, the atmosphere of some of the scenes felt very similar to Shutter Island for me. I almost felt like Leonardo DiCaprio did not really have to act much as he was basically playing a character similar to that of Teddy Daniels. Hope he isn't going to spend the rest of his career playing that same character. It was also nice to see Ellen Page in something besides Juno. She can be more than a snarky, pregnant teenager. Also, The visual effects are extremely well-done.I am not a fan of Nolan's work. The Dark Knight was a film that I could never understand why there was so much hype. It was average to me, at best. Inception, however, is much better than Memento.It is a film that you must see just because the concept is very interesting, but it is not something that you can watch over and over again.


                
This film is overrated. Besides being accompanied by a score determined to set you to sleep there's really no filmmaking here that sets it above the rest.The plot is very interesting and, for the most part, well conceived. However, the characters do too much talking simply explaining to the audience what the meaning of their actions are. Why assume the audience is inept?The basis of the plot itself is where film most earns its grade. This is truly a unique idea for the screen. Unfortunately, it was denigrated by the unnecessary dumbing down of the story and the unimpressive acting of the cast.No matter what the subject of a movie, to end it with the question of whether it was all a dream or not is not clever.


                
I had hoped that the movie would have been more like the part where the girl changed the environment around her (in the dream world), bet the art of inception of course was ability to maintain stability. I was frustrated that the budget was gone almost solely for the slow-mo effects, but to a constantly changing environment. But thats OK, I don't think it would be possible to make such a movie under 400 million and in such a small production time that it was made, so for the effort that Nolan had done - A GREAT MOVIE, just not what i expected. The plot wasn't stupendously simple, it was quite intriguing, but way too explanatory, I can't imagine what went on Noaln's mind when he thought of a dream within a dream, that wasn't a particularly smart move.
Where should I start? It would be better to get straight to the point. Firstly, despite the idea is brilliant, in other words, generally the story of the movie is brilliant, ideas don't make a movie great as just complicatedness doesn't make a movie good. By this movie, personally, I have understood that Nolan is not "my director". The Dark Knight was also a serious disappointment for me and Batman Begins was just a summer blockbuster (Following and Prestige were very very good) As for Inception, the biggest flaw of the movie is the movie is lack of heart and soul, in other words, it is cold. The characters are cold, the atmosphere is cold, the reactions are cold, because they are in dream? Well, I don't think so. It causes what then? I didn't much care about the intrigue, couldn't identify with the characters, so the most important problem of the movie is its dramatic structure. The second is the "dreams" itself. You know, the agent of dreams in cinema is David Lynch. Why? Because he shoots creative, intriguing, sometimes meaningless as it should be and surreal dream sequences. The dream sequences in Inception can only impress the architects, mathematicians and some businessmen (because there are a lot of men in black suit) It is because like his approach towards Batman, he sticks to reality. Despite the visual effects are jaw dropping, "the street bending" scene is my favorite, it doesn't help much. By the way, honestly, I couldn't understand the trick of Ariadne, for example, is it planned or impromptu? If the point is impressiveness, well I was much more impressed by Sucker Punch for example which has been exposed to harsh reviews. The movie also has not any dramatic twist, epic scene (except for a few moments) or real mystery which had been all necessary in my opinion. Can we say that the movie was low key? Thirdly, some, may be many action scenes seem pointless and ineffective. Especially the "snow" sequence. It was too long without real entertainment or excitement. There is not any problem with the cast (except the fact that in contrast with the majority, I think that Leonardo Di Caprio's performance in this movie was just good, not his best performance so far, it is nothing, for example in comparison with What's eating Gilbert Grape!), but it is a bit disappointing that Nolan often uses the same actors in his movies. A note: Michael Caine's character might be a tribute for his character in Children of Men. If you ask me, the best part of the movie is the "train scene" It was the only scene that I was dramatically involved and got excited. The "gravity" sequence was just interesting. I didn't find it epic. Finally, about the plot, I didn't find the starting point creative, brilliant or exciting. I mean the concept of choosing a businessman for inception, weren't there better options? In other words, the main story was too poor for the concept. However, if we consider Nolan's style, to tell a story about the world of business, might be exciting for him. However, if we consider the hype, the rating, the reviews etc. it seems that Mr. Nolan has deluded audiences again or we have been incepted.


                
Inception is the first movie nominated for Best Picture that I hated on. It's not all that.My biggest problem was that they couldn't get me to care about the relationship between Leonardo DiCaprio, his wife and his child, which was suppose to be Dom Cobb(DiCaprio character) biggest motivation. I could care less for any of the characters, I wasn't emotionally invested at all.This isn't the first time Christopher Nolan tried to take Film Art concepts and commercialize it. This is an attempt at making a surrealism commercial. The problem with trying to make a surreal movie for the general public is that you have to make it understandable to the masses. The dreams in the movie was too orderly. Surrealist films like, Un Chien Andalou, are chaotic like dreams.Big visuals and action sequences aren't enough anymore, if you can't get me care about what drives the story, you're going to lose me.


                
I really wanted to like Inception because of great cast, because of stunning music, because of an interesting premise (Pros). But nope... It needs more than that to make a movie work for me.Cons: There's no character development, no engaging personal relations and no soul... Plain action disguised as dreamworld&psych exploration. And too much action just killed it for me. Not that I dislike some action from time to time, especially if it serves it's purpose (ie Fight club, Equilibrium...) but action in Inception was it's primary and only relevant element. Everything other served holy action and everything happened in the name of action. Interesting plot was there to support action, not vice versa:( Like some of the other reviewers, I see some similarity between this one and Shutter island (beside of DiCaprio:) But I liked Shutter island much much more. They both pretend to be mind twisters, tense and clever. Shutter island almost did it, but Inception missed the point. And I blame Nolan for that. Too pretentious director made a too pretentious movie. So just 7,3 from me


                
This film is in the vein of movies like "The Matrix" that flirt with the idea of an unknown but discoverable substrate underlying our ordinary experiences. This one comes especially close to Poe's view that all that we see is but a dream within a dream. The premise used to question our grasp on reality is fairly original: a team of individuals with different specialties has the ability to enter and stage other people's dreams, extract information from their subconscious and, crucially, even implant ideas with the expectation that these will, so to speak, rise to the surface--an original method of suggestion. The film spends quite a bit of time acquainting the viewer with the main characters and the peculiar laws that govern their work before setting them on the mission the plot centers on. While it is not always easy to follow, I found this setup the most arresting part of the film. Unfortunately, the main narrative does not, in my view, live up to the promise of the setup. The film is laden with scenes that would fit into any of a legion of Hollywood action flicks: car chases, hand to hand combat, explosions, shoot-'em-ups. It cannot be said that all of these serve to advance the narrative; the rationale for proceeding from one hackneyed scene to the next is frequently contrived, illogical or murky. Technically, they are well done and should gratify those who thrive on such fare. Visually, I found the scenes that show the generation of dreamscapes most laudable: the effects truly dazzle. I won't say the film entirely neglects the story it sets in motion but I certainly feel the time devoted to car chases and explosions could have been profitably devoted to developing the story and characters. To give a glaring example, I would have liked to have known the aftermath of the heros' intervention in their target's subconscious.


                
INCEPTION is a film in which you want to go in knowing nothing because it's best seen with no prior knowledge. So I'm just going to not say a word about the plot and have the film unfold in front of you, sometimes literally. It's pretty difficult to explain what INCEPTION really is because it's damn packed with so many interesting ideas. Really, when you come out of the theater, you'll only think, "What did I just see?" The film is filled with so much ambition and so many original ideas that it captivates you. In fact, I think this is the fastest 150 minute film I've ever seen because it felt like 80 minutes! I really wanted to see more when the credits rolled.Unfortunately, INCEPTION isn't a perfect film. It falls short on its ambition. Some ideas weren't as developed as I hope they would be and others weren't presented clear enough. In fact, it's as if the characters spoke in another type of jargon exclusively made for psychologists pursuing in the career of dreams. Also, the story isn't all that special. Another common complaint you might hear about the film is that the characters are flat. It's true. The film presents us with six or seven characters but does absolutely nothing with them. Leonardo DiCaprio's character is the only character that's fleshed out. In some cases, I didn't care for the characters when their lives were at stake.Still, the performances by the ensemble cast are really good. I enjoyed Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Ellen Page, and Tom Hardy in their roles a lot. I might not be the only person to notice this but I thought Leonardo DiCaprio played the exact same character as he did in SHUTTER ISLAND. I couldn't get past Ken Watanabe's thick accent. It was hard to understand him in many of his scenes. Marion Cotillard did a great job, though.The film is also visually intricate, if that makes sense and even that description doesn't give the film justice. Again, it's really hard to explain. The visual effects were really excellent along with the action scenes but don't expect this film to be filled with action. The soundtrack by Hans Zimmer (AKA: One of the best composers ever) is fantastic, much like Zimmer's other soundtracks.Overall, INCEPTION is a flawed but seriously excellent film that presents some very, very, very interesting ideas. It's a wholly original film, which is great considering the amount of remakes, re-imaginings, sequels, prequels, etc. that we've gotten in the past few years, let alone this year. The characters could have been fleshed out a lot more. Still, I was absolutely engaged throughout by the story, and Christopher Nolan's ingenious script and direction just sucks you in. This is the perfect cure for this year's lackluster summer.


                
If there was ever a film to label as "overrated", it would be The Dark Knight. If there was ever another film to label as "overrated", it would be Inception. I just don't understand what it is about Christopher Nolan's films but they have the tendency to receive large amounts of unwarranted and undeserved praise.While they are very well-made films, they are for the most part nothing more than entertaining popcorn flicks (Memento being the one exception). Popcorn flicks of the up-most quality but nothing truly memorable or deep. Now that I have gotten that out of the way, lets get on with the review.Now, basically, Inception is a heist film with a twist. The heists take place inside of a dream, thus allowing for some creative and tricky special effects to be pulled off. These effects are pretty amusing to watch, most notably a scene where the gravity of a hallway is shifting and the two actors are duking it out amidst the gravity shifts, and this makes for some impressive-looking chaos.The story while somewhat original, wasn't pulled off as smoothly as it could have been in my opinion. There were just far too many plot holes that you could drive a tank through. Now with a certain proper ending, these plot holes would diminish, but Nolan has yet to confirm just what the ending means so the plot holes are left intact. If you want a better idea of what I mean by that, PM me.Acting for the most part is good and gets the job done. Just don't expect anything Oscar-caliber here. If there was one stand-out performance in Inception, I would definitely say it's from Leo Dicaprio. The guy proves time and time again that he's one of the better young actors working right now. The rest of the cast gives passable performances, but nothing special. Michael Caine is wasted, and I feel the only reason he was hired was to get his name on the box.Not much needs to be said about the special effects. They're some of the best yet, and at times even creative. Possibly the strongest aspect of the film, next to the effects, is the musical score. Inception has one of the best scores in recent memory. My hat is off to Hans Zimmer. The effects, score, and flawed but intriguing story come together in making Inception a very enjoyable and entertaining film. It's definitely smarter than your average popcorn flick, but at the end of the day it's still just a popcorn flick. Nothing more, nothing less. It lacks the emotional punch and attention to detail that made District 9 so great (now that's a true masterpiece, and one of the greatest sci fi films ever made).I give Inception 7.5/10 and highly recommend it to anyone looking for a fun film that will also make them think a little bit.


                
I thought this was a good movie, but I also have to admit that I am a little puzzled by the buzz it generated among movie-goers.While I've enjoyed most of director Nolan's works, I found this one to be missing something. It did not captivate me as much. For a story about dreams, there's nothing in the movie that felt dream-like or creative to me. It felt mechanical and laborious.I did not understand the responsibility and work the architect has to do. There were no perplexing mazes in the dreams that I had hoped to see. The character Ellen Page played was only a plot device to lead us into Dicaprio's unresolved issues with the past, nothing more.Maybe I am not intelligent enough to fully appreciate this movie sure, just as I don't understand some reviewers with their difficult choice of expressions. But to me, some of the best books are for children.Oh, I think I know what was missing in this movie that I mentioned earlier. While trying hard to make audience wonder and calculate it just loses heart.Still a good movie but just weak at the joints it seems.


                
I must be, like, getting old and jaded or something. I found the movie predictable and more straightforward than I hoped it would be.A good alternative name for the film would have been "Wait, what?" as if there was any less action you'd be constantly asking yourself why the eff they didn't do X, or why Y didn't happen etc. The word "contrived" will keep nudging at your brain if you're not doing an exceptional job of suspending all disbelief along with all common sense.The final scene of the film was rather obvious from early on I thought.I found it relatively easy to follow, exactly what I was expecting, and totally lacking in interesting "Sixth Sense" plot twists. Everything pretty much was as it was presented to be.Not sure how this makes it to #3 on the all-time best list.The Matrix was way more entertaining...G.


                
I went into the cinema to see this film with sky high expectations given the domestic and international reviews of it. Phrases like "modern classic" and "landmark film" made me think that I was in for something truly special in terms of film history along the lines of Citizen Kane and The Godfather.Turns out I wasn't, well not all the way anyway. I won't bother with the whole plot line, since it's very sprawling and complicated, but suffice it to say that my main disappointment with the film stems from the fact that the thematics of the story simply are too limited and ordinary compared to the potential impact of the film's gimmick: the fact that you can enter somebody's dream to steal information or plant ideas.The plot revolves mainly around industrial espionage, a theme which simply does nothing for me emotionally. Who cares if one industrial tycoon wants to stop another? The dream concept of the film is truly magical and innovative and is a very compelling feature of the film itself. But why in heaven's name marry it to something as pointless as industrial espionage? What happened to something like the fight for world domination? It would have given the film infinitely more punch if the plot had centered around some political intrigue in stead. Especially given the unstable nature of the world today with wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, huge climate issues, and so forth.The subplot involving Leonardo DiCaprio and Marion Cotillard's characters to me comes off very flat, their on screen chemistry not being very strong. This is a shame, for the premise of the subplot has great emotional potential.All in all, somewhat of a disappointment, despite the wallop one inevitably receives from the film's take on the concept of entering someone else's dreams.


                
So we take a dash of the Matrix, a sprinkling of the Bourne series, a pinch of Shutter Island, toss in a whole bunch of evil extras left over from the A-Team series in the 80's, mix in some admittedly cool effects, but negate that with big 'time' issues, both the length of the movie and within the story itself, and we have the recipe for one of the highest rated movies of all time?Am I missing something?Entertaining? Without a doubt. Not in the least unhappy that I went to the theatre to see this, but I just don't get why everyone is losing their minds over this film.
My feelings about this movie is probably best illustrated by the Southpark episode 'Insheeption', just because a film is complex, doesn't mean it's good or cool.Making a film more complex and multi-layered doesn't necessarily make it a deeper and more engaging film. In the case of Inception, it generally only makes it more complex, and not in a way that is to the film's merit.The complixity gets in the way of the film's plot a lot, which is quite frankly, not that complicated.I can only call the film, an overly complex, though decent film, that just insists too much upon itself. It's a decent film,and although graded equally on IMDb, it does not deserve to be amongst the likes of The Shawnshank Redemption and The Godfather.


                
To start off with the positive, I feel this film features a good cast of interesting and likable characters, interesting action and visual effects, and a story which is compelling and human despite the unusual setting (much of which takes place in a number of distinct dream worlds). Indeed, the movie features two central stories with emotional resonance, one regarding the tortured relationship of the main character Cobb (DiCaprio) with the memory of his late wife Mal (Cotillard), and the relationship of the industrial magnate Fischer (Murphy) with his seemingly distant and recently-deceased father. Cobb's assistant Arthur (Gordon-Levitt) especially shines in wildly creative scenes inside a dream-world where gravity has been suspended, and the young architect Ariadne (Page) serves the story well in two ways, both as an outsider to the world of dream thievery whose training helps to explain the premise of the movie to the audience, and as a person curious to get at the root of Cobb's relationship with Mal.The title "Inception" refers to the idea of implanting a thought in the dreaming mind of another person, and the central plot concerns a thought which the industrialist Saito (Watanabe) wants planted in the mind of Fischer, causing Fischer to break up his father's holdings. Members of Cobb's team seem skeptical about the feasibility of planting such a thought, but Cobb's tortured past has shown him that such inception is indeed possible. Powerfully motivated by the desire to see his children in America again, but constrained by authorities who believe he played a role in the death of his wife, Cobb agrees to help Saito because the latter can pull strings to get Cobb back to his home. As Ariadne discovers, though, Cobb's relationship with Mal ~ which remains very much alive in Cobb's subconscious ~ is a powerful danger to everyone who joins him in the mission.So the film does deliver on many levels, with good action, good characters, and a story compelling both intellectually and emotionally. However, I do feel the movie dragged in spots, ironically because overdoses of action can slow down a movie rather than help the pace. Also, despite the fact that the movie is largely about dreams, I felt that the dreams weren't very dreamlike. Part of that can be explained by Cobb's use of the architect Ariadne to construct settings for the dreams, but real dreams arise from a non-logical place in the brain, and I think anyone who has kept a dream journal can attest that real dreams have a surreal quality quite unlike the real world. That isn't to say that the dream worlds of "Inception" aren't spectacular in their own way, but I felt the dream worlds of this movie had more in common with the alternate reality of the Matrix in the "Matrix" movies than any dreams I've ever experienced. As in the Matrix, the Inception dreams present a world where physical laws can be bent or broken (to the advantage of skilled and knowledgeable people who are aware of the true nature of the world), but I suppose I was looking for more crazy, unexpected, non-logical content in the dreams. Since the movie is already challenging to follow, such content might make the movie too inaccessible to most audiences, but I still felt the director could have done more to cultivate a bizarre and dreamlike atmosphere.Still, all factors considered, I felt this was certainly a good movie at the very least, and probably worth your time if you're thinking about seeing it.


                
I saw this movie with a big group of 10. I would guess the group's rating might be an 8.5, very enjoyable! Personally I was one of the 2-3 least gripped maybe because I've seen too many movies. The 9.3 rating on IMDb is enthusiasm in a bubble. And bubbles do burst. Those mesmerized will vote this film as fun as a roller coaster - pop entertainment but no masterpiece. That said, it is best to compare this as one of the latest rides in Universal Studios theme park rather than belonging in the halls of cinema's greatest films. For pure entertainment, Inception gets a 8.5 in an IMAX theatre so it really helped when they talked about a "kick" and your seat gets a kick. Nolan tends to give us kicks for thought. Comparatively Nolan's Memento is a bit creative and the ending of the Prestige bizarrely entertaining and horrifying. In general, Inception has more firepower than either The Prestige or Memento. Its special effects and editing are exquisitely done and captivates the audience. So it is entertainment on high adrenalin.As a film, however, Inception is at times awkward and confusing. Perhaps that sets up the audience for the dreams. The reality check was the 747 and the totems the characters used. The script is generic and simple but there are psychoanalytic allegories. One of the screenwriters must have been a chess player since the whole mind game evolves from that and references to Robert Fischer, the prey of the mind criminals, could be mistaken for the American grandmaster. The idea of him seizing his father's empire (the chessboard and the desire to kill one's father, as in the Oedipus complex) is psycho-babble. Inception takes this theme subtly with the implicit use of Ariadne Ellen Page's pawn totem. The characters are all pawns in chess dream. We always speculate on dream control and whether falling means death. Much of the dream states are unimaginative clichés, however, the layering of them makes it interesting. Leonardo's last movie, Shutter Island, was a better blur between reality and fantasy. We see Inception as an intellectual challenge, but it is more a technical challenge which leaves the characters and the real story undeveloped. What is the real underlying story? I think it is Dorn Cobb's desire to reunite with his dead wife and with his children. In fact, given the brass top totem is not Dorn's (Leonardo's), but belongs to his wife Mal (Marion Cotillard), one wonders at the end whether it is a dream or not. The mind crime was a dream and the reality was an ordinary man traveling to visit his family after his wife dies. Note at the end, none of the characters acknowledge each other. The only person who recognizes Dorn is his father played by Michael Caine. One could argue that they are trying to keep anonymous as Fischer is present. Or perhaps Dorn dreamt up the whole movie and only the end is the real part.Nolan is a great technical director, the special efforts are great and not overdone, and the movie grips the audience much like a roller coaster. But the script is a bit spotty, the plot perhaps deliberately muddled and the emotional story of Dorn and his wife doesn't quite unfold. None of the actors except Ellen Page and Joseph Gordon- Levitt really make the best use of their roles. Leonardo was solid but he's had better performances. Michael Caine's role is innocuous, but quite charming. Marion Cotillard is effective and plays a significant role but perhaps we could see more of her. Nolan surpasses Memento but doesn't match up to the Matrix which still holds the lead for mind-bending action-scifi. Regardless, as Alfred Hitchcock raised the mystery to an art form, Nolan pushes the complex sci-fi thriller. In the end, he isn't quite a master as Hitchcock, but he remains one of the finer directors today.


                
I will say there were some amazing special effects, and action scenes, but overall, "Inception" left me bored. This is most likely due to the fact that the movie is close to nothing but 3 hours of fending off enemies that are nothing but nameless faceless "white blood cells" defending the subconscious. It just felt like it dragged on forever. That along with the fact that I felt zero attachment to the characters in the movie and an overly ridged dreamscapes made this film feel horridly sterile. Not to mention, the film felt very jumpy. As in it jumps from scene to scene to scene every few minutes. In fact, the film may have been trying to pull off a feat so grand, that it leaves you thinking its all just a big jumbled mess not worth the frustration of following. I can deal with a complex film, but I feel that the jumping around to all the scenes occurring simultaneously made the film lose focus. In other words, I watched the movie play out, but it did not pull me into it. I was a detached viewer, no emotional involvement whatsoever. On top of that, the film was honestly very predictable and had very little in the revelation department. You could always see the tracks before the train went over them so to speak. One aspect of the movie that just completely dumbfounded me was that the film managed to be both imaginative, yet uncreative at the same time. There is so much potential for creativity in a movie about dreaming, but this film decided to make the dreams seem more like virtual reality then actual dreams.However, the biggest disappointment of this movie is the fact that everyone claimed it was an intelligent thinking mans film. This film has not exercised one bit of critical thinking in my mind. It feels overly superficial and hardly a film that can spark deep philosophical debate. After watching "Inception" it did not have me contemplating the big questions in life one bit. When it ended, it ended, and that was that.
