This review gives everything away, so see the movie first.It is neither allegory nor satire, the two finest categories in both fiction and cinema, and yet it approaches perfection anyway. It is of a nature I have no name for, but it is a nature that reveals truth and undermines falsehoods. Nothing is more cloaked in falsehood than the victor's depiction of past wars. It is especially true of the children of the victors--especially the children of US WWII veterans, like myself.We get our view of the war from movies like Audi Murphy in To Hell and Back or Saving Private Ryan. Nothing but praise for our heroes and cheers for killing the enemy. But QT exposes this hypocrisy by engineering a film where we are disgusted first by the excesses of the enemy and then by the excesses of our heroes. That is the first instance. The hypocrisy is slammed home in the second instance where we are first disgusted by the sight of American after American being shot dead by by a German sniper hero and secondly brought to revel in the butchery of several hundred enemy at the hands of our heroes. Tit for tat.It fits the pattern of praise for our heroes and cheers for killing the enemy, but because it is presented both ways the hypocrisy becomes self- evident. This is why so many people hate the movie--even if they fail to realize it. High art, true art, 10 of 10.
That's what I thought, when I heard about the cast of Inglorious Basterds. And I'm both from Germany and into movies.That guy is older than 50 and so far he almost only played in mediocre TV series - and even there he didn't play the main parts. Obviously nobody ever noticed, what he's capable of. Now, thanks to QT, he got one shot to change that - and - let's put it this way - that was a bingo! He is the living proof of what a great caster Tarrantino is.By the way: I think it's a great privilege to watch the movie as a German - being able to understand everything. And the German dialog is written almost as good as the English.Now I could repeat, what many others have written here before. I'll put it short: Finally, QT is back.


                
I had the PRIVILEGE of attending the UK premier of Inglorious Basterds this evening! Having seen the trailers i had high hopes but had doubts due to a string of self indulgent films (c'mon lets be honest, self indulgence is his tarantinos middle name)I was surprised to find though that he had pulled the cat out of the bag with this one. The film is rich with interesting dialogue, Perfect timed comedy with a dash of brutal assassination.The crowning glory of this film though lies with Christoph Waltz whom no fault or error can be found. He manages to create a real tension in the audience whilst remaining quite "theatrical" (couldn't think of a better word). He definitely deserved his prize at Cannes and is heading for an Oscar no doubt!!!! Hoping to see him in something again soon!


                
..."Inglorious" as our local theater decided to display its title on their marquee, minus the second word. It is terrific cinema.I don't hesitate to recommend this film to all but the over-squeamish. Let them never know what they're missing.I did hesitate to give it ten stars because of my experience of Tarantino's previous films. In every case, save "Reservoir Dogs," they have improved with additional watching.So although I gave it ten stars, I did so reluctantly. It leaves me no "up" to go to.Yes Christoph Waltz is the Nazi we've all imagined the worst to be. He is cultured, sophisticated, suave and most sadistic, the kind of man who can make a glass of milk a threat and who puts out his cigarette abruptly in a strudel, grinding it into the whipped cream as if he were grinding his heel into a victim.To understand Tarantino's films, you need only have a sense of dialogue, color and pacing. The colors are as bright as necessary and when necessary, brighter yet. In the French farmhouse of the opening scene, they are muted and dark, but excessively so. Outside a brilliant sun is shining, but in the one room of the house, everything is bathed in shadows and black.It is a brilliant setting for an interrogation by Waltz, as the "Jew Hunter" of the SS, who dangles his host French farmer over the precipice of revealing what he cannot reveal numerous times, then pulls him back with obsequious lines of friendship and understanding.A second sadistic German, well-played by August Diehl, later functions as important actor in the final plot twist. Diehl's Nazi Major, who has an ear for German accents, is almost as good as Waltz....almost.Film classes will study much from this movie. They should look lovingly at the superb pacing. Tarantino knows just how long to draw out a scene, building suspense in the manner of Hitchcock, then at just the breaking point, suddenly coming to a resolution.For color, look for a final shot at a French Theater, where its secretly Jewish proprietor is staging a surprise for the upper reaches of Nazi leadership.We see her, played by Melanie Laurent, awaiting the hated German dignataries who will arrive for a film preview of the latest Deutsch film masterpiece, a propaganda piece about a German hero and his dubious accomplishments.Laurent is framed on a balcony, reflected in the glass mirrors of the gorgeous theater, her red lips and low cut dress reflecting everywhere the intensity of her designs on her guests. It is a single shot that would be worth an entire film.There are thankfully many more such images, many more paced scenes of exquisite dialog and suspense.In short, see it. I'm sure you'll see it again and again.


                
Inglorious Basterds makes no apologies, asks for no forgiveness, it's a  no holds barred assault on the senses. Tarantino doesn't care if he  offends, if he steps all over stereotypes and clichés, this is film  making at it purest. It's great to see a film maker whose work clearly  isn't interfeared with by the powers that be. Tarantino is a master of  effortlessly cranking up immense tension and suddenly mixing it with  laugh out loud moments; you're not sure if you should be looking away  in disgust or rolling around laughing, either way it's a roller coaster  and one not to be missed! It's not for everyone, certainly if you're not a fan of Tarantino's style, this may be a little hard to swallow, but  never-the-less, it is a film which simply has to be seen. No self  respecting film fan should miss this. And the performance of Christoph  Waltz... Oscar don't you dare ignore him!!


                
I must admit when I saw the preview for "Inglorious Basterds" I gave myself big expectations. THIS FILM DID NOT Disappoint.Rarely when I watch a movie with such high-expectations do I have those expectations met or exceeded; this film did that and more. Even more rarely do I clap at the end of a movie, this I and everyone else in the theater did.I have to say I am a little biased towards Quentin, I grew up with "Pulp Fiction." I watched it when I was 12 and it is still my favorite and most influential film.However, since then Quentin has not really lived up to his billing. His style was getting a little predictable instead of familiar, the quality honestly wasn't there (I never watched Jackie Brown, and then there's Grindhouse). That is until "Inglorious Basterds." What Quentin did was exactly what was needed for the war genre, a spaghetti western feel that could only be done by Tarantino or Sergio Leone, but seeing how Leone is dead, Tarantino's the self appointed guy on this masterpiece.So let's look at the movie which I won't give away. The writing was spot on, a beautiful transition between using not one but four different languages in this movie. Not to mention this movie was set up in the classic Tarantino mold, great scenes of rich meaningful dialog and sudden shocking action.The acting was superb!! Christopher Waltz deserves an Oscar, seriously. I don't say that often, but honestly the man should get one for this movie, he spoke every language in this movie, and delivered with such amazing touch and poise. He stole the show in a movie that everybody was amazingly impressive.I have no problem building this movie up, because this movie is the best film I've seen all year, and probably all of next year. Quite frankly the more I think about it, this movie may crack my top films of all time, and is Quentin's best movie since "Pulp Fiction." Take it from me, watch this film. I loved it doesn't do this movie enough justice.I watched it yesterday and I'm still blown away. Thank you Quentin from the bottom of my heart for you making this movie. You're back on top again buddy. I can't say enough for "Inglorious Basterds!"


                
First of all some general phrases about 'Inglourious Basterds' that every fan of this movie says: great plot, great actors and unforgettable performances (yes, especially by Christoph Waltz), great cinematography and great soundtrack<U+0085> Is that really it? No, there's definitely more to 'Inglourious Basterds' then what was mentioned above, there is something that makes this movie special. If one would want to summarise the whole story depicted in 'Basterds' with one phrase then it would probably be this one: 'Things are not as they appear to be, nor are they otherwise.' But it happens to be that I have a little more to say than one phrase. And so<U+0085>The great moral of this movie or the great lesson that it gives us is this: our world is not just black and white, it's not the mixture of only good and bad, both 'good' and 'bad' things can be found in everyone and everything, and who is a hero and who is a villain depends totally on your perspective. Don't get me wrong, I am not talking about Hitler; but let's for example take Perrier LaPadite, how should we feel towards him? Is he a hero or a villain? He knows that if he doesn't collaborate with the Germans he and his family will be arrested and/or killed, but the Jewish family will die any way, whether he collaborates or not. And now let's look at a German Sgt. Werner Rachtman who finds himself in a similar position, and yet he shows unbelievable courage in the face of inevitable death. So should we despise him just because he's a German soldier and admire the clownish psychopath Donny Donowitz just because he's a Jew? Hardly. At least in my modest opinion. And then there are Hans Landa and Aldo Raine. I suppose that when trying to understand Landa or to express our feelings towards him we (the audience) should be very careful and we should also keep in mind that there is a very clear line between the actor and the character. Christoph Waltz was absolutely brilliant, but I guess his brilliant performance 'tricks' the audience into liking Col. Landa but if you take a second look at him you realize that no matter what intelligence and sophisticated manners (although Bridget von Hammersmark would disagree) he possesses there is not much left to like about him. As to Brad Pitt's Lt. Raine, we must like him because he's an American soldier fighting for a great cause, and so we forgive him for lacking both charm and manners and<U+0085> and then we take a closer look at him too. And what we find is that there is not much to like about him either, because in reality Raine is much more similar to Landa then it might appear at a first glance. Take the interrogation scenes for example: both are quite similar (Hans Landa interrogating the French farmer/ Aldo Raine interrogating the German sergeant), the behaviour of both Landa and Raine is actually identical: the things they demand – point where the Jews are hiding = point (on the map) where the German positions are; the things they offer – give me information and we'll leave your family alone = give me information and will let you go; the way they behave – actually both Landa and Raine behave rather friendly only Landa seams to be more glamorous and sophisticated; the way they both deceive their victim/captive – they both start a seemingly innocent conversation (rats and hawks and squirrels = what are you going to do after the war) and than –bang! – either kill the hiding Jews or carve a swastika on a soldier's forehead. As to the movie's title I've read in some other comments that it's inappropriate because 'the Basterds are given so little time in the movie', well, to my mind it depends on who are you calling a 'basterd'; it seams to me that none of the characters is innocent, everyone is a basterd: the French farmer who (although under the great pressure) betrays the Jewish family, the German actress who betrays her country (yes, betrays, for as Landa points out she only spied for the British for money), Shoshanna who threatens to bury an axe in a man's head and kill his wife and children, a somewhat shy and innocent-looking German sniper and<U+0085> yes , of course , Col. Landa, Lt. Raine and the (original) Basterds, Gestapo major and all the rest of German soldiers, Goebbels and Francesca Mondino, Hitler, but 'that goes without saying'<U+0085> and those people in the audience who jeer while the 'bad guys' are being scalped... I would also like to say a couple of words about the so-called historical inaccuracy. Well, first of all, this is not a historic movie and it does not pretend to be one. The thing is, when we see a movie/read a book like 'The three musketeers' or something similar with a lot of (intended) historical inaccuracies we have no problem with that because, obviously, it all happened a long time a go, so who cares? The problem with the 'Basterds' is that the story is set against the background of WW 2 and this is still a rather sensitive topic – you can do whatever you like with the French kings but you cannot touch Hitler. I personally find this rather odd.Now to draw up the conclusion I'll have to repeat something I've already said before: we are too accustomed to take things shown in the movie idealistically, meaning we always tend to classify, to label facts, people, ideas, etc. as either good or bad, right or wrong and we keep forgetting that there's always the other side of the coin, the other perspective
I screened this movie tonight at USC, and I've needed the past few hours to organize my thoughts well enough to coherently describe the obscenely beautiful cinematic achievement that is Inglorious Basterds. Have you ever seen a movie and been struck nearly speechless when you're walking out of the theater? This movie blows those out of the proverbial water. I would have said speechless, but I was able to say the word wow, which I said an ungodly number of times. It wasn't until around now that I find myself able to at least write a slightly more aesthetically pleasing grouping of words. As usual Tarantino has given me deeper insight into the art form that is cinema, but even when compared to his previous, outstanding work, this film stands out. I would go into the depths of his work, analyzing the intricate beauty of each individual shot, but there isn't nearly enough room in this forum to do that. I will tell you that throughout this film you will be amazed. Brad Pitt delivers an amazing performance that is equal parts knee-slapping "good ole boy" and unrepentant mass murderer. You'll certainly laugh at his Tennessee accented minimalist Italian, and you'll definitely cringe at his inspired cranial "artwork". Christoph Waltz defines the phrase "stand and deliver" with his portrayal of Col. Hans Landa, an SS officer and noted Jew hunter. He'll make you cringe with his speeches, both at their content and the calm yet weighted manner with which he presents them. His manner has the feel of a kindly uncle, but you can feel the immense tension that each word he utters carries, as if a monster is lurking just below the surface, waiting to be released. Finally we have Eli Roth. To call his performance of Sgt. Donny Donowitz impressive would be a disservice. Even in the trailer his rage is palpable, but in the film it emanates from the screen, reaching out and touching the audience. With each swing of his already infamous baseball bat, this "Bear Jew" radiates that much more of his righteous anger. These performances would be more than enough to make this a great film, but they're just the tip of the iceberg. Supported by amazing actors such as Til Schweiger, Diane Kruger, Mélanie Laurent, B.J. Novak, and Daniel Brühl, these roles are pushed from simply great to truly inspiring. If you believe in the raw and awesome power of cinema then this is a film for you. If you just want to be entertained for a few hours then this is also a film for you. Regardless of how you feel about Quentin Tarantino I urge you to see this film, to be open to its powerful energy. This film will not only entertain, and teach, but will also provoke many philosophical discussions about the ethics, or lack thereof, displayed by its many characters. In closing I will merely say I intend to see this movie again, in theaters, and I hope you'll do that same.


                
Just come out the cinema and felt the need to review this fabulous movie. I really didn't enjoy Tarantino's last movie ("Deathproof") so I didn't enter this one with high expectations. But it was phenomenal. From the opening scenes, I could see Tarantino had taken the Sergio Leone formula ("The Good, The Bad, and the Ugly") and cleverly transposed it into the WW2 era in Nazi-occupied France. In fact, the opening scenes at the milk farm are incredibly similar in tone and feel to the opening scenes of Leone's GBU. Every scene of this movie is beautifully shot and wonderful to watch. Tarantino has returned to form here and works the camera like a master. I was reminded of the kind of suspense you get from Alfred Hitchcock's best suspenseful scenes. Much of this movie is like that, an ever increasing build-up of suspense taking the audience to cracking point before letting off the steam. Brad Pitt's performance as Aldo Raines is terrific and leaves you begging for more, and the guy who played the main Nazi villain, and the cinema owner girl. All terrific. Even Eli Roth didn't bother me in his role which I thought he would. The use of movie music was great (especially BATTLE OF ALGIERS in the prison break scene) and moments of typical Tarantino humour made me smile throughout. I didn't know what was going to happen next and that's what makes a great movie for me. He has made a really top World War 2 movie here, without resorting to barely any clichés or action at all. I don't wanna give anything away but this has gone straight into my top 10 favourite movies of all time. Even the use of contemporary music (David Bowie for example) doesn't seem as odd as it sounds and works really well. I'll be getting the soundtrack and the DVD. Oh, and thanks for letting the Jews wins this one Tarantino, good man!
Wow. It's been a while since I left a movie theatre so overwhelmed. From the first minute to the last this movie is shocking, amusing and horrendously entertaining all at the same time. The prologue is vintage Tarantino. The way the tension is build up throughout that opening scene is truly magnificent, and the camera pans down just at the right time. And by that time you've already learned to absolutely despise Landa, probably the most disgusting character Tarantino ever came up with. He's truly a man you love to hate, and his charming persona just makes him seem even more evil. He's if possible even more threatening than Jules Winfield was in the infamous breakfast scene from "Pulp Fiction". The segments with the basterds are probably the ones Tarantino had the most fun with, and these segments really know no boundaries in any way. Not only are they hilariously violent (the baseball bat!), they also ignore every possible historic fact. I wouldn't really want it any other way really. Another highlight is the bar scene, which illustrates perfectly how unpredictable this movie is. There are too many good moments to be naming them all, but this movie benefits so much from its outrageousness you really need to see everything for yourself.


                
Every Quentin Tarantino (QT) fan must see Inglorious Basterds, like every QT movie a person's unable to assign one drama, this movie is a perfect blend of war, comedy, action, thriller, drama, and romance. I was unable to take my eyes off of Christopher Waltz's performance as Colon Hans Landa or 'The Jew Hunter.' The story is a masterpiece, but I can tell that this movie, like most QT movies are going to be underrated and will lack in awards it deserves. I think Christopher Waltz should easily be a nominee. I think this movie should also win Best Picture, Best Director, and Best Screenplay. But even if this incredible film doesn't get recognized in awards I can tell that it will go down as one of the best war movies ever made in history. I think its amazingly creative of QT not to follow the criteria that history gave him, he changes the actual history of the war with his characters. Pure Genius.


                
Note: this comment was edited to meet IMDb length guidelines.I first saw "Inglourious Basterds" in late July and concluded that it would flop and Tarantino would never again be relevant. Needless to say, I didn't like it and didn't even expect to see it again. Late August and Tarantino certainly seems relevant again. His biggest opening at the box office, rapturous media reviews, and a surprising amount of hype. Word of mouth is excellent. It remains to be seen how steady the movie's box office performance will be, but after the tepid reception at Cannes, the movie proved an unlikely hit. Two viewings later and "Inglourious Basterds" is probably my favorite movie of the year.Why I initially reacted the way I did is increasingly mysterious to me, was it expectations of a men-on-a-mission film unfulfilled, the then seemingly tedious and over-written verbal jousts? Consciously or subconsciously, I didn't want to like the movie. I tutted at the glee with which the movie portrayed the violence the basterds inflicted. I resisted the charm of the film's construct, acknowledging that it was more than I expected it to be while at the same time lamenting Tarantino's juvenile and silly handling of such serious subject matter.The truth, which has been revealed to me by two further viewings of the film, is that "Inglourious Basterds" might very well be Tarantino's greatest film, eclipsing even his most mature work to date "Jackie Brown". This is a glorious subversion of the dreary holocaust drama, a Spaghetti Western with WWII iconography, a love letter to the movies, and it is, every step of the way, aware of exactly what it's doing. In the end it basically comes down to personal opinion on whether this was a success or not, but what seems plainly obvious to me is that there is absolutely nothing about this film that is clumsy. The time and care taken with the screenplay is obvious, as is the time taken to edit the film. The Cannes cut wasn't longer, but it was apparently different in construct and differently-woven. When we're talking about a movie which depends entirely on: a) tension built through dialogue and character interaction, and b) the pacing of those scenes and how the scenes fit together, this could explain the significant difference between the reception at Cannes and the critical reception upon actual release.The performance of the cast collectively is probably the most obviously praise-worthy aspect of the film. The Basterds are lovable and humorous, but also portray just the right amount of savagery to make it clear that what they're doing isn't child's play, and Brad Pitt is a standout as Aldo Raine, giving a fun comic performance but also creating perhaps the most sympathetic character in the film outside Melanie Laurent, whose Shosanna Dreyfus is the emotional core of the film. She also feels more like a film character than a real person, something Tarantino is aware of, as she is written as a classical tragic hero, complete with a deliberately clichéd romance and a climax to her story which really sums up everything this movie is about in its self-aware artifice and theatrical grandeur. Diane Kruger impresses as Bridget von Hammersmark, despite being given the tricky job of playing an actress. Undoubtedly the performance of the film, of the year, is Christoph Waltz's Hans Landa. It's perfect. It's exactly what it needed to be, and the wrong actor in that role would have destroyed the film.In Tarantino's own words, "Inglourious Basterds" is about the power of cinema bringing down the Third Reich. An even better description would be the power of words challenging the power of violence. Intentionally or not, that is one of the most interesting parallels drawn in "Inglourious Basterds". In more than one scene verbal battles turn into violence, but in as many scenes the threat of violence is kept at bay by the power of words and acting, a major component of cinema. Tarantino's wordplay here isn't just characters saying cool stuff to one another, it's the entire language of the movie, the weapon of choice for his characters. Many say Tarantino should write plays if he's just going to have characters talk to each other for ages, but that wouldn't make sense because he delights as much in the conversation and his actors' performance as he does in their context in his film, and his films always feature the cinematic, except for "Reservoir Dogs"."Inglourious Basterds" is all about the cinema, and where the movie references in "Kill Bill" were part of a pastiche of B-movie cinema, "Inglourious Basterds" works the references seamlessly into a genuinely involving story, albeit one with a healthy dose of silliness and dark humor. Where I initially thought Tarantino failed most significantly was where he succeeded most greatly: in his attempt to create a grand love letter to the power of cinema. Tarantino proves literate in more than just junk film here- for all the allusions to macaroni combat films and spaghetti westerns, it's ultimately a gonzo celebration of high art. The entire film is burlesque in nature, best seen as a deliberately artificial cinematic recreation of WWII rather than straightforwardly as a WWII war film of any nature.More than any of his other movies, "Inglourious Basterds" is about cinema. It's not just subtext, it's the reality of the film which is so tied to the world of cinema. The film may be total fantasy, and it has no qualms about depicting the cathartic power of violence, but it's ultimately taut, tense, entertaining, funny, and most importantly sort of beautiful in its own grandiose, bizarre manner. As Aldo declares his final act of brutality in the film his masterpiece, Tarantino seems to be declaring this film his own. Call it kosher porn, call it whatever you like, what I ultimately see this as is a tribute to cinephilia made with far more heart than I expected.


                
Tarantino was never much of a philosopher, humanist, or world historian – just someone so utterly immersed in cinema that he could translate his obsession into terms that seemed not just relevant but also emotionally engaged. Now, at a rather troublesome and ambiguous moment, he takes on the Nazi film, with Bowery Jews and Southern lieutenants teaming up in a simple-minded crusade against Evil. In so doing, he offers more evidence that he's drinking from a bottomless well – that the movies can, and should, do anything. This is especially propitious since it comes along at a moment when cinema history is going down the toilet almost as fast as world history. More than ever he's playing the film prof here, but unlike his Americanism, his cinephilia is not triumphalist: he knows too much about his subject to lie about it. Glorious tributes to Sergio Leone and Raiders of the Lost Ark (and King Kong!!) vie with articulate digs at Pabst and Jannings and nitrate film. And yet it's anything but an in-crowd movie; I'm sure I don't get half the references myself. Instead, he sculpts these elements as a master popularizer, boiling them down into a teeming, bizarre concoction that is both devastating and offhand, manic yet full of grace, a jokester who delivers the punchline as if his life depended on it. And while you can always hear him talking, it's the overtones and cross-rhythms of his superbly attuned cast that bring it to life. This is as close to profundity as this man will ever get - pretty damn close.


                
Like all of Tarrantino's films, he's really making a movie about movies, or about a type of movie. Inglourious Basterds is by far my favorite, and it's about war propaganda films. I realized a long while ago that there were two important, yet distinct, types of ways to enjoy this movie. There are those who get excited at the prospect of seeing "our boys" kick Nazi @$$, and there are those who realize that is exactly how a propaganda film wants you to feel. It's more harmless today, since the actual Nazi party is a thing of the past, but it is important to realize that this film is trying to make get us to realize that we have selected a category of person and we generally tend to glorify subjecting them to horrific levels of violence.Much like with fairy tales, it is important to ask when watching a movie "Why does the movie think violence against this person is justified?" Why is it okay for Rumplestiltskin to be ripped in half, or the witch in Hansel and Gretle to be burned alive? Why is it okay for Omar to fill the collaborating French interpreter with as many bullets as they do to the higher ranking members of the Nazi party?To counter the inevitable person who thinks I'm reading too much into it, recall that the film premiere at the end is a fictional Nazi war propaganda film, where Zoller slaughters close to 250 people in front of a laughing, cheering, and energized audience. Hitler laughs at dying Americans in much the same mood that we might have earlier laughed when Donowitz bashed in a soldier's head with a bat.Again I am impressed with Tarrantino's ability to write lengthy dialogue scenes about topics as mundane as glasses if milk and King Kong which are nerve-wrackingly suspenseful due to their context.


                
Anyone who rates this movie on the low end is doing it out of self admiration because they think they're being cool for not liking this movie.yes, the movie is in an alternate universe, that doesn't mean it is bad.yes, there are lots of long conversations, but they are far from boring. the difference between what is said and what the characters know is where this film excels. especially on the part of waltz.all of the acting is on par. the angles and shots throughout the film? amazing.i guarantee you will enjoy this movie if you like good films.


                
Inglourious Basterds IS Tarantino's worst film he has ever made. It's full of his usual ingredient's i.e. snappy dialogue, brutal and sudden violence, but it all feel's deja-vu. The directing is typical Tarantino and nothing seem's new at all. It's almost as if he's copied exactly from his only masterpiece, Pulp Fiction. There is nothing new or exciting about Inglourious Basterds to be honest, it's just a war drama that isn't funny, nor brilliant as Pulp Fiction was. Basterds supposedly is Tarantino's tribute to Leone's Spaghetti western's but seem's mis-jointed and out of place especially with the continuing use of big sub-titles and throw's the audience of balance.
My second favorite Tarantino flick,my fave being Kill Bill,I'm crazy for Samurai flicks,so it will probably always remain my favorite,but I can see why anyone would think Inglorious is his best film,it's certainly his best written. I see lots of people here complaining about historical inaccuracy and extreme violence,and they are correct,but this is clearly a fantasy,and if I was a member of the Jewish faith I could certainly see myself indulging in such a dark wish fulfillment tale,after millions of my faith have been gassed and roasted in ovens by Nazis. And as far as that subject goes,Nazis are like robots,you can chop em up,shoot them,do anything,because the real ones are no longer human,but empty shells,ripe for destruction. So no,I don't feel bad,just as I don't feel bad seeing pedophiles or serial killers getting done in,same thing to me. As to the ending,the killing of Hitler and the rest of his staff,I felt this film was attempting to be the last word on WW2 flicks,where else could you go but into surreal violent fantasy?, I'm sure it was meant to be cathartic,it certainly felt that way to me,and my family was not hunted down and tortured for no reason at all. I loved all the characters,Waltz does indeed steal the movie,but I loved Pitt too,amazing score,and to hear Cat People again on the big screen was a giant delight,icing on the cake,just brilliant. Well done Tarantino,keep em coming!
Best scene ever in a move: the opening scene of Inglourious Basterds.This scene alone is better than rear window, better than inception, better than fight club. And these are my favourite movies. It is more than "edge of your seat stuff," it will have you on your knees. Once you see the truck approaching the house, the end result is inevitable. For the duration of the scene you are praying that the colonel will just leave, but he sits still simply smoking his pipe... His politeness is unnerving too. When the soldiers are called in, you feel like falling to the ground and shutting your eyes forever, it is just so horrific. When a movie does this to you, or in this case just one scene, you know your in the hands of one talented director.The rest of the film is no disappointment. Tarantino's style and talent continues to impress throughout, especially in the bar scene. The suspense here builds up hugely, not unlike the first scene, until an epic climax of gunfire amazes the audience. Among the violence, the movie contains light-hearted elements. The humour is very accurate, especially with the dialogue of Brad Pitt's character, Aldo Raine. Altogether it is top class entertainment.I also can not go without complimenting the acting. Brad Pitt and Michael Fassbender's job was well done, but the star of the show was Christopher Waltz. His role was brilliantly played, as his character, as I said before, was unnervingly polite and terrifying.All in all, a terrific achievement by Quentin Tarantino. I would recommend this film to all who are a fan of his style. 5 stars.
Inglourious Basterds"That's a bingo!" A line used by the ironic winner of the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor, Christoph Waltz, for his role as the German version of the over investigative Sherlock Holmes, Col. Hans Landa. Bingo! Is definitely what this film acquired with a perplexed yet astounding cast including the ever so talented Brad Pitt as Lt. Aldo Raine and the director/actor Eli Roth as the coined name, "The Bear Jew" a berserk home run hitting leader in Nazi's. Quentin Tarantino took an everlasting ten years to complete the screenplay for this fictitious outlook of Nazi Germany in World War II and released it in 2009. The enduring story is about a group of American born Jews, known as the Inglorious Basterds, who are shipped behind enemy lines to do one thing, kill Nazi's. Shot in settings such as France, Germany, and England, this Tarantinoesque film is an eye-catching, blistering, yet excessively heavy ingeniously dialogued representation of what to expect when watching a movie by Quentin. This flick by far takes a warm seat in my top ten films of all time, for the reason that the music plays a major role in many scenes and the acting on all fronts, no pun intended, is exceptionally, as Hitler would put it, Aryan.Music in this film signifies the intensities of a lot of the scenes. Scenes of intensification such as the farm house scene is a great example of how music is used to augment the suspicion of what is about to happen. As Col. Landa (Waltz) figures out that Jews are hiding under the floorboards, the music begins at the start of what will build to the peak of a massacre. The way I see it, music in this film is used as a bridge to connect objects or people that have a disturbing flaw against one another. A scene that caught my attention was one that used music so perfectly as well as camera movement, is a scene when "The Bear Jew" is called upon to beat down on a Nazi. The scene flips back and forth slowly moving in closer to the face of the Nazi and the dark shadows that "The Bear Jew" is supposed to emerge out of, and while this is all happening the music is gradually increasing to give the setting a eerie feeling.Music may have been a major factor for this film, but the acting surpasses that by a long run. Each actor had a certain style, Brad Pitt plays a straight to the point Tennessee cocaine snorting kind of guy, while on the other side, Christoph Waltz plays a sarcastic over- achieving Nazi detective. These different roles play a major part in the film because it gives the movie an overall amount of balance. The actors also had an exuberant amount of dialogue to rehearse, and I believe the way the dialogue was presented, adapted perfectly with Tarantino's famous style of "Mexican Standoffs". The overall acting is superb and going into a Tarantino film, I knew that the way he sets up his actors, will always be performances to remember.Nominated eight times at the Academy Awards, including Best Picture and Best Director, Inglorious Basterds is a riveting thrill ride that everyone should try. Yes there are long dialogue scenes but the direction of Tarantino is a unique style of art that can't get passed by; if at the Louvre would you pass the Mona Lisa without looking at it? Go rent Inglourious Basterds on DVD, and when you take it out of your tray, you'll be screaming, "That's a Bingo!"Marcel Urena5/5
Anyone who has read many of my previous reviews will know i have something of a gripe with Quentin Tarantino. Despite his unrivalled genius when it comes to cinematography and dialogue i always find his films to be a strudel without cream; a most unsatisfying prospect as Colonel Hans Landa will attest to. The lack in his previous work of any real tone of emotion and overload of dialogue (no matter how well written) lead me to find his creations far less immersive than the work of many other directors. However, Inglourious Basterds is a completely different batch of strudel. Never before has Tarantino's work been so transcendental, and never before has he made a film that i have found so complete.If you haven't yet seen the film, you have good reason to be confused by my mention of Hans Landa. He is a little advertised character in IB, but no doubt steals the show. Christopher Waltz plays the "Jew Hunter" in such a convincing way, that i have felt genuine hatred for his character. His grotesquely charming creation is not only defined by his actions, but also by his ability to manipulate everyone from a lowly milk farmer to the British high command. i felt a pull in scenes involving Landa that i have never before felt during a previous Tarantino film, and it seems a perfect example of the director and actor working together and making something truly memorable. He really does steal the screen from far more well known actors.Despite this, there is a real intrigue behind all characters in the movie. Pitt, making his debut in a Tarantino movie is brilliant as Lt Aldo Raine. He is as funny and smart as he is deep. Everything from his crooked smile to the unexplained scar along his neck adds to his presence on screen, and this is a blanket feeling. Each of the Basterds has their own distinctly different traits and Tarantino explores these in their actions, names and nicknames given by the German forces making a richer tapestry of characters than i am used to seeing. All cast members do a great job at creating an atmosphere as immersive as that of any film, a testament to the casting team, who somehow managed to cast effectively in 4 languages.While all this is going on, the classic Tarantino cinematography and dialogue is still present, and never before have i seen a film incorporate humor alongside so many deeper issues as seamlessly. There is a witty quality to the script that leads to even long periods of dialogue with little or no camera movement to still be immersive and humorous. The blend of laughter and tension in many scenes is a rare and original concept captured perfectly.Now from this review it sounds like a complex film and this couldn't be more true. In true QT style there are numerous story lines interwoven and this leads me to my only major gripe with the movie. Towards the end, it all comes together in something of a mishmash. You lose track of the differing motives of the different parties involved and you aren't aware of how much the different characters know of the others involvements. However, it is some climax. Unexpected, emotional and as always, brutal.I loved this movie. At nearly 3 hours it would have been easy to make a confused mess of different plot lines buried under a mountain of dialogue pouring out of every bodily orifice, but nothing could be further from what we have here. No dialogue feels wasted and all scenes are aimed towards making the finale even more delicious. There is a simple way to describe how much i enjoyed this film. To paraphrase Lt Aldo Raine, "I think this might just be his masterpiece".


                
So, the wait for "Basterds" is finally over. Was it worth it?Let's look at the negatives first.Criticism 1: It was quite "talkie" for a war film.Yes, this is true. but this is no ordinary war film. whilst it is (very) violent in places, as one would expect from a modern war film, the film is an exercise in characterisation and with this in mind, it is very successful. Landa, Dreyfus and Raine are brilliant lead characters whilst the supporting characters, namely Sgt. Donny Donowitz, Lt. Archie Hicox and Bridget Von Hammersmark, are wonderful characters. So while this is a very dialogue heavy film, the dialogue between the characters both forms the story and strengthens the characters.Criticism 2: It was too bloody and violent.OK, let us look at films like Hostel. The violence is so strong and so frequent that we as an audience are numb to it and it becomes boring by the end."Basterds" is a war film after all so we can give it some leeway for being violent in places but it was realistic and it served a purpose.Criticism 3: There was no story.Like all of Tarantino's films (Jackie Brown aside) there is little story but whatever the story is, it is well executed and all plot holes are tied up by the end. When you go to see a Tarantino film, you should know what to expect by now.Criticism 4: The music didn't fit.I agree with this one on only one point. The David Bowie song, although it was used effectively and it suited the scene. The rest of the music was perfect for the film.Criticism 5: It wasn't even remotely historically accurate.Yes it was, the soldiers uniforms, set design, weapons, cinema (right down to the type of projector and films) were all accurate. it was only the story that was fiction.So, was it worth the wait. You had better believe it


                
I never really write on this site, maybe once or twice before. I however feel obliged to after seeing this. I wont be long and I wont give anything away. I will just tell you this is simply his greatest movie. It is epic in every sense of the word. The plot is huge and beautifully woven together. Every actor from the smallest to the largest puts in a brilliant performance. Main credit must go to Christopher Waltz though, who delivers the single most chilling performance in cinema since well since I can not remember. As always the music used is wonderful and adds so much to what ever scene it has been used in. I could go on and on, but I wont as I really do not know how to sum how good this is. Just go watch it and decide for yourself. My opinion though is that it is just truly mind blowing.


                
I'm still impressed by this film directed by Quentin Tarantino. The last movie by him which impressed me that much was Pulp Fiction. All the ingredients I loved in Pulp Fiction I found again in Inglorious Basterds. I was totally impressed how Mr. Tarantino handled it to direct a movie with three languages. One of the reasons might be that he made right choices for the cast. Germans/Austrians are speaking German, Americans/British are speaking English and French are speaking French. Only one person in this movie can speak all three (four) languages fluently: the SS Officer Hans Landa. Hans Landa is portrayed by the Austrian actor Christoph Waltz. He must be some kind of a linguistic genius. To be precisely they are speaking a little Italian too. It's worth to watch the movie only to listen to the Italian from Brad Pitt. Unfortunately I don't speak any French but it was wonderful to listen to the other languages I know well. Next to Christoph Waltz and Brad Pitt the beautiful French Actress Mèlanie Laurent convinced me.This movie contains a lot of dialogues, humor, bloody violence and perfect acting. It reminded me a lot on Pulp Fiction. The most important thing I was positively surprised as I was about 15 years ago during watching Pulp Fiction. I'm a big fan of Spaghetti Westerns and it was fun hearing familiar sounds in the background. But I wished Tarantino would have used lesser known Music because some of them we already have heard in his former works. Inglorious Basterds includes everything what you need for a pleasant evening: well written dialogues and a lot of killed Nazis.


                
I really don't know where to begin. First, i guess I will start with the critics of this movie. If you don't like this movie, you fit into one of two categories. 1. Someone who doesn't like Tarantino movies at all. 2. Someone who loves Tarantino a little bit too much and has a unconscious disbelief that Tarantino can deviate at all from his normal style and still make a wonderful, original movie.Both groups are equally ridiculous to me.This movie was absolutely PHENOMENAL. Any statements to the contrary are void of any REAL intellectual conviction, being, however, derived from one's arrogant intellectualism in their views of "proper" cinematic execution. This film was not an industrial norm. Nor an Indie film norm. It was exquisitely original.The antagonist SS officer Hans, played by Christoph Waltz, was the most INSANELY well acted and portrayed villain I have seen in a movie or read in a book, over the last decade. The intensity of the scenes of dialogue between him and EVERY other character, which others have carelessly referred to as "drawn out" and "pointless", is perhaps some of the most thrilling bits of dialogue to come from Tarantino since Resovoir Dogs. This effect was extremely apparent in the initial scene of the movie where he is questioning a man who is hiding jews, as they lay motionless beneath the very floor they are conversing on top of. Absolutely paralyzing intensity, that was nearly able to be tasted, ingested, and digested in between each sentence. If the Academy fails to acknowledge Waltz's genius in his portrayal of this sadistic SS officer, it will be an absolute travesty and a complete dereliction of their duty to nominate the BEST performances for Oscar awards.Brad Pitt's performance could be viewed from different perspectives. The amateur-actor-like way he delivers his southern accent starts off unbelievable and irritating, but by the middle of the film becomes the most endearing attribute of his character, Leuitenant Aldo Raine. I wont give away the scene, but the part where he attempts to speak Italian is as equally inspired a vocal performance as his southern, though for different reasons.The Basterds role in the film was executed perfectly. If you have too many scenes of scalping and mayhem, it would dilute the film into more of a Robert Rodriguez/Tarantino effort. But these characters were FANTASTICALLY simplistic and an utter joy to watch.The parallel story of the victim in the massacre that begins the film is equally as gripping as the basterds. Considering the way the previews portray the film, I would say, a GENIUS blending of characters and genres is what ultimately takes place. The preview lures you in with action sequences. But you will leave feeling delightfully deceived. Not to say that violence and action is under represented in the film. The violence that does occur is utterly satisfying and quite a good blend of action, horror-core, and fantasy.I will leave you with a simple statement. Go see it. Open minded. As if the trailer says that Quentin has invented a new genre. Compare it to nothing. And you will most definitely leave as wonderfully exhilarated as I was.
First and foremost, Quentin Tarnatino's greatest love affair has been with the cinema itself and if he finds masterpieces in trash and the exploitation genre that the rest of us are oblivious to, it's hardly a crime. Indeed his passion for lost and forgotten genre pictures has rescued many a career and put the odd new face on the international map. Referencing other movies is, of course, nothing new and almost every auteur has at least one 'homage' in him. However, for Tarantino, 'homage' has virtually become his livelihood. And, of course, like all homages sometimes they work and sometimes they don't.Film-buffs love them and often spend most of the movie picking out the references and this can sometimes spoil the fun; the fun of simply watching the movie and enjoying the plot. There is a great deal to enjoy in "Inglourious Basterds". This is Tarantino's homage to the war picture but it's just as much a pastiche of the Spaghetti Western, (the score, from opening bars of 'The Green Leaves of Summer' from Wayne's "The Alamo", is mostly made up of bits and pieces from other films and all sounding faintly 'Djangoesque'). Primarily, of course, it's a homage to the cinema itself, both the notion of 'film' and the place where films are shown.The Basterds, (the title is taken from the English title of the little seen Italian movie "Quel Maledetto Treno Blindato"), are a kind of Dirty Dozen presided over by Brad Pitt's gung-ho 'Apache' descendant, dropped into Nazi occupied France with the sole purpose of killing (and scalping) Nazis, but while Pitt is ostensibly the film's star the Basterds are only one strand of a diffuse plot, (the film is told in chapters), that introduces a number of other characters, all of whom become involved in a plot to kill the entire Nazi High Command, including Der Fuhrer himself. And since this is a fantasy, a cartoon of extreme violence, (thankfully only amounting to a very short period of screen time), it bears no relation to accuracy or history. Tarantino gathers his protagonists in and around a small Parisian cinema run by Melanie Laurents' Jewish survivor of an earlier massacre of the rest of her family, and it's here that the Basterds, on the one hand, and she and her partner, on the other, plan the events that will bring about an early end to the War. And like any movie set in and around a cinema, movie references predominate. It's fun if you get them but it's just as much fun if you don't.Long admired for the 'cleverness' of his dialouge, Tarantino's movie is a very talkative picture indeed. From the opening chapter, which is mostly a dialogue between Col. Landa, the SS 'Jew Hunter' and the French farmer who is sheltering the Jews he is hunting, this is a film that is sustained by long conversations and some really first-class acting. Language itself plays a major part in proceedings and Tarantino has a field-day with his use of English, German, French (and Italian!) and the accents with which they are spoken. Indeed outcomes hang on language and what is said and what is meant. Sure, there is action and some very bloody violence, (not to mention some very dubious morality), but this is far from being a brainless, exploitative action picture. But did anyone expect it to be? I doubt it.In a large cast there are some terrific performances. Pitt hams it up but with a knowing wink at the camera. Newcomer Christoph Waltz is a splendid Landa - it's a star-making performance that has already won him the Best Actor award at Cannes and could well win him a Supporting Actor Oscar next year. Michael Fassbender, (Bobby Sands in "Hunger"), is perfection itself as a stiff-upper-lip British officer who used to be a film critic while Daniel Bruhl continues his upward climb as one of Europe's finest young actors as Fredrick Zoller, sniper extraordinaire, and whose exploits form the basis of the film that is being premiered for Hitler's benefit, with Bruhl playing 'himself' as Germany's answer to Audie Murphy, and Melanie Laurents is superb as the vengeful Shosanna. Here is another French actress about to make her international breakthrough.It's a brave or a foolhardy or simply a vain director who will end a movie so chock full of film references with the line that 'this may just be my masterpiece'. If it isn't quite, it still marks a major return to form for a film-maker whose place in Pantheon is already assured. It's also the best film I've seen this year.


                
