This must be Tarantino's worst movie. Not only is the storyline utterly absurd and implausible, but the characters are straight out of a comic book for 10-14 year old boys. I cannot understand why this loathsome piece of cinematic garbage gets such good reviews from people who really should know better. What is so great about a bunch of American Jews, hellbent on violent revenge, who go into occupied France to kill (murder) as many Germans as possible? And the idea that the entire Nazi leadership, including Hitler, would gather to a cinema in Paris to watch the premiere of a new Nazi movie, is so stupid and implausible that it's not even funny. At least Tarantino's previous films, though as insanely violent as this one, did have good story lines and were credible. This one is straight from the mind of an inmate of some lunatic asylum. Fans of Tarantino will praise everything he does, but this creation is well below his best. The only positive thing about the movie is the superb performance of Christoph Waltz.
We were really looking forward to this movie and after we watched it, we were glad that we hadn't rushed off to pay for it. Terrible movie. I don't know what Tarantino was trying to do. Usually a stickler for detail, this movie appears to be an offering trading on name only - ie., let's see what crap we can edit together and people will still buy it because it's a Tarantino movie. Given this theory - there a lot of fools giving way too high a rating in here. Were you drunk people? No joke. In the past, after watching a Tarantino movie there has been so much to think back on - when this one was over, I was irritated that I'd wasted my time. There is NOTHING clever about it. SPOILER: The reason they get caught out is because of the shoe (and their own dead men) left behind in the bar after the shootout. Now the Basterds have been ANAL perfectionists in their operation throughout the movie and suddenly they neglect to clean the scene?? Not a chance. Sorry. Useless product. Disgusting quality. If you already have enough money Mr Tarantino, just stop making movies - I for one won't ever be paying for another of yours.
I'm astonished that this film made the top 250 -- indeed, at time of this writing, number 84. I'm guessing that a number of the reviews are written by one-view enthusiasts who haven't very deep roots in film history or film criticism.I was tempted to rate the film at one star just to even things out, but that wouldn't be honest. There are two scenes in this movie that are striking and worthy -- the opening scene where Christopher Walz (Col. Landa) was looking for hidden Jews, and the second when a number of the "Basterds" are in a cellar pub trying to make contact with a defecting actress, but are interrupted by unforeseen events. Both scenes, really, are at times breathtaking.But the rest of the film varies between maudlin, unbelievable (even on the terms of its own alternative history) and just plain boring. The references to other films and directors (Hugo Stiglitz? Give me a break!), not to mention the comic book-style titles and all that were really wearying.How many of you think this is really a better film than "Rebecca"? Or "The Wizard of Oz"? I thought we only had grade inflation in higher ed ...I can't imagine this film will improve on second viewing, and there is absolutely nothing about it that invites such an investment of my time.
Stupid me, I didn't even notice who the director was before I sat down to watch this really peculiar film.With the possible exception of the first segment, the film - despite what the storyline is saying - is entirely in the here and now. A fantasy of revenge played out amid - not just gratuitous - but completely surreal, graphic, sickening violence. The carnage is so over-the-top that it quickly doesn't even garner a raised eyebrow, it becomes simply wallpaper behind a really vapid, simple fairytale. And the sets and costumes, though I guess not entirely inappropriate for WWII, never feel like anything more than just what they are - sets and costumes. The ambiance being much more akin to gangsta rap than Glen Miller. "Forties" it definitely is NOT.Though I initially was interested in the story, it devolved quickly into a nonsensical race to the bottom in trying to outdo itself for sheer in-your-face, amoral brutality. Is this Tarrantino thinks passes for entertainment? God, I can't imagine what a twisted, jaded, socio-pathological mind can produce such disgusting, visually repellent images.And then for a finale, QT decides to completely rewrite history, and two members of a ragtag troop of misfits - with the help of a theatre owner and her projectionist - defeat the entire German high command. No armies required, TYVM. What a joke.In the end I found myself somewhat ashamed for having sat and watched this. It says far more about who we are today in 2010 America, than it ever would about WWII. And what it says is something less than complimentary.
It's one of those movies that's difficult to evaluate because it's as inconsistent as it is. The plot is ludicrous yet there are very suspenseful moments embedded in it. Nobody could have made this except Quentin Tarantino -- it's that original -- and yet it rips off bits of business and entire subplots from a dozen or more other sources.Any enthusiasm I felt for it is limited because some scenes -- the entirety of "Chapter One" -- approach a kind of pornography of torture that's in danger of becoming a genre unto itself, and Tarantino, the writer and director, seems to get too much of a kick out what is some pretty ugly stuff.Brad Pitt is an American officer with an atrocious mountain accent who recruits a half dozen men to be inserted into France with the object of killing Nazis. The men are Jewish. The reasoning goes: the Nazis kill Jews, therefore we will kill Nazis. The collateral killing of any innocents is beside the point. The innocent must be punished along with the guilty. See "The Dirty Dozen" is you want a classier presentation of this moral nihilism.Not only do Pitt and his men kill the Nazis they capture. They scalp them too, and Tarantino treats the audience several times to explicit scenes of the men slicing the scalps of hair from the skulls of the dead.One captured officer is told to indicate where his unit is and how well armed and refuses, saying he will not yield information that will endanger the lives of German soldiers. There's a scene in "Reservoir Dogs," in which Michael Madsen is left alone with an innocent policeman and caresses his razor as he describes the pleasure he's going to get from torturing the prisoner. In "Reservoir Dogs," Madsen is the sadistic madman and the cop is the terrified captive who winds up being mutilated. In "Inglorious Bastards," the German officer who refuses to give up the information is told he will have his brains beaten out by a Jew wielding a baseball bat -- "The Bear Jew." The scene is long and drawn out. The camera cuts between the blackness of the cave from with The Bear Jew will emerge -- we hear the bat banging against the wall and coming close -- and close ups of the horrified face of the officer awaiting his own death. The horror is justified. The point is that the sadistic lunatic of "Reservoir Dogs" has become the hero now.Well -- what's the point of this scene? Just killing the recalcitrant officer is a violation of the Geneva Conventions. But why draw the scene out with such relish? What does Tarantino expect from the viewer? Chills, thrills -- exaltation -- during the anticipation of the grisly murder? LAUGHTER? That's the kind of crap I'd expect in a cheap slasher movie before the pretty girl in the underwear gets her throat cut and blood splashes all over the walls."Pulp Fiction" was a true original, even if it was a couple of sub-plots slapped together. "Reservoir Dogs" had some fine acting, though it ended pointlessly. Both were essentially well-done in their own shocking ways.But I can't forgive Tarantino for this one. I don't mind the in-jokes. (The name of Pitt's officer is "Aldo Raine.") There is even some intentional comedy that works. Pitt is trying to pass himself off as a native Italian, and you ought to hear him mangle the word "arrivederci." But not even the scenes that embody suspense, the genuinely well-staged episode in the basement night club, can lift this effort out of the teen-aged trash can.Good performances for the most part, especially from Melanie Laurent who is unmistakably French, Christoph Waltz as the chief Nazi villain, and Daniel Bruhl as the fresh-faced young German hero who is given some inexplicable and uncharacteristically villainous lines just before he's done in.The climax is a fantasy, which is okay, but there are signs of outright carelessness in the direction. (I don't want to call it stupidity.) The audience of high-ranking Nazis is sitting there watching a movie about a heroic sniper and everyone -- der Fuhrer included -- is laughing out loud as hundreds of American soldiers are shot and killed in a strictly Hollywood manner, twirling around, stunt men tumbling down stairs, anachronistic squibs exploding. Does anyone actually believe that an audience of sophisticates would laugh during a movie like this? Or -- let me put it differently. We made the same kind of movie, "To Hell And Back," in which Audie Murphy played his historically heroic self and slaughtered hundreds of Germans. Did anyone laugh? Tarantino unquestionably has a lot of movie-making skill. Maybe it's time for him to reconsider the parameters of his morality.
This movie is a joke for our history... is Quentin Tarantino some how stupid? he got Adolf Hitler killed in a movie theater in his movie?!? Very poor in landscaping...it's filmed like a cheap novice movie...nothing extraordinary except the magic performance from Christoph Waltz, which indeed was the best character in this average film. By the way please send Brad Pitt to his wife and God make him do Legend's of the Fall again or something similar because the priest at my church looks more fierce than his role here. Please don't vote for a poor screenplay which has made the history of WW2 a joke... and for my beloved Quentin, stay to Pulp Fiction because it was a masterpiece...not a low quality "dream" like this one.
Overlong, talky, wartime adventure punctuated with moments of sadistic violence. Tarantino seems to have slipped since the stylishly exciting yet derivative mish-mash of KILL BILL VOL 1. His past few films have had their moments just as BASTERDS does, but the moments do not make up for the tedium inbetween. The reflexive filmic quotations are amusing if somewhat corny but there is much to savor in the characterization of Christoph Waltz (bravo!). Still, a turkey is a turkey. Quite frankly I'm surprised that fans are giving him a free pass on this one. I don't hear too many people defending DEATH PROOF, which has about as much substance as BASTERDS. I doubt I'll revisit this one. Where is the director of JACKIE BROWN?


                
I watched this movie because I am very fond of Quentin's direction,specially his chapterwise description,cunning dialogs and different sense of music.But it is unfortunate to admit that this movie has nothing that can be praised except the acting of Christoph Waltz,Daniel Bruhl,August Diehl.This movie is full of flaws & acting disasters.In second half of the movie Bradd Pit was acting like he is doing mimicry of Godfather's Marlon Brando.I was surprised to see the ratings of this movie at IMDb.I would say that it is very overrated & 8 nominations in Oscar,what were they thinking?


                
Biggest problem Tarantino is facing before making any movie, is that he made his best two movies at the beginning of his carrier as director. Those are Pulp Fiction and Reservoir Dogs.Almost every movie he made after that are good, but no where near as two mentioned above.But this movie is simply ridiculous. Even Kill Bill makes more sense than this alternate look on history. Such a high rating on IMDb is not deserved at all. So many things in this movie treat audience as dumb ass. Apart the first scene with Mr. Waltz everything else is just plain crap. If you wanted to present alternate look on history that is all fine but do it without so many inconsistencies (like only two guards in front of a theater)A shame on Tarantino to allow to many mistakes in his creation.


                
...you get something like this.Playing with artistic concepts and instruments as artifices in order to communicate something is one thing,but when you either have no idea what you want to say or your idea is something so personal and incomprehensible that maybe it's best to bury it in you rather than produce something for others to see,then what you end up with are those artifices only,without any kind of substance.Now,I'm not sure if Tarantino is either clueless(or somewhat of a nihilist) or that he really has an absurd agenda,but either way,his latest movies are pointless.I gave Kill Bill 1 5/10 because I at least acknowledged the technical side,but in this case,even the technical pluses are drowned in a sea of absurdity.If Tarantino thinks that he can rely 100% on reinterpreting movie clichés in a movie, without any regard for reality and common sense,then he's mistaken.It may work for the Zucker brothers or Jim Abrahams,but this one is no feel-good comedy,but rather a fictional continuous gore-fest and surrealist crap.If people are buying this one,it says something really disturbing about them.About how people are entertained these days.Tarantino may have largely avoided the "Hollywood way",but he slipped into something very idiotic.So,1 point for the technical part and for entertainment, and 2 points for Waltz (Landa) and the whole multi-lingual thing(impressive).The rest is pointless.Really garbage.


                
I love what Tarantino did in the 90s. I'm as big a fan of Pulp Fiction and Reservoir Dogs. However, I didn't really know what to expect with this one. After half an hour, I knew this would be a huge disappointment, and after an hour, I kept feeling the temptation to simply stop watching the film then and there.Quention Tarantino has completely lost the magic that gave the breakfast scene in Reservoir Dogs its magic. It seemed incomprehensible at that time to see a bunch of gangsters around a breakfast table discussion Madonna, 70s music and whether to tip or not, but Tarantino pulled it off with brilliant dialogue and brilliant actors.This magic has been fading away for his past three films and is completely gone now. Tarantino can no longer create such scenes, and this film just reeks of his futile attempts to do just that. Again and again! The scenes are DREADFULLY long and the dialogue is downright boring.The acting is fabulous and the cinematography is still very good. The actors speak absolutely fluent French and German, and I love that all the people in the film speak their own language and not English. That's what I give the 3 stars for. The rest of the film gets a solid 0.Mr. Tarantino, you're over the hill and your last three films have sucked increasingly. I have no doubt your die hard fans will still be there for you, but I won't be giving any more of your films a chance.A complete turd of a film.


                
What is the deal with this movie? I was bored out of my skull during this movie. I don't know if I missed something, but I thought this movie was terrible. I would also like to mention that I watched this in my home on Movies on Demand. I saw it with my dad and friend, and we all basically wanted to turn it off. The only reason we watched the whole thing was that when I finally snapped and decided i was done watching, the piece of garbage was nearly over. I see that it's high on the list of best movies of all time for IMDb ratings. This really does baffle me. I was not intrigued with the plot at all. The parts that were meant to be funny did not translate for me. I really thought this movie was lame.


                
The trailer for Inglourious Basterds is misleading, making us believe it is about Brad Pitt's "basterds" seriously going Nazi Hunting. But the star clearly is Christoph Waltz, who not only speaks 4 languages brilliantly, but is up for an Oscar in his role as sweet, yet vicious "Jew hunter". Would Jews feel happy about this movie of REVENGE? I don't think so. Tarantino said before hand that this, his, movie will be the mother of all war movies. Clearly it is not. As always it is glorifying violence and thinking all conversation between men is amusing. Well.... He should have at least made sure, Pitt doesn't stumble over his own words constantly trying to get the Southern accent right. And why was Churchill (nice one there by Rod Taylor) sitting in a room clearly done in Hitler style fascist architecture? And the Paris cinema was really too much just Babelsberg film studios. And in an Indian newspaper I read that Basterds is spelled wrong because that is how Germans would pronounce it. Another big mistakes, Bastards!


                
The luvvy darlings have all slapped Tarentio luvvy on the back on told him he's a writing/directing genius. Unfortunately this is not the case.If you are going to re-write history in a film, you need to pick a period outside of living memory. Otherwise a lot of the audience will know it's not just inaccurate, but blatantly so. This rather kills the illusion, by slapping the viewer, with a smelly cold wet fish of disbelief for what they are seeing. I liked some of Tarantino's other films, but this seems to be one where he scribbled the script on loo paper whilst high on drugs or alcohol. Fassbender excels as does Waltz (Pitt is just a poster boy and hardly seen!) but the film is so patchy and jerky you never get into any story, just long periods of tedious scenes and dialogue. Watch once (if you have no other choice) and never, ever, ever again.
Straight from the can. It combines the historical accuracy and realism of 300 with the premise of The Dirty Dozen. It's pulp fiction, true, but is it intentional kitsch. Having watched it, I thought it might have been but after I read an interview with Tarantino, I changed my mind.It taps into that primeval want for doing bad things to people we don't like. Revenge, don't think so, well, maybe in case of the girl but she's not the audience, she's not even a basterd. Justice, not exactly that either, it's not a court in there and it's done from a contemporary and utterly simplified point of view. It does however provide a relief for that sense of powerlessness you might experience when confronted with "the heavy stuff", that is if you are ignorant enough to be able to talk yourself into it. And in the end, those cheers don't change anything or make you one of the "good guys".I found the audiences reactions to be more amusing than the movie itself. Take the reactions people had to the scalping or "batting" scenes. On one hand the disgust and shock of some of the more sensitive of our brothers and sisters out there, just as highly emotional as the joy and bewilderment some of our domesticated animals have experienced. To be honest, the volume of graphic violence was rather small. Just a few rather short scenes in between all that talking and talking, French, German, Italian.Getting to the one redeeming feature of the movie that I've managed to find, unintentional as it might have been, it made thousands of testosterone laden juveniles read subtitles. I find that hilarious.How about this for a tag line: This is what the play from The Producers would have looked like had Germany won the war.As a pulp violence showcase it's lackluster and as a serious war movie it's script is just ridiculous and mediocre, so except for the stylization and technical aspects, what's exactly supposed to be the movies appeal.


                
First of all, I am really an admirer of early Tarantino movies. I strongly suggest that everyone who didn't watch "Reservoir Dogs" or "Pulp Fiction" do so. No lack of violence there also. Rest of his movies could easily be skipped although "Kill Bill" has some moments. This is my first review here and I am writing it because I am so disappointed in the movie and in the direction this author is going. I suppose the great reviews and rating of this movie is caused by new generation of movie goers admiration of pure gore and exaggeration. There is definitely not much left from the original artistic freshness and mastery in somewhat artificial (deliberately) but certainly intelligent and fluent Tarantino style dialogue. I am giving it 3 out of 10, because there are still some movies worse than this one.


                
I can only agree with the reviewers on the unstructured, badly paced patch work nature of this movie, and on the sad fact that the best scene is the first scene.I can only assume, people who believe the "bar" scene is "witty" don't understand the German language. A native speaker should notice immediately, how bad the actors really are and how forced and unpleasant the "Tarantino table debate pattern" aches on the viewers perception.What works in contemporary New York style short story dialogues does absolutely not apply to German ww2 era characters. Tarantino obviously tried to make it "authentic" by omitting all the vulgar street lingo, but thus fails cos whats left is just clumsy and cumbersome.Another thing nobody mentioned (AFAIK), is the fact that Tarantinos casting agent selected only the worst of the German actors available to fill his "native speaker" roles.(I am from Austria, so I have the dubious advantage of being pestered with all of those actors for decades now). And no, those actors are not suitable for "the trashy approach", they're just plain tiresome. it's as if a french movie maker wants to shoot an "authentic rapper" scene in New York and then hires the first actor that springs to mind. because he can't be bothered : "well, Denzel Washington is black, American and famous, no? That should suffice".Mr. Waltz has been playing the same role for 15 years of cheesy TV movie productions, so there's no "outstanding character play" here; he just plain can't do anything else but play the slimy psychopath.Til Schweiger is Germanies Ben Affleck. no further comment needed.Gedeon Burkhardt is only known as "Komissar Rex" - the lamest "a cop and his dog" TV production the world has ever birthed.That Diane Krueger has been promoting the stereotype of the boring, dull and flat German wood puppet with her outstanding "acting skills" doesn't help either.I believe I "get" what Tarantino is after with this movie, and I think its a wonderful concept - however, sadly it fails. hard.


                
I went to see this one because a Tarantino film is usually a good bang for a couple of bucks-what I saw was a film that tried very hard to be serious film and failed badly, in fact it was like watching old footage of a B-17 get hit by flack and roll upside down as a prelude to flying vertically into the ground at three times its top speed, on fire. The inclusion of Mike Myers as an actor doing a serious role was truly laughable in and of itself. The fact that some US soldier liked to carve swastikas into German soldiers heads is something that I have never heard before and I have heard all kinds of WW2 stories. Well, big deal on that anyway, I could imagine lots of worse things to do to German soldiers in WW2 than giving them improvised tattoos and hitting them with baseball bats. The portrayal of Adolf Hitler as funny man and also the portrayal of Joseph Goebels as funny man treads a fine line dipping into the and of ass jokes with remarkable ease, showing a bit of true bad taste on the part of the film maker. Whats next-pratfall jokes with Joseph Stalin?, who by the way, killed 27 million people, out doing Hitler's period of distemper by quite a few more million dead persons. Boo hiss on this flap doodle. Only good bit is when two guys gets their testes shot off in a bar scene-and not a vampire in sight.I honestly think this film does not contribute to the body of work that deals with WW2. Maybe in kind of a cheapish way it does, but I wouldn't want a WW2 vet to see it.


                
i saw this film last night and i was excited to see a film that would bring QT back from the dead as his film death proof is one on the worst films ever made. the trailer looked so good and the title INGLOURIOUS BASTERDS is an amazing title, but both the title and the trailer are both very deceiving. the films called inglourious basterds and the trailer just shows the basterds kicking ass, but were are the basterds in the film there only in it for 3 sequences. i always thought i was a big QT fan i mean his first 3 films in my eye's are simply amazing, Pulp Fiction is on of the best films ever. but then thats it he has only made 3 good films himself, a lot of the film's he has written are good but it seems like he's forgotten how to writer a film. i am an up and coming film maker (writer and director) and now i can see that its the writing that lets QT down in his latest films. there is a 20min bar scene in ingourious basterds and F U C K all happen's in it till the very end and its like this with most of the scenes in the film and its 2 hours 30mins long and i think an hour could be cut out of this and it would not effect the story in any way shape or form. this is a 2 out of 5 film but with some 5 out of 5 scenes. please QT get back to making crime films, you're on of the best at that game.
I usually avoid movies with violence. I went to see this film because I speak French and German and I was curious about the angle of the Jews getting revenge.What a disappointment! If revenge is being as cruel as the Nazis, what is the point. Half of the movie I could not watch because of all the blood and violence. Human beings should come up with better solutions. After all we should by now be a little bit more sophisticated than the primitive men who clubbed each other over the head. But obviously not. There was constant laughter and applause for the violent scenes in this movie. I am ashamed for my fellow human beings.I gave the movie three points because of the fact that the dialogue was in the original languages and some of the acting was good. I regret having spent the money on that film.


                
First of all, the movie portrays this "jewish dirty dozen" as anti-heroes, they're just a bunch of stupid psychos, who deserve to die, and i felt no sympathy whatsoever when they were slaughtered. On the other hand, the Nazis are portrayed as heroes, they are highly intelligent, brave and more human than the bastards. Although there are some pretty well developed characters and good acting in this movie, the script is just plain stupid. (What's the chance of a french dairy farmer speaking English in 1941? Give me a break.) It is as complicated as a Disney movie, and the story is very predictable. The conversations are too long and mainly pointless, just as the whole movie. Oh, and how was the main Nazi character punished by carving a swastika onto his forehead? Come on. We're talking about 1945, Americans were still hating, categorizing and discriminating people based on their color and ethnicity. If he had moved to Mississippi and wanted to join the KKK (with the medal of honor in his pocket), he would have been more than welcomed. People who hate Jews (and are afraid to admit even to themselves) will definitely enjoy this one, cause this movie is made for them.
Violence for the sake of violence.The film is a history re-write of World War 2. Does this mean that the plot is an exciting unknown which explores what could have happened if only....No!Its a re-write so nobody had to get off their ass and do some research. The plot is very simple and boring. You are made aware of what the plot is very early on in the film and basically have to wait ages for it to happen.The film is compartmentalised into chapters. In doing this Quentin Tarintino is either being lazy, or is unable to make a "fluid" story. Each chapter/block doesn't quite line up with the one before it, which has the effect of creating a jerky storyline. A bit like a TV programme with advert-breaks in the middle of it. There is a lot (most of the film in fact) of talking that has nothing to do with the progression of either the story or any character development. Whilst slightly entertaining you do get the feeling that it was just there to pad-out the film. Its the sort of movie that, if you allow it, will grip you initially and pull you in for a bit, but then if you have any sort of intelligence you will suddenly snap out of it and say to yourself hang on a minute, WHY this, why that, why didn't they just, well that wouldn't happen. No one would do that! etc etc.*************************SPOILERS****************************There is a bar scene that lasts most of the film and adds NOTHING to the films story. What this bar-scene does do is get the two ex-Nazis and the British officer killed. You would think that the German ex-Nazis(now allies) would tell the British officer that his accent was a bit weird wouldn't you? Why was the British officer there at all? BOTH of the German Ex-Nazis would be far too valuable to jeopardise as well as the British officer as they were the only three that could speak German in the entire group.A Jewish person owns a cinema. All of the Top Nazi military-brass including Hitler attend this cinema in order to watch a film of a Nazi-sniper killing 300 allied personnel. Rather unrealistic that the sniper managed to kill 300 people in three days whilst being so exposed. In addition it is also unrealistic that they were making such films during the war. further more it is also unrealistic that all of the Nazi top-brass would meet at such a vulnerable place with just two, yes, just two guards with machine-guns. The Cinema wasn't checked for explosives and none of the additional guests were checked or vetted. Indeed, neither was the Cinema owner.The remaining "Basterds" with explosives strapped to their legs attend the Premier of this film with a German-speaking actress who is an allied spy. Due to the fact that none of the "basterds" speak German they decide to pretend to be Italian, because, apparently, Germans can't recognise an Italian accent, or lack of one. At the Cinema Brad Pitts character has to engage in conversation with a German officer. (Now remember that they are trying to be Italian)Brad Pitts character lets forth the strongest American accent ever,even for an American! let a lone for a so called Italian. He should have been shot on sight. (I think Germans, particularly an officer would recognise an American accent).The thing I struggle with is why didn't just one or two Allied people meet with the cinema owner and rig the place with explosives? Why attend the premier at all? Especially if you can't speak the language. Talk about taking chances in ruining the mission. Why did they have to be suicide bombers? Why did the doors to the cinema bolt from the outside? Why did the Jewish person let that annoying Nazi into the projection room? you wouldn't do that! Your mind would be on the mission. I don't remember any communication between the cinema owner and the "Basterds".This film could be edited to be under an hour in length. The Jewish cinema owner did a better job of killing the Nazis than the stupid "Inglourious Basterds". All the "Basterds" did was create a blood-bath and start shooting to bits Nazis that where going to die soon anyway. I am surprised Tarantino didn't make the cinema seats white to show the blood up more.The Story/Plot is VERY BAD. The acting by some of the cast is VERY GOOD.The "acting" by Brad Pitt is VERY BAD. He is charismatic in most of the films he does but unless he plays an American he is hopeless as he can't do accents at all (apart from a mumbling drunk Irish man in snatch). The only good thing about this film as far as I was concerned was that the English-speakers spoke English, the Germans spoke German and the French spoke French. None of this all American nonsense where everyone sounds the same. (The language is important in most war movies because if an allied character can't speak it/understand it, or if they don't sound right, they get killed. It adds to the tension and suspense).
Guess what ladies and gentlemen? Quentin Tarantino's rendition of 'Inglorious Basterds' is not that original. It is original in its storyline. But in terms of general creativity, it is hardly original. Hmmmm surprise, surprise. This is one more movie in the seemingly endless tidal wave of remakes and sequels currently polluting theaters and home DVD players. This is not to say that the movie was bad. Its storyline is a far cry from the story in the original. But when it comes to levels of violence and general camera work, this is largely more of the same from Tarantino, therefore setting it far apart from the original. What's more, while the general storyline makes for an interesting watch, the story feels as though it is dragging nonstop from beginning to end.The story of the original 'Inglorious Basterds' involved the Dirty Dozen-esquire group of rogue soldiers trying to stop the Nazis, while trying to keep themselves from getting in any trouble from their own people. This time around, though, Tarantino has made an entirely fictitious story of said soldiers taking part in a plan to assassinate some of the Nazi party's elite at a theater. Unbeknownst to said soldiers, a young French Jew has her own plan to kill the Nazi's, too. Along the way, there is plenty of violence, and foul language, killing, and a very unnecessary short sex scene.The sex, violence, and language aside, one of the positives of the movie is Tarantino's ability to make some very interesting camera angles. He does things with the camera that few other directors would dare do. The angles, in their own way, help to tell the story. They set mood by themselves, and by giving a better view of the scenes (and the characters).While the camera angles and shots may help to tell the story, Tarantino and company fail to tell the story in a timely fashion. The separation of the story into chapters makes for wonderful transitions. But perhaps certain things could have been left out of some scenes to help push the story along. It felt as if so much of the story was just extraneous material that could have been cut. But then again, that is much the style that Tarantino has in his work.'Inglorious Basterds' may not be the most original movie in the annals of war movies. But for all of the negatives that this movie may have, it is still somewhat uncharted territory for Quentin Tarantino. He is not typically known for doing war movies. And for this, it is a movie that will likely stand out among that mass of war movies created since the dawn of the silver screen.


                
Yes, Danny a Wood, I agree wholeheartedly with you This is what passes for "masterpiece" these days. Humor and violence porn, torture porn. People are so insensitive that they thrive on stereotypes and caricatures. Real characters and real events, daily struggles, the quotidian are not for our modern "Tarantino fans." They want blood, revenge, and shock. Shock and awe. Shock and kill. Kill Bill. Kill the Nazis. Dehumanize the Germans. At least some non-Nazis did die in this film, but it was almost all Nazis who did. And all Nazis were bad. Just one hint of humanity, no two. But they were expendable, too. A few non-Nazis died like suicide bombers who were dying for a cause. The good cause. And Posse10 I also agree with you. This was stereotyping of Germans, there wasn't a single human one in the film. And the stereotyping of Native Americans was also included as Pitt was supposed to be part "Apache." Most Native Americans know that it was the Europeans settlers who brought scalping to America. This is Hollywood at its worst and why Tarantino is touted as brilliant and artistic is beyond me. By jumping on the bandwagon and cheering for these dismal works of his we are merely perpetuating another form of Nazism - American glorification of violence, torture and stereotyping. The Nazis get treated as they treated others, therefore there was no redeeming quality about this film. Only revenge and bloodshed. Art appeals to the higher instincts of mankind, not the base instincts.


                
My first reaction when leaving 'Inglourious Basterds' was "They could've cut a good hour out of that film!" And as much as I ONLY went to this movie due to Tarantino, I think he was so in love with his work, he barely edited out a second of footage. Even if the misleading advertisements were true – "Killing Nazis!" actually only takes up approx 1/6 of the movie, as does Pitt's character – I still wouldn't have been interested in the subject matter. I'm just not into war/period-piece movies. Again, only Tarantino's name got me to buy a ticket. In 'Basterds's defense, it was much more than just a period piece, or war movie, so I'll give it that. I'll also praise a lot of great scenes that made me laugh, snicker, jump, root and admire. Unfortunately, they were so few and very, VERY far between, I'm seriously reducing my rating. I miss the old Tarantino, as even if the movie was slow at times, it kept me interested throughout with raging dialogue, plot twists and intersecting story lines. Here we have a straight arrow plot, yes, with multiple story lines, but barely a crossover. In the beginning we get 1 of many enormously overlong scenes where a Jewish family is slaughtered in 1941 Nazi-occupied France, but one escapes. (The other notable drawn out to the max scene is a barroom conversation that I wanted to scream for it to be over – you knew where it was going, so get on with it! 10 minutes, maybe, but not 30 minutes or so.) Anyways, we get her story later, along with a weasel detective and a group of war-criminals-to-be Nazi killers (see trailer) all leading to a movie screening finale. Good ending, but be prepared for 80% subtitles and 60% fluff to get there.Side Note: Despite it being a "period piece" movie – where's the jams? I do miss his great soundtracks. Also, never thought I would say this, as I ALWAYS go for the "unedited" versions of movies on DVD/Bluray. However, I certainly wouldn't mind see the NBC network edited down version. I've already heard the language, seen all the gore. I just would like to see an hour less to get a more tightly plotted and gripping film this could have been.
