Once again, revenge is at the center of a Quentin Tarantino movie. This time a Jewish dirty dozen takes things on their own hands. Tarantino re-writes history and shortens WWII with a comic stroke that is as entertaining as it is vacuous. A fantasy that re-arranges some controversial historical points. Okay, it's a movie and as such it works for most of its two and a half hours. Christoph Waltz opens things up in the most promising way. The opening sequence is filled with a subtle but unbearable tension. Weltz amalgamates all the Nazi villains we have loved and hated in the movies into one glorious creation. (I will advise my countrymen to see it in its original multi-language version - the Italian version is another movie altogether. Some of the extra pleasures are in the dialog that, naturally, are not to be found in the Italian version) Brad Pitt, rapidly becoming one of the best character actors in the world, with a leading man's face and billing, is truly fantastic. Diane Kruger makes a credible Barbara Bouchet (one of Tarantino's muses from trash action Italian movies from the 70's) and the rest of the cast has some exquisite touches like Rod Taylor as Winston Churchill. Highly recommended for a Sunday afternoon.


                
Everything is forgiven because "Inglorious Basterds" is so entertaining and at the end of the day that'ìs what matters. I think it's a pity that certain critics, specially in Italy, are determined to transform this clever pulp director into some kind of god. Maybe, partly, because Tarantino has been very clever, elevating some of the Italian pulp movies of the 60's and 70's to a sort of cult status. Italy is very grateful for that, he's rewarded with interminable praise. I fear that's the wrong approach, it's also confusing. He makes popcorn movies, brilliantly. The characters have never anything important to say, Burger King, Superman, that's the extent of its depth and I think he's tapping into a society that's getting shallower and shallower with every passing year. But, if I'm mentioning this instead of talking about all the great things I could be saying about his movie is because there is a strange force trying to brain wash me into believing that Tarantino is the most important influence in movies since time immemorial. No, he's a great director of inconsequential fun movies. I consider myself a fan and I intend to see all his future movies. This one has some wonderful touches, winking at other movies by John Sturges, Robert Aldrich etc. Brad Pitt and in particular Christoph Waltz give wonderful performances. Waltz is at the center of my favorite scenes in the film. Enjoy this movies for what it is and not for what critics are saying it is. You'll enjoy it even more that way.


                
This is truly a painful ordeal. Any score over 6.5 is a total disgrace. Its not funny, its not exciting, thrilling nor good in any way. Yes Tarantino is a brilliant director/writer and I must admit I am a huge fan of all his previous work.This movie however is bad, really bad. The scenes, except the first, are lacking everything that makes Quentin good. The dialog is completely lacking his usual finesse and nerve. The violence is just overkill but OK we got your point QT you are not a big fan of ze Germans.. Please stick to movies which take place after 1960 in the future..


                
The thing I find funny about the bad reviews of this film is how you claim it's unbelievable. Really, Hitler wouldn't go into a movie theater without security? Your a f'ing genius. Tell me more about a war and a time you know nothing about. Really, it's unbelievable that a black man is in France in the 40's? You obviously have never been to France or know anything about French history. It's a movie people, not a documentary. Waltz is amazing in a great movie as long as you don't take yourself so seriously.
Christoph Waltz .yes. i only enjoyed this man and it is the only thing i enjoyed in this movie.the story carries many non logic things like why Landa character changes suddenly ? how a party attended by first class German leaders and all these large weapons in?many non logic nonsense events.let us talk about casting Diane Kruger,good act . Mélanie Laurent--average act.Brad Pitt one of his averages never one of his best.German killed millions of humans in France, Russia,england ...... but the world only remember the Jews,the films make u feel that the war between German and Jews,no matter their nationality ,British or American or Russian... .and the Germans just started this war to kill the Jews allover the world !!! this is part of the Jews campaign but bad made this time .we previously enjoyed schindler list .i just want to say how an average film score 8.5 !!!!!!
I have as many seen all Tarantino's work and loved the majority of it but I have also as many noticed a steady spiral downwards in his work culminating with inglorious bastards. Jackie Brown, Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction are three films that I could easily watch over and over again while Inglorious Bastards I had trouble sitting through once. It was the first films EVER that I contemplated walking out of. . .this might be due to the fact that I rarely go to the cinema on a whim but Tarantino carried so much credit in my book that I went on the day it opened without reading anything about the work.It seems to me that no one really has the courage to say what they think...that this movie is something they would expect from a B or even C production! The story line is absolute garbage and all though I sat through the whole 150 minutes of the film I couldn't help but think that Mr Tarantino should stay of Cocaine and maybe watch some classics again before making a movie. Inglorious Bastards is like a WW2 comedy with a Western Twist...I hated it. There is not a single part of the movie which is historical accurate including things like uniforms, weapons etc. which by the end of the movie was the least of my concern. The acting was by in large rubbish...perhaps Brad Pitts worst performance. The only light point in the movie when it comes to acting is the performance of Christoph Waltz in his role of the SS Col. Hans Landa. All in all there is not much reason to see this film...there a couple of funny moments and several well done gory scenes apart from that tickets for this film should be given away for free. All of this being said I think that this movie will be well received by the general audience who will most likely praise it for being courageous and what not but the reality is that if this movie was made by someone not famous it would have been labeled as what it is...absolute rubbish.


                
There's something profoundly offensive about this. Oh, it isn't the gratuitous catalog of stereotypes. Its the fact that they are stereotypes, unmodified in any way. It isn't that it doesn't move, but that it does so without passion. Borrowing is part of life, but a simple collage is different than a living ecosystem.Comic books are still comic books. The illusion of movement is just an illusion.There are, however, two things I enjoyed.Brad Pitt is amusing, not in the context of the film, but in the context of his craft. He is turning into a worthy actor, taking chances and not relaxing. I cannot imagine anyone else with this range. Chris Cooper? Pitt is not an intelligent man, so he cannot be an intelligent actor and he cannot stand outside this business and annotate. But he can be overtly ridiculous, and that is good enough here.The other thing is the way the film within is constructed. It is as blunt as everything else, but because of what it is, it is fun. The thing is set up for a film within, misplaced. The literal film within is a war film, perverted by an exhibitor. But the real film within is the film of that film's audience, who as viewers have done to them what they celebrate on screen. It is really a very elegant idea, just kicked on our face.Oh, a more structural elegance works a whole lot better. This is not extended from the war genre, but the detective one. Our main character is not the leader of a group of terrorists. but a master detective in a efficient machine that gets increasingly madder as you get away from him. Detectives are our most deeply cinematic narrative flows and QT knows what to do with it.Sure he builds this out of trash, but he lines things up properly, we discover.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3: Has some interesting elements.
I just got back from watching the uk preview. It is certainly a very interesting film, and absolutely nothing like the trailer suggested. I'll avoider spoilers, but it is worth pointing out that the eponymous 'basterds' are hardly in the film, and it doesn't really follow their exploits. In fact the bulk of the film is based around a revenge story for a female jew who's family has been massacred by the nazi's.Tarantino displays several styles. The much-emphasized contemporary-western style all but disappears after the first, brief chapter. His nouvelle vague influences return with full force, as do his 70s-inspired ott gimmicks, and their are traces to all his previous films here. Personally I'm not sure they all fit, and I didn't feel the film always knew where it was going.The pro's. The film has two utterly excellent scenes, the first is the opening 20 minute scene of the film involving a french farmer and a nazi commander, the second involving a secret meeting between allies in a tavern basement. Both are tense, thrilling, and beautifully shot and acted. Another brief standout scene is the introduction of the Basterds as a tale retold be a survivor. Also, Mélanie Laurent gives a brilliant performance throughout, with only a bit of corny dialogue later on as she transforms into 'the bride' character, stilted dialogue and all. Secondly, Christoph Waltz is very good as the films central antagonist, and who you get the feeling Tarantino is rooting for all along.The con's. Firstly, Tarantino has replaced his own inappropriate cameos with a new one, Eli Roth's poor acting stands out throughout the movie and really serves as an unnecessary distraction. Secondly, the film has no real focus, it is a collection of quite-long scenes, held together entirely by coincidence, which seem to come and go with no real connection to those before or after. Perhaps this is due to the third problem, the film seems to have a LOT missing. Only two of the Basterds get any development, and this is minimal. We don't know where any of the films character come from or what motivated them, even those who the film highlights. The film's two main plots never really come together, and the films climax is explosive, but not particularly gratifying (although others may disagree with this).As much as I enjoyed Kill Bill, Tarantino seems unwilling to return to the kind of easy naturalism and character development that made his first two films so exceptional. His style is very deliberate, but for me it often seems like he's trying too hard. More akin to Jackie Brown (as I remember it at least) this film is uneven, with some incredible scenes and some great characters, but a lot of inappropriate gimicky cheese and underdeveloped ideas too.I'm sure many will love this film, and given times and multiple viewings, I may do too. But initial reactions on first viewing are certainly uneven.
The film was promoted with the phrase "Once upon a time..." both a tribute to one of Tarantino's heroes, Sergio Leone, and a tip off that the film presented would be a FANTASY. Tarantino has been stuck in strictly revenge fantasy mode since Kill Bill, as the two Bill films, Death Proof, and now Basterds are all nothing but revenge fantasies. He clearly let us know he was not making a film that presented us with accurate history. The Nazis in the film serve two purposes, comic relief and symbol of evil and the violent destruction of them fulfills the fantasy.It is well known that Tarantino does not make films that are polite or in "good taste" he makes films that satisfy his childhood film fantasies. I can't imagine a person walking into a Tarantino film thinking they are going to get a history lesson or learn something. This has never been the point of a Tarantino film, he makes films to pay tribute to the pop culture and filmmakers he loves so much. He is not a complex filmmaker, he is a kid in a candy store and like that kid all he wants to do is overindulge himself. The "fun" in seeing one of his films is watching him do so with such glee.This film is a big goofy mess, not meant to be taken seriously, the thing is you can either laugh along with Tarantino or walk away. I won't argue that there is plenty in this film, including the ending, which could obviously be seen as "offensive to Jews" and some of my Jewish friends have already told me they think the film is a travesty but I think the thing is you have to try to take into consideration Tarantino's intention, which was to make a film that would make the kid in him yell "That's so cool!" Is that sort of dumb considering Tarantino is an adult? Sure it is, but I guess watching the film is like watching kids open presents, they are thrilled and excited to be tearing off all that pretty colored paper...not very deep but it is true.


                
Being a devoted Tarantino fan, for me this movie was a disappointment. Inglourious Basterds has its flashes of genius, as you'd expect from a Tarantino movie, but they're lost in a muddle of half-baked ideas and characters, and in the end it's probably his weakest movie so far, lacking in the one thing that even Death Proof had - energy and pace. The film does have some mentionable qualities, that are enough to make it watchable and even quite enjoyable - as you would expect from Tarantino, it's fantastically professional in every aspect, especially cinematography and sound. Some of the characters have tons of potential, and the actors are usually spot on (another honorable mention to Christoph Waltz), but there are so many characters that not one of them is developed enough to be satisfying. Tarantino fails to juggle a large number of plots and sub-plots the way he did in Jackie Brown in Pulp Fiction, and they never intertwine in any meaningful way. And worst of all, it's not even that controversial or offensive - Tarantino took a lot of liberties with history, and he certainly created violence that's more realistic and more explicit than ever before, but it's really just violence for the sake of itself. I realize I'm in a minority here, but I don't recommend this movie. I'm not saying don't watch it - there's a lot here to enjoy. But in the end, it's just not that good.


                
This is not a film that you can pleasantly enjoy, you can appreciate the technical expertise of the film but Inglourious Basterds is a juvenile and ill-judged plot.Firstly the film has a good beginning, well shot with the tension built up well and a fine introduction to Colonel Hans Landa played brilliantly by Christoph Waltz. However, after this start begins a mish-mash of genre styles which are confusing. What was with the western music? It did not at all fit with the film, and the way Inglourious is divided into chapters was odd and certainly unnecessary. Inglourious Basterds is spattered with impressive camera shots and there is no denying Tarantino's strength with dialogue. However, scenes are too lengthy and drag on. Some of these scenes are too brazen or bloodthirsty and many of the peripheral characters are largely dolloped in a comic-caricature style. Brad Pitt for this deliverance does not fit the build for Lieutenant Alan Raine, and falls short of offering a character of any vividness. However its comic exuberance does bring momentum when the film is heavily burdened and stagnated with discourse. I understand that the film was meant to have a comic-like feel, as I have implied so far but it is thwarted by its infantile development, which at times was distasteful and uncomfortable. The lengthy scenes are all embellished for the finale, and this was the worst misjudgment. The final scenes are over done, and over-cooked it is an ugly and uncomfortable end.Inglourious Basterds is technically good but the story is black and distasteful, the comedy edge is not well-judged and for all its bravado it cannot hide its fundamental flaw, being its inability to provide satisfaction from its setup to its ill-conclusion.
It was so wonderful to escape from all that MTV like trash movies populated with Barbies and Kens and enter a world where good cinema even if crazy is the absolute key word.With the first scene I was put in heaven, with superb dialogs that lasted for minutes and a fabulous camera that managed to captured all the surrounding mysteries and its tinny details as I have seldom seen before. Right there I thought I was in the presence of a second Pulp Fiction. Well, not quite.The movie is a show in originality, specially when Tarantino pulls out his unmatched ability for the long and ultra intense scenes like at the basement bar, another almost unparalleled brilliant moment with dialogs to die for. The way he plays with the German clichés is absolutely incredible. Unfortunately, neither Diane Kruger nor Til Schweiger were a match for the general amazing acting, which reached the climax every time Christoph Waltz entered the scene. Brad Pit's performance was in my opinion far below his capabilities too. He just seemed to be passing by. A big plus was the constant language change between English, German and French, which functioned extremely well.My biggest negative note is the breaking of the movie in too many chapters, which stole some unity. By doing this, Tarantino highlighted the idea that the movie was not thought as a whole, but rather as many different sketches produced in his head over the years and then glued together as a single movie. I also had the impression that now and then, the editing got sloppy.Anyway, a film full of wit and incredible moments. True cinema at its very best with excusable flaws. A solid achievement by Tarantino.


                
Tarantino's new film Inglorious Basterds is to me a return to form for the man who gave us the instant classic Pulp Fiction. QT is at his best when he creates situations that build the tension between his characters. He is unfortunately at his worst when he chooses style over substance. A classic example of the Tarantino style over substance is in Kill Bill Volume 1 where there are so many "references" to other earlier Japanese films. Tarantino is also at his best in the writing of his dialogue, which, quite frankly, is in most cases, second to none. Luckily for casual and rabid fans alike, Basterds showcases QT's strengths more often than his weaknesses. Two scenes are particularly strong, even to the point of being flawless: the opening scene involving Mr. LaPadite and Hans Landa aka "The Jew Hunter," and the "Mexican Standoff" scene involving Michael Fassbender, Bridget von Hammersmark, Hugo Stiglitz, and the uniformed Gestapo officer Dieter Hellstrom. The first scene serves as an introduction to the main antagonist of the film, Hans Landa, as well as a flashback to introduce Shosannah Dreyfus, a French Jew hiding in her neighbors basement in the French countryside, and one of our main protagonists. The tension that Tarantino builds in the scene is exquisite and truly hearkens back to the best work he's ever done in Pulp Fiction. The second scene is perhaps even better regarding the buildup of tension. The dialogue is so realistic that you feel you are not in a theatre watching a Tarantino film, rather you are in that room witnessing a bloody battle about to unfold. These two scenes are absolutely masterful and proves that there is no one better in the business when it comes to writing an engrossing scene. The rest of the movie is standard Tarantino fare: very stylistic, graphic violence, snappy dialogue, and lots of references to other films. Tarantino certainly doesn't mind wearing his influences on his sleeve and this is one of the films weaknesses. At some points it feels over-indulgent with all the stylization and referencing of other films. It gets to the point where you feel that Tarantino is perfectly content to never come up with his own style reasoning that using other films styles IS actually HIS style. That worked well in Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction, but by now the novelty and freshness has worn off. It is a pity QT can't be as inventive with his mis-en-scene as he can be with his dialogue. The other so- called "weakness" isn't really a weakness. Most of the scenes seem to go on longer than expected. But, I don't see this so much as weakness as much as a throwback to the slower pace of 70's and earlier films. This film reminds us how much the pacing of films has changed ever since MTV style editing has come about. Overall, Basterds is Tarantino's best work since Jackie Brown. It is not however a "brilliant, or ground-breaking" film like many on this website may claim. It is simply a very solid and in some scenes flawless movie. Fans will not see anything here that they haven't seen before either in other QT films or in other films in various genres (Spaghetti Westers being the most obvious influence here). However, what audiences will see is a smartly written, engrossing and intense, black comedy about Nazi-occupied France. This film redeems QT in my eyes from the derivative and formulaic Kill Bill and grindhouse films. And, the acting is consistently superb from the entire cast in this film, especially from Christoph Walz and Melanie Laurent. Go see this film if you want Tarantino at his vintage best!


                
By far the most enjoyable thing about "Inglourious Basterds" (sic, sic) are the performances by the cast of outstanding European actors. These Europeans really know their stuff. In fact, this film's real stars are the Europeans, especially Christoph Waltz from Austria and Melanie Laurent from France. Their performances are wonderful. As for top-billed Brad Pitt, he has only a supporting role as Tarantino's 21st Century stand-in for Lee Marvin. Pitt may be the star on the marquis, but he's far from being the star of this film.Some reviewers here seem to think the movie is anti-German. I can't imagine how they can possibly think that. Perhaps the bravest man in the whole film is a captured German soldier who courageously chooses death before dishonor. Sure, there are the usual Teutonic sadists and pigs, but on the level of plain soldiers, both sides seem to be more or less equal in executing their inglorious duties. In fact, in their manner of carrying out their parts in total war, the Americans and British in this film don't seem much of a step up from their German enemies. Indeed, these irregulars of the OSS and SOE employ many of the same methods used by their Nazi opponents: torture, threats of retaliation against families, etc. Is it possible for a particular group of sadists to claim the high moral ground? Despite the excellent acting, and superb photography and costuming, this film eventually disappoints. The last 1/4 of the film descends into the realm of pure nonsense, fantasy and ludicrous, contrived situations: a country bumpkin milkmaid becomes a cinema owner; dozens of the Reich's highest ranking officials and officers gather in a hostile city with barely a guard in sight. That's so ludicrous that anyone from the Secret Service watching this film would have tears of laughter rolling down his or her cheeks. Just like a person who always gives a screw one too many turns and breaks something, director Tarantino just doesn't know how to leave well enough alone or quit when he is ahead. Like a child, he insists on demonstrating how much he knows (or thinks he knows) about movies and their history, and so he winds up damaging his own movie. With his in-jokes and his sly aural and visual references to other films and their makers Tarantino wants to impress us, but he really only manages to foul his own work. I know who Aldo Ray was; I've seen him and the late, great Lee Marvin. Is Tarantino trying to impress me with the fact that he knows them, too? The very talented Tarantino should spend less time being referential and reverential, and more time mastering his movie-making skills.


                
I'm in neither camp, though I lean toward liking it.What I didn't like about it: Reviewers complaining that Tarantino has fallen in love with himself are to some extent correct. Excerpting Morricone's spaghetti western soundtracks for Kill Bill really worked; here it feels gratuitous and tacked-on. There are other elements (like the constant film-geek-friendly jokes on characters' names, cf. "Hugo Stiglitz") that create the impression that Tarantino feels the need to do this stuff now simply because it's come to be expected. And the inclusion of David Bowie in the film score is, from a director known for his uncanny talent with matching music to the visuals, a rare and aggravating misstep.What was just middle of the road: (EDIT: I originally said here that the Nazis were expiring as a class of film villain. How quaint *that* sentiment looks in 2017. Turns out they're more relevant than ever, sadly.) If it was that easy to kill Hitler, one of the myriad assassination attempts from real history would probably have worked. Additionally and most problematically, it's not plausible for the Basterds to have had the track record they achieved behind German lines without any of them being able to speak German -- indeed, this whole premise clashes with a key factor that a major scene in the movie turns on. So, those are all flaws, albeit not film-sinking flaws.What was great: Every single person who logged in here to complain about the "pointless" and "overlong" dialogue scenes has renounced, for all time, any right at all to criticize Tarantino's "taste" or timing or sense of the craft. What he knows and what you don't -- and the main reason this movie is garnering the positive reviews it is -- is how powerful a tool TENSION is. Basterds is replete with scenes that build and release tension absolutely masterfully; the opening interrogation scene is the best example, but far from the only one. Tarantino's extraordinary gift for dialogue and tension is what saves the movie from its admitted flaws. All that's required in order to appreciate this gift is an attention span.He's also helped by some tremendous performances. Melanie Laurent and Christoph Waltz -- in a pair of superb performances -- have already gotten lots of well-earned attention. There's also great work from Fassbender and Diehl, and others besides. And yes, Brad Pitt -- the dozens of comments maligning him notwithstanding -- does an excellent job of establishing Aldo Raines as a shrewd and formidable character, for all that his Tennessee accent isn't authentic. Overall and with its flaws taken into account, it's a fun and entertaining film, I wouldn't hesitate to recommend it.
I was prepared to write something really mean this time. It was supposed to be about Tarantino wanting us to giggle once again together with the sadist inside us. Giggle about the lynch justice, the reptile morality and the sometimes rather stomach turning violence.But once again I was seduced. Not at least by the dialogues, which go on not only for 5 minutes, but for 10 or nearly 15 minutes. And I promise, even the most shallow action addict will sit quiet, not wanting to miss a word. That's focus, that's great movie-making.But the story is certainly the worst ever by Tarantino, although told in a much clever way. When he leaves the retaliation morals of a 14-year-old, he will not just perform great movie-making. He will also make good films.


                
This film has one of the strongest starts I've ever seen. Waltz interrogating a farmer is an absolute triumph of tension building. Tarantino lingers here for far longer than other film makers would, and it's that that pushes the scene to another level. Subsequently any scene throughout the film where Waltz features earns a measure of this same tension. Sadly everything else here doesn't quite stand up. The scene in the basement did something similar and was also enjoyable, with a strong performance from Fassbender. Aside from that, pretty much everything else is frankly ridiculous, yet I didn't find this film funny especially. The dialogue just doesn't hit home in that way very often. The Basterds particularly were both basic and uninteresting, though perhaps that was intended, who knows... I also felt the tension drained from the film towards the end, which is really the opposite of what you want. The more ridiculous and violent the film is, the less compelling it is, but Tarantino wants to get all his tropes in there rather than go with the more serious and exciting film that this truly is at times.


                
This film is more serious and deeper than most Tarantino films, but it still has his fingerprints all over it. Most of these stars go to Christoph Waltz, who plays a character who is both terrifying and entertaining. Colonel Hans Landa is the reason to watch this movie. However, I found it disturbing how the Nazis are portrayed as evil because of their blind hatred toward all Jews, and yet we, as an audience, are asked to blindly hate every German associated with the Nazi party.


                
*** SPOILERS in places.I have my own scoring 'tool' with 12 categories and here's how I arrived at the above score of 7. Quality of script: 8; Quality of cast: 8; Appeal of characters: 8; appeal of storyline: 8; Quality of photography, images, etc.: 6; How quickly it engaged and held my interest: 8; Plausibility: 2; Music: 7; Overall entertainment value: 8; Inspiring: 3; Overall *style*: 9; Ending: 7. Things I didn't like: some of the casting, like Hitler for example. I actually can't think of much as I write this.Things I liked: I thought Pitt was very funny and I liked most of the actors very much. This was my first time for C. Waltz and M. Laurent . . . VERY enjoyable performances. This is a comic book type film and pretty much sticks with QT's known style, etc. He comes up with ideas I find original and interesting, though in places he can be borderline too chatty. Sometimes he rides the line. I turn away when T's films get too violent -- not my thing -- and this film had some of those. I'm anti glorifying violence, but for some reason T seems to get away with it, for me . . . perhaps b/c of the comic book quality of his films. The whole idea of wiping out the German high command, including Hitler, was inventive. I'd not seen anyone else do that. I may come back and add to this or tweak it.
As Christoph Waltz's Nazi colonel states at one point, "what shall the history books read?" is an important theme of this Quentin Tarantino movie that subverts history to present an alternative look at how World War II might have shaped up with a few unwise choices from the Nazis. The plot has Hitler, Goebbels and other high ranking officials attending a propaganda film premiere together - something that gives two factions the same idea to blow up the Nazis. As per Tarantino norm, 'Inglourious Basterds' benefits from snappy dialogue and memorable characters, but this is very much an ensemble piece and sadly not all the characters are fascinating. Waltz is excellent with his cunning interrogations and Mélanie Laurent has some excellent moments as Jewish woman living under a pseudonym and operating the theatre where the propaganda film will be shown. None of the other characters are particularly remarkable though (same goes for the performances), especially Brad Pitt and the over-the-top Italian accent that he inflects at one point. Pitt does get some of the film's best lines though, including in the final memorable scene. Add in some superb spinning shots from Robert Richardson and this is a pretty good- looking film too, but whether it has much to offer beyond its novelty of twisting historical fact, as sometimes happens in the history books, is debatable.


                
I still love Tarantino, though this movie just not like the way I expected. I love Quentin's joke, and the way he shot the movie, and usually, in another Quentin's movie got a long dialogs in a table scene which is not important but really interesting--not boring. but in this movie, i got bored in some lines. Or maybe it's because this movie use foreign language too much.This movie doesn't make a great ending, but not a bad ending. I don't know, but I think that the Basterds didn't take a great part in this movie. Brad Pitt doesn't act well like he used to, and amazingly Christoph Waltz is the best actor in this movie.It's a good movie, but definitely not the best movie of your work Mr. Tarantino.


                
Taking its basic inspiration from a subpar '70s actioner (same title, but spelled correctly) by Enzo Castellari, Quentin Tarantino's "Inglourious Basterds" is the story of a group of Jewish-American soldiers scalping Nazis at the end of World War II...or maybe it's about the plot to kill the officers of the Nazi high command at the world premiere of a propaganda flick at a small French art theatre...or maybe it's about sitting around in a pub, trying to guess what cultural icon is written on that card pasted to your forehead.To say "Basterds" takes the 'scenic route' to its inevitable conclusion would be a vast understatement. There is almost too much nuance, subtlety, and craftsmanship to absorb in one sitting, but in its own novel-like way (like the "Kill Bill" films, this is also divided into chapters), it all comes together, somehow.An avid disciple of trash cinema with an undeniable knack for recycling said trash into creations of originality and cinematic slickness, Tarantino's love--first and foremost--is his characters...and their ability to jaw away on subjects ranging from crucial to superficial. Critics hailed this approach most notably in "Pulp Fiction," Tarantino's 1994 breakthrough. But by the time "Death Proof" rolled into theaters as part of the "Grindhouse" double bill in 2007, many seemed burned out by what had, at that point, become formulaic (scenes of winding conversation juxtaposed against moments of shocking violence). Those disappointed by "Death Proof" are not likely to be won over by the ambitious–yet garrulous–"Basterds." Neither will those who have viewed the "Basterds" trailer (a shrewdly assembled string of highlights from the film's scattered--yet potent --action scenes) expecting a slam-bang fiesta of Nazi scalpings and bodies riddled with machine-gun fire. As exciting as it would be to see Tarantino truly cut loose with a scuzzy, exploitative homage to his forefathers, I think that duty will be forever be supplanted by frequent collaborator Robert Rodriguez ("Planet Terror"; "Sin City"). Still, Tarantino has pulled off quite a feat with "Basterds": he has made an art film that will play on nearly every screen in America, has the misspelled taboo of its title to draw in the curious, and makes sure most of the film's dialog is spoken in an array of languages (French, German, broken Italian)–that's right, this is a film that, for the most part, is READ. The opening-day crowd I saw this with expressed audible displeasure at the near-constant barrage of subtitled dialog. "C'mon, when do we get to see more scalpings?" it seemed to cantankerously demand.As a period piece, "Basterds" is aesthetically interesting in that it straddles the line between the tropes associated with low-budget independent film-making and infuses them with a distinctly mainstream slickness (by comparison, this fictionalized take on the fall of the Third Reich and the end of WWII boasts a better plot and more excitement than last year's fact-based "Valkyrie"). The result is an oft-confounding collection of seemingly disparate events and characters (including frequent flashbacks that, puzzlingly, lack any sort of context), but I can't deny the sheer genius of certain passages, and the way the climax doesn't shy away from upending the proceedings in an unabashed orgy of blood and madness.Above all else, the film is a showcase for Tarantino's distinctly well (some would say over)-drawn characters. Frequently, he will bring the story to an unexpected halt to give a newly-introduced face a monologue that shades in every nook and nuance, often before said character is unceremoniously blown away minutes later. While the result is an arrhythmic pace in a film that could have easily benefited from some dialog clipping, it also portends a depth that goes largely unseen in our attention-deficit era of film-making. And while Brad Pitt earns top billing as Lt. Aldo "The Apache" Raine (and is perfectly serviceable in the role), the film contains standout performances from Melanie Laurent (as the Jewish survivor of a Nazi raid, who runs the aforementioned French art theatre and conveys a detached, ice-cold beauty) and especially Christoph Waltz as Third Reich Colonel Hans Landa, whose ingratiating smile and laugh portends a darkness that's nothing short of horrifying (don't be surprised if he snags a Best Supporting Actor nod at next year's Oscars).


                
The long anticipated, ultra-violent spaghetti western riddled with WWII iconography is Tarantino's homage to the alleged Jewish fantasy: sadistically bludgeoning the Arian, Nazi race. We follow two savage forces—the Basterds and Shosanna—each who make separate attempts to destroy Hitler and his band of carnal cronies, thereby ending the war.Made with reminiscent traces of The Great Escape & The Dirty Dozen, not to mention the peppered cruelty of Hostel or any other torturous Eli Roth picture, Inglourious Basterds is a marvelously skewed alternative to how WWII should have ended, rather than how it actually did end. When it was over, I sat in the theater feeling sterile. Fruit could not be produced.In typical Tarantino form, the film was broken into five headlined chapters, was terribly verbose yet possessed witty dialogue on occasion, masked its bloody and grotesque content in beautiful aesthetics, flowered a pastiche of anachronistic musical melodies, and brought forth extremely rich & compelling character developments—all of which were mesmerizing. Christoph Waltz, in particular, gave a truly haunting performance, the best Nazi portrayal I've ever seen and one in whom I hope wins multiple awards. Brad Pitt was just goofy, nothing special, but Waltz was downright sinister—a manipulatively charismatic Nazi general who toyed with every character's (including the audience's) emotions. Every time he was present on screen, I felt fully secure in the holy moment, or rather the devilish moment.Similar to the sword picture homage he gave in the Kill Bill series, I.B. reflects Tarantino's obscure reverence towards WWII and the cinema-going experience in general. The film in many instances reveals Tarantino's love of celluloid, as suggested through the multiple Noir, French New Wave, Neo-Realistic and Spaghetti Western nuances. The man has a pervasive education in film history and it greatly heightens the quality of his work—that much I give him. However, as much as the film was provocative and cutting-edge devilry, there was something deeply disturbing about it.The audience, as I'm sure Tarantino intended, was laughing hysterically at all of the blood-spattered carnage displayed implacably before them: whether it was the scalping of Nazi's, the irrevocable and torturous image of Eli Roth bashing a Nazi's head to pieces, or the slitting of throats or machine-gun riddled faces. It was just sick, twisted. Even Tarantino seemed to get the last laugh via his femme fatale laughing head as she watched the theater hall filled with Nazis burn ironically proxy for the Jews. "Payback is a bitch," he seemed to subtextually scream.Though I never laughed once, I was just as guilty as they were, for I well knew what I had paid to see. And when you pick up a snake asking it not to bite, you are denying the law of causation; you desire the identities of particular entities to disobey their innate natures and conform instead to your anarchic, destructive wishes. Well, in that sense, the film was a good social experiment. It taught a valuable principle of what it feels like to lose hope and faith in humanity, and as deputy, indulge in the "super-cool," pretty packaged pockets of sadism. I was hoping, though, that one of the characters would be redeemed, rather than have to sit through 2 ½ hours of the "eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth" philosophy.
Inglorious Basterds is a flawed but fun film. Christopher Waltz was an absolute blast! What an exceptional performance! Every time he spoke, it just felt harrowing, even his obnoxious laugh just made you feel so uncomfortable. This was more his show that any of the other casts for sure.Overall, IB was very much Kill Bill-esquire, playing on the spaghetti western and used chapters to go through each proportion of the movie. The opening sequence was strong on dialogue but it was enough to keep me on the edge of my seat and that was down to Waltz, but also credit to the house owner, whose presence made the scene even more effective because of his size.Whilst the film was entertaining, I felt there were some major flaws here. If this movie came out last year with Slumdog Millionaire, it wouldn't get a sniff at the Oscars, because these films usually don't.One of the biggest flaws is Brad Pitt. He was atrocious. He tried way too hard with his fake accent and just made it feel like every word that came out of his mouth was forced. I'm not American let alone a redneck, but I know his accent didn't sound natural. His acting was like watching a shy school kid who was made to stand in the middle of a class to do a role play using a French accent. It just didn't work. Tom hanks would've done a better job looking back on his previous films Forest Gump and the Green Mile. But why didn't Tarantino think of Clint Eastwood and take him out of retirement? He may be 70+, but he would've been fantastic. I'm sure working for Eastwood would be Tarantino's ultimate dream! The Basterds in my view took a back seat, with the Jewish girl's revenge plot being of much greater significance. The Basterds seemed incompetent and their whole team besides Pitt and one of the others were destroyed. And if this was a major event just for the Nazi's and Germans, why were guests supposedly from Italy easily let in, especially with dynamites strapped around their legs? Wouldn't anyone have body checked them? And with the Basterds being so renowned, surely the Nazi's would have had intel on their looks. And are the Nazi's really stupid enough to not have guards around the auditorium? How easy was it for Marcel to lock up the doors and the Basterds kill those guarding the Fuhrer? Waltz character was so domineering throughout but his credibility was ruined by his stupidity of trusting the Basterds in giving him what he wanted, which was a war hero warrant and a life in paradise. It didn't make sense for someone who just went and mercilessly strangled Diane Kruger's character to become a guy who thought he could negotiate a deal for him to go scot-free.The film itself doesn't really deserve an Oscar, but it hasn't been a very fruitful year for movies besides Avatar. Waltz however definitely deserves a best actor award and I sure hope we will see more of him in films to come. Overall, Inglorious Basterds was entertaining, but everything that happened seemed too convenient.


                
Quentin Tarantino has always been throwing out movies which are quite different from the regular ones. But looking at "IB"(I can never spell it), I'd say this is one of his worst movies. I am definitely surprised by the reviews and ratings this movies has received. I am actually from India. People here are average viewers and not critics. When I was at the theater people were actually moving around and shouting at the long and boring conversations in the movie. What I expected was some action or at least some fun in the likes of Kill Bills or Pulp Fiction. There were two long and boring conversations in the movie which weren't of any importance to the storyline. Not only did they bring dullness but they even added some extra boredom into the movie. And there's more of French and German where people actually spent their time looking at the subtitles rather than the movie itself. But the ending was very good I never expected things to turn in an amazing way. For the normal viewers I would suggest u to ignore it (Atleast the Indian viewers).


                
