An fun, engrossing, beautifully crafted piece of nonsense, the likes of which we hadn't seen in a long long time. The silliness of the story is marvelously camouflaged with great dialogue and some superb performances. Christoph Waltz must be thinking already about his acceptance speech. What a performance! The civilized monster, polyglot, refined and deadly. He gets us going from the first, sensational scene. Brad Pitt is also wonderful. Was he putting a Mussolinni chin while impersonating (hilariously) an Italian? I thought so. His character's name sounds like Aldo Ray and I'm sure that's no accident. The film is full of movie references. Another character is named Fenek, as an homage to his 1970's sexpot, Edwige Fenech. What is already one of Tarantino's trademarks is his sure step along the most immediately recognizable bits of pop culture. He's clearly not a cultured man but a pop expert, king in a world where people get their news from TV, don't read, other than magazines and comics, etc. That's how it happens, to be in the right place at the right time. For better or worse this are Tarantino times.


                
It just goes to show how wrong you can be. I had not expected to like this film. I was disappointed by both the Kill Bill films (although i preferred the second) and Death Proof (although it was better in the shorter cut of the double-bill release). I love Reservoir Dogs, admire Pulp Fiction and think that Jackie Brown is Tarantino's most mature piece of film-making - technically his most superior - including the last great performance elicited from Robert De Niro. Since then it seems to me while his films have been okay (i haven't hated them) he has been treading water in referential, reverential, self-indulgent juvenilia.Then i read the script last year for Inglourious Basterds - and i hated it! Sure it had some typical QT flourishes and the opening scene was undeniably powerful. There were a couple of great characters. But on page it was more juvenile rubbish, largely ruined by the largess of the uninteresting Basterds of the title. It made me seriously contemplate not seeing the film. The trailers did nothing to convince me. I only changed by mind when i had the opportunity to see the film with a Tarantino Q&A following in London. I figured it would be worth enduring to hear him in Q&A as i know from interviews how entertaining he can be in person.So little was i prepared for the sheer exuberant fun and brilliance of Inglourious Basterds.Easily Mr Tarantino's best work since Jackie Brown it is a triumph.Yes the references are there but they do not interfere with the story, they are not the driving force. Yes Eli Roth is stunt casting but he works fine, with little to do but look aggressive, and does nothing to hurt the film as i had feared. While i admired Mr Tarantino for using stuntwoman Zoe Bell as herself in Death Proof in order to amp-up the exhilaration of the major stunt scene her lack of any acting ability in a key role was a problem for the film. The same could be said of Tarantino's own appearances in several films, especially Robert Rodriguez's From Dusk Till Dawn, which Tarantino wrote.What really makes this work is how BIG it is. The spaghetti western vibe to much of the style, dialogue and performances is wonderfully over the top without descending too far into the cartoon quality of Kill Bill. The violence is so big. The audacity so big. Brad Pitt is so big! In the trailers the Hitler moment and Pitt's performance bothered me but in the context of the film they are hilarious. Pitt is actually brilliant here, exactly what he needs to be. He is Mifune's blustering samurai in Yojimbo, he is Robards Cheyenne from Once Upon a Time in the West, there is a very James Coburn vibe to him, and of course a suitably Lee Marvin edge.Christoph Waltz (who i did not previously known) and Melanie Laurent (who i first noticed in a brilliant French-language British short film by Sean Ellis) are sensational and i expect to see both used a lot more in the future. Tarantino has clearly not lost his eye for casting, which seemed to desert him in Death Proof. Waltz is equally large in his performance. Chilling, yet theatrical. He is Fonda from OUATITW, Van Cleef from Good, The Bad & the Ugly. And Laurent is suitably Cardinale innocence but tough, a fighter. They both dazzle here.That every member of the cast gets the fun to be had from what they are doing while not indulging themselves in just having fun and trying to get laughs helps tremendously. The laughs - and there are loads - come organically. Only Mike Myers comes close to tipping the wink and pushing it too far but his scene is reigned in just enough - with the help of a fantastic Michael Fassbender who seems pulled directly from the mold of Attenborough's Great Escape leader.All the actors shine and Tarantino throws in wonderful flourishes, but ones that work with the story. The introduction of Schweiger's Hugo Stiglitz is a riot. After a sensational slow-burn opening and a glorious intro to those inglourious Basterds the pace never lets up and over two and half hours flies by.It also looks beautiful, marking this as a return to real film-making rather than just self-indulgent silliness. The musical choices, as always, are inspired from Morricone on.The film is audacious and hilarious. After a summer when nearly every film has disappointed me it came as a huge surprise that the real fun and entertaining, but also involving and impressive film should be this one, when i would never have believed it from script form. Welcome back QT.


                
Last night I caught a screening of Inglourious Basterds as part of the Melbourne International Film Festival. Before the movie even begun, I'll say that there was a great atmosphere by being surrounded by two cinemas filled exclusively with excited Tarantino fans. A film like this is always going to be much more enjoyable if you're watching it together with like-minded individuals.So as the trailers show, the film is basically a spaghetti western set in Nazi-occupied France from 1941-1944. The trailers would also have you believe that this is Brad Pitt's movie and that he and his Basterds are the stars of the show. However, the Basterds themselves are only one of many parts that make up the story, as there is a very large ensemble cast that all have different narratives, only linking up towards the end of the film.One of the highlights of this film for me was Christoph Waltz as the sadistic Nazi Jew Hunter Hans Landa. You can really see why he was rewarded with a Best Actor Award at Cannes for his effort here, as he truly dominates the film. The first scene of the movie in particular, where he slowly interrogates a Jewish family to find if they are hiding anybody or anything, is truly thrilling, suspenseful and possibly my favorite part of the movie.Violence is used sparingly, but effectively. Some of it is jarringly realistic (yes, there is some scalping) but most of it is done in a darkly humorous way. There is also a great shootout scene that is so fast and choreographed so well that it is a real blast to watch. It's not Tarantino's most violent film, in fact it would probably be one of his tamer movies, but you've got to remember who we're talking about here. When things do get bloody, it makes for a bloody great time at the movies.Unfortunately, some things don't work out quite as well. The main thing that bothered me is that the cast is so large, that it feels like we don't get to know the characters as well as what we would like. The film is split up into five different chapters, and these chapters are generally made up a scene of lengthy dialogue that eventually leads towards a vicious conclusion. While this is enjoyable to sit through and it feels as though the dialogue is always taking us towards a relevant ending, it also makes us feel as though we have only really sat through 5 scenes and then the movie is over. In fact, despite the two and a half hour running time, I could have been happy if this movie went for an extra hour or more. Even if he split it into two films or made it into a miniseries it might have been more satisfying.The ending was good, but a little underwhelming. This didn't leave me with the same emotional high as the ending of something like Reservoir Dogs. In fact, when the credits came up I just felt a little disappointed that it had finished so soon. However, if two and half hours go by that fast, with your eyes glued to the screen the whole time, I guess you can't complain too much. I suppose I was just hoping for a little more of an exclamation mark in the movies final moments.The music is always a very important part of a Tarantino movie, and in Inglourious Basterds I felt it was a bit of a mixed bag. Some of it was sublimely awesome, such as David Bowie's Cat People, while some of it felt a little autopilot. For example, some of the music that Tarantino uses he has also used in his Kill Bill films. I know that the music is not original to those films to begin with, but hearing it again so recently from another film from the same director, I found it a little distracting. Then again, that might just be because I have seen the Kill Bill films so many times that I now find the music attached to those scenes. If I watch Inglourious Basterds a few more times then perhaps my opinion might change.All in all, it was a great movie, but it wasn't up there with Reservoir Dogs or Pulp Fiction. Still, if you are looking forward to seeing this I don't think that you will be disappointed. This is truly an event film and something that will work at its best on a big screen with a big audience. I'm already excited about seeing it for a second time.


                
Inglourious Basterds is a funny, bold and very well-acted tale about a group of Jewish-American soldiers targeting Nazis in France during World War II. I'd say it's easily Tarantino's best since Pulp Fiction, and contains his trademark mix of serious violence, off-key comedy, and hair-raising drama.It's also fuelled by Tarantino's favourite theme of revenge. The central characters are the highlight, and very well drawn; particularly the German Colonel Hans Landa, who's a mix of Hans Gruber and Dr, Evil. Equally standout is Brad Pitt's no nonsense Lt. Aldo Raine replete with thick southern accent, whose deadpan humour and stoicism run-up nicely against the film's macabre tone.It's a long and dialogue-heavy film and some scenes run well beyond modern cinematic time norms, echoing the pace of 70s classics such as The Dirty Dozen or Bridge Over The River Kwai. It's also divided up into sequential chapters separating out characters' lives, but tells a story in a coherent way Kill Bill didn't.There are a couple of scenes that are very long (particularly the basement rendezvous set-up) but they sort of torture with their tension and you remain hooked in. At times Inglourious Basterds is very violent and comically so, and that will turn some people off. It's also sort of flippant about serious themes (in the same way Guy Ritchie treats his subjects) and that might also bother some. Personally I laughed at the outrageous breaking of taboos and remixing of history and so did the audience. Tarantino shows in this film how much mastery he has in the difficult job of mixing the grotesque and the comedic.There are also some nice, wry post-modern touches such as a film critic being recruited as an assassin. In Inglorious Basterds he does what he does best – great characters in extreme environments doing mad things in a funny and violent fashion Finally, the ending is excellent. Masterpiece indeed. I'd happily watch it again.This was shown as a preview in London and Tarantino did a Q&A afterwards.


                
Greetings again from the darkness. Quentin Tarantino and the Coen Brothers are whom I depend to always deliver something never previously seen on screen. Creativity of itself is not sufficient ... but when combined with a love and mastery of film-making, more often than not we are treated to something special. QT certainly delivers that with the Basterds.I found Chapter One (of Five) to be a mini-spaghetti western film short replete with perfect music, anticipation, stare downs, word play, a shoot-out and ultimate escape. Christoph Waltz immediately seizes his role as Col Landa and never lets go. He envisions himself, not as the "Jew Hunter" (a moniker he relishes, nonetheless) but rather as a super sleuth in line with Sherlock Holmes (hence the pipe!).Chapter Two introduces us to the titular Basterds led by Lt Aldo Raine with Brad Pitt as the hillbilly ring leader of the Dirty Dozen-type band of Nah-Zee killers. Pitt's exaggerated jaw and outlandish accent, coupled with his QT-penned dialogue, makes for one frightening cartoon character on a singular mission. And at the same time, it is a real hoot! The multiple story lines begin to intermingle in a fabulously intricate tavern scene. The dialgoue and approach to this remind a bit of Reservoir Dogs, but with the subtle facial gestures and multi-lingual word play, it goes to a whole different level. While many thought this scene dragged, I was fascinated.The finale in the Cinema Paradiso (not really, but it was the first thing I thought of) is well paced and delivers a fabulous ending of dramatic violent intimacy in the projector room and flamboyant special effects in the main theatre. Let's just say Lincoln's last night at the theatre ended better than Hitler's and Goebbel's.So many movie references in the 2 and a half hours that you can't help but tip your cap to Mr. Tarantino. For us movie lovers, he really is our leader. He is living out our fantasy and delivering just often enough to keep us fed. As an example, the lead up to the Cinderella scene is just pure torture as QT works in his foot fetish. Having previously mentioned the work of Pitt and the fantastic turn by Christoph Waltz, I must also say that Melanie Laurent in her red dress, helped capture the feel of 40's and 50's femme fatales. She was absolutely perfect.While this one is not quite at the level of Pulp Fiction, it is purely a cinematic marvel. Though not the most accurate of history lessons, there is still a bit of message that sneaks in. But more importantly, the message of cinematic adoration can't be missed. Bravo Mr. Tarantino. And thank you again.
I take exception to the comment that one reviewer made saying that a film like Inglourious Basterds had not been made before. Not only was one made, but it was made during World War II. When Hitler, Dead Or Alive was shown I'm sure the same rousing cheers went up from the audience who really wanted World War II to end that way.Quentin Tarantino must have seen Hitler, Dead Or Alive and decided to do a big budget version of that B film propaganda flick from the Forties. In that one Ward Bond, Paul Fix,and Warren Hymer play three German speaking gangsters who take a contract out on Adolph Hitler from some public spirited citizen. They enlist in the army, but as soon as they can they desert grab a plane with a pilot and land in Germany and set about to perform their task. What Tarantino has given us is Hitler, Dead Or Alive with official sanction. Brad Pitt heads a group of GIs, the rest of them are Jewish so they'll have proper motivation for this job, Pitt's a good old boy from Tennessee. The purpose of their mission is to just kill Nazis, the higher up, the better. And they soon get a reputation that's come to the attention of the Fuehrer himself.This film is a throwback to those propaganda films that came out as morale boosters during World War II. Pitt and the rest of the cast look like they're having a great old time with this. Best performance is Christoph Waltz who plays an SS colonel who specialized in tracking down Jews who've escaped Hitler's final solution. He might just get an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actor.As for the end, just relax and imagine this is World War II in an alternate Universe.


                
I've been excited about this film since I first heard about it and loved what I had heard about the plot. So, now, Basterds is finally here and I love it. While it's not what I expected, I think that's a good thing. This is not the Kill Bill of WWII films that some might think it is. In fact, the Basterds aren't even in the movie for a good chunk of the time. However, there is so much juicy dialogue and tension in so many scenes, that you can't help but be fascinated by what's going on.I won't waste space by repeating the initial plot, but suffice to say, there is so much happening and so many characters that it constantly stays interesting. Everyone here, even Roth, are entertaining. I will say this is a Nazi revenge fantasy come true, as anyone who hates the Nazi's (and who doesn't) will most likely laugh at the inhumanity that is returned to them. Yes, it is also a funny movie, particularly Brad Pitt, who is wonderful, funny, and thoroughly entertaining as Aldo 'Apache' Reins (spelling?).But don't go in expecting a huge action adventure. The film has less action and more dialogue and drama. Some scenes drag on, but they are filled with suspense. And Tarantino is very successful in these scenes by bringing out the worst dread and SS officer could possibly bring out. There are even some big surprises in store, but I won't spoil that here. Suffice to say, anyone who ever wanted to see a Nazi get their head bashed in by a baseball bat should go see this film.


                
(No spoilers.) Lawrence Bender (Tarantino's Producer since Reservoir Dogs) in an interview about Inglorious Basterds said that it had the layers of Pulp Fiction but with more maturity, because, in fairness, Quentin's had 15 years to grow, learn and develop, although his last two outings of Death Proof and Kill Bill showed little sign of the writer/Director maturing, merely stamping his mark on genres that weren't in the spotlight, and in some ways, recreating them.So, did Inglorious Basterds live up to this claim of the new and matured Quentin Tarantino? Well, yes and no. Tarantino's staple dialogue, when not pushing a story, is often crude. That, for once, is not the case with Inglorious Basterds, so perhaps that can be taken as a sign of maturity. The dialogue is excellent, as expected, but at times without the poetic rhythm that his first three pictures had in abundance. The only drawback of this is that on rare occasions you'll find that you've zoned out for a moment, but, with a Tarantino film, you can be pretty damn sure that you'll be seeing it a few times anyway and you'll be able to catch up on missed dialogue. It is dialogue heavy, which today's audience seem to shy away from, but for me personally, I love to see a film driven by its script rather than its special effects.The story is layered in true Tarantino fashion. I do feel that the Basterds themselves could have been developed more, since there are many and we get to know so few, however this isn't a small film like Reservoir Dogs, revolving around a group of Basterds as the trailer makes out, and there are plenty of wonderful characters to compensate for it.Also, as we've come to expect, the film is violent, which I didn't think would bother me, but it's the only thing that left a slightly bitter taste in my mouth. I'm pretty desensitised to violence on screen and have been for many years, but I expected the violence of Inglourious Basterds to be understandable under the topic of War. I also expected a few points to emphasise the cruelty and senseless of war, but I found that in many ways this was a glorification of war and Quentin has used it as a playing field for his imagination without considering the consequences. As Uncle Ben taught us in Spiderman, "With great power comes great responsibility", and when I was going into Inglourious Basterds, I felt that the uneducated audience who love Tarantino might leave this film having learnt a few things. Sadly, I don't feel that is the case, and for me that is its only downfall. It's becoming more and more obvious that Quentin Tarantino makes the films that Quentin Tarantino wants to see, and while that is precisely why they're so good, I do find that if he was a little less self indulgent he could make something just as hip, funky, violent and entertaining, but with more depth.However, as a crafted piece of work, in script, style and care, it fires on all cylinders. I do not believe that a Tarantino film will ever not live up to the standards we've come to expect and I honestly feel that he is the most reliable director in the world today, but I can't help feeling that while people are calling this a more mature piece of work, the reality is that his first two ventures on the big screen were in fact more mature and with less glorified violence than what he is making now.Be that as it may, he is one of the few Director's who I feel is really worthy of the title 'Artist', and if somebody is an Artist then they should be free to make what they want. Tarantino is fortunate enough to be able to make what he wants without being hampered by producers, and I suppose in the end, I wouldn't want it any other way.So check it out when you can and see what you think.Peace.
Quentin Tarantino plays around with history and by doing so he created a great film. This is one of his best films he has made. Inglourious Basterds starring Brad Pitt, Christoph Waltz and Mélanie Laurent. The film tells the fictional alternate history story of two plots to assassinate Nazi Germany's political leadership, one planned by Shosanna Dreyfus (Laurent), a young French Jewish cinema proprietor, and the other by a team of Jewish-American soldiers led by First Lieutenant Aldo Raine (Pitt). Christoph Waltz co-stars as Hans Landa, an SS colonel tracking down Raine's group who has a connection to Shosanna's past. The film's title was inspired by Italian director Enzo G. Castellari's macaroni combat film, The Inglorious Bastards (1978).This film however is a little long but still enjoyable


                
I am normally the first to slam revisionist history and did not go to see this on cinema release.It came onto television recently and having nothing better to do, and there being not much else on, gave it a whirl. Well blow me down,I really enjoyed it, and had to go away and think why I did so, when the plot is overall quite preposterous. And I think that is the key to the movie, it is sheer over the top nonsense so that it actually transcends revisionist history and becomes a piece of entertainment.There is some stuff in there though that isn't much known that is real history. Both Goebbels and Hitler were huge movie fans and indeed Goebbels produced a version of Titanic that is quite extraordinary in its propaganda but is regarded as the first effort to seriously make a movie about the tragedy (Google Nazi Titanic). It can be bought and I have a copy but it can now be downloaded from You Tube. Goebbels production makes his one just as ridiculous as I.B. which adds to the irony.I found it hard not to watch this movie without a grin on my face because it is very well acted (actually overacted) and so clichéd (deliberately) that it does not really take itself seriously, and you can see that. Brad Pitt is having a ball. But it was the performance of Cristoph Waltz that really blew me away. How good was he? The perfect blend of Nazi evil with a touch of vaudeville thrown in.Recommended. This movie is completely over the top which is why it works. It does not want to try and rewrite history like the goddam awful Abraham Lincoln:Vampire Killer which takes itself all to seriously.


                
This must be said first and foremost--if you HATE violent films, then don't watch this film. The film is filled with ultra-violent images that will turn your stomach--scalpings, machine gunnings, fire bombs roasting crowds of people and the like. My assumption, and I am NOT trying to be sexist, is that in general guys will like it more than women--though I know that there are man exceptions. If you look at the demographic breakdown on IMDb of votes, this doesn't reveal any difference between men and women...unless you look carefully. You'll see that men have outvoted women 10-1! It is, simply put, a "guy film".Second, the film has almost nothing to do with the original "The Inglorious Bastards: (1978)--other than the fact they were both about American soldiers fighting the Nazis. Both are very good and in a homage to the original, director Tarantino cast Bo Svenson (from the original film) in a role in the accompanying DVD extra "Nation's Pride". This new version is more like a Spaghetti Western than the earlier film--complete with music in many places of the film that would have worked great in a Sergio Leone movie.Third, although Tarantino did NOT mean for this to be realistic in the least, I hope that you don't believe that this is in any way based on history. Sure, there are some similarities, but so much of it is pure fantasy. There was no such military group like the "Basterds" and American soldiers did not do what these guys did! Heck, they made the "Dirty Dozen" look like pacifists!! And, unless you are a total idiot, you'll realize that the ending did not really occur!! As for the plot, I'll skip discussing that as the film came out several months ago and by now lots and lots of reviewers have already discussed this to death. Instead, I'll just say what I liked. Brad Pitt was terrific in the nominal lead. While he was NOT in the film as much as you might expect, he was hilarious and I loved his accent that was highly reminiscent of George Clooney in "Oh Brother, Where Art Thou?". Also, the German Colonel was amazing--speaking four different languages and making a great villain. The action was great and the film very enjoyable--but not as action-packed as you might think based on the commercials. Lots of fun and an interesting film because of all it's inside jokes, references to other films and it seeming a lot like a movie serial version of WWII. Watch this one.
Inglourious Basterds, Quentin Tarantino's new motion picture, he's established very much as a great director and writer in Hollywood. He has a ton of fans and everyone here on IMDb that I know of complain constantly how Pulp Fiction was robbed of best picture, still a puzzler to me, but I'd say that I'm a fan too over all. I own most of his work and think that he's a very talented man. He hasn't really come out with anything new for a few years excluding Grindhouse, Kill Bill Vol. 2 was his last film that he directed. I was actually kind of disappointed with that film, now I loved Death Proof, but I know that was not his baby. With Inglourious Basterds I think we were all going through the same thing as that Quentin is back to doing what he does best, writing great material as directing it with a unique style and giving the audience so much entertainment. Does he do that with Inglourious Basterds; yes. The film has it's flaws, it's not his great masterpiece or opus since Kill Bill Vol. 1 or even Pulp Fiction, but this film is hella entertaining and Tarantino picks a terrific cast of actors to bring this crazy "effed" up version of what Quentin thinks should have happened during WWII.Set in an alternate history of WWII in which the entire top leadership of Nazi Germany, namely Hitler, Göring, Goebbels and Bormann attend a film premiere in Paris celebrating the exploits of a German sniper who had managed to kill 300 American soldiers in Italy over four days and single handedly hold the town he was occupying. Tracking the separate attempts to kill Hitler by two disparate forces, one being the "Basterds", a motley crew of Jewish American soldiers out for revenge against the Nazis. The Basterds have a modus operandi whereby each man must cut off the scalps of dead Nazi soldiers, with orders to get 100 scalps each. The Basterds allow one German soldier to survive each incident so as to spread the news of the terror of their attacks. However, the Basterds carve a swastika into the forehead of that German so that they cannot hide or forget that they were a Nazi. The other force concerns Shosanna, the only survivor of a Jewish family killed by a Nazi colonel nicknamed "The Jew Hunter". Shosanna then plots her own revenge on the Nazis. The Basterds and Shosanna remain unaware of each other thought they both have set their sights on revenging all Jews and destroying the Nazi party.Inglourious Basterds is one of the better films I've seen in 2009, the writing, direction and acting(in particular a knock out of the ball park performance by Christoph Waltz) made Inglourious Basterds into a very good movie. I only have 2 complaints, pretty minor but I feel like as much as I admire Quentin's style of movie making it seems like he's still trying hard to impress with his Making a Movie 101. He's got great style, he needs to explore a little more and push the edge. Also I love Quentin's dialogue, we know this man can write, he's probably the best writer in Hollywood and the very first scene cements how brilliant his writing is. But the movie is very long, 153 minutes, I just felt like a couple of scenes dragged on a little too much, I know this is his style but for this type of a film I think he could have done different. But he entertains where it counts and this ending was just the most insane ending I've seen in a film for a while. He made an interesting choice in casting Eli Roth, who is the director of Hostel and Cabin Fever, he just looked so hyped to be in this movie, but over all Roth pulls his weight. Pitt who you think would be in 95% of the movie is actually not as big of a role as I expected but he barely holds up a candle to Waltz's performance, but the two played off each other and were great. Diane Krueger also delivers in a great performance with Mélanie Laurent as a strong female who has a very menacing act to follow. I would recommend Inglourious Basterds for a matinée show, like I said, it's not Tarantino's masterpiece, but it's a great way to get back into the big screen with a splash.8/10
The script is decent. It is not Tarantino's best. Quite far from it. But it is still watchable. And interesting. Far more watchable and interesting than the latest Rodrigues movies, that seems about right.It is a fairy tale with WWII as the backdrop. The production team made the actors only resemble enough as to hint at the historical characters. I laughed my rear off reading the uninspired reviews and tantrums. I guess they loved Pulp Fiction for its fine rendition of Jimmy Carter meeting Nikita Khruchev.


                
Quentin Tarantino is known for his abundant use of violence and profanities, but his subversiveness runs a lot deeper than that. Consider Inglourious Basterds, his first war movie, a choral story with intertwining plot lines set in Nazi-occupied France during WWII.It's amazing how Tarantino treats conversations like set-pieces: with his great ear for vivid dialogues he crafts magnificently tense scenes of verbal sparring, the best involving British officer Fassbender and his men, all disguised as Nazis, trapped in an increasingly dangerous discussion with a clingy Gestapo Major. See how Basterds plays with different languages - many conversations take place in (subtitled) German and French, with cunning manipulator Landa (Christoph Waltz, stealing the movie with his affably villainous performance), a skilled polyglot, ably switching between them.In fact, the only battle scenes in Basterds occur in the propaganda movie-within-the-movie Nation's Pride, a stream of gruesome killings witnessed by an enthusiastic movie theater full of Nazis - Tarantino takes a jab at the audience' expectations, much like Joss Whedon would do a few years later in the horror genre with The Cabin in the Woods.Tarantino also draws a clear parallel between brutalities committed for the sake of the good cause and those perpetrated by villains. Consider how the audience shares the point of view of fallen Germans savagely branded by the Basterds, or how the appearance of the "Bear Jew" is akin to that of a serial killer in a slasher movie, emerging from a dark cave preceded by the ominous thuds of his baseball bat. This is the spiritual successor of Robert Aldrich's queasily brilliant The Dirty Dozen.Performances are fine, with the already mentioned Waltz, Pitt in one of his canny turns proving he is a much better character actor than conventional romantic lead, plus Fassbender, Kruger and Mélanie Laurent in a star-making turn as the movie's real protagonist. 7,5/10
In 1941 Nazi-occupied France, "The Jew Hunter" SS Colonel Hans Landa (Christoph Waltz) finds the Dreyfus family hidden by their neighbors. Shosanna Dreyfus (Mélanie Laurent) escapes after her family is massacred. Meanwhile Lt. Aldo Raine (Brad Pitt) has gathered 8 Jewish American soldiers to kill Nazis behind enemy lines. Their brutal scalping campaign instills fear among the Germans. Donowitz (Eli Roth) is even given a nickname "The Bear Jew" for brutally beating Nazis with a baseball bat. Then in June 1944, Shosanna has a new name and a theater. She catches the eye of German war hero Fredrick Zoller who wants a big premiere in her theater that will attract the biggest of Nazi leaders. It even attracts the Jew Hunter as well as the Inglourious Basterds.Christoph Waltz is great as the cold menacing well-mannered Nazi. He is completely engrossing in every one of his scenes. Every word he speaks is dripping with menace. His scenes are quiet and some of the most compelling parts of the movie. Then Quentin Tarantino has injected his brutal violence into this Jewish revenge fantasy. It is nothing less than audacious and uniquely original.


                
This is not quite like any movie I have seen-but that is a good thing. It definitely isn't a perfect movie, but it is inventive and even gleefully joyous at times. Sometimes the plot can feel a little disjointed, but it is still a hilarious and solid story throughout.
Plenty of violence throughout though, so be prepared.


                
The last dialogue of the movie. I agree with Tarantino. This is his masterpiece. Why? I've enjoyed the entire 2.5 hours. The acting performances were very good. And most importantly there was a satisfying ending.Forget about the history. Watch it like a movie. Other than that you can't connect with it. Remember connection is very important.Inglourious Basterds is a complete film from artistic point of view. It is not a serious film. It will make you laugh out loud, root for the good guys, fear the villains, feel sorry for the suffered ones.There are two outstanding parts in this film. The casting and Christopher Waltz performance. Waltz Oscar is a well deserved one. Truthfully this is the best performance in villains role I've seen since Heath Ledger's Joker. The casting is phenomenal. The "Basterds" are perfect.A downside of the film is that we are acquainted with Tarantino's style. For this most of the "unexpected scenes" didn't surprise me. Still he managed to steal some individual moments from my consciousness.Final Verdict: Inglourious Basterds is slightly underrated. My rating is 8.5/10.


                
This movie is shocking in every way, and it should be, because what else should you expect from a director whose trademark is blood-filled-violent-killing-scenes and who is making a movie based on the 2nd World War? Perhaps we could say that Tarantino glorifies violence, but I think that's just the way he expresses his ideas and points of view. Somebody will write a poem, somebody will draw a painting, but Tarantino will shoot an aggressive and brutal movie. It is just a way of expression. So why is this movie so special (or not)? Well, it actually IS an antiwar movie. Too bad the plot is set in WWII time, so basically most people will agree that killing Nazis is good because they don't deserve to live because they are the worst enemies this world has ever seen because human kind has never done anything like that and will never do something like that again and if somebody deserves to be scalped, it's the Nazis, and so on and so on<U+0085> It is quite simple to understand this and accept it as a final fact - if you're a five-year-old kid that is. It's interesting how Tarantino managed to portray that in the movie itself (the cinema scene). So basically we (the human race) kill because somebody else killed us first, we take an eye because somebody took ours eye first, and eventually all that is given to us we take and destroy among ourselves, while somebody is laughing and having fun (and people in my theater did laugh few times on the scalp scenes, actually). It's a sad truth, but not to everybody. The film has great acting though, especially by Christoph Walz.


                
I still remember the rush I got when seeing Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction for the first time. I ended up seeing both multiple times and took something new away from each viewing. The media hype around Tarantino, which I believed at the time, was that he could do no wrong. It really seemed in '94 that he was not only the greatest director in the world, but would change cinema forever. Unfortunately his produce since Pulp Fiction was neither prolific nor impressive. The primary weakness with Tarantino's three works post Pulp Fiction and pre Inglourious Basterds was his constantly parroting or paying tribute to other works he had admired instead of going out and doing his own thing, creating something original. An excess of verbosity slowed the pace as well. Viewing the trailer and reading initial reviews of Inglourious Basterds led me to believe it suffered the same shortcomings. To be honest, the trailer for Inglourious does not sell the film I saw. And Tarantino's frequent arrogance and more recent track record have opened him up to a lot of criticism - much of it unjustified in the case of this film.Anyone who has read any review of Inglourious would know that the villain is a sinister Col. Hans Landa and that the opening sequence is one for the ages. He is a unique movie villain like Anton Chigurh in No Country for Old Men or Hannibal Lecter in The Silence of the Lambs. He doesn't speak, he interrogates and interviews in a eerily calm manner. It requires nerves of steel to maintain your composure with him around! His audacity in the last 20 minutes is breathtaking. The opening sequence was worthy of Sergio Leone, whose Once Upon a Time in the West and Lee Van Cleef in The Good The Bad and The Ugly no doubt influenced Tarantino's handling of the entire sequence.I actually liked the criticized bar sequence even more than the opening. Long yes, but it slowly builds up to a brilliantly directed climax. The twists and turns, the playful banter which turns into something deadly are among the memorable sequences of cinema history. Mélanie Laurent as Shosanna Dreyfus has given a performance that is almost on par with Christopher Waltz's Col. Landa. If his performance is Oscar worthy (not that that should be the yardstick!), his interview of her and her reaction when he exits is also equally worthy. I should mention here that the name star of the film, Brad Pitt, is really only one part of a great ensemble cast. His performance is superb and not the caricature that the trailer implies. A sequence where his hick officer is forced to act 'Spanish' is just brilliant comedy. He has the accent of a southerner down pat. I only wish he'd been given more time. I hope the director's cut adds something to his role.In closing, I'll add that Tarantino's knowledge of cinema was never in doubt. His camera-work and understanding of the mechanics of film-making were always good, but he has exceeded himself in this film. There is something classical about the photography (beautiful long takes) and cinematography, which almost no director can emulate. As a former fan and later critic of Tarantino, I'm blown away by Inglourious and despite his cheek, I do think he may just have made his masterpiece!


                
Tarantino's films always have a certain anachronistic quality to them: they take place during a particular time period, yet none of the characters seem to portray the qualities or mannerisms of people during that period and, thus, seem strangely out of place. However, this method has proved to be successful in the past due to Tarantino's uncanny ability to completely ignore the conventionality of the real world and, instead, bring life to a new and exciting alternative world where characters speak poetically, improbability becomes the new likelihood, and Mexican standoffs are commonplace. With his latest endeavor, "Inglourious Basterds," Tarantino's distinctive ability shines through once again with perhaps his most ambitious film to date."Inglourious Basterds" is a World War II movie like none you've ever seen. Most of the time, you'll completely forget the fact that you're even watching a War movie, as, deep down, this isn't really a War movie at all; rather, what we're given is an eclectic mixture of genres (action, comedy, drama) blended with Tarantino's typical fan-boyish references to the nostalgic films and sub-genres of his past. Both the spaghetti western and the grind house film movements demonstrate their presence throughout the film and help to develop the quirky and eccentric characters we've become accustomed to seeing in Tarantino's previous films. Lt. Aldo Raine, played by Brad Pitt, is one such character. Raine is the all-American southerner who just happens to also be Jewish. This unique dichotomy of traits necessitates a hatred of Germans (and, more specifically, Nazis) and thus motivates Raine to lead an exclusive group of Nazi haters called the "Inglourious Basterds" whose sole business is "killin' Nazis." Oddly enough, I found that the most captivating scenes didn't include Pitt or any of the other primary members of the "Basterds" at all; instead, the majority of the film's memorable sequences feature Col. Hans Landa, played by Christopher Waltz, a "Jew hunting" Nazi detective whose ability to methodologically turn seemingly casual discourses into rigorous interrogations is truly remarkable. In essentially every scene Waltz is in, you have a strange feeling that at any moment something bad is going to happen, which manifests a constant feeling of anxiety, creating an almost omnipresent edge-of-your-seat type of experience throughout most of the film."Inglourious Basterds," unfortunately, is not without its faults. While the film starts off and ends with spectacularly well-directed and suspenseful scenes, the slightly overly long running time, featuring a few unnecessary extended scenes (mostly in the second chapter), tends to disrupt the otherwise smooth flow and thus makes the pace seem marginally inconsistent at times. As mentioned before, the film features several astonishing sequences (and some of Tarantino's best), some of the more notable ones include: the opening chapter, the rendezvous bar scene, and the ending Theater scene. However, the weakest points in the film are the scenes interconnecting these aforementioned sequences, which at times feel like they're there for the single purpose of moving the characters from one place to another, or solely for Tarantino to indulge in his signature masturbatory character obsessions."Basterds" is not for everyone. It is violent, unrelenting, and its completely inaccurate portrayal and glamorization of events may put off or offend some viewers unfamiliar with Tarantino's style. That being said, most viewers should have a lot of fun watching the film. It is smart, daring, and contains mostly all of the previous elements that Tarantino so admirably captured in his previous films. It features strong performances (including perhaps the best performance in any Tarantino film to date by Christopher Waltz), sharp writing, and unparalleled suspense. Though not perfect, it is one of the better films to come out this year.4/5 Stars.


                
While Quentin Tarantino's love for movies is unquestionable, Inglourious Basterds tops his previous efforts in genre revolution, tossing a whole of of ingredients together and mixing them up, and you'll be put into a mental dizzy just keeping track of the numerous odes, homages, and pure love for the cinema that Tarantino included in this film, a misnomer most definitely that this is anything but a WWII movie about a group of US-Jewish guerrilla soldiers inserted into enemy territory to strike fear through their inhumane ways of exterminating Hitler's army.Told in chapters (which I felt could actually stand alone as short films) and running some 153 minutes, Inglourious Basterds isn't your father's war movie, where it's flat out action from end to end. In true Tarantino fashion, you've got to brace yourself for a lot, and I mean a whole lot of dialogues and conversations as only how Tarantino knows to craft in an engrossing, engaging fashion. While the violence and F-bombs have been considerably toned down, the way the characters interact, from egoistical monologues to a pair of lovebirds realizing their calling, from intense conversations to foolhardy game play around a table, are pure gold, with such talky scenes getting milked dry, before mayhem got unleashed akin to pressing the reset button, only to have the next chapter repeat itself stylistically all over again. I continue to stand amazed at how Tarantino fashions and crafts his dialogues.If you're geared up for some rowdy action as the trailer made it out to be, then you'll be disappointed outright, since you don't really get to see the Basterds in action all the time, especially after that rousing speech by Lt Aldo Raine (Brad Pitt) outlining the Basterds' mission, with the narrative fast-forwarding many years to the tail-end of the war. Not that I didn't mind of course, as there are a lot more going for the film, than a straight-out action whack fest, knowing Tarantino being at the helm.And in Tarantino-verse, the chapters here are designed with a lot of precision, despite having a lot going for it. I especially enjoyed the opening, quite unconventional in a way, but what an introduction to the villain, played in such low key terms as it built up toward quiet revelation. The gem of the film is undoubtedly Christoph Waltz's chilling performance as Col. Hans Landa, aka The Jew Hunter, earning a reputation of always getting his man through extremely convincing techniques of interviews, interrogation and negotiations. Tarantino has crafted a highly complex villain, and I dare say the best amongst his stories thus far, who's always full of surprises for his enemies. A cunning linguist as well, he's tremendously gentlemanly in his demeanour, never betraying the sick and ruthless core hidden behind that shiny medal-filled uniform. Waltz is definitely worthy of all accolades coming his way by virtue of his sterling performance here.The other scene which worked magically, was that in a tavern, where Lt Archie Hicox (Michael Fassbender) and Sgt. Hugo Stiglitz (Til Schweiger) meet up with double agent actress Bridget von Hammersmark (Diane Kruger) to discuss plans for Operation Kino, only to be constantly interrupted by Major Dieter Hellstrom (August Diehl). What transpired is something that bordered on the hilarious, yet constantly teething on knife's edge given our heroes' bluff on the verge of being exposed. And with two Mexican stand offs done in Tarantino style, what more can you ask for as it continued being played out with pure glee.The story arc of Shosanna Dreyfus may run typical of a revenge flick, where the victim swears vengeance over her once German hunter, but thanks to Melanie Laurent's luminous presence as Shosanna, it got elevated to a lot more as she held her own, allowing you to sympathize with her plight and steely resolve in her mission. This arc is also one of the most beautifully shot (especially the scenes in the movie theatre), having importance as the melting pot primed for regime change. Filled at every moment with nuggets of cinema information that only Tarantino can weave together in an engaging fashion, it even features a movie-in- movie directed by Eli Roth, who had also donned his acting hat as one of the Basterds.Tarantino continues to leave his indelible mark on modern cinema, and like the final, permanent branding, this film has certainly served to be the masterpiece reflective of what he does best. Definitely worth repeated viewings just to lap up all the gems you've missed the first time round.


                
I watched it yesterday and (not really a surprise there) it's really a great movie. the trailer promised a little more action than the actual film delivered, but thats OK. (kill bill 2 didn't have a lot of action and it worked just fine.) but i'd like to point out one aspect of the movie that really amazed me. being swiss, i'm very sensitive when it comes to German or French in American movies. i'm used to hearing awfully pronounced German lines in big Hollywood productions. i always say to myself come on, seriously? you couldn't afford a decent vocal coach, or do you simply give a f...? inglorious basterds is loaded with German and French and it sounds wonderful!!! what a pleasure! Quentin t, thank you for choosing German actors and by doing so making the movie a lot more authentic! he even jokes about the language problems by having brad Pitt killing the Italian word 'grazie'. hilarious! well, thats what i wanted to add to the (probably) hundreds of comments already existing. No need to point out the other good qualities of the movie, i'm sure thats already covers a dozens of times!


                
What a crafty sidebar to mix historical fact with ideological fiction. Who hasn't daydreamed about a world where Hitler was caught and brutally killed? As opposed of course to the limp dick fashion in which he actually checked out. What a beautiful fantasy to imagine all of the third Reich's principals bar-b-que'd in unison instead of slipping off to Argentina and anonymity.Brilliant, that's the adjective best describing Tarantino's use of historic escapism embedded in this beautiful piece of cinema.The acting is incredible, the sense of closure in the form of slaughtering one of the most heinous villains of history is brilliant, brilliant!
This film takes place during World War II, in France while it is occupied by Nazi's (IMBD, 2009). The allies, primarily the U.S. and England, put a plan in motion to assassinate the German high command, including Hitler, and Joseph Goebbels, the Minister of Nazi propaganda (IMDB, 2009). While they attend a movie premier gala for a movie called, Nations Pride. The allied assassination plan, calls for using a squad that specializes in guerilla warfare, led by a notorious sergeant and made up of Jewish-Americans, called the Inglorious Basterds (IMDB, 2009). By happenstance, the allied mission is set to occur at the same time as another plot conceived by the theater owner, Shoshanna, who is Hebrew and the lone survivor of the massacre of her family (IMDB, 2009). This plot is about revenge for her.The movie stars Brad Pitt as Lt. Aldo Raines, and Eli Roth as Sgt. Donny Donowitz. The primary supporting cast is Mélanie Laurent as Shosanna, Diane Kruger as Bridget von Hammersmark, Christoph Waltz as Colonel Hans Landa, a detective of the Waffen-SS, also known as the "Jew Hunter", and finally, Daniel Brühl as Fredrick Zoller (IMDB, 2009). There are lots of action and violence scenes in the plot, mixed in with more sophisticated types of acting (Boggs, Petrie, 2008). One central theme in this movie is the struggle for human dignity, which is emphasized primarily through the plot of the movie, and particularly in Shosanna (Boggs, Petrie, 2008). Through the character of Shosanna the theme of the struggle for human dignity is vividly demonstrated because of the lengths she has to go through to survive, and because she was willing to lay down her life to end German conquest of Europe (IMDB, 2009). Many of Shosanna's scenes interacting with Fredrick Zoller, the star of Nations Pride, are examples of the sophisticated acting mentioned above (Boggs, Petrie, 2008). Because she is Jewish and has assumed an alias of "Emmanuelle Mimieux", she cannot reveal just how much she hates Zoller and Nazi's (IMDB, 2009). It is through her body language, facial expressions, and how she handles a cigarette in one scene, which reveals just how contemptuous she is of Zoller and any that, hate Jewish people (Boggs, Petrie, 2008). In the café scenes with Colonel Hans Landa, the man that slaughtered her family, her eyes giveaway just how terrified and loathsome she is of Nazi's and him in particular. The use of camera angles, which were primarily subjective in this movie, empathized, not only the intensity of the action, but also the emotional mood, and inner thinking of many of the characters (Boggs, Petrie, 2008). For instance, in Chapter One, Colonel Landa visits a French dairy farmer, named Perrier LaPadite (IMBD, 2009). While having a tension loaded conversation in French with LaPadite, the camera angle starts out as objective, keeping them in frame (Boggs, Petrie, 2009). As the tension builds, however, the camera angle slowly becomes powerfully subjective, first showing the perspective of Colonel Landa's, from behind and over his shoulder, looking at the humble and terrified LaPadite (Boggs, Petrie, 2008). Then slowly, painstakingly so, which intensifies the tension, the camera angle rotates to the perspective of LaPadite, giving the audience the perspective of being LaPadite and facing the menacing Colonel Landa (Boggs, Petrie, 2009). This kind of subjective use of camera angles and perspective is used very effectively throughout the movie. Other effective techniques used in this film are the settings and costume and makeup (Boggs, Petrie, 2008). The production of the settings and costume and makeup lend this movie a degree of creditability that should thoroughly suspend disbelief in all but the harshest of critiques (Boggs, Petrie, 2008). Given that this film is a period piece the staging and costumes and makeup had to be impeccable and come across as believable, which both did (Boggs, Petrie, 2008). In particular, the military uniforms of both the U.S. and German personnel were excellent. Another film that may come to mind while watching this movie is Defiance. Both movies highlight the Jewish struggle for human dignity against Nazi Germany (Boggs, Petrie, 2008). And both of these films are excellent examples of this genre and each conveys just how terrifying this struggle was for the Jewish people. Defiance, seemed more historically accurate than Inglorious Basterds, but both are well worth watching!
To be given prior warning that Quentin Tarantino is a master of the offbeat genre of movie making still doesn't quite prepare you for this classic,where deciding who is good, will test your average moral expectations. It is 1943, the Allies have yet to land in Europe as German bad guy Col. Hans Landa aka the Jew hunter ( Christoph Waltz), strikes panic into the hearts of the local village communities with his charming smile and relentless interrogation technique. A pretty young French-Jewish girl, Shosanna Dreyfus (Mélanie Laurent) escape s his merciless execution of her family, and establishes a new identity as a cinema owner. Simultaneously, an Allied plan is enacted sending a small squad of American-Jewish soldiers into occupied France to create an atmosphere of terror and havoc by killing Nazis. American Army Lt. Aldo Raine (Brad Pitt) leads this scalp hunting, head splitting, band of brothers across France, frustrating a comic styled Hitler and narcissistic Josef Goebbels as The Fuehrer and his Propaganda minister prepare to launch a major cinematic misinformation program in a small French village theater. Raine, whose artistic embedding of the swastika into the foreheads of his victims using a Bowie knife, is an inspiration to his troops as they bludgeon their captives to death with baseball bats. After a bloody shootout in the basement of a side-walk café, he meets up with film star and undercover Operative Bridget Von Hammersmark (Diane Kruger). Together they plot the demise of the German High Command at Goebbels' lavish film premier, unaware that it will be held at the theater owned by Nazi hater, Shosanna Dreyfus and her black French lover, who have devised a deadly plan of their own. The film is rich in dark humor and there are moments in-between the violence where you want to laugh but the uncertainty of what might come next, holds you back. Christoph Waltz gives a chilling performance as Hitler's SS detective Landa, such that watching him enjoy a glass of milk in a farmhouse while his subject sits inwardly terrified, or in a restaurant eating apple pie and cream with such poise and refinement while he interrogates the placid Shosanna, leaves you holding your breath and willing her to withstand the mental pressure. Brad Pitt clearly enjoys his character's easy going, lay back style complete with a southern Tennessee twang and his not-quite-there appreciation of the moment, giving us some occasional and cherished moments of comedic respite in the middle of the sadistic manner in which his character Raine, pursues his mission. Claiming an Apache bloodline, Raine chills the blood of the ordinary German soldier at the mention of his name, and his hapless victims shudder at the thought of capture. In return he grants them no quarter. It is, however, the demure and so-lady-like nature of Mélanie Laurent's character Shosanna Dreyfus, and the devastating nature of her plan for retribution that grips you, as she plots against the German hierarchy, and deals with the unwanted advances of a young German war hero, Fredrick Zoller (Daniel Bruhl). 'Inglourious Basterds', is Tarnatino at his very best, with continual action, never a dull moment and a musical score that carries the viewer along at varying speeds whether we like it or not. Cameo appearances by Mike Myers and Australian actor, Rod Taylor almost unrecognizable as Winston Churchill are just another example of Tarantino's eccentric cinematic mind working overtime. While his critics will find flaws in some scenes, only the most fastidious nit-picking for whatever reason could betray this thoroughly entertaining and thought provoking classic. Comparisons with earlier features such as 'The Dirty Dozen' are a waste of time. This film stands alone in creative genius, cinematography and outrageous script writing, and one wonders what Tarantino is dreaming up in the dark recesses of his mind, to top it. Completely absent are the street combat, crumbled buildings, hand to hand fighting and tank battles one expects of a war film; some scenes such as the meeting of the boyish war hero Zoller and Shosanna outside her theater after the evening's performance are positively refreshing when set against the harsh realities of an Occupation army. Their exchanges give us a moment to experience some peace and sanity in a fractious world before returning to the brutality we know is just around the corner. Following the fiery climax at the premier, the final scene in the forest where Raine's Bowie knife cuts deep into Lando's plans for a safe retirement leave us uncertain for the future of both men and the world at large. This is not a film for the faint-hearted or those who struggle with erratic time-lines that zig-zag backwards and forwards telling a complicated, interwoven tale not quite consistent with historical realities. One has to keep in mind that with Tarantino we are dealing with a seductively wicked imagination and a penchant for re-writing history the way he thinks it should have happened.


                
