To start off, I would like to point out that I am not a hater of foreign or B&W films, and I also have respect for different artistic styles in cinema. But this film was simply terrible.The protagonist fails to develop or evolve in any way. So many people have described the boy as being "misunderstood", and authority is considered the villain...but this is NOT a film about a misunderstood child being victimised for no reason. He is given plenty of fair opportunities to improve and redeem himself from his selfish, reckless actions, but he shoots them all down and continues to do wrong until his parents are forced to go to extreme measures to control him...and even then, he does not change. There is absolutely no character journey.We are also shown a great amount of long, pointless shots that do nothing to advance the plot, nor carry any discernible symbolism.The whole experience is a slow, dull observation of a dislikable boy reaping what he has sewn time and time again, without learning from his mistakes. Painfully pointless, and unrecommended if you value good characters and plot.


                
This film is the most disgusting display of self-pity ever created. It's a demonstration of the auteur's life, created so we would feel sorry for a misunderstood kid. Well, I don't. This movie could be about 1 hour shorter. There are long scenes of nothing happening that any sensible auteur would have cut. There is no theme. There is no meaning. There is no plot. There is no symbolism. And the greatest sin of all, THERE IS NO CHARACTER DEVELOPMENT. I've genuinely never cared less about characters. None of the characters in this movie learn a single thing. Each character is exactly the same at the end as at the beginning. This gives the viewer the sensation that nothing has happened in the film--which it hasn't. The film is tortuously boring, and doesn't even have the decency to attempt some pathetic moral or commentary on the human condition. Additionally, the "iconic" freeze frame at the end is simply comical.Why then, is this considered one of the best movies of all time? Because it's masculine. It appeals to the kind of men who were or are selfish delinquents, or who wanted to be. It appeals to men who were misunderstood by the people around them, and who blame others for their misfortunes, even though they themselves were at least partially responsible. Truffant only made this film to wallow in his own preciousness, and it appeals to people who do the same, or to people who love being pretentious and don't care to have their own opinions about things.


                
