Truffaut has worked wonders here, creating a masterful tale of a boy confused, troubled, and unloved. Antoine Doinel (played superbly by Jean-Pierre Léaud in the lead role) has strict, unfaithful parents, and a harsh, oppressive teacher, and falls into delinquency because of his unhappiness. He lies, steals, skips school and runs away from home, and soon ends up in a juvenile delinquency centre.Truffaut's inspiration for this film came from his own depressed childhood, so he bases Antoine on himself, including in terms of appearance. Being a 'New Wave' (a cinematographic movement of the sixties, involving directors who believed Hollywood films were too lavish and unreal) director, Truffaut always used a real location for the film, including breathtaking shots of Truffaut's native Paris. He also made a cameo in the film in the style of Hitchcock.Delinquance is the key theme here. Antoine, who is a character who believes in liberty and freedom, and the way he is always locked up is repressive for him, and this provokes a constant need for him to be out.Trying to make a realistic and moving film was Truffaut's aim, which, by watching this film, I realised that he had done amazingly well. Also, by combining humour and drama too, we have the defining French film of the 20th century. A black and white film that is full of colour. Bien sur, François Truffaut.


                
In viewing François Truffaut's The 400 Blows for perhaps the fifth time, I finally began to realize its true greatness. Inspired by the director's childhood, The 400 Blows (Truffaut's first film) is primarily about a young boy growing up with his mother and stepfather in Paris and apparently heading into a life of crime. Most adults see the boy as a troublemaker, but in the film, he is meant to be the protagonist.Antoine Doinel (Jean-Pierre Léaud) is the boy's name. He is resourceful, quiet, and does what he can to get by. At home, he has a struggling relationship with his parents, especially his mother. She is a woman of curious interests, always distracted by her incommodious son and a secret affair with a man from her job. Antoine's stepfather appears nice enough while treating his son as an equal in a good manner, although he is not really attached to him. However, both parents share common traits: they are away from home quite a bit and do not pay close enough attention to their son. Sadly enough, they only judge him by his behavior and by reports they get from other people.At school, Antoine's teacher classifies him as a menacing troublemaker. Not that it is entirely Antoine's fault, he just has terrible luck. In the opening scene of the film, we see a poster with a half-naked woman on the front being passed around quietly by the students. The teacher is sitting at his desk with his head down, grading papers, until the poster comes to Antoine and he finds it. He sends Antoine to the corner of the room, where he writes a note of resentment on the wall. As punishment for that, he is to diagram the exact words that he wrote. At home that night, Antoine's homework is interrupted. Because he did not complete it, his good friend René convinces him to skip school the next day, although Antoine is reluctant at first. They walk around France and notice Antoine's mother kissing a man that is not her husband. She and her son make eye contact, but René assures his friend that everything will be alright. The next morning, as the boys return to school, Antoine lies to his teacher and says the reason he missed school was that his mother died. Everything is alright until his mother, furious, arrives at school and her son is immediately identified as a liar.And yet, we see Antoine alone at home in some private, subtle, and hopeful moments. One of them being, his love for Balzac. He adores him, and we see him reading his biography and lighting a candle in a shrine in his honor at home. One day, at school, the students are proposed to write an essay on an important event in their life, and Antoine chooses the topic of his grandfather's death, in which he incorporates a phrase from his Balzac book. Alas, the teacher identifies this as plagiarism, and sends Antoine out of the classroom, along with René. The two boys stay at René's house for quite some time, living up to the expectations of a life of crime, until they steal a typewriter leaving Antoine caught trying to return it. He is later sent to a juvenile delinquent detention home.The 400 Blows is not meant to be a tragedy. Rather, it is a character study following Antoine Doinel's life and decisions he makes as a direct result of the many things going on in it. Even The 400 Blows captures a few moments of happiness joy. One of these is a priceless sequence in which a gym teacher is leading Antoine's class for a jog through Paris, not realizing that the boys are peeling off and running away two by two. There is another scene after Antoine's shrine for Balzac catches on fire and his parents are stressing and yelling at him. His mother suggests an outing to a movie theater, where they end up going. After the film, we see the trio in the car, laughing and reflecting on what they had seen. We see this as a moment of hope for Antoine and his family, for this being the only time they are all happy together.There are many poignant moments however, emerging late in the film after Antoine is caught for stealing the typewriter. His father is fed up with his behavior and escorts him to a police station where he is sent to a jail cell and later in a police wagon full of prostitutes and thieves, with his face peering through the bars, full of tears. His parents discuss with the authorities that they cannot not take him back because they believe he will only run away again. So, in turn, their son is taken to the juvenile delinquent school. These sequences express a reality of Antoine's life, in tune with the outcome of himself. He remains quiet and reserved towards the end of the film, as if he has nothing to say. The story of Antoine Doinel and his many experiences allow a life to be filled with curiosity and exploration. Every second of the ninety-nine minutes of the film is not wasted. Truffaut allows every minute to be overflowing with creativity while still maintaining the central story of the protagonist. It is not a film that can be taken lightly as a family movie to be watched every Saturday night. It is a film to be given plenty of thought, carefully examined, and given a conclusion. The genius of the film does not rely on that, moreover, it relies on how much is put into the film. Down to the smallest detail, the film is able to maneuver and progress. The story contains elements of sadness, regret, family, warmth, happiness, humor, values, and choices. Just like life itself.


                
The Four Hundred Blows is the semi-autobiographical story of Antoine Doinel, a boy trapped in a life of contemtptuous authority who turns to outward rebellion.  Truffaut shows his mastery of the cinema in this, his freshman attempt.The film is perfectly cast with Dionel relaying neutral facial expressions for the majority of the film.  The boy, although not necessarily evoking sympathy from the audience, definitely evokes empathy.  He is a pathetic character forced into his position by his teacher and his almost uncaring mother.Throughout the film, Truffaut hints at the possibility of a happy life for the protagonist, but just as soon as the ideal is given to us, it is taken away.  The mood shifts in the film are fabulously orchestrated through contrasting scenes, music, and  even acting.  From the opening sequence through the final,  enigmatic still shot, the movie is a masterpiece of both French and world cinema.  It is a must see.


                
This film is one of the greatest I have ever seen. It depicts some events in the life of Antoine Doinel, a young French boy who gets into a lot of trouble no matter what he does. This was the first film by Francois Truffaut, and I believe that it is filmed with such an innocence that you can really feel some of the emotions that Antoine feels. I love the simple style of this film, and I think it adds to its charm. The story is can even be painful to watch as one sees all of the things that happen to Antoine. I think that the reason for the strong emotions embedded in this film is that it is semi-autobiographical. I think the cinema is what rescued Truffaut from a life like his protagonist.In short, an inspiration to all filmmakers-they DEFINITELY don't make them like this anymore!


                
'The 400 blows' immediately introduces its hero in a breathless credit sequence: I mean the Eiffel Tower, glimpsed from different angles as the camera drives through the streets of Paris, emerging from behind buildings, through trees, opening onto avenues.  It is a magnet - wherever you go you move towards it - and a totem.  This sequence is transposed later, when Antoine goes to the funfair, and rides on one of those moving cylinders, like a zoetrope.  The comparison is deliberate - Truffaut is situating his film in film history, declaring his intention to start again, to get back to first principles, to a time when moving pictures was a medium of possibility, before it was bogged down by genre and the studio system.  this zoetrope has a transformative power - it takes a character from neo-realism and abstracts him, turning him into a figure in a Grand Guignol, crawling in eternal circles.  But, from his point of view, it completely transforms the outside world, from a thing of oppressive solidity content to stare in powerful distance, to a formless, unstable mass.  This sequence crystallises the power of Truffaut's film, its freedom and its concern with entrapment.  It charts the decline into imprisonment of its main character with a style of buoyant liberation.  So while Antoine is trapped in this barrel, he is also offered a new way of looking beyond those merely content to look on from the outside.'The 400 Blows' is the first masterpiece of the nouvelle vague, that iconoclastic movement that briefly saved cinema from stagnation as an art-form, just as it declared that it was an art-form (hmm, a connection?). It's a cliche now that Truffaut was the least innovative of the New Wavers, and yet it's still surprising that a film built so classically (moving from Paris to the countryside; balancing the opening school scene, with its barred doors, with the closing borstal scene etc.) still achieves that tingling spontaneity so rare in the cinema (e.g. Jean-Pierre Leaud as an actor laughing with the crew as Albert Remy breaks an egg).  The first viewing of '400' is such a rush you'd be forgiven for thinking that it, like 'A Bout de souffle', was made up on the spot, and it is only on subsequent viewings that you marvel at Truffaut's formal control, the rhythm of his camera movements and editing, the consideration of his compositions. 
That image of spinning round a fixed pole is the one that haunts me.  Just as the decline of Michel Poiccard in the Truffaut-scripted 'A Bout de souffle' is figured as a car running out of steam, so Antoine is forever running in circles, brought back to a fixed point, having gotten nowhere. To move is to live - that is why the final freeze-frame is so frightening: Antoine has usurped the Eiffel Tower, has become the centre of the spinning top - he dominates the closing frame, just as the opening ones were empty (of humans).  But at what cost? - has he simply wound down into inertia?: the subsequent Doinel films would suggest so.  (that closing beach scene, in which Antoine seems to be running against moving, phosphorescent sand, also alludes to another great work about a young artist and his city, Joyce's 'Ulysses' and its chapter 'Proteus')Although the film rarely shoots directly from his point of view, the style is an exuberant expression of Antoine's sensibility.  Antoine is ambisexual, still seeking his identity, just before seeking sexuality - early on he sits at his mother's dressing table, his face splintered by the triptych mirrors; later he steals supplies from the ladies' toilet.  This embodying of subjectivity in objective style is what saves the closing third from de Sica-like sentimentality and manipulation: we are rarely outside Antoine's head, people are wonderful or horrible as he experiences them.  Only twice is his sensibility intruded on - when he is caught bringing back the typewriter, the captor creeping his point of view; and the interview with the faceless psychologist at the borstal, filmed as if behind a double-sided mirror, the feral animal penned at last.'The 400 blows' is revered as a moving, melancholy picture of misdirected adolescence.  It is sometimes forgotten that most of the film is pure comedy, delighting in gags, digressions, bits of business.  For much of the running time, you envy Antoine - what joy it must be to be young and in Paris, swashbuckling in the schoolyard, truanting in the city, smoking cigars: his family situation is no worse that most, at least he has friends, a roof over his head, and can read Balzac. Antoine is a bit of a clown: all clowns eventually settle down, make the right choices at crucial moments in their lives.  Antoine somehow misses those rarely visible choices and finds himself locked up, descending the various levels of institutional hell.  His often amiable and/or witty parents are no more evil than he is a saint, although an educational system that asks kids to simply copy down 'great' poems (a Sisyphean task in one ink-blotted case) is clearly wrong.  Georges Delerue's score - romantic, exuberant, tragic, bittersweet - ranks with the three greats ('Vertigo', 'Taxi Driver', 'The Umbrellas of Cherbourg').
No doubt, this is a masterpiece. There are at least two unforgettable sequences in this movie. The first is the puppet show, with those children's faces looking at the stage, quite out of anything that can be expressed by words... being so childish and perfectly baby-like, but at the same time so desperately resembling to the faces of us, adult spectators of movies and life. A second, extraordinary moment is the final encounter of the boy Doinel with the ocean, at the end of the movie. Out of the school-jail where they have sent him, he runs through the French countryside until he finds this long beach. When he finally reaches the water, he gives that sudden and unexpected look into the camera... that is when the movie ends, and we can't help being pervaded by a full, cosmic empathy with Antoine Doinel. Thank you Mr Truffaut.
In this monumental work, one central motif deeply influenced all other notable proclivities: realism. A documentary-like work otherwise, this movie does what I most admire about movies: immerse us with different lives, times, and places. So, first, this quality in the '400 blows' predominates and accentuates the rest of the movie to germane sensitivity; from there the plot takes over and we delve into the lives of a small middle-class family, and the main character among the three family members--the boy. Indeed, the astute social critique leaves the viewer with long lasting impressions. But the boy's plight will ever remain the single most potent symbol in my memory of the vindication, liberty, freedom, and inevitable alienation humans undergo in their lives. Definitely a movie I would like to see again and again, if not to enjoy the beauty of the filming, but at least to remind myself the predicament of life.


                
I first saw this film around three or four years ago for the first time. I had watched it late at night, and I was very sleepy after it ended. I was rather ambivalent towards it. To tell you the truth, I don't know whether I had even heard of it before I rented it. And I don't even remember if it was my first film by Francois Truffaut, either. I have seen two others, The Green Room, which I didn't like all that much, and Shoot the Piano Player, which I loved. My guess would be that I saw The Green Room first, then looked up what else Francois Truffaut had made, and which ones were considered his better films.Anyhow, by some route I rented The 400 Blows, and, as I said above, it left me unaffected. I went to bed afterwards without thinking much about it. It was only a couple of months later that I realized how good it was. The memories came flooding back one day when someone mentioned it to me. I have had similar experiences with La Dolce Vita and Casablanca, among others. As I thought more and more about it, I realized just how great it was.Still, I never went back to it until now. I am strange in that way. There are some movies, some of which aren't even that good, that I will watch over and over again, alone or with friends. There are other films which I know are great, but that I never feel I have time to revisit them (there are always more films to be watched). The 400 Blows is one of those films, unfortunately. I don't know why. I have even considered purchasing it several times. I never did. So when I saw it tonight, it was like seeing something brand new.I remembered only a few of the most memorable scenes: the carnival ride (followed by Antoine catching his mother with a strange man), the whole Balzac sequence, the psychologist's interview, and, of course, the famous final shot, the freeze-frame of Antoine Doinel looking into the camera. After this time, I will probably remember everything a lot better and a lot longer. The first time, when I was ambivalent, I had time to forget before I finally grabbed hold of those fading memories.Why is this film special? Because it is the perfect example of childhood caught on film. I don't think there is anyone who could watch it without thinking that it rings true. Every piece of film that deals with a similar subject falls behind this one. The only one that I can think of that comes anywhere near is Federico Fellini's _Amarcord_. Jean Vigo's _Zero for Conduct_ is also very interesting, and probably influenced this film a lot (I know Truffaut was familiar with it, but that may not have been until after this film came out). Antoine Doinel is such an endearing character. I hope that sometime soon I can procure and see his other filmic exploits. And I really need to see more Truffaut in general. I'm far behind with him. Well, The 400 Blows deserves a 10/10, no doubt. It is easily one of the best films ever made, and one of those films that any knowledgable person would include it in a list of films that are absolutely necessary for a student of film.


                
This film is all about simplicity, but that doesn't stop it from being a masterpiece. Many times the most simple things are the best. Simplicity is often the right road to go far.François Truffaut must have directed this film with all his dedication, heart and soul. It's realistic, touching, sensitive and human. It does a very good job in showing the existence's crisis faced by the teenagers, as well as showing how hard life can be in that complex phase of life. It also feels very nostalgic for many reasons, but it would take me forever to number them here. Another thing which this movie triumphs is when it comes to settings by showing us the streets of Paris and many different areas of this city fondly known as the "City of Lights". The soundtrack is magnificent, it sounds so sad, so deep, so intense and so beautiful.All in all, a wonderful movie, with very little to be improved. Even its ending is very expressive. There is something inspiring about that ending and it makes me wanna do the same thing. Antoine Doinel runs away to a beach, finally experiencing the sea. He wets his feet, but doesn't take his shoes and socks off. That "freezed" final shot of him looking at the camera accents the originality and makes it more memorable. I think that if he got into the water and swam (with a "freezed" final shot either), that would make the ending even more memorable. Jean-Pierre Léaud is wonderful in the role of Antoine Doinel, a normal however troublesome 14-year-old boy. I mean, look at the way he is treated. His teacher hates him. His parents are a disaster together and give little credit to the boy. Can you blame him? But, as I said, the actor is wonderful. You don't see young actors like this anymore: this expressive, this natural, this charismatic, this confident in front of the camera, this talented... they're a vanishing breed.Although of dramatic nature, there are elements of comedy in this great film. Certain scenes really make me laugh like few movies do now. Antoine Doinel is often funny and so is his good friend René (brilliantly portrayed by Patrick Auffay). Richard Kanayan is hilarious in every scene he shows up, even though his role is minor and he barely talks. But the things he does, combined with his figure and the actor's charisma and talent, make him hilarious. Guy Decomble is priceless as the impatient and short-tempered but hilarious French teacher, "fondly" nicknamed 'Petite Feuille' by his pupils.Just about all the kids are very good. Claire Maurier and Albert Rémy are interesting choices to play Antoine's parents and they convince.Title in Portugal: 'Os 400 Golpes'.


                
This is one of the best films I have ever seen about children. It's not sentimental, but by the time it's over I really wish I could hug this kid. This is one of the most rewarding and perfect films I have seen period. The child protagonist is so likable and misunderstood,  it's heartbreaking to see him get deeper and deeper into trouble. While watching this film I never felt like I was being manipulated or preached to in any way. What an accomplishment! The final images are so sad and beautiful. See it!


                
This is truly one of the finest movies ever. So simply made, yet the images stay in your mind long after the film has ended: Antoine cutting up at school. On the centrifuge. The happy family outing to the movies. Stealing the typewriter. Spending the night in prison. And the freeze frame at the end.Every time I watch this it reminds me again of why I enjoy the cinema so much. Francois, why'd you have to leave us so soon?


                
The 400 Blows is a film that every teenager must see. When I was 14 (Antonie's age in the film I suppose), I hated everything. I hated school, I hated living with my parents, and I didn't want to be subordinate to society on the whole. To put it simply, I wanted to just get out there and live my life instead of being picked on by school teachers and essentially be an outcast amongst my peers, who were spoiled rich white males thinking with their you know whats instead of their brains. Antonie Doinel is a character who used his mind and what did he get? He was sent to reform school. He possesses the traits of every average adolescent male. He wants to expand his mind (he reads Balzac), doesn't do his work, riles up the teacher, doesn't really get along with his parents (although his father seems to have more vested interest in the boy), defaces classroom walls, and looks at and defaces pinups. Quite simply, his character is one of the most complex to ever be created.In short, The 400 Blows is about an unwanted teenaged boy who submits to the world of petty crime when the rest of the world has turned his back on him. There's an interesting line that Antoine's father says to him at the beginning of the film. The boy is running back from the grocery store with flour for his mother and he runs into his dad coming home from work. "Always running son, eh?" And that's what we see for the full 99 minutes of The 400 Blows. Sure, Antoine is actually running (especially at the emotional climax) but he's psychologically running away from the very people holding him back from breaking out in the world, be it his parents, the authorities, and so forth. There is so much other things that we see that cannot be fit into this review. Antoine and his friend Rene skip school one day and go around town. Antoine goes into a gravitron, which is an amusement park ride that spins around in circles. And that's what his life is doing: he may enjoy the ride for the time being, but he's ending up where he started from.The film is not without humor, though. One cannot help but laugh when Antoine tells his teacher after skipping class that his mother died. "Personal preference obviously," his father says in response to the mother venting about such news. Also, Antoine's letter to his parents explaining why he ran away sounds like an adult wrote it, but there is some humor to it. "We'll discuss all that's happened" it says. Even Antoine getting expelled from school after plagiarizing Balzac is pretty humorous and he decides not to go home and live with Rene. They end up stealing little things such as posters, clocks, and they go to the movies. However, when he pinches a typewriter from his father's office, that's the end of his little rebellion. He is sent to a correctional facility (and this is an emotional scene, as the boy is placed in a police wagon and cries as he takes a look of the streets of Paris at night). Perhaps the most emotional scenes take place in the final portion of the film. Antoine is placed under psychiatric evaluation, where he reveals he was born out of wedlock and his mother wanted an abortion (this is hinted at in the beginning when he runs in on a conversation between two old ladies talking about forceps and a Cesarean section...perhaps they were indeed talking about an abortion procedure. Antoine feels uncomfortable around this conversation and we can see it). He can't see Rene when he visits, and his mother tells him he's on his own (although I wished Antoine would've told her "I hate you").After briefly listening to a young delinquent who was caught trying to escape, Antoine decides to do so and bolts during a soccer game. We just see Antoine running, and running, and running. There's no music at first until he gets to the ocean. Truffaut pulls the cameras back and we see an endless horizon, endless opportunities for our young protagonist. The musical score plays and this is where I continue to get misty eyed with every viewing. Antoine, who has never seen the ocean, runs within the current, but has nowhere to go. The film ends in the famous freeze frame with a closeup of the boy's face. Either he's been caught, doesn't know what to do, or this mimics the mugshot sequence that we saw before he went into the correctional facility. The ending leaves a lot to the imagination, but there's one thing that cannot be imagined: The 400 Blows is easily the most touching film I've ever seen. I don't think I'll see another one quite like this.Everything seems to lock into place here. The acting superbly executes brilliant dialogue. Truffaut has some innovative camera movements (the darkening of the corridor while Antoine takes out the garbage and the final shot are examples of this) throughout. The musical score is beautiful. And, France isn't portrayed as this very romantic country. No, it is dark, it is gloomy. This is the dark side of this very storied nation. Here, Francois Truffaut tells his story to the viewer. When I first bought 400 Blows, I didn't know what to expect. I figured I'd pick it up because 46 years after its initial release there was still a lot of critical buzz around it. I'm glad I spent the 30 dollars on this film, easily my favorite of all time next to 2001: A Space Odyssey.I only have one complaint: I wish I'd have seen The 400 Blows when I was 14. It probably would have saved my life more than the music I was listening to.
I understand this is an art film. If you are not into art films, than perhaps this film is not for you. If you have an inclination for the sublime, than by all means, SEE THIS MOVIE!IF YOU HAVE NOT SEEN THIS MOVIE, DO NOT READ THIS COMMENT!!! GO OUT RIGHT NOW AND RENT THIS FILM, OR BETTER YET, FIND A SHOWING AT A LOCAL ARTS THEATER AND GO SEE IT ON THE BIG SCREEN! THIS MOVIE IS A WONDERFUL EXPERIENCE THAT MUST BE SEEN! IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN IT YET, I INSIST, STOP READING NOW! IF YOU CONTINUE READING, AND THEN GO SEE THIS MOVIE, IT WILL BE LIKE SEEING CITIZEN KANE AND KNOWING WHAT "ROSEBUD" MEANS ALREADY! GOT IT?!It's a slow wind up, but the last scene of this movie makes it all worthwhile. If someone asked me what is a truly great movie, I would name this film without hesitation. It's a pity that many Americans have an aversion to foreign films. It's a pity that more people have not seen this masterpiece. The depth of emotion conveyed in the final moments of this film must be seen to be believed. I only wish that more filmmakers managed to convey the intensity of that one moment as the boy stands on the beach and sees the ocean for the first time. The contrast between that one moment and all of his previous existence, sad and oppressive as it is, completely overwhelms me.
Francois Truffaut made his mark on the cinematic world with "Les quart cents coups" (called "The 400 Blows" in English). Semi-autobiographical, the movie tells the story of Antoine Doinel (Jean-Pierre Leaud), a misunderstood schoolboy. Everyone hears rumors about him and assumes things about him. Finally, at the end of the movie, Doinel escapes from a seaside cottage and runs out to the shore, and an ambiguous future.The movie was very well done in every aspect. The black and white helps to emphasize Doinel's somewhat dreary existence. I recommend this movie to everyone.


                
(2nd part of 30 reviews of the films I think are the 30 greatest ever made. Being 2nd has nothing to do with how good it is compared to the other films) Atoine Doniel is one of the most likable heroes in the history of cinema. And by likable, I don't really mean "likable" so much as a character everyone identifies with in some way. He is the rebel with a cause, a 12 year old who isn't so bad behaved as he has very bad timing. When a centerfold is passed around class, the teacher catches him with it. When he creates a shrine to his idol the poet Balzac, it catches fire.I have not seen any of the other "Antoine Doniel" films, and I don't want to. It was probably a mistake to make any more - the film ends perfectly as it is, and its better off left alone.Doniel lives in a small, cramped apartment with his two parents who are constantly yelling at each other. He occasionally gets along with the father, but more than often he is treated unfairly by both. The film follows him through many misadventures, that go from skipping school and running from home and stealing a typewriter. By the end we're cheering him on and no film manages this better.I'd rather not write any more about "The 400 Blows" (or "Les Quatre Cents Coups" which is short for a French idiom - "faire Les quatre cents coups" "to raise hell"). Instead, I'll let you see it and watch the events unfold before you. It's not at all boring, I'm 14 and loved it. This is not only one of the best, but my favorite movies of all time.


                
This is one of the most perfect character studies ever filmed, in my view. All of it rings true. Whether in pathos, or anger, sadness or hope, this is a characterization that creates a real person who lives a real life. No car chases, sorry. Just raw human emotion. About the only misstep Truffaut made was the someone overwrought speech by the teacher. I can forgive a few seconds too many.......


                
Francois Truffaut's 1959 debut film may well be his Masterpiece. With "The 400 Blows" he delivers a disturbing story about a misunderstood and uncared-for 14-year old, immersed in a cold-shoulder world of erratic pleasures and pains. The main character, Antoine, seems to be singled out for every kind of exaggerated discipline. A disagreeable school teacher indulges in sending pupils to the corner, or slapping them for silly transgressions. At home Antoine never knows what to expect. Will he be treated to the movies today, or yelled at and told he will end up in a Military Academy for being "difficult".Truffaut's unflinching realism points at the fact that we live in an adult-run world, where children have to follow all rules and orders, even if such directions may change without notice or cause. Antoine is in a "catch 22", where no matter what he may do will result in some kind of punishment. Minor offenses, which many will not consider very serious at all, are blown out of proportion.Without giving away any more of the story, it is obvious that here is a kid who has been dealt a pretty rotten hand. Even if Antoine's story is on the extreme end of a scale, there are surely millions of people who can relate to a life like his. Adults can be very unfair, especially when using children for their convenience, to cover their own wrong actions, or simply to seek a scape goat or whipping-boy to relieve their frustrations. The film is testimony to the fact that some people should not be parents at all.A big winner at the 1959 Cannes Film Festival, "The 400 Blows" is a landmark piece of International Cinema, and by many critics' accounts ranks among the finest films ever made. An added treat is the extensive black and white camera-panning of the back-streets of Paris. See the city the way the milk-man sees it at day break, and you can appreciate how the working class lives. You can then understand how much more difficult life is for the children of those who work hard for a simple living. This is a must-see Classic, highly recommended!


                
Voilà<U+0097>the New Wave has reached the shore. At times dazzling and tragic, Francois Truffaut's bleak look at French society and juvenile delinquents is markedly different than other films of the era. While some directors were looking outward at America or making edgy films, Truffaut explores the interior life of Antoine Doinel. Antoine Doinel<U+0097>played by Jean-Pierre Léaud, who reprises this role in later Truffaut films<U+0097>is a misbehaving boy. At school, he is caught passing a lewd photo of a woman. He is without remorse, playing tricks behind the teacher's class (played by Guy Decomble from Melville's "Bob le Flambeur"). He is the class clown in a rigid school where any malfeasance is not tolerated. The schoolteacher pauses his lesson and says, "Poor France, what a future!" When he skips school one day with co-conspirator and sidekick René, he sees his mother kissing a man. This man is not her husband. She sees him, he definitely sees her, and the two scurry away. A jazzy score quickens the melancholy pace of the film, matching the mood and pulse of Paris quite nicely. It's not a stretch to assign this film social critique status. At two points in the film, teachers lead children on forced exercise walks on the streets. In pairs of two, the children break apart from the group unbeknownst to the teacher until none remain. Truffaut<U+0097>a rebel who created Doinel as a two parts himself one part his friends<U+0097>is poking fun at the establishment. The nation's future<U+0097>its children<U+0097>are rebelling against the rigidity and discipline of their elders, the teachers. It's not loud, it's not overt, but it is happening steadily. This tension between the older generation and the younger generation defined the New Wave directors and drives this film. Understandably, many critics think this film champions cause célèbre of sorts<U+0097>the severity with which juvenile delinquents are treated. I tend to agree. Doinel is sent away without so much as a fair seat at the table. He is mixed in with petty thieves and worse. The plot of the film is irrelevant. Doinel cannot sit still because he yearns for adventure and cheap thrills<U+0097>arcade, movies, 'Gravitron' ride<U+0097>and his truant behavior catches up with him. Eventually, he is shipped away to a reform school where he is to straighten up. Doinel is the soul of the film. He is not a bad boy. He is a real boy. Marcel Moussy and Truffaut wanted to paint a more realistic, complex portrait of a boy (with a mind, a heart, and often conflicting emotions), and they have succeeded brilliantly. He knows right from wrong. He just can't be bothered. He sets the table for dinner, then steals money. He gets a thrill out of breaking the rules. But he has a conscience<U+0097>he can't get the professor's harsh voice out of his head. When Doinel plays hooky, he overhears another woman talking at the bakery about an unwanted child. Doinel pauses to listen, then winces. In some ways, Doinel is the product of his parents. His mother is strict, serious, unwavering. But his father<U+0097>with whom we emphasize<U+0097>is funny, loose, and proud of Doinel. He knows Doinel stole his Michelin guide, but he would rather hope for the best than outright accuse him. Truffaut has an eye for domesticities and quotidian life. The relationship between his mother and father is similarly strained. Their marriage is so familiar, they are both weary of it. When disputes arise, we see Doinel wrapped in his sleeping blanket on his mattress, listening. The plot quickens when Doinel admits to a shrink that his mother wanted an abortion, and it was his grandmother who convinced her otherwise. The catch: he made up that last bit, and ad-libbed the whole interview. This powerful scene<U+0097>in which Doinel is speaking actually to Truffaut because the actress wasn't available<U+0097>has outlived 400 Blows. He fidgets, he shrugs, he uhhs<U+0097>Léaud *is* Doinel. Chilling. Like other films of this era, all shots are taken at real locations. Henri Decea, the cinematographer who is as much of a staple of the New Wave as Truffaut and Godard, provides a revealing capture of a child without seeming condescending, too close, or too far. We are invited into Doinel's world like a silent co-conspirator, a witness to his every act, capture, and punishment. This film is at once marvelous and poignant. Even if you elect not to see the movie (a mistake), you must catch the last scene on YouTube. Doinel has escaped the confines of his reform school, and runs to the sea. The final shot of Doinel is "as famous as the Odessa steps in Battleship Potempkin, or the snow globe from Citizen Kane" according to critic Richard Neupart. A must-see for any film major, buff, or appreciator. If you liked this film, you should consider Truffaut's earlier work Les mistons.
Antoine Doinel is a 12 years old boy who is rather well mannered and sensible but his childish naiveness is enough for him to become an arbitrary victim of the machineries of parental disfunctionality and criminalization.He is exposed to the ignorance of his mother who doesn't like him and on the other hand the oldfashioned schoolsystem that pays no attention to the specific circumstances in Antoines life. Even though he tries to satisfy the demands of both of these institutions the improved solutions that he thought up in childish naiveity lead to fatal consequences. once he is classified a troublemaker by his teacher and parents there is no escape from the process where at its end family and educational system arrange his deportation to a working camp for juvenile delinquents.Truffauts approach to the subject becomes clear in a scene where dozens of little children excitedly follow a puppetshow, pointing out how children all react alike to a well intended input from the grown up world, at the same time indicating that children enter the world with a pure mind and soul and consequently showing how grown ups settled Antoines fate as a juvenile delinquent.without clumsy sentimentality but a very sharp sense for Antoine's in the beginning uncritical and naive perception of the process of his criminalization during that he gradually develops an understanding for what is happening to him, Truffaut depicts the drama that culminates in the final scene where Antoine runs away from the working camp to the nearby sea as an attempt to escape from the criminal identity and emotional pain imposed on him by parents and educational institutions.Truffaut more or less portrays his own youth in this movie. And maybe that is the reason why he is able to describe the story of his protagonist with unmatched sensibleness and humanism.
Like many artists and writers, director François Truffaut began his career with an autobiographical piece based on his unhappy childhood. Sometimes these works are just self-indulgent ways for their creators to exorcise their personal demons<U+0097>and sometimes, like Truffaut's "The 400 Blows," they go far beyond that. This movie allows those of us who were never young hellraisers like Truffaut or his protagonist Antoine Doinel (Jean-Pierre Léaud) to understand him and discover the universality of his story. The way that Antoine's family alternates between loudly arguing and pretending that everything is happy is very recognizable. So is the way that Antoine is stuck somewhere between childhood and adolescence and expected to take responsibility for his actions, even though the adults' rules don't make sense."The 400 Blows" is basically a character study of Antoine, a lower-middle-class Parisian boy. Occasionally, his willful disaffectedness reminded me of a French Holden Caulfield, but he lacks Holden's cynical, superior attitude. The movie shows us that other characters think of Antoine as a rage-fueled delinquent, but that in reality he is an aimless youth who always chooses the wrong moments to act defiant. Léaud gives an amazing performance that perfectly matches the movie's tone: sympathetic to Antoine's plight, yet resisting the temptation to make him into a downtrodden victim. I have seen a few other Truffaut films, and one of the things I like best about his style is his skillful use of long wordless sequences, often set to music. "The 400 Blows" is full of these, conveying everything from the joy of skipping school and going to the movies, to the panic and exhilaration of a spinning carnival ride, to the poignancy of riding through late-night Paris in a police van. The famous, marvelously ambiguous ending tops them all. This innovative style was groundbreaking in its time and started what became known as the "French New Wave." But "The 400 Blows" is not just a bag of cinematic tricks or an arty, inaccessible critics' darling. Instead, it's a wonderful movie about childhood, highly recommended for its lyricism, its emotional range, and its sympathetic but not sentimental look at a misunderstood boy.


                
I love Francois Truffaut and this film unabashedly. I've never once disliked anything that man has had a hand in creating. I even enjoy L'Infant Sauvage. With his debut film, Truffaut created one of the greatest paeans to childhood and Paris committed to celluloid. The camera and director are absolutely punch-drunk in love with everything they lay their eyes on. It's an incredible experience. Truffaut would go on to make more competent films (this is very much the work of a young man) but none would ever match the energy and unbridled joy here. There would be moments when he came close, but nothing would top this film. There's so much to shout about--Antoine Doinel smoking, the schoolboys sneaking off as they are led through the streets of Paris, Antoine stealing milk, Antoine talking to the psychologist, and, of course, the closing shot as Antoine faces the sea. It's a superbly brilliant closing moment and the perfect finale for this film. I really cannot say a single negative thing about 400 Blows. It's magnificent. I also cannot say a single negative thing about its director. Truffaut is my personal favorite of all the directors that developed out of Cahiers du Cinema. By far. He has a humanity that Godard lacks, and he's simply a more interesting filmmaker than Rohmer or Bresson or Melville. He's wonderful and so is this movie--a Romantic ode to childhood that steers clear of the sentimentality that often bogs down American films dealing with a similar subject. It's simply brilliant.
The beauty of Francois Truffaut's The 400 Blows is not found in terms of its technical merit (even though, in technical terms, it is still a brilliant piece), but in the heart and soul of the film, the shear love with which it was made. Truffaut said time and time again that the cinema saved his life, and you get the impression that the only way he felt he could repay his sanctuary was by committing himself to it. He did so in many ways! Not only did the auteur commit his time to movies, by being a lover of film and a critic, he soon became a director, producing this inspired masterpiece. Perhaps, that is what makes it a masterpiece. The film truly is inspired; inspired by Truffaut's life, his passion for cinema, and his theories about how films should be created. The result is amazing! Antoine Doinel, played by Jean-Pierre Leaud, is a misunderstood young boy, trying to keep his head above water, despite being caught up in what seems to be a predestined downward spiral. His teacher and his parents do not trust him, and he knows this. Seeing no trust to betray, he does whatever he can to try to compensate for how miserable he is treated. His mother (Claire Maurier) is busy working and trying to be a housewife, despite an affair she is having with another man. His father (Albert Remy) seems nice enough, but loses his temper when he is disappointed in the young man. Because of an already-existent lack of trust the parents have for their son, everything he does is perceived as wrong. No one ever takes the time (not his parents, certainly not his despicable teacher) to actually look at the boy, to determine whether there is any malice in his actions, or if he is simply a misguided little boy, searching for something he cannot describe or define. This is Truffaut's gift - He allows us to look through the screen, to see this young man, to study him, maybe for only one hundred minutes, but we are given the time to see the truth in this child that few probably ever saw in the young, tormented Truffaut. To miss this film is to deprive yourself of a rare cinematic experience!
For the first time I saw the 400 blows in 1960. I got then a very strong impression. Then, there was interval of more than 40 years, during which I never watched it, though not forgot. Recently I bought DVD and saw it again. I got the same huge impression. But now I have understood the cause of it. It is not only the greatness of Truffaut, excellent photography of Anri Decaee, charming musical score of Jean Constantine, performance of wonderful children Jean-Pierre Leaud and Patrick Auffray. All these were not enough. But, in addition to these qualities of the movie, I had a strong feeling of identification with Antoine, and that identification had come because many facts and events of my childhood were coinciding with what had happened with him. Even surroundings of my childhood was almost the same - not in Paris, but in one of the greatest capital cities. I think many people on whom the film made so strong impression had that sense of identification.The tragedy of J.P. Leaud is that he came to perfection TOO EARLY, at his teens. But one who had come to perfection stops his development. In other movies of the A.D. circle (Stolen Kisses and so on), he is, IMHO, incomparably weaker than in the first film. So, the endearing boy - Antoine Doinel of the 400 blows - became for J.P. Leaud a kind of a monster, with whom he had to contend all his life, and whom he could never overtake, not mention to leave behind. Genius in his childhood, he lowered to just a good (sometimes not so good) actor in his adulthood. A learned artistic craft of his later films could never substitute the freshness and vitality of the 400 blows.


                
How can one not love this movie?  There is simply no way to describe the special moments in this movie which capture what it is to be a child bordering on becoming a man.  This is France's Catcher in the Rye, but put on the screen rather than in text.  There are numerous images from the film which I ultimately return to.  There is the physical education class run through the streets with the teacher losing students, the carnival wheel and finally the best ending scene to any movie ever put on film.  Now that's just the film itself.  Words cannot describe how good the young lead in the movie is.  He simply puts other child actors to shame, and he wasn't even an actor.  I've watched this movie over 10 times, and each time I am glad I took the time to do it.  This falls into the same category as I put other movies such as The Seven Samurai, The Sacrifice and Citizen Kane.  This is movie making genius, and most importantly, it's the pitfalls and triumphs of humanity as seen through an adolescent.


                
