Every day life, however 'real' and gritty it may be, is rarely portrayed on film and was certainly a rarity in the 1950's. In Europe however, there was a movement in film-making that embraced this realism and searched for the deeper meaning in the 'here and now'. This is about the most basic and miniscule portion of the meaning behind the French New Wave of the 1950's <U+0096> films that explored the filmmaker's surroundings, and eventually became an inspiration for filmmakers around the world. Francois Truffaut's 'The 400 Blows' is one of the most well-known films of this movement, and has been embraced and hailed as one of the greatest films of all time.After viewing Truffaut's 'The 400 Blows', I have been ruminating over the deeper meaning behind his story of Antoine Doinel, a 14 year old boy in Paris who is having trouble in school and trouble at home. In school, he is marginalized as a trouble-maker, yet it is obvious that it is more a matter of him causing trouble by expressing himself creatively rather than following along with mundane assignments. At home, Doinel has to deal with an adulterous mother who only pays attention to him when it suits her needs, and a father who is barely present. Doinel responds by doing the only thing he feels he can do, and that is by acting up; eventually earning an expulsion from school and being sent to a juvenile prison camp by his parents. Nothing is cut and dry in 'The 400 Blows'. If one were to take the film at face value, there would be a 'so what' feeling. What the film subtly explores is the disenfranchisement of youth. There is no joy in Doinel's life <U+0096> anytime he tries to express himself creatively or acts up in a playful way he is shot down and metaphorically forced back into line. This is not a typical Paris street kid either, this is one who reads Balzac for pleasure and conveys intense emotion. The problem is that no one is there to notice or care. Another aspect of the French New Wave was that the films were not merely a product of a Hollywood factory; these were intensely personal films to the writers and directors. In the case of 'The 400 Blows', it is certain that Doinel is based on Truffaut, himself only 28 when he made the film. Truffaut's cinematography in 'The 400 Blows' is exquisite. We see a Paris that is not in Technicolor with colorful fountains like 'An American in Paris'. This is Paris from a Parisian's perspective <U+0096> and the difference is breathtaking and intense. These are not Louis XVI style houses, they are tiny flats where people have to sleep in closets and walk up and down six flights of stairs. The city views are those of a native Parisian <U+0096> the kind of tour one would get if they asked the average Parisian for non-tourist attractions.There is still a lot that I have to learn and think about 'The 400 Blows' and French New Wave in general, but with the minute amount of understanding I have of it, I found it to be an intense film, one that left me emotional and craving enlightenment. Rarely is there a film that leaves that kind of impact on me, but Truffaut managed to leave me speechless and deep in thought with 'The Four Hundred Blows'.--Shel


                
The memorable story of young, troubled Antoine is worth seeing for a good number of reasons, probably most of all for the thoughtful direction by François Truffaut. It stands out from most other movies about troubled youths, both in the way that it portrays the main character and in making such good use of seemingly minor events in showing how they shape Antoine's life.As Antoine, Jean-Pierre Léaud (in the role with which he would always be identified) strikes a nice balance in making his character come to life without making any of his actions seem forced or over-dramatic. Truffaut sets things up for him perfectly, by presenting a great variety of situations in his life that allow Antoine's character to come out naturally. Many of the settings are in themselves interesting and creative, despite being located in familiar types of places.The story is written carefully so as to allow the viewer to identify with and sympathize with Antoine, while still seeing his faults clearly. What is often the most affecting thing about it is the way that Truffaut shows how even the most commonplace kinds of events can have such an effect on a maturing person, if they are a source of disappointed expectations or misunderstood intentions. To make this kind of movie so effectively without relying on violent or shocking material is an admirable achievement, and it repays careful thought and attention while watching it.


                
Spoilers herein.With this film began an experiment that was to ultimately fail after dozens of notable films. It was much like the experiment in art nouveau in architecture seventy years earlier. I suppose that every art has cycles which begin with a collapse of the passion in artifice and a resulting call to the spontaneously natural.In this case, we have a camera acting as a selfaware human voyeur. There is no story: we simply enter and leave one life at arbitrary points. There is no drama, instead the `natural' drama of life. There are in fact none of the theatrics traditionally used to exaggerate so that things convey as real. The philosophy here is that REAL is real.Seeing this film again after my first viewing 35 years ago shocks me at the naivete of both Truffaut and myself then. I still celebrate nature, but I no longer believe it can be found in a zoo, where someone like Truffault can walk me through, pointing out what he thinks is interesting.Film, I believe, is something new still. Something that is beginning to change the way we conceptualize the most basic elements of life. Our bodies have stopped evolving, and that evolution has shifted to the level of tropes -- some in visual grammar -- that act selfishly to embed and promote themselves. Part of their defense is to periodically prompt us to believe that film is a mere window to reality. But that notion always collapses.This film is important because one can trace that collapse of induced naivete from its beginning here to an end. A complete cycle, whose final end I might place in Malick's ` Thin Red Line.' (`Moulin Rouge' likely begins a cycle on the other side.)
What an amazing piece of cinema. It has a simplicity, a clarity, an unassuming nature that pulls no punches, and is yet somehow entirely compelling, keeping you enraptured until the very last. The characters were terrific: the philandering mother, Antoine's caustic old codger of a prof, and his little cigar smoking chum who lived in the cat-house, among others.What really did it for me though were the truly wonderful Parisian street scenes that leave you totally immersed in the story -- to the point where I felt slightly jolted when I returned to my 21st century existence upon the film's conclusion. An existence where films like these are sadly no longer made.


                
In general, it's very rare to see a film made before 1970 or so that offers a convincing picture of everyday life. Which makes this film by Francois Truffaut, dating from as early as 1959, all the more impressive. 'The Four Hundred Blows' is simply remarkable, with its naturalistic dialogue (laced with black humour) supplemented by the very subtle musical score (also a rarity in films of this vintage), imaginative camera work and an incidental construction that have set the template for just about every notable piece of cinematic realism made since. The point is that "naturalism" does not come naturally; and Truffaut was light years ahead of his peers in imagining how a portrait of the real world (and the feelings of its inhabitants) might be created. Having re-watched one of my favourite films recently, Shane Meadows 1999 effort 'A Room for Romeo Brass', another story of troubled boys in dysfunctional families, I find myself amazed how much more in common 'The Hundred Blows' has with that film than with its contemporaries.Truffaut also gets a fine performance from his young leading actor Jean-Pierre Leaud. If I have one criticism, it's that the film's ending seems slightly premature; we see a boy whose life is collapsing, but he is yet to recognise the fact. The film is almost like a prelude to a later, unseen tragedy; but the absence of sentimentality or melodrama are to be commended. A landmark film, still fresh after 45 years.


                
Truffaut's semi-autobiographical film about the struggles of youth is obviously infused with great emotion, telling a touching tale of a boy who can't seem to fit in wherever he goes, and turns to a life of petty crime. Almost documentary like in its honest depiction of the boy's life, this was one of the most important films of the French new wave, and it's influence continues to this day.


                
The opening sequence is filmed the perspective of a child. The low angles looking up in the downtown city in France shows the audience that it is the views of the world scene through the eyes of a child. Powerful, strong, and correct, the opening sets the stage for the story. Like the start if the film, the end is just as powerful. The freeze frame of Antoine looking into the camera makes the audience uncomfortable. It is over, but is it the end. Is Antoine happy? Is he sad? He is tired from running, he has come a long way in both the run and from the start of the film, no emotion except for being tired, he could not fit in any of the societies offered to him. He is left alone on the edge of the world with a choice he has to answer for himself.


                
It's those little extra touches that make Truffaut's work rather special and so appealing. The film depicts memories of school life in the early part of last century. A frustrated schoolmaster bellows at an unruly classroom as he seeks to maintain discipline and the schoolboys mimic him behind his back. Antoine (Jeanne-Pierre Leaud)seems to be the unfortunate one who always gets caught and is punished accordingly. I was surprised to find that the schoolmaster did not resort to physical violence. Caning was rife in my day.Home life for Antoine gave little relief from his problems at school and his mother was more interested in her secret love affair than help for her son. Antoine's chores at home included setting the table for the evening meal and putting out the garbage can before bedtime. It is said that Truffaut based his story on his own early life.In one funny little episode a teacher guides a group of up to 20 students (all trailing behind him)through the winding streets. Every little while two or three students drop off from the end of the line and dart up a side street. It is rather comical to see the students disappearing while the teacher is quite oblivious to his shrinking numbers and continues to walk ahead with just two students at his side.Students are always short of money (particularly if they want to enjoy themselves in the amusement arcades) so Antoine and his friend steal money from the public toilets. They also resort to an occasional cigarette which makes them feel really grown up! It's little details like this that will revive memories for all of us.As for the ending....some may think it is rather abrupt. I like to think that it is a moment in Antoine's life where he has come to another "crossroad" and where a decision has to be made. How Antoine resolves it is left entirely to my imagination. Trust Truffaut to provide an enigmatic ending!
A masterfully directed, beautifully rendered indictment of a society where a boy such as Antoine can fall through the cracks. The cinematography is incredible, contrasting innocence with experience, playfulness with malice, and love/friendship with indifference. The film is a poignant, but equally breathtaking reminder of the fact that children will be children, and that without support from the adults in their lives, they will lose direction despite the best efforts of their own peers. Rings all too true even now in American society, where the neglected children of parents with their own ideals, goals, aspirations, and desires are all too often left to fend for themselves without the essential support system of any culture - the family.


                
The life of a young teenager, Antoine, unloved and uncontrollable. Truffaut does not attempt to verbally shove reasons in our face but shows us visually the disintegration of a child's life. The problems of youth revealed through the understanding of a caring film maker.


                
I'm a little hesitant about rating and reviewing François Truffaut's 'The 400 Blows,' as my first viewing was a rather dysfunctional and muddled affair, one of those moments when you wish that DVD technology had never been invented as a substitute for the perfection of the cinema screen. A remarkable feature-length debut from the revered critic-turned-director, Truffaut's touching and funny portrait of juvenile angst proved one of the pioneering films in the French New Wave. Just a few days ago, I decided to attend my university's film society for a showing of the film, but, inconceivably and unforgivably, the screening was started a full thirty minutes into the picture, and, due to a wearisome technical fault, we missed a further ten minutes in the centre of the story, including the moment when young Antoine reveals himself to have never seen the ocean, a remark that proves extremely significant once we arrive at the conclusion.Fortunately, I had a copy of the film back at home, and promptly viewed the scenes that had been neglected, allowing me to better appreciate the intricate depths to which the film explored its characters and their respective situations. Antoine Doinel (Jean-Pierre Léaud) was born out of wedlock, and practically abandoned by his parents to live with relatives. After several years, Antoine returns to his resentful mother (Claire Maurier) and his kind, if inadequate, stepfather (Albert Rémy) to hopefully commence a normal lifestyle, but, driven by the discomfort of his uneasy home relationships, Antoine descends into a life of mischief and petty crime. When his misbehavior becomes overwhelming for his strained parents, Antoine finds himself in a correctional facility for juvenile delinquents, and, despite the institute's strict disciplinary action, he still finds himself yearning for "a life of his own," to be completely independent of his elders, and to live unrestrained by their narrow-minded restrictions.Léaud, in only his second film appearance, is wonderfully natural in the main role, portraying Antoine's tortured confinement <U+0096> stemming both from society's restrictive disciplinary system, and his stagnant family relationships <U+0096> with poignant, and often funny, enthusiasm. He would reunite with Truffaut on a further four occasions between 1962 and 1979 to complete the story of Antoine Doinel's life. There's little doubt that 'The 400 Blows' is at least partially autobiographical. Truffaut himself never knew his natural father, had a detached relationship with his mother and frequently found shelter in his love for cinema. During the film, Antoine discovers a passion for the French novelist and playwright Honoré de Balzac, whose successful career was borne from a life plagued with personal and professional difficulties, his willful nature often squandering his attempts at business success. Always thirsting for independence from those who dictate rules to him, Antoine relates easily with Balzac, even building a candle-lit throne to the author, but his word-for-word "homage" is mistaken for plagiarism by his short-sighted school teacher.The film's final moments are rightfully celebrated for their touching and poignant ambiguity, as Antoine escapes from the juvenile institution and proceeds towards the ocean, which he has never seen before; his arrival at the rolling waves representative of that almost-unattainable independence of which he was so desirous. In a single, extremely smooth long-shot, Antoine ambles across the sand, always moving forward but seemingly getting nowhere. As he finally kicks at the breaking surf, Antoine pauses, perhaps uncertain of his path from here. Having acquired his goal of independence, he suddenly finds himself alone and purposeless, a small boy playing dolefully in the water. Antoine turns his back to the ocean and faces the audience directly {does he see his pursuers approaching in the distance?}, and the camera zooms in on a captured frame of Antoine's face, his soft, inquiring eyes asking us what he's supposed to do now.
The first film from the Antoine Doinel series, this movie is the beginning of a long journey of adolescent discovery. A true coming of age story that depicts the idiosyncratic difficulties of growing up. Set in a 1950's France, the main character, Antoine goes through a series of events that eventually result in displinary action. His precocious wit frustrates the elders around him and his parents become restless with the numerous attempts to keep him out of trouble. Anotine Doinel played by Jean-Pierre Léaud, gives an endering and outstanding performance. The movie keep's a steady vibe and is entertaining visually for its realism. A true classic and one of François Truffaut best films!


                
The 400 Blows. A Truffaut's about a 12 year-old, Doinel (Jean-Pierre Léaud), perhaps too much independent for his young age. As great 20th century minds, he rejected school and the whole system in general. The only ones he relied on was his father, who in spite of all the incomprehension, was actually faithful to him, and his closest friend, René. They skip classes together to go to the cinema and one day he actually runs away from home. He goes living in an abandoned factory and gets away with it by stealing. This leeps on until his parents (finally) understand they are incapable of educating him and Doinel his sent to an observation centre. This movie is then turned into a sequel by Truffaut himself, and emphasised the beginning of the nouvelle vague, which is believed to have truly began one year earlier, by Claude Chabrol. Being the first movie directed by Truffaut, and if enframed in its time, it's quite impressive how it turned out so forward and full of character. 7/10
I have seen this movie twice. The first time, I thought it was an okay picture. However, because it is such an important French New Wave film and had a big impact on future projects and because so much positive stuff has been written about it, I thought I'd give it another try. Well, it did improve some with the second watching--particularly since I have also seen the rest of the "Antoine Doinel" films. But, was it "great",...not really, though it still was a very very good film. There is very little negative about it other than the occasionally poor sound track. As many New Wave films are supposed to have a "home-made" quality about them, much of the time this wasn't a problem. But, there were times when the amateurish quality of the music was distracting. Also, a smaller complaint was the abrupt ending, though this is only a small complaint since the director returned to his alter-ego in follow-up films. When all seen together, now THAT is a fascinating thing-and something I recommend you try to do if you see "The 400 Blows".


                
'The 400 Blows', Truffaut's debut feature film, marks the beginning of his screen persona, Antoine Doinel; it's one of the most noted films of the French New Wave, and one of the most intriguing stories on adolescence. The most brilliant aspect of it is that it doesn't have a particular agenda, and just lets us witness everything going on in the life of a misunderstood teenager as it is. It's the thoughts and acts most teenagers go through, maybe in different ways. I think, most people would relate to Antoine at some level or the other.It's the story of a misunderstood child who faces trouble both at school and home, and tries to escape both these places. He senses neglect at home, and and his taste and talent being ignored or (misunderstood) by the teachers doesn't help either. Lack of affection is the main cause for most mischief and rebellion at that age.The background score is mesmerizing, and it really sets the tone of the movie from the beginning credits scene showing us entrancing visuals of Paris - beautiful, innocent, yet rough like the main protagonist. The wide-angle camera is used quite effectively (it's 1959).The acting is terrific. It's said that Truffaut auditioned hundreds of teenagers before finalizing on Jean-Pierre Leaud, with whom (he said) he found many similarities of family neglect, talent, mischief and rebellion. Jean-Pierre is incredibly talented and charms us with his acting; the shades of innocence, fear, rebellion and curiosity are portrayed quite adeptly by him. His monologues with the counselor are quite captivating. He goes on to play Antoine Doinel in four other Truffaut movies.Most memorable scenes from the movie include: The 'Wheel Of Death' scene, which is actually the first scene in the movie that completely fascinates and thrills you. The single shot of the kids on a morning jog with their PE teacher, where they bunk the class by slowly detaching themselves from the main group; it's incredibly amusing. Antoine's sessions with the counselor. And of course, the beautifully-shot open-ended climax scene.(Note: The film's French title comes from a French idiom "faire les quatre cents coups" which means "to raise hell", but I can't figure out why they went for the literal translation for the English Title; it doesn't make any sense at all. In short, it's a terrible and misleading English title, and has got nothing to do with the film.)


                
So here is a masterpiece from Truffaut. The story revolves around a boy and his teen age life. His parents' marriage is not that good and for most of the times they blame him for all the problems. He is mischievous but the circumstances are making him do so. The ending is superb.Pros:You will find the lead child character very intriguing as there are things that you could relate to yourselves. His character has been analyzed fully. All the other supporting cast also plays their role well. The story is good and moves at a pace, which gives the viewer full chance to analyze everything that they want to. Cons:The story in the middle seemed to be too much exaggerated and looked as if they just wanted to make up a feature film. But it soon caught pace.MESSAGE: "Life is like that."VERDICT: "A must watch."


                
So I watched Francois Truffaut's "the 400 blows". I am not sure why it is called this, so if anyone can help please comment. So this is considered to be a classic, and a centerpiece for discussion in film school. In this regard, I must be ignorant. This is a classic movie, this is a good movie, but I guess I just don't understand what makes this such a big deal for film students. It is a great story about little Antoine doniel who drinks, smokes, steals, skips school, lies, and runs away repeatedly. There is no moral question directed at the viewer it is just his life, and it has been hard but not terrible, like many people's own experience, and so we are not there to judge. The character is revisited throughout truaffot's career in several films, he even uses the same actor Jean-Pierre Laud. Pretty impressive considering the films span 20 years and he started at age 13. I recently reviewed "you can count on me" in many ways this film reminded me of it, in the sense that nothing is over played but we get to understand what goes into shaping someones life. I am looking forward to seeing the further adventures of doniel, and letting you my one reader know my self important opinion. if you like concise reviews of interesting films please read my other reviews at http://raouldukeatthemovies.blogspot.com/


                
Francois Truffaut's "The 400 Blows" (1959) is one of the most intensely touching stories ever made about a young adolescent. Inspired by Truffaut's own early life, it shows a resourceful boy growing up in Paris and apparently dashing headlong into a life of crime. Adults see him as a troublemaker. We are allowed to share some of his private moments, as when he lights a candle before a little shrine to Balzac in his bedroom. The film's famous final shot, a zoom in to a freeze frame, shows him looking directly into the camera. He has just run away from a house of detention, and is on the beach, caught between land and water, between past and future. It is the first time he has seen the sea."The 400 Blows," with all its simplicity and feeling, is in a class by itself. It was Truffaut's first feature, and one of the founding films of the French New Wave. We sense that it was drawn directly out of Truffaut's heart. Little is done in the film for pure effect. Everything adds to the impact of the final shot. We meet Antoine when he is in his early teens, and living with his mother and stepfather in a crowded walk-up where they always seem to be squeezing out of each other's way. At school, Antoine has been typecast by his teacher (Guy Decombie) as a troublemaker. As the movie rolls on more and more, it leads to more trouble and eventually to a downward spiral: He and a friend steal a typewriter, he gets caught trying to return it and is sent to the juvenile detention home.There is a lot of movie-going in "The 400 Blows," with Antoine's solemn face turned up to the screen. We know that young Truffaut himself escaped to the movies whenever he could, and there is a shot here that he quotes later in his career. As Antoine and a friend emerge from a cinema, Antoine steals one of the lobby photos of a star
François Truffaut got his nomination for Best Director some years after this film for Day for Night. This film got him a screenplay nomination, in which, unbelievably, he was beaten by the Rock Hudson/Doris day film Pillow Talk. Well, we all know the Academy can crash sometimes.By asking if this is Truffaut's Halloween, I am not suggesting a horror film, although some would consider the pervasive juvenile delinquency in our society to be a horror.I would not tend to describe Antoine, the 12-year-old main character of the film as a juvenile delinquent. He is more just stretching and spreading as he finds his limits and comes of age. He does this in an atmosphere of constant bickering by his parents, and finding out that his mother really didn't want him, and that she is having an affair. All this could, in different circumstance, create a Michael Myers character.Truffaut presents a film that, while devoid of startling action, keeps us transfixed as we observe the mundane life of Antoine. That, my friends, is great writing and great direction.


                
Please, allow me to describe this movie with two overused idioms without blaming me that I use clichés; The 400 Blows is a movie that avoids mawkish melodrama, and has a story that is often imitated, but never duplicated. Because, honestly, I haven't seen any movie in my life that deserves these two phrases more than Les Quarte Centre Coups!In his directorial debut, Truffaut gave us a very sympathetic, and beautifully heart-wrenching story of a troubled young boy that you can easily tell that it came out of the legendary filmmaker's heart. I don't say that because this movie is, quite literally, the director's autobiographical story, but because it's impossible to relate to a protagonist such as Antoine Doinel so much like this unless his story is told by someone who really put his heart into this masterwork.We see Antoine as a class clown and troublemaker student, then we see him as a thief. He is also a liar, and above all that, his character is very stoic. So it's very clear that this character doesn't ask for sympathy, neither the movie, in its first act, wants us to empathize with and feel for Antoine.Nevertheless, and as I mentioned above, The 400 Blows is, in fact, a very touching and heartbreaking movie, but how it can be so with such a hateful protagonist. Simply, because Truffaut wittily builds sympathy in the audience by displaying both his misdeeds and the reasons he commits them that are also more than enough to justify them. But both the free technique Truffaut used to unfold the movie's plot, and the freewheeling use of the wide-screen frame also added up to the experience, and made the movie exceptionally engaging and relatable.Jean-Pierre Léaud would go on to a major career in films, but in this movie he gave a truly outstanding performance that I think is one of the best child performances I've seen ever! As the bad qualities of Antoine are displayed on screen, it was necessary that the actor who plays this character would be very talented so he can prove that Antoine is actually a poor down-on-his luck kid, and it's his uncaring parents are those who are responsible for making what Antoine is. And Léaud's expressive and honest facial expressions, and genuine and authentic acting were perfectly adequate to convey all that.However, Francois Truffaut did tend to our feelings a little bit at the end of the second act by using a sensitive score and showing some emotional moments that added an extra layer to Antoine's character, which is his sensitivity. But he didn't do that until he really became totally sympathized with Antoine due to the misfortunes he suffered from. That said, I think that could have happened more gradually.I found the second act a bit hollow, and I think it would have been more captivating if it was richer. But, this very act really grew on me after the movie's final act. I don't want to delve deeper, but there are some similar heart-wrenching moments the two final acts share that became more stronger and meaningful at the third act. In fact, they turned out to be quite disturbing and overwhelming, and made me say; this is how to cause a catharsis in the audience!The real major unforgivable issue I have with this movie is how Antoine's mother's feelings for him changed a great deal halfway through the movie. I understand what Truffaut wanted to do with the story, and why he shifted her character like this, but that didn't work for me at all. I think this shift made Gilberte an extremely problematic character instead of serving the plot. Also, I think by doing so, Truffaut had wasted a great chance to make this character more compelling, and therefore, made the plot more complex, considering the vital role Antoine's mom play in his character arc.That being said, these flaws can't take away the greatness from this bona fide classic that you can tell it has inspired many filmmakers today. It's also one of, if not the best movie that explored the troubled adolescence. And it, unquestionably, marks one of the most impressive directorial debuts in cinema history!(8/10)


                
I don't care at all for labeling. I mean by that whether a film was a leading pioneer in one field or another, that doesn't impact the rating it should be given. A film should be judged on account it's a film, full stop. And this right here isn't the most unbelievable you'll have seen in your lifetime, but it's certainly one of the good ones. So realism or neo-this and neo-that, I don't care: this film is certainly well made however.The first thing that should be said is it's well paced: we're not given a moment of respite or any time to think about what's missing, it's just hard-hitting events and news, all sequenced in a very fluid and solidly crafted development. Dialog is good, all characters well written and, of course, realistic as this is the main goal of this production: to deliver a tale that rings true in its every breath but that provides poetry and strong deeper meaning to that daily struggle. The film isn't so much a metaphor or such as it is an ode to the roughness of the real world. It's completely ruthless, it's harsh, but not oppressive...just like life is.The kid playing the lead character, a then fifteen year old Léaud, handles his protagonist's part incredibly well. And it's telling in and of itself a child however talented would understand and take to the role so spontaneously well: his character is the child many of us have been, a symbiotic mixture of mischievousness and innocence that makes us incomprehensible and unbearable to the world around us.Very lyrical, symbolic ending - that may or may've not inspired a Stephen King as he was writing one of his most famous pieces (brought to the big screen in the mid 90's) ?..
Strong film: 8/10.


                
Film Review: "Les quatre cents coupes" (1959) - Giving an initial screening at the 12th edition of Cannes Film Festival, Director François Truffaut (1932-1984) presents his feature debut to non-surprising critical acclaim due to the daring camera movements on a low-budget independent production, also solely helmed by the director, who from the start reveals himself as a dreamer of the unreal to such an extent that leading character Antoine, perfectly cast by Jean-Pierre Léaud as Truffaut's alter ego as a 12-year-old. The love for cinema becomes evident in any scene of picture. Further a deep understanding of the sensual transcendence of picture and sound in motion picture, making the character of Antoine a undeniable identifiable cinematic figure with constant struggle of finding a place to indulge life itself, which gets fulminate concluded in runaway scene of misunderstandings by parents, teachers, governmental authorities and teenager at school all-round, which stroke the nerve of any spectator, who gets immediately thrown into his own past as a child; a circumstance any living human being has in-common. The power of origins are penetrated by DNA, which cannot be reverted, letting François Truffaut become the filmmaking story-teller, sharer of emotions that found his fulfillment in the interviews, conducted in 1966, with Thriller director Alfred Hitchcock (1899-1980), exposed an exchange of thoughts on Cinema, which solved the necessities of any motion picture of any genre produced to impact an audience with human emotion; an all-time must-see from the 1950s.© 2017 Felix Alexander Dausend (Cinemajesty Entertainments LLC)


                
François Truffaut's feature film debut is an intensely touching portrait of our adolescent years which beautifully captures the day-to-day activities we spent doing for hours despite it being deemed useless by our parents & teachers, the classes we bunked to go for movies or play, the teachers we loved to hate and the many times we were 'disciplined' for the smallest of things.The 400 Blows is my first stint with this director's works & the elegant manner in which he has unfolded this story before our eyes is sheer poetry. Set in early 1950s Paris, The 400 Blows is an expertly crafted character study of a young adolescent who's often misunderstood by his peers &, after being left with no attention, delves into a life of petty crime.Wonderfully directed by Truffaut, the film not for once loses its grip on the viewers' attention despite featuring no definite plot or offering any sort of redemption in the end. It's a careful observation of how even the smallest of events sometimes end up playing a significant role in shaping an individual and its black-n-white cinematography makes sure that the film never ages out.Coming to the performances, this is Jean-Pierre Léaud's show from start to finish & to say that he did a fine job in capturing his character's essence would be a massive understatement for it's a performance that's nearly flawless. On an overall scale, The 400 Blows remains one of the most notable works of French New Wave and is a treasured gem that offers an unapologetic, honest & nostalgic reflection of adolescent life.


                
Antoine Doinel (Jean-Pierre Léaud) is a young delinquent in Paris. He's disruptive in class. He skips school and plays hooky. He sees his mother cheating. After getting publicly hit, he decides to run away from home. He stays away for one night. He continues his delinquent ways after returning home. He steals a typewriter from his stepfather's office. However he can't unload it and tries to return it to the office. He's caught and his stepfather turns him over to the police.This François Truffaut film was probably daring for its time. It has the feel of a modern indie. It's a grimy part of the poor Paris. It's not the bright light. If I have one complaint, it's the boy lead. He does a fine job but he doesn't stand out enough. Maybe that's part of the point. It's a meandering story of a rebellious boy falling through the cracks.


                
I first saw this film in my high school French class and found it to be a captivating story of a misunderstood young, unattended young boy, Antoine Doinel (Jean-Pierre Léaud) that delves into a life of petty crime (thank you IMDb for the plot reference).François Truffaut gave the movie solid direction and momentum and, while I watched this 1959 film in the 1990s, I thought it was still dynamic, fresh and dramatic with an intriguing cast of characters, beautiful cinematography depicting the streets of Paris and a fascinating story. It was interesting to see the Antoine character struggle to survive out in the large city all the while ditching school, being neglected by his parents, moving from home to home and acting as a rebel to the world. This generated the audience's sympathy and made them intrigued in finding out what Antoine's next move in each day of his life would be.Overall, it is a dramatic and beautiful film with a sad, melancholic music score and a deep, mind-numbing story in which you will find entertaining.Grade B+


                
