This is a complete spoiler, so don't read this if you don't want to know. I wish I hadn't spent valuable time watching this film. It's simply soft-core porn. I am not a prude or homophobic... but so much of this movie was devoted to perversion (the uncle and his book buyers) and titillation. I just wish I had watched something else. I admit it's wonderfully made. The storytelling was superb. But, icky.
If you have a penchant for pornography, this is for you. It delivers a convoluted and essentially meaningless plot that seems to have been constructed merely for the presentation of the sex scenes. It presents devious men who misuse and abuse women, but it reveals more about devious women who misuse and abuse each other. The movie is beautifully filmed, but not so well edited. The actors (pornstars?) are good at their trade; however, they portray women in a negative way—as self-obsessed sex objects.
According to me, this movie was like a soft porn movie which seems like having a subject. Does it contain a main story? I'm not sure because the main focus was the sex scenes.. I haven't checked the parents guide before watching the movie. This was a clear mistake because I did not want my 20 year old daughter to see some scenes that is very explicit.Parents guide is necessary not only for our kids is also an important guideline when choosing a movie to watch. Finally, it was a waste of time for me.Even the existence of Jung Woo Ha whom I like very much has not been enough for me to give a higher rating for this movie. If you do not have conservative concerns and just want to have some leisure time; watching nice lesbian girl characters their foreplay scenes could be entertaining for you.


                
Not interesting at all for heterosexual females. It should have indicated somehow in the description that this was just a movie about lesbian love.The acting of all characters was excellent. The filming was wonderful and the sets were amazing. It was well-written and had interesting plot twists. But something for the heterosexual females would have been nice. I kept assuming they would add that, but the opposite transpired.The extensive lesbian sex was nauseating.


                
