This is all about greediness and its betrayal. During the first part of this movie, it kind of doesn't make any sense; however, during the second part is when things start to get way better. I have to though that even though some of the translations in English are sometimes grammatically incoherent, one, as a viewer can still infer or grasp the message. The softness of language in this movie, draws you more into the setting, atmosphere and characters. On the other hand, the acting skills shown by all of their actors and actresses are simply flawless and amazing. I don't what is it about these asian actors that they don't overplay nor fall into too much screaming or cheesy acting. This is something else!I highly recommend this movie to understand better the depths of our most innate human emotions and nature.


                
In Korea, the pickpocket Sook-Hee (Tae-ri Kim) is hired by the Japanese heiress Lady Hideko (Min-hee Kim) to be her personal servant. Hideko is supported by her Uncle Kouzuki (Jin-woong Jo) and the gold-digger "Count Fujiwara" (Jung-woo Ha), who is indeed son of peasants, wants to marry her to steal her inheritance. Sook-Hee is a small-time thief of the ring of the conman "Count Fujiwara" and is sent to help him in the confidence game. But soon Hideko and Sook- Hee get close to each other and become lovers. But Sook-Hee is pressed by Fujiwara to betray her friend. When Fujiwara marries Hideko, they go with Sook-Hee to an asylum and the nurses hold Sook- Hee believing that she is Hideko. Why Hideko poses of servant and leaves Sook-Hee in the asylum to stay with Count Fujiwara?"Ah-ga-ssi", a.k.a. "The Handmaiden", is a classy South Korean erotic thriller divided in three parts and directed by Chan-wook Park. The first part is slow paced and shows the development of the relationship among Sook-Hee, Lady Hideko and "Count Fujiwara". The second part shows the abusive relationship of Uncle Kouzuki and Hideko since her childhood. The third part has many twists and shows the fate of each leader character. The cinematography is very beautiful and the eroticism is elegant and stylish. The screenplay has surprising plot points. My vote is eight.Title (Brazl): "A Criada" ("The Maid")
The Handmaiden is a beautifully told story in a beautifully shot film. Some of it's chosen exterior locations are so captivating and mesmerizing, you almost feel you're there, or wish you were. The actresses are beautiful and perform nothing short of excellent, the young girl (The Handmaiden) especially, such a professionally acted job. You'd expect more so sex scenes, that kind of left me a little downtrodden. The major lesbian one, amidst only a couple of others, in this near two and half hour piece, is one of the hottest and most explicit, I've ever seen, this one again, beautifully shot. The story involves a young girl, a new handmaiden, forced to defraud the wife of the husband, only the young girl falls for the wife, where the story kind of manipulates you, as to where the girl's intentions will lead, where revenge is thrown in too, as we go back in time to an earlier period, involving our young girl, and the wife, where we find ourselves returning to some old scenes, but with added stuff- purpose here. This is one you'd have to watch a couple of times to get the complete picture. Didn't understand the change in color of the subtitles, my only qualm. Acting by all is top notch, and our handmaiden is definitely something to ogle at. A handmaiden who's beautifully made. We too have some violence, and some humorous moments. Hopefully this film will command more attention from moviegoers in Adelaide, as here's one faultless cinematic experience, you should experience, and by no accounts, miss, as it will be your loss. The most impressive thing here though, above everything else here is the filming/photography from obviously a very talented photographer.


                
The Handmaiden is a film that unfolds with a classic film stylist (in particular I felt like Chanwook Park was in a kind of Brian De Palma mode as far as making an erotic dramatic-thriller with a camera that luxuriates in long shots, elaborate camera movements, and cinematic grammar that emphasizes operatic intentions, though it's maybe not the first time he's done this anyway), and is LOADED with story. What appears to be the story of a handmaiden who is put in as part of a long con by a man who wants to steal this wealthy woman's money is actually a story about storytelling, about weaving a pack of lies and an entire personality and, in reality, how that can start to crack apart when it comes to seeing humanity in another person and their vulnerabilities.There's a lot going on in this movie, and there is a lot that is... sordid and over the top in its sexuality. That's intentional, I'm sure, and Park never coddles his audience with what he's showing as far as sexuality; the two main women of the film, the handmaiden and her master/mistress or what have you, end up having an emotional connection and this leads to a sexual one. This has the most graphic lesbian sexuality on screen since Blue is the Warmest Color, but here the rawness is matched by the elegance of Park's direction, and while you get to see much of it, only some of it (but there *is* some) that is gratuitous. Otherwise, this is a story of backstabbing and betrayal, but all of it leading up to being in the larger sense about how people fit in to the circumstances they are in, how they have to not simply play but BECOME the characters they're playing - and how these images flip based on perceptions and how we see the scenes.Here's where I may become less articulate in my criticism: the film is in three parts, and I forgot about there being 'parts' as I was so into the film during its first part. There is a major betrayal, but then the movie goes into a 'Part 2', and it turns into a different story... a VERY different kind of story, and it is one that left me confused at first, left adrift, and only Park's direction kept me afloat. As Part 2 went on I got into the movie more, though you have to be prepared for scenes from part 1 being repeated - and whether this becomes tedious will vary depending on the viewer. Nothing is ever not gorgeous to look at, and Park is inspired by paintings and art in the real world, and it's completely sumptuous (I'd be rooting for this to win all the costume/production design awards come February), but there comes a point where the filmmakers are showing the 'here's what happened this scene' moments a little too much. I won't reveal why this is done except to say that the characters take on other roles we didn't expect, and their decisions and how they hide parts of their personalities makes for fascinating viewing. Some times.And then it gets to part 3, and the movie goes into being sordid melodrama and not much more. By this time, the filmmakers have to wrap the story up, and show what this man who has been trying to machinate everything for his own ends is met with a nasty fate. Overall there's so much about The Handmaiden to admire, from the performances by Min-hee Kim as Lady Hideko (appearing in part 1 as varieties of cold and distant and then close and warm and terrified in the other parts), Tae-ri Kim (Sookie, who has much to learn about the art of performance, I mean her character not the actress, she's great), and Jung-woo Ha as the 'Count' who has to remain in control for the whole runtime, but gives in to his passions too. And yet I also wonder if a first viewing trying to explain everything how I felt doesn't do the film justice: it moves slower and more languidly than other Park films, so it took longer to get in to, and the themes of conning and performance may be done stronger in any given Quentin Tarantino film (though here done with more taste and intense sexuality - i.e. the scene with the thimball on the tooth).Another viewing may give more, or less. I can tell you now it's worth seeing if you love pure CINEMA, the likes of which get made by directors with a passion for the form and expressing stories of early 20th century sexual excess and emotional f***ed-up ness (it is early 20th century Korea with a major Japanese influence - in that way it'd make a solid double feature with Kim Jee-Woon's Age of Shadows). As for whether it's a great film, I'm not so sure.


                
I for one from time to time check out the Asian cinema mostly the Korean and Japanese works, however this was my first go around with director Park Chan-Wook. And I must say that with this work "The Handmaiden" it's an in depth work a drama that's split into chapters, and it's a film that takes twists and turns that you don't see coming. It proves that with lust, and hot unexpected erotic passion that leads to emotions that new life and love is possible for two ladies.Set in 1930's Korea a young woman Sook-Hee(Tae-Ri Kim)is hired to be a new handmaiden for Lady Hideko(Min-Hee Kim)who's a Japanese heiress who's lives on an estate by the country and the palace is a castle spread like with many books to read and much to learn like the arts which involve hand painting. However it's a secret plot that Sook-Hee has with a con man known as the count and that is to defraud Hideko of her large inheritance.Thru it all the film has visions of doubt, trust, and the elements of love and hot erotic passion is taken into new heights as the emotions brought out with Lady Hideko and Sook-Hee twist this plot and little cat and mouse game for a spin and turn that you and even the count didn't see coming. "The Handmaiden" is one powerful tale of greed, lust, sex, and hierarchy proving that unexpected emotions take over and win in the end.


                
The Handmaiden (2016): Most of the erotic thrillers of recent times failed to impress because the makers are only focusing on ridiculous sex scenes than the plot.I have watched only few erotic thrillers like Poison Ivy,Basic Instinct and Unfaithful.The Handmaiden,a South Korean film got universal acclaim and I had huge expectations on Korean films especially after watching The Wailing.The Handmaiden is directed by acclaimed filmmaker Park Chan Wook.So how is The Handmaiden?Plot: 1930s Korea, in the period of Japanese occupation, a new girl Sookee (Tae-re Kim) is hired as a handmaiden to a Japanese heiress Hideko (Kim Min-hee) who lives a secluded life on a large countryside estate with her domineering Uncle Kouzuki (Jin-woong Jo). But the maid has a secret. She is a pickpocket recruited by a swindler posing as a Japanese Count (Jung-woo Ha) to help him seduce the Lady to elope with him, rob her of her fortune, and lock her up in a madhouse. The plan seems to proceed according to plan until Sookee and Hideko discover some unexpected emotions.Plus Points:1)Screenplay and Direction: The Handmaiden is brilliantly crafted erotic psychological thriller with great twists and turns.Movie is told in 3 parts and all of the parts have great thrills and emotion.Movie starts as drama and later takes a twist at the end of Part 1 and in the second part we get lot of twists which gives us meaning of unanswered questions in Part 1.Park Chan Wook did an commendable job in directing those picture.He cleverly managed to tell a simple revenge in an interesting manner.2)Performances: New comer Tae-re Kim did splendidly well in a challenging role.Debuting in a intimate role is not a great start but she did it and scored big and her sexually inexperienced heiress, a layered turn from Kim Min-hee.Kin-Woong Jo as Uncle Kouzuki is impressive.3)Background Score: The Handmaiden has haunting score which elevated lot of scenes.It provided a creepiness feel to the scenes.The music during sex scenes are seducing.4)Cinematography: The film is beautifully shot with rich visuals and greenery locations.Minus Points:1)Amount of Sex and Nudity: The Handmaiden has lot of explicit sex scenes which may disturb few audience but more importantly, there's longing, affection and intimacy between the maid, and her sexually inexperienced heiress.So,The Handmaiden is an excellent erotic psychological thriller with twisty screenplay,terrific direction and performances.My rating 8.25/10


                
THE HANDMAIDEN has it all. At times, it comes across as period drama, at times it is a romantic love story, at times it is an erotic psycho thriller... but despite having so many different aspects to it, the film never looses itself. Everything is tightly woven together like the heiress's corset.Precisely because THE HANDMAIDEN is so rich and multi-faceted, it will be difficult for me to pin down what exactly makes this movie so compelling. Perhaps it is the fact that it is so deeply erotic, in a very sensual manner? Perhaps it is the beautiful historical set pieces, the crafty camera-work and the magnificent score? Perhaps it is the fact that the story continues to surprise you and keep you on the edge with ever-new twists? Perhaps it is the mystery that seethes through every shot of the movie?These questions can only be answered if you watch this film. Be prepared to be sucked up into a world of obscure obsessions, hidden desires and betrayal.


                
I don't even know where to start with this movie. For starters, it ranks up high in my favorite movies of 2016, and it's for a reason. The first thing I would like to point out is the stunning cinematography, which stays consistently good throughout the movie. The performances were amazing, especially from the two female leads, Min-hee Kim and Kim Tae-ri. They have amazing chemistry together and leave the audience rooting for them the entire run time. The story was compelling and beautifully composed so that the viewer never really knows what's going on until the very end - not for a second did I get bored. I absolutely loved seeing the events of the film depicted from different character's perspectives. This is the type of movie that requires multiple viewings to get the full experience. Park Chan-Wook nails it with the direction, as was expected of him at this point. He doesn't shy away from explicit content and the entire movie has this erotic aura surrounding it. At the same time it manages to be one of the most empowering movies for women I've seen in a long time and the movie that the LGBT community has been waiting for, which I believe is extremely important for Hollywood at this time. Let's just hope that other movies follow "The Handmaiden's" lead. A truly refreshing representation of homosexuality in film. In conclusion, this is a masterfully crafted movie that I would recommend to everybody, definitely one of the highlights of 2016. I can't wait to see what Park Chan-Wook has in store for us next and am excited to keep following his work.


                
Park Chan-wook's succulent period drama is a three-act intrigue set in a Japanese-occupied Korea, a close-knit cast includes a Japanese heiress Lady Hideko (Kim Min-hee), her newly hired handmaiden Sook-hee (Kim Tae-ri, in her blazing film debut), the professed Count Fujiwara (Ha Jung-woo), a Korean con artist who is wooing Hideko but schemes to wrest for the marriage's collateral financial gain, and Hideko's current guardian, her uncle Kouzuki (Jo Jin-woong), a Korean book collector who is spoiling for a Japanese identity, and has no qualm of marrying his niece as long as he could keep a tight rein on the latter's magnanimous inheritance. The narrative is succinctly coordinated among the central quartet and starts from Act I, we peer into the game plan from the angle of Sook-hee, she is not a dewy-eyed lamb as the first impression suggests, but an orphan pickpocket equipped with street smart and a yen for wealth (her con artist mother died during parturition), colluded with Fujiwara, she is arranged near Lady Hideko to sweet-talk her into the marriage, which Fujiwara plans to throw her into an asylum once it is consummated, so he can hog Hideko's assets, among which Sook-hee also demands a handsome paycheck. Things get complicated when Sook-hee is swooned by a doll-like Lady Hideko, whose delicacy and naivety, the aftermath of a reclusive lifestyle imposed by Kouzuki, is something she never expects to encounter and once her sexual awakening stands in the way of Fujiwara's plan, there is no telling who will come off as the winner. Act I ends with a bang in your face, a twist segues into Act II, now we get the perspective from Lady Hideko. Sheepish is not an apposite word to describe Hideko, she can be calculating and menacing (no one can indeed see the whole picture, that's the lure of its narrative game: offer us a chance to leafing through those often imperceptible), flashback of her childhood, with her now defunct aunt (Moon So-ri in a transfixing cameo as the fruitcake) emblazons the perversity of Kouzuki and his reading club, where her aunt (later herself) are trained to narrate (sometimes even perform, with a wooden puppet for instance) erotic and often kinky stories from the antique books in front of an all-male audience, those who are solvent enough to participate in the auction of these said salacious urtexts, that's where Fujiwara first lays his eyes on Lady Hideko. Another grand revelation finally sets straight its multi-buried subterfuge, in the Act III, where Park Chan-wook's unloosed endorsement of womanhood reaches its exuberant zenith, women are fêted by the abandon of sexual liberalization (under a vibrant pace) whereas men are doomed in their Freudian subservience (heightened by an overt self-referential appearance of a giant octopus, Park's trademark metaphor of pervert and ruination). Leading lady Kim Min-hee impeccably holds court here, conveying a tangy impression of Goddess finesse mingled with unpredictability, mystique, and empathy, her ageless countenance adorned by the gorgeous period costume and make-up, cogently embodies the most alluring quality of oriental feminism, paired with a ludic but emboldened Kim Tae-ri, their resultant eye-popping soft-core sex sequences dare to give BLUE IS THE WARMEST COLOR (2013) a run for its money. Ha Jung-woo, the superstar of South Korean cinema, dutifully deploys a broader touch to transmit a tinge of caricature and incredulity in a supporting job that elicits our sympathy even when on paper, his character shouldn't.Inveterately operatic, ravishingly sumptuous, THE HANDMAIDEN tops off a none-too-novel plotting and scheming pulp with an absolutely captivating momentum which leaves its rapt audience feel triumphant and thoroughly justified, all by dint of Park's upmarket artistry, aesthetic sensibility and gallant vision.


                
The Handmaiden is another proof that Asian cinema is at a great time, the direction is of the excellent Park Chan-Wook, who directed the masterpiece OldBoy which is one of my favorite movies, and he returns to make an excellent direction, The Handmaiden is a very different film from Oldboy, it is a heavy film with a lot of sex scenes, some even unnecessary in my opinion, the costumes are impeccable, excellent photography, very beautiful soundtrack, a very good script, even with some problems , The film has quite unnecessary scenes, and the cast is very competent, even though I dislike Ha Jung-Woo's character, but it's a very good film, one of the great films of 2016. Note 8.4


                
"The Handmaiden" is the story of a love affair between a noblewoman and her handmaiden, both prisoners on the estate of the noblewoman's uncle, a wealthy purveyor of antique sadoerotica. I found it darkly beautiful; my wife dismissed it as needlessly explicit lesboerotica.Who's right?It boils down to whether the love between the handmaiden and her mistress burns fiercely enough to purge them of the painstakingly calculated treacheries each had planned for the other, and incandescently enough to overcome the inky night of sexual torture that perpetually engulfs the estate.For the director to almost exclusively express that love via intense carnality is a big gamble: succeed, and you have a story of triumph and redemption; fail, and all you have is medium-core lesbian porn. In my household, it's a split decision.
This is a movie without flying plots and you don't feel bored at all for the entire movie. Many layers of deceptions from different views. Worth watching for not only one time. There are tons of forums talking about this and mentioned that this is based on a TV series of BBC. Now I'm curious about that TV series.


                
I had no idea what this would be about, and the film was all the better for it. It goes through many different story turns and it's a testament to how well done they are that they don't feel like easy cheats or manipulations to get the audience emotionally invested. The acting is fabulous as well. The editing of the film really helps it move along briskly and helps the story too with its emotional weight. I definitely didn't know what to expect but I would highly recommend this. It's a film that will hopefully get nominated for the Oscar and hopefully gain a lot of awards traction, it definitely deserves it. Can't wait to see where the film takes off from here.


                
A wonderful film. Gorgeous cinematography and set design, and a thrilling plot with endless twists and turns. It's paced to perfection - As the secrets are gradually revealed; the viewer is brought back to key moments with a new point of view. The film is sensual, but never gratuitous. The two lead actresses give brave yet delicate performances. It doesn't quite reach the unique heights of 'Oldboy' - but still another supreme achievement for director Park Chan-wook.


                
I watched this a few days ago at the Ljubljana film festival. I wasn't sure whether I wanted to watch it or not, but a string of events led me to a spontaneous viewing. Why wasn't I sure? Because I expected some similarities with Oldboy, the only Chan-Wook Park film I've seen, and even though I loved Oldboy, I knew it's a specific type of cinema that gets you in a certain mood and reverberates days after.More than the dark tone of Oldboy, I remembered the overall density of it. I felt like it didn't give me any time to breath. Despite the unquestionable quality of the film, I felt like the scenes in it were competing against one another in three main categories: wit, shock value and contrast in comparison to the previous scene. It seemed a bit technical, a bit too thought-out.In Ah-ga-ssi I definitely spotted some similarities with Oldboy - again, not so much in the tone of the film than in the shooting techniques, editing style, theater-like squarry perspective of the shots and the incredible density and intensity of events, shown through wide angles as well as details, that pull you into a world of incredibly well painted subconscious human tendencies, into a nightmarish world where events follow a certain twisted logic and where humour appears in its most darkly form. In another review I read that one has to understand korean history in order to better comprehend the film. I definitely agree, but I felt like Ah-ga-ssi is clear enough to let even the most unknowing spectator know what's going on. It is #intuitive enough to be able to translate the micro-meaning (site-specific, historical) onto a universal human level: even though it depicts a certain era of Korean history, it also depicts very basic human tendencies, which one can apply to several historical, as well as personal events. I feel like this is one of the most important quality of good cinema, and one of Ah-ga-ssi's main strengths.What I also loved was the twists - varying from micro ones to big ones. All of the twists are so well drawn-out and built-up earlier in the film that the suspense is crazy. The twists are well presented and very coherent with the story. I felt a bit of Kurosawa's Rashomon in here - the three part structure, the objective/subjective truth theme and even a few visual references to Rashomon. Ah-ga-ssi is immersive and rich with flavour, but is it a bit too rich? Can a movie be too rich?I felt like everything in this film reflected the theme of illusion - the camera movements, the tricks, the costumes, the characters and the actors. I felt like the team wanted to slightly expose the illusory nature of film as a medium - we know that we're watching something fictional but we still tend to emotionally involve in it. Why is that so? Anyway, I felt like the theater "set-up" component could be a bit more visible, it would definitely add a nice self- irony layer upon the smartly built, but a tad stiff cinema puzzle that is Ah-ga-ssi. I love the korean name of this film by the way, much more than Handmaiden. Also, a few moments of rest would be nice for the brain, especially because the tone is so dark. If the film would've been a bit more genre-versatile, I'd love the density, but since the genre definition is pretty clean-cut, because the overall tone of the film is rather dark, and because the story demands a lot of processing, I feel like this film could use a few moments of silence or completely unimportant subplots, just so that the spectator has more time to fill in the gaps with his own ideas.The positive definitely outweighs the negative. From the first moment on, I was hooked. I sat there, looking at the actors, thinking about how incredibly good they were. I loved the nakedness & I loved the poetic intertangling of the bodies. I loved the photography in general. I remember very well how the first few minutes produced a tiny drop of uneasiness in me - a tiny drop that grew bigger and bigger as my understanding of the story was becoming better and better. And when I finally grasped all the crazy twists, the meaning behind the unusual behaviour of the characters - pop. It was like fiction immediately turning into dust, the facades shattered, the film-time becoming what it is in the first place - a remnant that can be revisited in order to be viewed again, from a different point of view.This was definitely a crazy and cathartic experience. Maybe it would never be as cathartic if it wouldn't be so dense with information on so many different levels. Maybe it was the movie's goal - to pile up as many pieces of information one upon the other, stack the spectators mind with various opposing narratives only to be able to prove the spectator that nowadays, no narrative is the right one - we live in a make-believe world, in a constant state of cold war. We can trust nobody, we have no truth, just multidunous realities that we have to constantly update and make sense of... if we don't want to be fooled.


                
Non-English movie trailers will sometimes go very far out of their way to hide the fact that their film isn't in English. The trailer for Park Chan-wook's latest film, The Handmaiden, follows this tradition, and is incomprehensible as a result. It is, however, one of the most striking trailers of the year, and promises a pretty visually distinct piece of film. I'm happy to say that, while The Handmaiden is not what I expected based on the trailer alone, it lives up to that promise, marrying arresting film-making with a twisty narrative.Park Chan-wook's films, in a way, feel like a distant cousin of Quentin Tarantino's (who championed his breakout, Oldboy). The Handmaiden at it's best contains similar stylistic touches, such as denoted act breaks and nonlinear narratives, and it's plot certainly has a lot in common with Western con movies. Effectively, the movie concerns itself with the relationship between three characters in 1930s Japan- occupied Korea: wealthy isolated heiress Hideko, grifter posing-as-noble Fujiwara, and petty thief turned handmaid Sook-hee. Fujiwara enlists Sook-hee to be his eyes and ears as he tries to marry Hideko from under her abusive uncle's nose, but Sook-hee and Hideko soon find themselves drawn more towards each other. It's fun to watch it all unfold, although those expecting a mind-blowing twist in the vein of Oldboy may be let down; while the movie is quite far from traditional, its plot machinations are fairly traditional (although very engaging).What pushes the film up quite a bit is Park's style. Most of the film takes place in Hideko's mansion, which crosses English and Japanese architecture much like Park wears his English and Asian filmmaking influences on his sleeve. The movie threatens to be a haunted house flick briefly, and many times evokes Park's early Gothic drama Stoker. But Park and production designer Ryu Seong-hee give the film a vibe of its own, selling the oppressive opulence of Hideko's life. Moments of pitch-black humour help to cut the tension effectively, including the best noose gag ever filmed. Where Park's instincts falter a bit is when it seemingly exploits the Sook- hee/Hideko relationship for pure titillation value. To its credit, even the exploitation isn't without thematic relevance; a subset of characters in the movie are connoisseurs of artful smut, and the closing moments cement the idea that Park set out to make exactly that. But the narration and interaction sells the attraction between the two well enough, which leaves the explicit scenes feeling a bit superfluous.Even if a bit exploitative, The Handmaiden is a sharp, stylistic, and engaging piece of liar's fiction. It successfully creates a universe of its own and fills it with memorable images, characters, and moments. It has plenty of bite, but also an underlying sweetness that's a bit surprising from Park. I can't wait to watch it again.


                
To be honest I have seen only film of Park chan wook and that is the masterpiece, Oldboy. This movie is set in a different era and beautifully captured. Full of sexuality and mystery, The Handmaiden is how a erotic thriller should be made. The Hindi film industry, especially should take notes. So let's go into details.STORY - The story is of a family of con-men and forgers who are planning to con a very wealthy family for a huge sum of money. Lady Hideko, who is the heir to all the wealth is set to marry her uncle, because, well he is the only person she knows and he is greedy. This con-man poses as a Count in an attempt to woo her, make her fall in love and then elope. Fearing that he can't do it alone, he brings in one of his accomplices to be her handmaiden so that she could keep coaxing Hideko to fall in love with the Count. An unexpected turn of events, sets the plans of each of the characters onto a different trajectory. I don't want to blurt out the plot because that will just ruin the twist. The characters are well built and I as an audience had a love-hate relationship with each of them because none of them were exactly white and black. Everyone had shades of grey, and it was fun to watch how these characters used their wit to outsmart each other. Sook-hee and Hideko, both come for dark pasts but still, it wasn't easy to root for them. The uncle, Kouzuki was just plain evil. I mean he hits a kid with metal balls. Come on.DIRECTION - Park chan wook took a huge risk to keep an erotic thriller at a run-time of over 2 hours. It was risky, but it paid off. He took his time building the characters, not rushing in any one the three chapters, so that when the final twist came, you wouldn't feel like it was a cop-out of some sort. Even though the ending can be expected after the first twist, but the length of the movie that is left after the first twist did produce a sense of doubt. The best performance is of course by the title character, Sook-hee. She portrays the funny, innocent yet deceiving person that she is. I felt that the actress for Hideko, was a bit bland. I would have loved to see her portray some more expressions when the camera was pointed just at her. As I said, Jin Woong-jo who played Kouzuki didn't have much space to do anything other than playing the usual tropes of a villain. I absolutely loved the arc of Count Fujiwara. The thing that I loved most, was the little shots in between which showed a sudden burst of emotion. Almost like a darker version of Edgar Wright's method of shooting such scenes.CINEMATOGRAPHY - The whole movie felt like a beautiful painting. The colours were rich. Not a single scene had a wrong choice of colour. Many movies show very brutal scenes under sunlight and that kind of decreases the intensity. Here the feel was captured so beautifully. Even when the same scene was shown at different points of the movie, you could notice the difference. When the same story was being shown from the POV of different characters, the exact same scene had a different feel. It was a delight for the eyes. Chung-hoo Chung struck a beautiful balance between outdoor and indoor shots. It was very important because one wrong palette and the whole mystery would have vanished.FINAL VERDICTS - Well, to be honest I was expecting a bizarre ending like Oldboy but I wasn't disappointed because what I saw was a masterpiece. Even though the two twists, for me, felt not so realistic. Certainly worth a watch. I advise you to not go expecting loads of sex because even though there is a lot of it, the setting of those scenes can make you feel really uncomfortable.


                
It builds up. First you think you know where its going. Then you realize there is a twist. Then twisted again. It is a movie you might only watch once (as you'll be aware of the ending) but definitely kept my interest throughout.
This movie is part romance. part mystery. part drama. tiny bit horror. All good. 
 The ending felt pretty good as well. 
It does flow a bit slow at times. But think it adds something more than detracts. And I might watch it again.


                
I think this is the best film of 2017. The three-part movie narration is beautiful. The women's story is beautiful.


                
Three times a charm as that's how many times it took me to finish this film.It was my bad that I had to start/stop this film over four or so days. Initially, I thought this was supposed to be a horror movie and while it has horrific moments, it's certainly not horror. It's more suspense, mystery, lesbian drama.In fact, I haven't seen this much graphic lesbian sex in my life. I'm no prude, but girl-on-girl action isn't my forte, so it's not on my top ten porn searches. But, if you're into that, you might be pleased when it shows up several times in the film.The movie revolves around a rich heiress who's woo'd by a scheming Count and his Maid-to-Be to get her fortune. She's somehow set to marry her uncle, but the Count's got other plans for her cash. Only, his decoy, the film's title, has other plans.While I had to start/stop this several times, it's highly recommended as it's beautifully shot, wonderfully acted, scored excellently and the twists just keep on coming that makes the whole experience worth it. Yes, it's overlong and could've been severely cut, but it pays off and in the most satisfying way. Definitely check out this Handmaiden. ***Final thoughts: Helps I have a thing for Asians and this serves both my Japanese and Korean love. Granted only one real male is predominate, he is quite the catch throughout. Luckily, I can concentrate on him while they make me watch so many naked females make love.


                
Those who are into the world cinema, particularly the Korean, knows Park Chan-wook very well. But if you don't, then you must. His films are definitely for the grown ups. Like everybody else, my admiration for his work has started a decade ago with the film 'Oldboy'. He had tried his luck in Hollywood with 'Stoker'. Despite a good entertainer, it was criticised. I love Park Chan-wook doing hundred masterpieces like this in Korea than trying to do one in Hollywood. His ability to turn the good book into a great flick was phenomenal. Here it goes another one. This was based on the British novel 'Fingersmith' by Sarah Waters. The story of an orphan woman who assigned to be a maid for a young rich woman who is living under the shadow of her uncle since she has no parents.Yeah, I was expecting it, but I did not think it would be another masterpiece from the director. I even thought the ratings could be exaggerated, and the reviews from his die hard fans like Nolan's or QT's fans does. The timeline of the story was prior to Second World War Korea under the Japan rule. A perfect setting for such theme. The film opened like it is an average film. That's where all I got wrong. Or probably I judged it too soon. The storytelling was split into three parts and the first part was a bit mix of fun and like any film, introduction, the platform for the rest of the narration filled with surprises.The young orphan Sook-hee was recruited by a thief who is planning to trick a young woman named Lady Hideko with all the wealth left behind by her parents. The only obstacle for him is her uncle, a guardian. So Sook-hee becomes close to her. More than she had expected, but their plan is working. Now they have to wait for the perfect moment for a perfect strike. When it arrives, an unexpected twist takes the tale to go back to where the film originally had started. But even further earlier and this time, the perspective of the story was from the Lady Hdeko.<U+275D>So even if my love for you leads me to ruin, don't pity me.<U+275E>So, with that flashback, the second part begins. But literally it was a series of twist, that keep explaining us in another angle of the whole scenario I had witnessed in the previous part. Believe me, I have never seen such a long twist before. I was like unmoved for that entire segment. One of the best things I have ever in a film. The praise must go to the author, but the director and his actors as well did a fine job. There's a twist in every scene. So, for that one must pay close attention to the first part, despite slow moving story.But above all, what I'm surprised was I did not know it was a lesbian film. Moreover, I did not think it could have bold scenes for such theme. Everything seemed perfect. I mean the erotic parts are sensual, but very artistic than unnecessary disturbance. Mainly because of stronger hold of the story narration than anything else. Even the pace picks up, like a crazy speed. Everything about the film you would learn in this section. All the secrets of the past revealed and what might comes are still kept under mysterious for the third and final part.The most awaited, the conclusion part begins forth. For everything we saw so far, what might come after makes this film at its best. Just like the mid part, this is also full of twists. Because it will going to tell who ends where and what they get. Over two hours long film, and every frame are worth. The casting was best and so the setting of the 1930s Korea. Especially I must applaud the filmmaker's effort to turn the original setting from Europe to East Asia. It was great, but still now and then you can see the influence of the original source. I mean western culture, names, architect references which might have come from the book.Not just the lesbian or a love triangle story, but something like a circle of love with deceive and defraud. You can notice that in the film poster with four main characters. So when it has a multiple strings attached, you could expect surprises/twists from each angle and it gives that more the convincingly. Put this into your must see list. This is not the first screen adaptation, but surely the best so far. Now we can expect a European or a Hollywood project in a big scale soon. Believe me the Oscars would pour in, because it's that kind of story. Highly recommended!8/10


                
South Korean films are not exactly flavour of the month in Britain, even among "world cinema" buffs; the most one can say is that they are at least more popular than North Korean films. "The Handmaiden", however, has recently had a long run in central London. Perhaps its popularity can be put down to the fact that it is based upon a novel by a Welsh author, "Fingersmith" by Sarah Waters, albeit with the setting changed to Korea under the Japanese occupation. Or perhaps to the fact that it features two beautiful young actresses in bed together.The plot is a complex one, too complex to set out here. It revolves around the plans of a conman posing as a Count to marry and elope with Lady Hideko, a Japanese heiress living in Korea with her authoritarian uncle. To further his scheme he hires a Korean girl named Sook-hee to obtain a position as a maid in the uncle's household. The film is divided into three parts, and Parts 1 and 2 essentially tell the story from two different viewpoints, giving us different perspectives on these events. At the end of Part 1, which is largely told from Sook-hee's viewpoint, it appears that Hideko and the supposed "Count Fujiwara" have conspired together and played a cruel trick on Sook-hee to enable them to elope together. In Part 2, which is largely told from Hideko's point of view, we realise that appearances can be deceptive and that it may in fact be Sook-hee and Hideko (who have become lesbian lovers) who are in league together.The film is not only based upon a British novel; director Park Chan-wook may also have been influenced by the visual style of the British "heritage cinema". It is notable that Hideko's uncle lives in an Edwardian-looking European-style mansion built for him by an English architect. The photography certainly has that rich, sumptuous look we have come to associate with British historical dramas, and, like some Western directors such as James Ivory and Martin Scorsese, Park is able to use this style of film-making to shed light on some weighty themes.The most important theme explored in this film is that of the mistreatment of women by men. (There is an implication, although perhaps no more than that, that Hodeko and Sook-hee have become lesbians because of the way men have treated them and that under other circumstances they might have been heterosexual). Hideko's uncle Kouzuki is a sex-obsessed bully, whose greatest passion is for his collection of antique erotica. Kouzuki is a widower, his wife having died in what was supposedly a suicide, and it is strongly implied either that she was driven to kill herself by her husband's mistreatment of her or that he in fact murdered her when she tried to leave him. During her lifetime Kouzuki distressed her by forcing her to read from his pornographic books to his guests, and after her death he subjected Hideko to the same treatment. Fujiwara may claim to love Hideko and poses as her liberator from her uncle's tyranny, but in fact he is just interested in her money. As for the working-class Korean Sook-hee, Fujiwara regards her as being both socially and racially inferior so has no compunction about the way he treats her.The film occasionally slips into Grand Guignol; the final scene involving Kouzuki and Fujiwara is particularly lurid and does not make a great deal of sense. Overall, however, this is an intriguing, visually and intellectually literate, film from a culture that does not feature very highly on the average British film buff's radar. 8/10


                
The success and connection Ah-ga-ssi has with audience has three main reasons: First the stunning and exquisite visual part. The production design, costume design, hair, makeup, cinematography, editing, and the whole Chan-wook Park's mise-en-scène take the public to a narcotic state caused by an undeniable beauty; Second, it is the courage of the film to assume poignantly hot, and convey, with such elegance, subtlety (here touches, looks and words are stronger than explicit images) and power, sensuality to those who watch; Finally the development of the story is as hypnotic as the two previous points. The film is not afraid to be ahead of its audience, nor allow it to settle. Nothing here is what it seems. Very, very beautiful, Ah-ga-ssi embrace the audience, and does not let go until he is excited and surprised.


                
