I've never had such an unpleasant feeling watching a movie before. The characters are awful people, sociopaths even. Frances McDormands character at first comes across as just being a broken woman, but a flashback scene shows that her character was never a pleasant person. Her ex-husband likes to poke fun at the towns little person like he's still in junior high. Sam Rockwells character is the worst. He tortures a black kid, punches a young lady in the face, throws a city clerk out a two-story window for no reason at all. But yet, the writers thought that his character needed a redemption angle. Are you freakin kidding me?? His character belonged behind bars. Aside from this, the script was just awful. People talking in ways that people just don't talk. Things thrown in there that didn't make sense. Why was this military veteran from Idaho, who had nothing to do with the girls murder, and who's never been to Ebbing before, just show up and start harassing a dead girls mother? Also, the characters in this movie do things that would ordinarily land a person in county jail, or even prison. But, they go completely unscathed. But, lets not ignore the biggest goof of all, the wife of Woody Harrelsons character suddenly out of nowhere develops a British accent.The producers must have spent some good money on fake reviews, because I can't see how so many film critics can find this movie to be great.
Wow...I am stunned and shocked to see the 8.4 rating this film received.The film had the potential to be truly something powerful.1 - Powerful subject matter (rape, racism, police corruption, toxic masculinity) You name it this film really covered some of the most poignant and important topics in American society, yet marginalized every single point it was trying to make. 2 - Superb Cast (4 A listers, Frances McDormand, Woody Harrelson, Sam Rockwell, Peter Dinklage) You could not have casted better for each role (besides Sheriff Willoughby's strange English wife WTF???)3 - Location / Cinematography / Soundtrack (superb)4 - Story (A mother posts billboards on a deserted stretch of highway to encourage the local police force to solve the horrific rape and murder of her daughter)
 
Because of the nonsensical plot twists, the inplausible and impossible coincidences and the flat out bad writing and bad acting this movie simply blew it.Fails:1 - Woody Harrelson's character explains to Frances McDormand's character in the first ten minutes that they have done everything in their power by cross referencing the DNA samples found with databases nationwide and that there were absolutely no leads. Therefore her persisting in keeping the billboards up just doesn't make sense...2 - Why didn't the cops just deface/destroy the billboards from the beginning if they were so corrupt and didn't give a shit about the rule of law???3 - The dentist who just happened to be one of the people complaining about the billboards insists on pulling out FM's tooth without even looking at it. She then proceeds to drill a hole through his thumb.4 - Woody committing suicide. At that critical point in the film with the billboards and him showing only the first signs of even being sick. The guy is the chief of police and the entire town thought so highly of him. NO WAY he would just kill himself like that.5 - The conversation Woody and his wife had on the couch was just way too dirty and bizarre and why all of a sudden was she speaking with a British accent???
This just completely through the film out of sync.6 - The scene with the surviving daughter was just contrived and bad and made Frances just look like a horrible mother.7 - The breakfast scene the next morning and her ex-husband overturning the table while the 19 y/o girlfriend looks on...8 - Sam Rockwell smashing the front door, beating the advertiser, breaking the window, throwing him out the window, assaulting the secretary, and again beating the advertiser in plain sight of the soon new to be African American chief of police who does nothing. Rockwell is not arrested and sits at his desk while the film cuts to a news report about the chief's death and if the billboards may have contributed to his suicide.9 - The news inferring that there may be a link to his death and the billboards paid for by FM's character. No news outlet would actually have said something like that for fear of being sued.10 - The new chief of police taking his sweet time to enter the station and only after what appears to be half and hour or so dismisses Sam Rockwell from his job.11 - Who the hell helped clean up all the broken glass and monitored the situation which was happening just outside the station then??? All the cops were inside the station as if NOTHING had happened.12 - Some random guy coming into the gift shop to threaten FM's character, saying that he wished he could have been the one to rape her daughter. Ends up he was nowhere in the vicinity or even in the country when this happened. How does he know where to find FM? Why doesn't she chase him down or at least get his license plate number after he leaves. To top it off she's saved by the late sheriff's wife showing up to deliver a letter left by Woody.13 - The billboards are burning down when FM and her son drive by and they conveniently have a 50 gallon fire extinguisher in the front seat..14 - SR just happens to be in the police station when FM decides to firebomb the station from across the street. She tries to call the station to warn him to get out (Call trace???) But then just decides to set the station on fire with SR inside. Then conveniently Peter Dinklage's character just happens to be walking by and then becomes FM's alibi and then agrees to go on a date with him.15 - FM & PD go on a date at the "nice restaurant" in town and her ex-husband and his 19 y/o girlfriend just happen to show up.16 - SR is out of the hospital after maybe 24 hours after having "severe burns" and decides to go for a drink at the same exact time as FM's colleague who he had arrested & the billboard guy and to TOP it off the random guy who might have raped her daughter are all in the same bar. The random guy is bragging about having committed a rape just out of the blue when SR is sitting right next to him and then when SR goes outside, comes back, he finally asks if that guy has been sitting behind him the whole night... SR was like 6 inches away there is NO WAY he didn't know he wasn't there... Then all of a sudden when SR goes to the bar the guy acts like he has a big problem and they get into a big fight where SR decides to scratch the guy to obtain a DNA sample instead of simply calling the police and at the very most detaining the guy until the police arrive.Probably one of the biggest stupid parts of the entire film. Seriously 4 linked characters all randomly showing up at the bar. The guy admitting to a rape in public very well knowing someone is right behind him. A cop who had just read a note from his mentor saying he knows he has the potential to be a good police officer and he goes and does something as stupid as that... MOST IMPLAUSIBLE SCENE EVER !!!17 - The new chief of police informs SR that the DNA was not a match and the guy was not even in the country but in a place that was sandy.... WTF is this about? Just poorly written and absolutely does not make sense that that random guy was even in the town to begin with.18 - FM & SR decide to go to Idaho to track down the guy because while they may not be able to solve the case which actually means something to them, that guy was probably a rapist and deserves to die to...Good luck finding him in Idaho being that he was just in your town a few days ago. Yeah ok....What a waste. This film truly could have been something which raised real questions about the role of the police force in society and how corruption, racism, sexism, homophobia are being addressed in rural communities but nope it just turned into the biggest laughable POS in recent memory.Don't watch this film.
I am completely baffled by the positive reaction to this movie. Comedy? No, sorry: grief, racism, cancer, suicide, rape, murder and assorted other antisocial behavior, not funny. The unintentional (?) irony of using a term like "black comedy" to describe this movie makes me throw up a little in my mouth. I am a huge Frances McDormand fan (and appreciate her performance here) so I'm very reluctant to infer that all this nastiness was intentional, but I don't know how to make sense of it. Intentional or not, it's repulsive and infuriating.Just one example among many, but for me the straw that broke the camel's back: the racist cop unambiguously commits attempted murder of one character, who happens to be white, then cold cocks a female witness. (This last, shocking detail is apparently considered trivial by the writer/director of a movie whose PREMISE is the rape and murder of a woman, since it's never mentioned again.) The attempted murder is eye-witnessed by the new chief of police, who happens to be black. (So edgy!) Bizarrely, the racist cop is not arrested, though minutes later he's ordered to turn in his gun and badge. For what reason? The script is such a mess that it isn't even clear whether this is because of the attempted murder (absurdly inadequate) or for sassing the Chief (under the circumstances, ridiculous, and... what EXACTLY is the movie trying to say here?). The new Chief ignores/forgives/understands the attempted murder because the racist cop was upset? He thought firing him was more appropriate than arresting him and charging him? Oh, it's a COMEDY so we're not supposed to dwell on these kinds of details? Hell no, that won't fly, not in America in 2017, where racist cops murdering innocent people because they're "upset" is no laughing matter at all. I'm almost as troubled by the awkward attempt at "balance" (I guess?) when Frances McDormand's character essentially commits an act of vigilante terrorism on the Police Station, almost killing someone in the process. The ridiculous ending made me think of Trump: there are fine people on both sides. Nope. I'm not having it. This movie is disturbing. Boycott this crap.
Really ? This is a comedy ? In what universe this is considered funny ? I'm not sure but perhaps , rape , murder and battery is very funny in some parts of this planet . Do cops really acts this way in USA ? I'm one hundred percent sure that they don't.
And yeah guess what attempted murder and arson are real crimes , hell they are felonies yet characters in this ....ah very artistic movie do them without any consequences . And for Gods sake , joking about midgets is so not funny , it might have been funny in medieval times , not any more . Very bad very very idiotic , if this thing wins any Oscars , i will set up three billboards reading : 1 ) After almost one hundred years of movie making 2) still confusing absurdities
3) with edginess ? How come Hollywood ?
Folks, if anyone doubts that Hollywood and big-city liberals despise ordinary Americans, have them watch this sorry excuse for a movie. It's overflowing with all of the typical insults and egregiously bogus misconceptions of rural life, especially that of the Mid West.As for the movie, it's a mess from start to finish. The story line is full of billboard-sized holes and is often unbelievable to the point of frustration. The casting is awkward; the characters are loathsome, the gratuitous profanity is appalling; and the ending is just plain lazy.Avoid this social-justice garbage ...and the people who promote it!


                
If this movie is considered not only to be entertainment but a work of art worthy of cinematic awards and an endorsement of Hollywood's encouragement for more like it to be produced then it's a sad day for the industry. I found it to be nasty, ugly piece of work that sets out to portray men in the foulest light possible for no better reason than to play to the current drumbeat of every social movement wanting to distance itself from Harvey Weinstein and Donald Trump.I can only guess the claim to being a 'comedy' albeit a black comedy, is to justify a certain degree of satire in stereotyping the white guys as racist, mysogenists on the defensive against the unexpected attack of the movie's downtrodden feminist principle character.The fact is, ordinary people do not act or talk the way these characters do. The dialog is devoted to extreme expletives raging on in hate for each other and proving and achieving nothing in the process. Ironically the result is extremely racially offensive and sexist and even manages to be debasing to dwarfs; and for this trash they award oscars?


                
It's exceedingly rare that I hand out 10s or 1s -- I reserve these for the perfect, and perfectly hideous, and neither is easy to come by. (I also elevate a score when something is of the "so bad it's kind of great" variety, like "The Room" or "Oogieloves and the Big Balloon Adventure"). "Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri" (which is one of the most awful titles in ages) is that rare find: something perfectly bad with zero redeeming qualities.The plot seems to hinge on a woman hellbent on finding the man who raped and killed her daughter -- ooh, a revenge mystery! Actually, this crime, like everything else in the film, is just a self-consciously writerly device to get people to bloviate in the same tone with each other on sundry topics that have nothing to do with the crime. There's a deep well of syrup and cornball below the acid river of misanthropic shit that flows through every scene. There isn't an ounce of sincerity in anyone's relation to another -- it's all pure manipulation, formulaic broad strokes that in every aspect have been done better 100 or 1000 times already. Lots of decent actors have "big moment" cries, but it's all empty, hollow-ringing verbiage. Had I but world enough and time, I'd gleefully dissect this abortive mess, and I concede this is more an "F-U" to the director/writer than a review, but I already feel my life wasting away minutes as I contemplate this execrable film past its due.


                
How in the world did this get any Oscar attention??? The story line was so bland that the dry comedic effort of the writers was the only thing that made it worth watching all the way through. So the above board story line is that a mother is angry and distraught at the lack of effort being made towards finding the killer of her daughter. She pays for some billboards towards that effect. The billboards cause a lot of friction in the small town in southern Missouri where she lives. And around and around it swirls.... For nearly TWO HOURS!Now here is the story that Hollywood really wants to tell you. Everyone who lives in small town Midwestern towns is dumb, alcoholic, and incredibly dysfunctional. Well everyone is provided that their white. If you live in a small Midwestern town and you're black, well then you're a well balanced, hard working , decent person with good common sense.Of the 50 or so characters seen in the movie, I recall three were black. They were the only characters that exhibited any intelligence, decency and good common sense. Every single adult character that I recall otherwise was portrayed as having at least one version of a serious flaw in their character. They of course were white.I hear the lead actress got up on stage at the Oscars and went political. I find that funny given that her character was probably the most flawed in the movie. Her character was unreasonable, angry, violent, and generally unloving.
Overall the sociopolitical undertones of the movie were irritating. So grateful that I didn't spend a dime to see it.


                
Postmodernism at its worse; trying to take a 'neutral' view and describe things like rape, murder, racism, violence, authority and anti-authority, in a way that doesn't contain any ethical judgement; in the end, it stands for nothing. given the current political emptiness this film will certainly take some oscars.


                
This film is a nonsense and a waste of time. Please do not watch and do not let anybody to watch. If that is possible travel back in time and ignore it.


                
SPOILERS!I hated this shockingly racist, illogical, trashy film! I am stunned that it is not being called out for the racism (hidden behind the mask of alleged liberal good-deed-doing) and violence that it condones! I have never seen a film make so many attempts at virtue signaling while at the same time exhibiting racism all over the place. Frances McDormand alleges about some torturing of "innocent black folks" and yet that storyline is never explored. Sam Rockwell (so awful in this I need to invent a new word to describe the failure) plays a racist cop but we never actually SEE any racism - there is only innuendo and excessive, unfunny use of the "n" word. Racism, if you're going to explore it intelligently with an audience, needs more than mean words and one scene where a "racist cop" get annoyed with and threatens to take in a young hipster black man for spitting in the cops direction. Sadly, that's the best example of something mildly racist actually happening in the film besides cheap talk - and it's WEAK - because frankly the cop, dumb as he is, actually has a point in that spitting towards a cop is an act of aggression - the cop didn't arrest him, he just reminded the young man that he's walking a fine line. Every black character (all in minor roles) portrayed seems to have stepped off the train from Williamsburg or Wicker Park. They are ALL hipster types with nothing of value to contribute besides cheap talk. The black people in this movie exist only to make the fake liberals look good for having "black friends" somewhere in the background. WHICH BEGS THE QUESTION - WHY is Frances McDormand the star of this film? Why not ANGELA BASSETT? Instead of casting a white actress why didn't the filmmakers decide to make this story about a Midwestern black woman who's daughter's rape and murder was ignored by the cops? That would at least be a more believable attempt to explore these themes - rather than FILTER THAT MESSAGE through a white woman. Hollywood is racist and they almost always think white liberals need to save black people. Is it about racism, or justice for the dead daughter? Neither, ultimately. As for her dead daughter, she's abandoned by the storytellers so...WHO CARES? The violence is stupid and LOOKS FAKE! Example: that dumb kitchen scene with the boy and his dad and the knife! Embarrassingly executed - almost as embarrassing as that REALLY bad CGI DEER that is just a knockoff scene from a superior scene from THE QUEEN. ALSO --the message of anger begets anger, etc being explained to us directly from a character is cheap writing and disingenuous. There is no good message here. Also, why the making fun of the midget? Gee - that hasn't been done thousands of times! Stupid. Not funny and NOT edgy. BASIC PLOT FAILS! #1. They introduce a man who "MAY" be the killer Frances is kinda searching for (more time is spent kicking high school kids in the shin - by the way, why did those kids just STAND there and let her keep kicking them? Not a very realistic reaction. They would have RUN AWAY!) He MAY be the killer - and then we learn he definitely is not? And why give us this whole story about him being somewhere "SANDY" in the war? So he's a rapist soldier now instead? So WHY show him CONFESS to Frances earlier? STUPID!#2. THE BILLBOARDS DON'T WORK! We see NO ONE drive past them EVER except for Frances McDormand, Sam Rockwell and Woody. As for the news broadcast, that was again cheap writing. It doesn't show us how people react to anything related to the billboards. Woody's cancer is a cheap diversion from the fact that the billboards have no affect. By tying his cancer so directly to the plot with the billboard's "alleged fiasco" they deny the opportunity for the audience to see the townsfolk real reaction to the CONTENT of the billboards - and instead they react to Frances being mean to a dying man. This defeats the point of the billboards in terms of storytelling, so it's hard to see any real reason why or how these billboards EVER stir the pot, but the filmmakers pretend that magically they do! # 3. When a hipster gets thrown out the window by Sam Rockwell - the new police chief sees this - and, uh, DOES NOT ARREST HIM! So, not only do the filmmakers know nothing about police, what is legal or illegal, but they have never watched a single episode of LAW AND ORDER or even JUDGE JUDY. Speaking of reactions - no one in this film has a realistic reaction to anything that happens ever. Sam Rockwell goes from nearly murdering someone, to acting goofy after getting fired, all in the same breath! It's stupid beyond belief. Then we're supposed to believe that during THE FIRE, just SECONDS AFTER reading Woody's moralistic letter (another cheap devise overused throughout), he has an instantaneous change of heart/moral epiphany and thinks immediately of saving the BURNING CASE FILE ON HIS DESK to help Frances McDormand? I could go on for hours about how awful every second of this film is...save yourselves the time. Watch "IN THE HEAT OF THE NIGHT" or "MISSISSIPPI BURNING". This movie is so awful it does not even deserve to be criticized. The only reason I am is because it has gotten rave reviews from critics DESPERATELY searching for a zeitgeist film of the moment, but who haven't found a good one yet so they are propping this one up! WHY? Because it checks off all the correct virtue signaling requirements of the times. Critical thinking while viewing this film will reveal a false justification for violence, bigotry towards dwarfs and country people, and inherently racist storytelling.
Warning. This review contains plenty of spoilers but I don't think this movie is worth watching.I ended up really disappointed with the movie. This is basically a crazy art house movie that they give away as a drama. And you won't find it out until the very end. Every character in this movie is flawed or corrupted in one way or another. The chief of police got cancer, Dixon is a racist violent policeman and stupid mama's boy, and yeah his mother is a stupid heavy drunk, Mildred's ex-husband dates some, you can guess, mentally challenged 18-year-old girl, there is a midget who wants to date Mildred. This is the language of the movie, "fat dentist and a woman with a funny eye". And yeah the victim was set on fire and was raped while dying. And yeah there is a suspect who commited the same crime, but who appeared to have done that somewhere in Iraq. In the end Dixon also got burnt to look even uglier. So this is basically some art house movie material, they take all the dirt existing, they create and bring even more dirt, but they wrap it up in some good-looking quality drama package. God damn. But the worst part is the ending. Basically, the idea of the movie is that we live in a stupid violent world, there is no redemption, there is no justice, there is no afterlife. All the people are stupid and flawed, all social institutions are corrupted. But Mildred tried to bring some justice by putting these 3 damn billboards. However, they corrupt and perverse her in the end as well. Cause she is going to kill that rapist, "not her rapist" but still definitely a rapist. And there will be little drama even in that. She and Dixon are not really sure if they wanna do that but they will find out as it goes. Wait, what? What is this movie about again then? They bring the idea that "anger begets even greater anger", chief of polce Willoughby asks Dixon to be kinder and all they gonna do in the end is killing some rapist? Cause people are innately not capable of some more "productive" behavior?In the end there is no reason to watch this movie. It's a quality film and producing but that's all there is to it. They take A VERY SENSITIVE MATERIAL but only to PLAY AND FOOL AROUND WITH IT. They produce cycle of violence and idiocracy but with no real purpose. And they give it away as some drama. They abuse viewer's trust and waste viewer's time. It's really sad that they manage to confuse everything and everybody so much that this pile of trash of a movie got so many positive reviews and we are entertained with such macabre nonsense.
I was stuck on a long plane flight and this was one of the only movies to watch that wasn't Bollywood or kids animation. It was truly bad. It's billed as a comedy but I didn't see any humor in it. The storyline was chaotic and grim, the characters crude and unsympathetic. I couldn't have cared what happened in it. Thing is, I like intellectual movies. I don't mind being baffled. I even like "Last Year in Marienbad" Oh well. One good thing, I was so bored that I fell asleep, and usually I can never sleep on a plane. So in a way it's an ideal plane movie.


                
Boring and slow but I watched it in its entirety in the same way one morbidly looks at a bad highway accident because the movie is enlightening as to how low functioning, ignorant and racist Hollywood perceives the average person (you & me) to be. The police are portrayed as stupid to the point of mental retardation, openly committing violent & utterly pointless felonies in front of countless witnesses. They are inexplicably not held accountable for their actions. Likewise, when our almost equally ignorant hero firebombs a police station, the entire community knows she did it, and yet nothing comes from it. Such a crime would be an international news story that would mandate a major FBI investigation. The point is, this movie is completely detached from reality in every regard. Real people don't think or talk this way. People don't act this way. Reality dictates that there are unavoidable consequences for bad choices that don't apply in the fantasy world of this movie. Although this movie is not unique in this regard, I don't know that I have ever seen one so overtly contemptuous of common people. Ironic given the lack of education and real world experience that most of these Hollywood elitists actually have. Here is a tip for Hollywood on how to make real art instead of this garbage masquerading as art: in reality, the differences between the average person and the smug elites is negligible. A few bad choices for those without a safety net can create a life trajectory very difficult to recover from. Enough with the smug disrespect for customer base.


                
If you are making a movie about an unsolved murder, you don't need to add any "topical" narrative that white guys harass black people. You don't need to hammer in how bad someone is with the false narrative currently trending, i.e. that cops are racist and like to torture and hunt black people. Just the same old stereotype of "southern" cops being bad cops.There were just so many things that I wasn't buying, i.e. wasn't believable. The constant harassment of Sam Rockwell of Caleb Landry Jones, like in the middle of the street, or in the bar. Just didn't buy it would ever happen.Like the priest scene. Never would happen. Only in fantasy writing land.Like the dentist was gonna use torturous methods against Frances. None of this would EVER happen. Just made no sense and poorly written.This movie was one not believable scene after the other. For example, the Police chief coughing up blood and spitting it in Frances' face. Never would have happened.Writers: STOP WRITING DIALOGUE AND SCENARIOS that never would happen.The one scene that actually felt real, was the daughter scene needing the car and they started arguing about it. But to go to another scene that would NEVER happen. Ex-husband throws over the table and tries to strangle Frances, then the son takes a knife to ex, and then the new girl (way too young) makes a "comedic" entrance and reacts totally in a way no one would ever react.Unfortunately, it was soooo painful to watch, but I guess with so many worse movies out, the below mediocre films get a lot of praise.
If it wasn't for the big names to carry this movie it wouldn't deserve a third of the critical praise it has received. I can't even fully describe to you, dear movie goer, where this movie is flawed. First of all, these characters in real life wouldn't talk like this. The vast majority of middle America doesn't curse this much in regular every day life. There isn't a lot of ppl that live in small town USA that walk around dropping a GD and an F in casual conversation at the dinner table talking to a priest, at the dentist office, sitting on a swing talking to a cop dying of cancer. That was the first major problem I have with the story. Like seriously WTF? The characters have no authenticity to them. And in a movie where character development is key, I found myself struggling for resolve. I mean the woman's daughter was raped and murdered for goodness sake. So that's major issue if you can't find something else in this woman's life to identify with. Furthermore, I can't help but wonder if making this a fictitious town was intentional or if the director actually wanted to use the town that they filmed in but city officials vetoed that once they heard the dialogue. Honestly you're better off watching an episode of Dateline and then following that with the Departed. Those 2 things make more sense than this movie.


                
This film checks all the PC/social justice boxes within the first 20 minutes. Rural law enforcement is mocked and berated, white males are portrayed as corrupt, incompetent and racist/sexist. We are informed that one deputy tortures young blacks and homosexuals.In American cinema today, its almost as if there were some sort of PC censorship committee that puts its stamp of approval on all material. This is now THE criteria for winning Academy Awards. If this pattern only happened in one or two films, it might be overlooked. Its in every single serious film produced these days.When you get past all the propaganda, you are left with a pathetic ripoff of a Coen Brothers film. Plot holes and unbelievable coincidence reveal poor, uninspired screen writing. This is a that film that relies way too much on the performances of its cast carry it over the considerable rough patches. Its a strong cast, aside from Woody Harrelson, who has been in TOO many films, such that we're not sure whether he's playing himself or an actual unique person.
This is yet another film that reveals the corruption of our film industry by those with political agendas. The state of film critique is also clearly corrupt when this sort of material is rewarded with Oscars. Shameful


                
The overwhelmingly positive reviews of this movie, as of today, are more of a comedy than the movie itself. Nobody laughed once during the movie.A number of the plot twists are implausible, thus a comedy I imagine. The only reason to watch the entire movie would be an appreciation of propaganda.I think that this movie raises issues, that anyone will react to, in a totally meaningless way other than as a pretext for acting out what basically amounts to one political push after another.I can see where this movie might have appeal as a call to arms for those looking for a cause.


                
Honestly I have never been so confused watching a movie before, after all the praise it got I was expecting great things but the film is just a really bad attempt at making artsy dark comedy but it fails so horribly as every inch of it feels forced and overall it is tonally dreadful. I guess maybe people where just bored with what has been pumped out of hollywood recently if this is what is on offer as a 8+ rating movie, honestly I would rather force myself to watch an Adam Sandler marathon... including his later movies, that rewatch this again.


                
If "Three Billboards" were to say something meaningful they would have have been inscribed with kudos for stellar and dynamic acting performance of Sam Rockwell. I am looking forward to seeing Rockwell in films to come. Why give this movie a rating of 1? That is simple;The film leverages a pulp-fiction-formula now used ubiquitously in contemporary serial TV dramas. Each TV episode, or in this case each scene of the movie, has been written to either titillate, shock, or entertain.Stringing a random bunch of contrived story elements together does not a believable story or good movie make. A big difference in depth exists between "Fargo" and "Three Billboards." "Fargo" had a concise story and plot line. "Three Billboards," has a formula mistaken for the same. Sam Rockwell (1) - Movie (0)


                
One of the worst movies I've ever seen. Waaay too many cuss words & the story line was all over the place. I want to be entertained not work trying to figure out where two hours went!


                
The whole way through I realized that this film isn't full of racist characters, the film is just racist. The way the man that was pasting up the billboards spoke to the cop who "tortured people of color" (what was that scene all about BTW?) - was completely tone deaf to how Black people have to interact with the police, especially overtly racist ones! It just seemed a masturbatory way for the writer/director to create a false reality where he can exercise his white-guilt about cops torturing Black people. That same character comes up later with the replacement billboards like some magical hero who was "always on the right side" (because Black people hate cops I guess?) that only exists to be a servant to Mildred. Her friend in the store, Denise, is only there as a tool for the audience/Mildred to be angry at the cops but has absolutely no depth herself. And the new Chief is, again, only an extension of the writer's enormous White guilt. For such a racist White town, that doesn't seemed to be bothered about a cop that tortures Black people, it seems that no one is bothered by a new Black Chief - who has come to no protest by the people and conveniently fixes racism within the police force by firing the one racist. (Woody Harrelson's line about if you fired every racist cop you'd just have three that hated fags is an insane apologist stance too.) In fact, this new chief is such a "good guy," (I hate to say it because it's so gross, but what a classic example of an Uncle Tom) that he forgives and overlooks Mildred who blew up a police station and attempted to murder someone. These character's Blackness only exists to serve Mildred, it's flimsy and exploitative. Also, that monologue about the Catholic church is nauseating - she defends a racist law created to throw as many Black people in prison as possible and relates it to child molestation in the church (also, throws in homosexuality as an equivalent to pedophilia) which is supposed to be a "you-go-girl" moment but ultimately you can't side with her because the priest is the only character in the film that was there for the son. I read a quote from the writer/director that Mildred is an antihero which may explain that last scene but... what the f***? Your protagonist is a woman demanding that the police find the man that raped and murdered her daughter and decided that she is going to be an antihero???? She's not liked by the town for being zealous and she's not liked by the audience for everything else... It takes sharp turns from comedy to drama, cutting both aspects short at the wrong times with none of the humor in the antihero aspect - it's an excuse to have a woman in a revenge role to say that it's a film with a woman in a revenge role... taking notes from the Coen Brothers, Tarantino, Ritchie, and Twin Peaks but missing all of those marks by miles. Not a single female character, not one, had any depth. The ex-husband's new girlfriend for one, was a cartoon based on women being complete morons. Almost all the characters had some sense of being real people but then they throw in a character as comedic relief and the joke is "women are horrendously stupid." Even Mildred is a one note story, she's an angry, bitter mother. Her character arch was completely neutered to fulfill the character arch of the antagonist, a racist who read a letter and is all better now. The second half of the film is just a way to apologize for officer Dixon's wrong-doings - some White male guilt fantasy that he can be redeemed of all of his sins if you just gave the poor guy a chance. That's who the story serves in the end, it IS NOT ABOUT a grieving mother that wants answers, it's not about a child getting raped and murdered, those are just points added in to ultimately give redemption to the wrong doings of white men in power and absolve the writer/director of whatever sins of his own I'm sure he's working through in this film. I even read a quote that he was happy this film was being released among the Harvey Weinstein sexual harassment wave as this film is a place for that anger... wow. Also... The Dwarf character was just used as the butt of what felt like 100 jokes and his redemption is some after school special line about "you judge me for looking different, but look at you" - that character is an adult, why is he consistently trying to date Mildred and cover for her? (hint: to make the audience feel better about laughing at endless midget jokes when he gets the final word.) Then the rapist who murdered someone in some "Sandy country" (-_-) is drawn as simple as some of the women in this film. I guess the writer/director is claiming that - it's not war that brings out the worst in people - some people rape and kill and brag about it to their buddies over a drink with no signs of PTSD, shame, guilt. PTSD would not justify rape and murder, but it is an extension of "people can do good if they just changed their minds" that we saw with Officer Dixon. (Maybe there will be a sequel where the rapist says he's sorry and spends the rest of the film teaching Black kids how to play basketball. Seems like a fit continuation for this confused film.) Too many false endings too with no real good conclusion other than, again, to serve as a nice pillow for the redemption of officer Dixon to rest on. Would've been better if the climax was the Chief's suicide and the resolution was that he gave the money to Mildred.
This film is just horrible. We have a woman who is hateful. We are supposed to feel sympathy because her daughter was killed - but how can you? She is foul mouthed, treats her children terribly, makes wild accusations, belittles the town priest (very unnecessary), tortures the town dentist (and it is okay to physically harm someone because you are grieving?), kicks two kids in the groin in front of the high school (so child abuse is okay also if you are an uneducated foul mouth?), and it goes on and on. This movie basically says that if something bad happens to you that you have the right to urinate on the rest of the world with no consequences.Then we have to make the two dimensional cop who is racist and foul just to further create our movie of a "hate culture" and promote more hatred.The movie had one redeeming quality - Woody Harrelson. His character even explains that there is no DNA, no witnesses, no leads - which we know in reality makes a case hard to solve - but instead we have a horrible lead who does not care - does not care who's life she ruins, who she hurts, just as long as her hatred is fueled. This is the garbage that helps to set the immoral, vile, foul, hateful culture that permeates society. Another big thank you to a soulless movie industry that loves to corrupt the youth.


                
Blatant, disgusting anti-cop crap; makes police look like a bunch a foul-mouthed, gutless, cowards, who let the public curse and spit at them at will without repercussions. Leading actress may have been the most unsympathetic character in movie history, someone audience roots against, from start to finish. Supposedly takes place in Missouri, but I can't imagine the actual natives using the "F" word as frequently in a single year, then these actors do in a minute. Movie was trash, a watse of ninety minutes, and $5.99.


                
THREE BILLBOARDS OUTSIDE EBBING, MISSOURI is a darkly comic drama from Academy Award nominee Martin McDonagh (In Bruges). After months have passed without a culprit in her daughter's murder case, Mildred Hayes (Academy Award winner Frances McDormand) makes a bold move, painting three signs leading into her town with a controversial message directed at William Willoughby (Academy Award nominee Woody Harrelson), the town's revered chief of police.Anotehr politically correct cop hating identity politicking Hollywood movie with manufactured buzz and a shoo in to win a bunch of undeserved awards.
Don't buy into this BS.
It's time to bring sanity to the nation.


                
