Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri is a dark comedy that has an a-list cast with names like Frances McDormand, Woody Harrelson, Sam Rockwell, John Hawkes, and Peter Dinklage. It centers around Mildred Hayes, a woman whose daughter was raped and killed, and who believes that the local police have not done enough about it. In reaction, she erects three billboards outside of her town that send a message to the sheriff about the state of the investigation.Writer/director Martin McDonagh (Seven Psychopaths, In Bruges) has outdone himself with this one. In my opinion, if this isn't one of the top Oscar contenders come awards season, then Hollywood has officially lost its mind.Basically everything about this film works: from the acting, to the writing, to the direction. Mcdormand gives the performance of her career here, giving us humor through all the pain clearly shown on her face. Rockwell also gives his best performance here as a cop who isn't that bright and is more than a little racist. Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri is probably the most unpredictable film of the year, and that's coming from a year that includes films like Baby Driver and Logan. There are scenes where you think that you know where the plot is going, but then midway through it completely flips the script. For the entire run-time of this film, I was invested. It has the perfect run-time; it ends exactly when it needs to and there is not a scene that feels out of place. It seems like one of the hardest things to do in film nowadays is to balance comedy and drama. However, this movie does it effortlessly. Each scene has just the right amount of comedy and drama, and sometimes, despite the fact that you're laughing, it's easy to forget that jokes are being made.Also, the message that this film gives off resonates very powerfully with you after the film finishes. It makes you see the good side in humanity, despite our flaws. No character in this film is a cliché one-dimensional shell of a person. Everybody has a reason for being there, which is more than some films recently have offered.Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri is easily one of the best and most enjoyable films of 2017, and it will make you laugh, cry, and think all in one sitting. There are not any clear flaws with this film that I can find, but I am still searching.I give Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri an A+.


                
What a movie and what great acting. Frances McDormand has done amazing job and deserves awards for playing Mildred Hayes. Although a very serious subject, this movie is a comedy.The punch lines are to the point and absolutely hilarious. I went to the Toronto International Film Festival to watch this movie and boy, do I consider myself lucky to have decided to watch it.The story, screenplay, direction are amazing. After The Grand Budapest Hotel, this movie comes as a breath of fresh air.


                
Martin McDonagh (In Bruges, Seven Psychopaths) wrote and directed this very tough but brilliant story about anger, revenge, agony, prejudice - and redemption. Every character in this dramatic tour de force is drawn with equal parts hate and anger - with a dollop of hope and forgiveness and reconciliation in the end. It is a phenomenal achievement. The language is saturated with foul/vulgar/trash type language but it fits the area and the particular character in this darkly comic drama. After months have passed without a culprit in her daughter's murder case, Mildred Hayes (Frances McDormand) makes a bold move, painting three signs leading into her town with a controversial message directed at William Willoughby (Woody Harrelson), the town's revered chief of police. When his second-in-command Officer Dixon (Sam Rockwell), an immature mother's boy with a penchant for violence, gets involved, the battle between Mildred and Ebbing's law enforcement is only exacerbated. Mildred's son (Lucas Hedges) is seemingly the only stable character despite his absentee father (John Hawkes) and 19-year-old girlfriend (Samara Weaving) antics and his mother's foul pained mood. The pinnacle of angry young men is policeman Dixon (Sam Rockwell in a brilliant performance) whose movements include severely harming the sign maker (Caleb Landry Jones) as well as violating all manner of laws. Peter Dinklage portrays James, the 'town midget' whose role is also key to the denouement of the action.Rape, murder, arson and many other forms of violence fill the screen but McDonagh makes it all make sense. McDormand, Rockwell, and Harelson are astonishingly but then there isn't a weak member in this extraordinary cast. This is one of the best films of the year, despite the subject matter at the core of it.


                
Saw this in a theatre. Very entertaining film with relevant social issues. The film deserves best film Oscar n Rockwell best supporting actor.
The best part about this film is the character development and the awesome ensemble cast and their performances. 
Frances McDormands performance is solid but Sam Rockwell cannot be ignored n Woody Harrelson is always a treat to watch.
Another great aspect is the writing. McDonagh did a terrific job. He tackled the films serious dark material very well n made the film bearable to watch by adding enuff humor, unpredictability, tension n beautiful locations. The editing n cinematography is good too. This film was captivating n mesmerising n not at all slow as compared to most Oscar nominated films.
Havnt seen the directors previous films but will definitely check it out as after watchin this film i can b sure of em being good.


                
Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri (2017) really is a fantastic film, definitely deserved its Best Picture nomination at the Academy Awards. They just got everything right with this one! A film of this type is very difficult to make. The main reason it's so tough, is because yes it's pretty dark due to the subject matter, but it also has some comedy sprinkled in occasionally. You have to make sure that the comedy sprinkled in does not make the subject out to be a joke, or that it doesn't diminish it in any way. Luckily, this one was done in a very smart fashion. When there is comedy, it is very funny, but when it's time to be serious and focus on the darker aspects, no on is laughing. That's how you pull off a film like this successfully. The plot surrounds Mildred, played by Frances McDormand. She rents three billboards just outside of Ebbing, where she lives. Those billboards have messages on them that go after the local police department, she is doing this because her daughter was raped and murdered and she doesn't think the cops are doing anything about it. After she does this, there is a lot of backlash and there are consequences that people suffer. I won't give away any spoilers, but let's just say that you won't be taking your eyes off the screen. Part of the reason for that is because of the cast this film boasts. McDormand gives a fabulous performance here, I mean I was blown away by her raw talent that was displayed here. So glad she took home the Oscar for this powerhouse performance. Woody Harrelson is good here too, his character isn't quite as big as McDormand and Sam Rockwell's, but he still did a good job. Sam Rockwell is a very talented actor and he proved that talent here with his portrayal of the very complicated, messy character that he plays. I loved every cast member and what they brought to the film. The writing is witty, clever, and above all, intelligent. I 100% recommend this film.


                
Last year I had the unfortunate duty of giving the eventual Best Picture winner at the Academy Awards a negative review. 'Moonlight' was not a movie that sat well with me. Now this is a very early call on my part but I have a sneaking suspicion I'm writing the review for the 2018 winner as we speak, and I can assure you it's not going to be a negative review this time around. 'Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri' is the finest film I have watched in a long time. How a film that can break your heart so effortlessly can also manage to be so damn funny and charming at the same time is simply beyond me. It shouldn't be possible. However writer/director Martin McDonagh proves that it can indeed be done.Frances McDormand in the lead role is astonishingly good. There are many cries at the moment that there aren't enough movies with females in the lead role. Well showing them that the best film in 2017 has one is a good place to base your argument from. She is so good that you can feel her broken heart and soul almost as if it is your own. Sam Rockwell is also nothing short of superb. He remains one for the best actors working today and I only wish he would take on more work. Finally Woody Harrelson is fantastic in the film. He seems to be so endlessly charming in every film he appears in these days. Was that always the case? Regardless, he is a brilliant edition to this film.Be prepared going into this movie is all I will say. It will take you on an abolsute rollercoaster of emotions. There are times where a hilarious line is delivered and you might actually stop and question yourself, "Am I allowed to laugh in a film this dark?" I know the Oscar nominations aren't even out yet, but I am extremely hopeful that this is the final film read out on ceremony night. Great films deserve great recognition.


                
It goes without saying that dark comedy is very difficult to accomplish. I would almost say it's harder to pull off than regular comedy because you need to be able to keep people invested in the dramatic aspect of the film, while still keeping them laughing throughout the majority of the duration. Director Martin McDonagh has matured as a filmmaker over the years, starting off with In Bruges, which was pretty much a flat-out comedy, to Seven Psychopaths, which placed him a little further into the spotlight, but I must admit that Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri is not only his best film to date, but also one of the best films I've received the pleasure of witnessing all year. From laughter to genuine tension and heart, this is a film that's pretty much perfect all around. Here is why I can recommend this film to everyone.After the tragic death of her daughter, Mildred Hayes calls out the local authorities on three billboards, publicly stating that they're not doing their jobs and not a single arrest has happened since the death of her daughter. While publicly displaying this is upsetting to some, she sees it as a point being made. Through some very cleverly written humor throughout the entire film, levity is brought to the table in times of sorrow, making this a very easy movie to watch. Although the story itself is quite depressing, this film is written in a way that will still find a way to make you smile.From the very first few frames of this film, you can tell the tone will be handled perfectly. Written and directed by Martin McDonagh with pure class, you can tell that he was very passionate when bringing this film to fruition. Every line of dialogue either progressed the story along, developed a character, made the audience laugh, or provided deep insight into the event of the murder itself. While not having the bearings of a conventional murder mystery, many viewers may not like the way this film concludes, but in the context of the movie as a whole and everything it's setting out to accomplish, it really does have a realistic and true finale.It's arguable that some of the law enforcement officers play just as significant a role as Mildred does throughout the film, being pretty much present every time a revelation occurs, but I gravitated the most towards Officer Dixon. I've always been a huge fan of Sam Rockwell, and his character here is one of the most essential to this story, set on being there from beginning to end, trying his absolute best to be of any help. While Woody Harrelson's portrayal of Chief Willoughby is by far the most important to the story at hand, it's the characters around him that drive him to his actions throughout the course of the movie. The characters are truly what make this film as likable as it is, and they're all wonderfully drawn.Overall, when looking back on my experience watching Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri, I find myself not being able to wait until its official theatrical release to watch it again. I found this film to be stellar in every sense of the word. From a noteworthy performance by Francis McDormand, devoted secondary performances, a screenplay that will have you consistently laughing, while also being emotionally involved with the serious storyline at hand, and pulling the audience in with its subtly composed score, everything about this film is worth praise. This was a huge surprise for me and I can't recommend you checking it out enough. Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri is a fantastic piece of modern cinema.


                
Three Billboards outside Ebbing Missouri (2017) A stunning, moving, funny as heck movie. You almost have to compare it to "Fargo" for its depth and wit simultaneously. Both movies dig into a caricatured America, in this case the South (I'm not sure they ever say where, but it feels like Georgia.) The great character here has to be the woman who pays for ads on billboards, and who drives the plot--Frances McDormand--and who also happens to be the amazing lead in "Fargo." Yeah. Here she doesn't quite don a full southern accent the way she became rural Minnesota in a lick, but she's a perfect type, and tough. Around her are the nuanced but funny kinds of people you'd expect, especially a cadre of cops that includes Woody Harrelson, always an asset, this time as an honorable chief of police with cancer. The third big name is Sam Rockwell, who is terrific as a troubled cop. His role grows as the movie twists. Any scene with McDormand and Harrelson, or with her and Rockwell, is really amazing. Good acting is good acting.
 The script here is great. I think it is the screenplay of the year and should get the Oscar, never mind the fun originality of "Get Out" which lacks the subtle insights and natural language here.  There are other levels to love this movie on, from the music (Carter Burwell) to the photography (Ben Davis). Almost no one is a famous contributor beyond the actors, including the director and writer, Martin McDonagh. That's partly what makes it all fresh and honest. 
 It's a great movie. Do not miss it.


                
We saw this last week at a special screening as part of the SAG Film Society series and it just blew everything else we had seen away! I really loved Breathe and Wild River, but this was not only riveting in its development and surprising in its plot twists, but just fascinating to watch. The plot is crafted like an intricate puzzle that slowly spins out as the characters interact and react in completely unpredictable ways. The only thing I did NOT like about it is the ending, because I felt it not only left the audience hanging in the middle of the film, without resolving to a satisfying (for me) conclusion, but I also did not want it to END! That's how fascinating the characterizations are. McDormand and Rockwell are both standouts, but Harrelson definitely holds his own with them, as well as all of the supporting cast. I don't usually write reviews, but this was so memorable that I had to post something. I will not give anything away because it is better the less you know, but GO SEE IT!!!


                
The screenplay of this movie is absolutely stunning. The script handles this mode of tragedy very well but at the same time manages a very intelligent and very well thought comedy. Although some of the characters try to be funny in times of stress and tension, which makes them insignificant in my opinion, the whole cast is amazing, but obviously the most outstanding is Frances McDormand's character. She is an unfiltered psycho who seeks justice for the death of her daughter. She's everything in this film, even her facial expressions are amazing. The film manages a very interesting comedy, for example, Carter Burwell puts a slow music to put you in a sad mood and make you feel for the characters and suddenly... you laugh. It is very unusual but hilarious.


                
This is my first review and it my opinion might be odd for most but they said above "your review" 
So as the oscars nominations cameout yesterday, i like to watch every nominated film which i didnt yet watch and i started with "Three billboards ... " ( such a long title ). 
I started this movie with great expectations due to its 8 nominations. As the movie went on i thought when will they catch the killer 
isnt that the whole point? 
Absolutely not! 
The whole point was in a great scene at the burning police station 
How the contrast was made with a woman burning down a police station and a man listening to music and reading a letter from his deceased partner about how he thought the "antagonist" (at this point) was a good guy and all he needs was to love and how love gives everyone better life and saves him from a fire.
Clearly this wasn't the first time when a character turned from bad to good 
Woody harrleson turned from "going to war" to sending a note to the woman who caused him trouble before death and i think the reason was his cancer spreading.
The advertising agency guy showed compassion to the fired police officer eventhough he was quite angry.
At the scene where they were going to kill the army officer, I felt as if the whole story was showing that the anger always wins but when they started raising doubts 
I was very happy that both of them were getting over their anger I noticed two things that werent "making sense" in the scenario:
1) why did the soldier even go and do that to the old lady 
he doesnt even live there and he is a soldier why would he do that 
2) Why was the soldier scared of fighting a policeman 
he is in the army 
he got some commading office backing him up Sorry i didnt know any name from the movie 
i instantly forget them after being done So that is that 
*Should i delete this shitty review?* 
-Nah-
I tried to write the summary of this movie for three days and still i have not found the correct words to connect them in order to make a sentence capable of expressing the quality of it. I have written the summary many times and i have erased in every occasion. So i decided to show some dots in the summary. That is the symbol of how excellent the movie is.The plot :The plot is very much uncommon. it has so many facts that it offers you a guessing 2 hour while you goes through the movie. It provides enough backbone to the rest of the element of the movie. It creates a concrete base upon which the movie stands firmly.The mystery :As the movie deals with a murder it contains enough mystery to shake the audiences. Scene after scene all this unpacked. But they have to wait till the end to solve the puzzles.The resistance : The movie is about the resistance of a mother. It starts with the desperate mission of a mother to bring the killers of her daughter to light. Those billboards, the sudden attacks, burgaining against the local authority.. all these are the part of a resistant mother which is also the part and parcel of the movie.Acting :Acting in my view is up to the mark. Frances Mcdormand is exquisite in her role as a mother seeking justice. Others have also come to the party.Direction :This is the characterstics of the movie i was most impressed with. Although the plot and the acting is out of question but it is the director who has the sole credit to connect all this. He has slowly but cleverly unfolded all the sector available. He is good enough to make the movie what it looks like in the projector. He has turned the raw materials to a mature masterpiece.Questions and answers :last of all the main event is the answers of the question that were aroused during the first session of the movie. You have to wait to find the answers. This waiting makes it more attractive.So clearly it is a movie of great quality..a bit older type..but you know old is gold..


                
In most crime cases, there are not just two, but many sides to the story. Let's say a thief was caught steeling someone's wallet. The victim and the police would agree that what he did was wrong and was damaging to the owner. The thief, in return, may say that he's dirt broke with a starving child and only needed a few extra dollars for some food. Are any of these people in the wrong? Yes and no. It all depends on the people and what it is their doing. A stolen wallet case is a simple wrongdoing, but what about an emotional scaring murder?In the case of a movie like Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri, we get the case of a death of a teenager, and yet the scene was so clean that the authorities are hard pressed to even go after any suspects. So her mother decides to take action. Now what she does paints one picture about how the response has been. yet we do get another side about the complications about following the rules and not wanting to make false assumptions. So let's see how Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri looks at it's though situation.Single mother Mildred (played by Francis McDormand) is grieving over the loss of her teenage daughter Angela who was killed, raped, and burned. The local authorities have been investigating to find the culprits, but have yet to find any good leads. Having run out of patience, Mildred rents three billboards on a rural road with each one saying "RAPED WHILE DYING", "AND STILL NO ARRESTS", and "HOW COME, CHIEF WILLOUGHBY?". This draws immediate attention from the locals whose reaction is quite negative. Mildred's son Robbie (played by Lucas Hedges) doesn't like the attention, her ex husband Charlie (played by John Hawkes) is furious, and the majority of the town sides with the chief.Chief Willoughby (played by Woody Harrelson) is sympathetic to Mildred's frustration and even talks with her about his complications and how he's suffering from pancreatic cancer (the reason the town is siding with him). She nevertheless keeps the billboards going, which only make town folk even angrier. She and her son are harassed and she even attacks her dentist when things get violent. It doesn't help that fellow officer Dixon (played by Sam Rockwell) is high tempered, not that bright, and takes the billboards as a personal insult. I find it amazing that Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri was not based on any incident and is an original story. It feels like something that could have happened, because of the characters involved. It would have been easy to make this story a corrupt police and show Mildred as a hero, but like that TV show Game of Thrones, almost everyone here is within a gray area. Including Mildred and Chief Willoughby, they have their strength, but heavy flaws that don't just affect the case, but their own lives. This is another example of a character study.Because this is a movie that relies on it's characters, the actors are phenomenal. Francis McDormand plays a woman who had already had life beaten her down, but with that extra death on her conscience, makes her a storm cloud of angst. She carries a lot of stress, but also seems to believe she has nothing more to lose. Sam Rockwell plays a different kind of...stupid that you don't see too often. He's in his own lazy bubble with the concept that as long as things stay status quo, then he'll be fine. As the movie goes further, you see everything he understands falls apart and what that does to his personality.I'll give this ten red billboards out of ten. Sorry that the review is short, but there's a lot in this movie I cannot give away. It's an engaging story that's not even much of a mystery. It's a character-driven drama at heart and knows how their actions will dictate the plot. Go see Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri, and understand why even with all sides of the story on the table, it's hard to tell whose right.


                
There is something about this film that I really love but I can't point out.The acting? Frances McDormand is a wonderful and a compelling actress and man I got won over by Sam Rockwell's convincing acting which got me love-hate him. And poor me, I didn't even know who they were before this one.Perhaps the senseless direction of the plot and the underdeveloped characters? If you really think about it, the story was going nowhere. All you got a bunch of characters who never seem to get what they want. We got characters that fight their own battles. A mother who seeks justice for her child, a cop who still lives with his domineering mother, a chief who is pressured to finish an unresolved case knowing that he is dying, and bunch of other ideas of a character that seem to show up and disappear. Maybe everything about this film fit perfectly for me. The screenplay, the direction and cinematography, the overall production.Should I get mad that the film failed to highlight the struggles of minorities? That there are misogynistic and racist characters? Am I stupid if I say no?Reality is, people are racist, the justice system is flawed, grief makes people do crazy things, hate is everywhere, love always gives and doesn't demand, some families are dysfunctional, forgiveness is not everything, and answers aren't always available no matter how we demand it. This movie is a reflection of these things. People are flawed and we all go through hard times and we fight different battles and despite this, there is a glimmer of goodness within us.Not everything has to be politically correct to be sensible. At the very least, shoving political correctness up on everybody's asses is preposterous at a time like this in my honest opinion.


                
I saw this film yesterday, and I do not regret it - 100% will watch it again.The movie is very much unlike many other movies out at the minute, or in really recent history. Even by Martin McDonaugh's standard's, this is a movie that doesn't fit into the same Black Comedy box as his previous two movies "In Bruges" or "Seven Psychopaths". In fact, this movie is far more up on tragedy than those two, which even in their sad moments have some humour. Don't get me wrong; this is not a film that's lacking in colour or dynamics, but it's certainly bleaker than those others by McDonaugh.At the head of this movie is a phenomenal cast. The most notable of these are the recent Oscar nominated Frances McDormand as Mildred Hayes, Woody Harrelson as Sheriff Bill Willoughby and Sam Rockwell as Officer Jason Dixon.Frances McDormand is a force of nature in this role, and is certainly her best film work since/included Fargo, depending on your opinion. Her character of Mildred is one that could very easily be portrayed as a flawless martyr, striving for justice for her daughter at the behest of everyone else but whom will convince the audience to see her as a perfect person and nothing more. But she doesn't, as whilst you will laugh and cheer when she confronts Dixon in the station with her now famous "Hey f***head!", you have issues when she tells Willoughby she doesn't care of his cancer, but is later sympathetic when she starts to wain. It's a character that could easily have been boring, but isn't in her hands. The best example of this is when they show a flashback to her final chat with her daughter, and her daughter yells "I hope I get raped on the way", she responds "I hope you get raped too!", and that's what happened. It's a great moment, played as intensely as needed for it to work.Woody Harrelson plays a side of him people rarely see. He's not in the film for very long, as he kills himself fairly early in, but he certainly stays in the mind despite this. Willoughby is a man trying to do the right thing, but is going against an unbeatable obstacle, and who we, as an audience, do get a sense of despite his short screen time: a funny, compassionate, well respected leader of the police, and a great father and husband at the same time. When he went, I legit teared up.Sam Rockwell, in his best work ever, plays the character who goes through the biggest arc in the movie. At the start, Dixon is very much a bitter, violent cop with a fragile ego, who when it breaks becomes scary. His endpoint however, whilst not a complete 180, is still big; he learns to take his time, think things through, and be more willing to do a policeman's work for the good of the community than himself.Martin McDonaugh's screenplay is top tier brilliance, as humour and horror do exist in the same plain, and his direction is just as sterily clean, so when the violence does hit, it really does. The two biggest examples are when the fight between Mildred, her ex-husband Charlie played by John Hawkes, and her son Robbie played by Lucas Hedges, and when Dixon attacks the billboard owner in a rage at his office.The ending, whilst not what I was expecting, was welcome. To me, it signals that whilst the resolve isn't there, the character's of Mildred and Jason have found a purpose beyond and this helps them to cope. As they head off to places unknown to do a thing they're not sure of, we know that their moral compasses are still guiding them, in this very adult, very great film, that is totally worth a rewatch.One last thing: the race issue in this movie, is something that, if it hadn't been brought up, you wouldn't notice. It's ironic that in a movie that is based around growing in compassion and empathy, that this strange label of racism has been put on a movie that neither promotes these viewpoints, but the character's that do exhibit these points of view see the error of them.Whatever; I enjoyed this film regardless, and that won't change. If you think it looks like a good viewing, give it a go.
It takes not only a considerable amount of skill to match deep-dark- heartbreaking dramatic storytelling and characters with a pitch<f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+00A8>black comic edge; to go the extra mile one should hopefully have a voice. Martin McDonaugh may be mistaken too quickly as having made a Coen brothers film - Frances McDormand being there doesn't help assuage that argument - yet through In Bruges and Seven Psychopaths he's shown his acidic, no bullish*t, I see clichés for what they are and raise you a subversion original voice in writing and an assured hand in direction. He also casts his movies like nobody's business and from McDormand down to Sam Rockwell and Sam Rockwell's mom to the actress as Angela Hayes having one scene, he has everyone with fresh, Thanksgiving-buffet-plate meat to chew on. While it's one of the best films of the year, I'm sure if I try, more or less, I can find some nitpick or even flaws - the daughter Hayes scene could be one simply for the final two lines mother and daughter have, I understand the point but it's too far on the nose, especially for this artist; another could be how quickly "f***head" Rockwell comes around to a kind-of-sort-of-maybe redemption in the third act - but all of this is overshadowed by the giant moral and social-political-emotional scope of everything else. Mildred Hayes is one of those movie characters that, male or female (but especially make), stays with you for not so much how balls they are but how marvelled they are by their own ballsiness.McDormand has such a command of the character in the big moments - those trailer bits that, if ones been going to the movies this year, has been overplayed (though luckily practically all of the major story points aren't revealed) - one may miss a moment like when Mildred realizes a character did something horrible that she punished someone else for, or how she looks after a tough a-hole comes into her shop coming face to face with a threatening countenance. She's played so many people who carry an ocean of complexity but whats appealing is how she carries a lot of it without needing to show much. Hell, one beat where she has her two animal slippers on their feet talk in bold violent terms is among the great acting moments of the year. So how relevant is it to now? I mention Do the Right Thing because not so much it having the same dramatic build up so much as it has a similar anger - no sorry not true, boiling, scornful rage - at how segments of our country have been, are and may always be (the mother of Rockwell is one such character who inspires such rage at least for me, and she is just your average white-bread matriarch. Also like Lee's film it shows a community who are inextricably linked, and at times the stark racism is almost like a bad joke (Rockwell's cop being a torturer of black inmates, if not more than one, is almost a goof; he's akin to the John Tururro type in DtRT, a man who just is what he is and it's too late to change now, so everyone looks at Mildred in this story and her whole billboards "thing" closer to something like a basic acting-out in grief than a howl for justice. And then when it comes time for a new man to come in to the town's police force, and I won't say how or why, and id rather you just see it than me put in the spoiler marker, it is like a cold bath of irony: the genuinely tough, decent, on top of it older black man. This is as towering a script as we may get in American cinema this year, and if it has imperfections it shouldn't matter much. The central idea here is such: if you don't bring a light on stark injustice, people wont do much if nothing else because it's not on their mind or (frankly) in their own interests. Willoughby says at one point the billboards are a "chess move." What is the "king" to take then? The ending of the film may seem to leave things too open-ended for some, and I get that. To me, the end is that there's never an ending when it comes to looking at rape (which is assault) and other violence (which is more directly assault) there is no clear ending. You can kill yourself, sure, but that doesn't solve much for those who have to live in total pain. I love this!


                
Billboards... Ebbing... So many "B's" but a B-movie it sure ain't... far from it actually, this is high-level film-making, a movie meaning "B" for excellence, B as in Business!And watching some shots of Frances McDormand driving across some random Missouri road and turning her head to her passenger made me feel I was watching an older -and grouchier- version of her most iconic character Marge Gunderson. That both performances earned her Oscars is no coincidence, she was born to be Marge and Mildred, Mildred Hayes to name her. The traits are more severe-looking, age did alter her woman-next-door charm but there's something in the eyes that left room to a certain gentleness, decency and sense of humor, no matter how twisted it is.Sense of humor indeed... in a story involving police brutality, racism, and rape, the evil trinity wrapped up into another of these typical atypical Midwest crisis, something you wouldn't believe it was possible before watching Martin McDonagh's acclaimed "Three Billboards outside Ebbing, Missouri", the film that came so close to winning the triple crown of Best Pictures yesterday (but took home the right acting Oscars). Yet as horrific and seemingly cynical (seemingly underlined) it is, the film immediately drained from the wells of the Coen brother's masterpiece's memories. If not as close to perfect as "Fargo" is, it's as close to cinematic perfection as many recent movies confronted us to, there's just something immensely satisfying about "Billboards"."Fargo" was crazy, wicked but remember how it ended, Marge was summoning the newly arrested criminal, telling him that there's more to life than money, and he was going to jail on what was a 'beautiful day', the masterpiece of dark humor ended with a light of hope and you could even sense remorse growing in the sociopath's eyes. Just when it became so trendy to have decent characters descending into madness and psychopathy and all the viewers secretly wishing they could loosen up a bit as far as their ethics go, here is a movie where characters start behaving like the bad guys we expect, only to discover that there was something good about them that only waited for the right opportunity to blossom. If that film didn't win the Best Picture Oscar, at least, it shows what "Crash" should have been to really deserve it."Fargo" and "Crash" weren't the only movie "Billboards" reminded me of, there was something in McDormand's wounded soul playing like a reminiscence of Kathy Bates' underrated performance as and in "Dolores Clairborne", a Stephen King's story that ventured into similar realms of traumas and vengeance by focusing on the tortured mind of an average woman. The parallel that can be drawn between the two performances (besides the fact that Bates should have been nominated) is the defining line of the film "Sometimes being a bitch is all a woman's got to hold on to." That line encompasses every single action of Mildred Hayes, never as an excuse but an explanation. When a mother has her daughter killed, abused and savagely burnt and the investigation leads to nowhere, she can only resort to the bitchiest side of her soul and yes, some wicked sense of humor... as the billboards would be referred to as a 'joke' by one of the main concerned people, and not in a condescending way.So how about the infamous billboards? These three unused things of the 80's in a road nobody takes, and the opportunity to 'create a buzz', at a time where Internet, twitter, Facebook attracted every attention-whore of the world, here's one hell of a clever use of medium, anachronistic, inventive (screenplay-wise very clever but wouldn't you expect that from the writer director of "In Bruges") and the starter of a chain of events that will challenge and tease all your expectations. Because it's not much the set-up that "Billboards" establishes which is its main strength but how it plays with it, toying in the process with what we would expect after watching "Fargo", "Crash" or "August Osage County". The film opens with a hardened Midwest divorced mother, a worn-out but benevolent Chief of Police targeted by the billboards played by Woody Harrelson, a redneck deputy played by the great Sam Rockwell, so many characters' tropes in a nutshell that end up being totally deconstructed, for moments of laughs, shock and some heights of emotionality you never expect (not from 'these' characters anyway).And it's all in the deconstruction that "Billboards" work, McDonagh has just a way to make the story advances so that once you think you spotted a contrivance or felt something was going in the predictable Aesopian-arc way that the film takes a detour into a twist you didn't see while maintaining its plausibility and revealing a higher esteem on humanity. This is a journey whose starting point is a horrific act of barbarity and ending up with 'bad' people realizing that deep inside there's more room for decency than they would believe... and people who realize that just because they defend a noble cause, aren't immune to punctual bits of vileness. Now, that's challenging. And later, the film takes another path that leaves the perfect cloud of uncertainty, but I'll stop here because this is one experience I don't want to spoil, just enjoy "Billboards", it is THAT good.The film is served by great performances, besides Oscar-winning McDormand and Rockwell, there's also Peter Dinklage who has a great shining moment and there's the so underrated Woody Harrelson who always hit the right note between pathos and humor and the neutered tone of the man who starts to take things seriously, just like this movie does but not without a level of edgy self-awareness that makes the whole thing oddly entertaining no matter how dark it is. Really, one of a kind!


                
It's a movie, people, not a documentary and if you want to argue about verisimilitude compare with the fantastically unlikely facts and events of the current White House.
Anyhoo, this movie manages to take an almost unrelenting series of terrible events yet inject them with characters that are fleshed out not just with pathos but with humor that is often hilariously funny. And I love that it deals with issues of love, redemption, crime and forgiveness with a lot of finesse and complexity. And ambivalence. 
Loved it.


                
Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri is quite simply one of, if not the best film of 2017. It rivals Blade Runner 2049 in sheer greatness. There were so many moments in Three Billboards that genuinely surprised me. It was truly refreshing seeing a movie as unpredictable as Three Billboards. Perhaps the best part of the film, however, are the characters. The performances from pretty much all of the actors in this movie are fantastic. Frances McDormand gives an absolutely spectacular performance in this film (Probably the best performance of her career). And Of course, Sam Rockwell, Woody Harrelson, Peter Dinklage, and Caleb Landry Jones were fantastic in this movie as well. However, there is one actor in this film who did pretty poorly in my opinion, which was Lucas Hedges. His performance was pretty bad in this film, but luckily he really wasn't an important character, so his performance didn't hinder my overall thoughts of the film. But it's not just the performances that really make these characters great; the way these characters are written is absolutely genius! I genuinely cared about every character in this film. There were some characters that I never expected to care about and sympathize with by the end of it. Each character has a brilliantly written arc that blends perfectly with the pace of the film. Three Billboards is a film worthy of the Oscar it is nominated for. I highly encourage you to go see this movie as soon as you can, before it stops showing in theaters. It is truly a film worth seeing on the big screen.


                
You couldn't get more mid-American than Missouri. You'd be forgiven for not knowing that the state capital is Jefferson City. It's an unremarkable state and Ebbing is an unremarkable town (made up it would seem); it's not trailer trash, it's not deep south. It's just a nondescript, middle-class, American provincial town frequented by the usual mish-mash of not quite Hillbillys, not quite racists. They'd have voted for Trump in big numbers; if the place existed.It's here that Frances McDormand (just like in the unremarkable town of Fargo) stakes her claim for a place at the top table in the pantheon of greatest living actresses.It's here that Martin McDonagh cements his position as the greatest living comedy writer. (As if In Bruges wasn't enough, he's got his theatre canon of work to bolster those credentials - The Beauty Queen of Leenane and The Lieutenant of Inishmore are both comedic masterpieces.)And it's here that both Sam Rockwell and Woody Harrelson put in career defining (and probable Oscar winning) performances.To say that Frances McDormand has everything you need to be the complete actress is an understatement; she's hilarious, brutal, droll, moving, sympathetic, antagonistic, bombastic, arrogant, crazy, vulnerable, arch, facetious and deadpan. And that's only in the first 20 minutes. This will unquestionably win her, her second Oscar.And Martin McDonagh will pick up his second for best original screenplay (14 years after winning best short in 2004) and maybe even his third for best director. He already has no fewer than four (yes 4) nominations at the BAFTA's and I expect him to win at least half of them - because this is writing and direction of the very highest order. He's moved on since In Bruges. Sure the C bomb is dropped very early in the first dialogue scene and turns up several times more. But this is not the full pelt filth that Colin Farrell deployed to intense pleasure in the former.This is a subtler, equally dark but even more brutal exposition. Each word seems to have been crafted on a lathe. I gasped several times at the sheer dexterity of his writing delivered by masters of their craft.There's a dwarf, yes. There's an idiot, yes.But I ain't telling you no more than that. I saw it without spoilers so you deserve the same respect.It has a breathtakingly bold finish, I'll tell you that; spoiling nothing.This is cinema at its absolute finest. The best film I have seen this year by far (and I thought Dunkirk was truly outstanding).Go Martin.


                
(RATING: <U+2606><U+2606><U+2606><U+2606><U+2606> out of 5) GRADE: A- THIS FILM IS HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.IN BRIEF: Three of the year's best performances in one of the year's best films.SYNOPSIS: A grieving mother angers a town in order to seek justice for her daughter's unsolved murder.JIM'S REVIEW: When one glances at Mildred Hayes (Frances McDormand), it is hard to ever imagine if this woman ever danced, or smiled, or loved someone. One wonders if she ever was an innocent child growing up. Her constant scowl, disdaining look, and furrowed brow, are all evident from a lifetime of disappointments which show us that here is a most unhappy person.<U+FFFC>But her appearance tells a deeper story... a tragic tale that gives her permission to be filled with hopelessness and a justifiable reason for her rage. Seven months ago, her daughter was raped and savagely murdered and her killer still remains at large. Justice has not been served and now she must intervene in Martin McDonagh's dark comedy, Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri. Leasing a trio of outdoor displays, she will force local law enforcement into solving her daughter's killing by announcing their ineptitude and shaming the town in the process as the situation becomes even more violent as the investigation spins out of control. The film is superb.<U+FFFC>Just as the morning fog rolls in like a shroud of ominous foreboding, so does a nagging sense of dread and melancholia which seems to hang onto this town and its inhabitants. Mr. McDonagh serves as director and screenwriter and has created a work of art. He deftly directs his own screenplay with masterful results, blending humor and dramatic tension seamlessly. The director / screenwriter's unique and slightly quirky vision fills his film with poetic images (a teddy bear slightly submerged by a riverbank, a deserted set of red swings gently moving in the breeze, a box turtle crawling over a sleeping woman, three disintegrated billboard alongside an empty road). His dialog is hauntingly real and filled with confrontational conversations and barbed words. There are scenes of unexpected poignancy (one between Ms. M. and a passing deer near those controversial billboards and another involving a conversation between pink bunny slippers that are heartbreaking) Each and every character, from major to minor, are fully drawn and react with complete honesty and quiet (and sometimes loud) rage.The casting is flawless. Frances McDormand is a commanding presence and makes an indelible impression as a woman on the verge. Overcome with bitterness and grief, she dominates this film with a no-holds-bar persona. The actress plays this unlikable but passionate character with a vengeance, literally speaking. She is simply astonishing. Her portrayal is a master class in acting. Even when not ranting against the powers that be or fighting to simply be heard, Mildred's silent pauses and side glances fill in all of the nuances of her character's emotional breakdown to chilling effects. (If there is any justice, on screen or off, the Oscar is waiting for her.)As Mildred's moving targets are Woody Harrelson who brings a nuanced portrayal as William Willoughby, the chief of police and Sam Rockwell playing his dim-witted, loyal, and anger-ridden deputy, Officer Dixon. Mr. Harrelson plays the film's most centered character in a town filled with hate and bigotry and the actor conveys a good man dying of cancer, frustrated by life's limitations and caught in a free fall of emotions. Mr. Rockwell takes his complicated character into areas of comedy and drama that defy description. It is a commanding performance as we watch his character grow from a bigoted mama's boy into a man finally questioning his own self-worth. (Another possible award winning performance in a film filled with great acting?) Adding even more depth to the complex plotting are Lucas Hedge as Mildred's forgotten and emotionally trampled son, Robbie, and John Hawkes as her abusive ex-husband. Only Peter Dinklage's character is a tad sketchy and in need of more screen time. He becomes her possible love interest...if Mildred could possibly love anyone. Providing fine support in minor but pivotal roles are Zeljko Ivanek, Caleb Landry Jones, Abbie Cornish, Clarke Peters, and Samara Weaving.Production values are high. Beautifully filmed by cinematographer Ben Davis, Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri. uses a variety of musical genres, from opera and pop standards to twangy country tunes, which set that perfect tone in Carter Burwell's atmospheric score. Both words and image create a shattering look at grief that is unmistakably heart-wrenching.Yes, there are some illogical plot twists and sudden far-fetched acts of violence that never have any legal repercussion on the culprits in this community of law and disorder. But the script has such a lyrical and moving way of expressing the everyday sadness and routine of life that is so commonplace in many rural towns. Some moviegoers also may not be satisfied with the film's conclusion either. But I was transfixed throughout this film. It is hard to imagine another film this year that is so well conceived and executed in its narrative storytelling, sensitive direction, and its glorious acting.Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri is one of the year's best.


                
What a amazing movie I enjoy every moment in it in the main character is a legend 
To the people ho doesn't watch it go in watch.


                
I enjoyed this movie all the way through, the acting is terrific and it might be one of the best acted movies ever made. The story is unpredictable and the ending might not satisfy everyone but I liked it. I am glad it is nominated for many Oscars including Best Picture because it deserves it.


                
As for me modern Movies are boring because they likeness for example marvel series or transformes they have great graphics and action but they have lack of maintain of movie artwork which are: plot,actors playing,and uniqueness of idea.
If you want to watch something that worth your time you better watch this than avengers for example


                
I went to the movies expecting to see a good film from the director of "In Bruges" and "7 Psychopaths" , but it surprised me and went far beyond my expectations.
I mean clearly Three Billboards is 2017's surprise. It's got some of the year's best performances, from Sam Rockwell's foolish, racist, corrupt and resentful Officer Dixon to Woody Harrelson, who's proving that 2017 was his year after good performances in both "War for the planet of the apes" and "The edge of seventeen" then ends the year with this sensational performance of a beloved parent and respected chief of police confronted by an angry, grieving mother played by the incredible Frances McDormand, seriously words can't describe this woman and her performace. Besides, the supporting cast, including Lucas Hedges, John Hawkes and Peter Dincklage, was stunning although it had little sceen time.
And what can I say about writer and director Martin McDonagh's work other than complete. The screenwriting was flawless and the events were unpredictable in a way you would jump of your seat. And eventhough the film was about grief, anger and vengeance, the script has got plenty of funny moments which were all effective.
I can only think of a single flaw in the whole movie which was an unsuccessful use of CGI, otherwise, I think it would've been perfect.


                
