It's like McDonagh started writing off the top of his head and whenever he got stuck just kept adding outlandish twists. Then, presumably very high, he read the resulting first draft mess and thought, 'I'm ready to shoot.'How does such a naked emperor wander around hoovering up praise and awards? I have no idea. But don't shortchange yourself and feel you have to go along with it. This film is really bad. Really really bad.


                
I live in the great state of Missouri and have never encountered any of the "ist" characters portrayed in this heavily flawed film. You name the "ist" word and it is portrayed by all except for the minority actors which are also dishonored because of their stereotyping in this movie. Horrid condemnation by Hollywood of the "flyover" part of the USA. They still don't get it.


                
Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, should be a good movie, but the fact that the characters are too cartoonish and consequently these same characters become too unrealistic to be taken seriously. Of course Frances McDormand, did a good job as a violent mother. But Sam Rockwell and Woody Harrelson just did a nice job. Martin McDonagh is trying to impress the audience with fierce mannerisms, showing violence only by showing, and as a result he is trying to impress the male audience (audience is only interested in violence, instead of seeing a good story). In other words, the director was more interesting to create a movie full of violence, instead of creating a real drama with real characters and real and interesting conflicts, and an interesting film to see.
So, in the end, this movie is your typical movie to please a certain group, in this case police haters (that is to say), many movies are in the top of the IMDb, only because in the same movies there are scenes in which the characters can deceive the police or there are scenes in which a large number of policemen are killed - the scene of the mother setting fire to the police station, in this film will be a future classic, in the minds of many people, mark my words.We are not going to fool ourselves, a large number of the population hate the police and rightly so, many policemen abuse their position. But traumatized idiots, instead of getting over the traumas, they come here to give big scores to films like these, just to satisfy the vengeful wishes they have against the police.If this is not enough, director Martin McDonagh only puts scenes of violence just to generate more violence, and with that these scenes become unnecessary violence scenes, scenes of the dentist and the mother hitting teenagers in the genital organs. A police officer throws a citizen from the window of a building, the police chief sees this and only fires him. Seriously.What's the point of director Martin McDonagh? To prove that anger generates more anger, or violence generates more violence. At least he could put it in a more discreet way without the need for violent scenes. The effect he made was the opposite, because scenes of gratuitous violence only generate more violence in the streets. Amateur.Even, the humor element becomes too obvious that borders the ridiculous, the scene in which a police officer, talks to the violent mother after the accident at the dentist. The scenes of black comedy border on the stupid and tasteless aspect and completely misplaced. The midget scene is completely misplaced too and overly obvious (putting a black comedy scene between before a dramatic scene, really!!). And of course, the annoying monologue of Frances McDormand's character with the deer, about reincarnation. Predictable and too obvious. Or dog-shaped slippers scene is obviously, also annoying to see.
Not to mention that the movie script is full of ridiculous situations, bordering on the absurd. The mother in principle hates the police, because (stupid reason) is taking too long to find the culprit of rape and death of the daughter, then the mother becomes friends with a police officer, after she has seen that the same police officer (the same idiot, who throws a citizen from the window) risked his live to go get the paper process of the daughter in the back of the police station that was burning (fire put by the mother herself). Stupid and juvenile.This is the typical movie that ends where it started. In the end, the culprit of the crime was not caught, the mother is still violent (the mother was always violent, just see in the flashbacks, the discussions she had with her daughter) and she embarks on a journey to go hunting down a "supposed" rapist, with the police officer than threw the man out the window. Idiot, I know.
I only give 2 stars, for the good performance of Frances McDormand, because she convinces me as a violent mother.


                
I don't get the praise being heaped upon this film at all. Yes, Frances McDormand is great. Yes, Woody Harrelson is great. But, overall this film came across as a bit of a mess. It seemed like the script was written in one sitting by three guys drinking beer:"I know, let's make the woman firebomb the police station! That'll be great!" 
"Let's throw in one scene of the daughter just so people know she was pretty."
"We'll add a clever twist so people think this nutcase is the killer, but, wait for it.......HE'S NOT."While the film strives for realism in most everything, it destroys that by the insane actions of just about everyone around. A cop thrashes an innocent man in front of the whole town. A grieving mother firebombs a police station. Abandoned billboards on a barely used section of road cost $5,000 per month?The Academy can throw all of the awards they want at this thing, but I think Woody Harrelson did the right thing. He blew his brains out just before this film got really stupid.
I went to this movie expecting good things after it won several awards and was so highly praised. Frances McDormand succeeds in making a woman whose daughter was raped and murdered be completely unsympathetic. I have seen a few plays written by Martin McDonagh so I know he can be dark but come on..........do people in the movie business really think everyone in flyover country is a rube, hayseed, racist, wife beater? Do teenage boys regularly call their mother "cunt" to her face? On what planet do these people live? I have a suggestion for Hollywood film-makers who want to show how sophisticated and edgy they are. Make a movie about Harvey Weinstein and all his Hollywood cohorts who turned a blind eye to his antics.


                
First off I am not a snob and I am not a goody two-shoes however in this movie if you like the f word and the c word and you're willing to put up with those words in almost every paragraph of dialogue then you may enjoy this movie more than I did. However after 30 minutes of watching this movie in the theater I got up and walked out because all I could do is sit there and anticipate when the next f word or c word would come into play. I have a lot of respect for these actors and I was anticipating much more from them. I think this movie would have been okay even as a PG-13 it would have drawn just as many people without the nasty rotten dialogue and the vulgar profanity. I personally don't know anybody in real life that speaks the way that these characters spoke within this movie to each other within their family etcetera just doesn't make any sense. I don't know why movies these days have to have that kind of vulgarity within the movie to make it a good movie doesn't make any sense to me even the PG-13 movies nowadays have at least one f word many of them why I don't know doesn't make the movie better. I do not recommend this movie to anybody pass on it.


                
This is one of those films where the trailers are better than the film. This film had so much potential that was squandered so pointlessly. Everything from the seemingly forced dialogue to the completely absurd ending really pulled this film down. However, its not all blue Mondays. The acting was good. The directing was good. The cinematography was good. But, the film lacked purpose. We have the motivation for the protagonist, but, it doesn't go anywhere. And then, for some inexplicable reason, the protagonist and the antagonist get together and join forces at the end to go off on some road trip and exact some revenge for the death of the mother's daughter. This is definitely one of those films the critics got terribly wrong. This film is not worth the 8+ rating nor are the critics right about this one. Save your time and money. This will be 2 hours of your life that you will not get back.
Just finished watching this film, almost didn't make it to the end, but when I finally did I was sorely disappointed. I signed up to IMDB just to write this review.
Some reviews say the dialogue is sharp, the characters are great, etc, but the dialogue is just full of anger and sorrow, as are the characters. It's depressing, it's certainly not a comedy, I did not laugh once. The plot has holes in it, and the ending is not worth the 2 hours that came before it.
What it does portray well, and the reason I have given it any stars at all, is how it highlights just how dangerous small-minded people are to society. Avoid.


                
When I heard buzz about this film, I wondered how a British man could convincingly write a film about a controversy in small-town Missouri. Turns out he can't.The dialogue and situations were so unrealistic from the start that I couldn't help picking the whole thing apart in my head as it went along. By the end I thought it was a massively idiotic piece of tripe. Not even Frances McDormand could save it. If you need an alternate suggestion for a movie to scratch your Oscar itch, see Phantom Thread.


                
First have to give this film some credit. Especially Frances McDormand as leading actress. As a general story maybe it wasn't bad for this American moment. But gotta stop there. As someone who grew up in Missouri, Ugh. Hard to swallow. Full of grotesque sterotypes and gratuitous violence. I couldn't figure out why it didn't feel at all like Missouri to me. Then saw that they filmed it in North Carolina near Asheville! Just gave everyone southern accents and affects, not necessarily Missouri accents, made every man but the advertiser a violent jerk. Everyone says fuck every third word. Not quite like the Missouri I know full of walmarts and fallen buildings and churches (NOT catholic). It is a billboard itself, one of east and west coast projections of the midwest. The mother of Oliver had some authenticity, but the "people of color" were completely and utterly urban and out of place. There are no restaurants with white tablecloths and wine in my town or anywhere near. What I guess bothers me about it is that there are so, so many projections on the American midwest now that no one really cares to go and see...you know what is really there. Even if they make a movie about the place they don't go three states away to film it there?! And that just doesn't feel right. Where is the picture of that very active grief? Ok, so I guess it fell a bit short as a cultural piece for me in sum.Oh wait, and the chief of police's wife has an English accent? Really?


                
As much as I like Frances McDormand and Woody Harrelson, and the seemingly good intentions of this film, it is a mess of half-expressed ideas amid a mish-mash of politically correct logic and mores. McDormand's character, Marge, is a toxic robot of intolerance and simplistic vigilante justice attitude. The police are drawn as cartoonish bigots and creeps as though Black Lives Matter had written this script, and the story itself has no real structure, arc, or conclusion. It's not a comedy at all, and the basic morality of the story is a complete default to By Any Means Necessary and so forth. That this film should have just won Best Picture at the Golden Globes is a sad reflection on the academy.


                
It's like the morons who gave this movie a good review have never seen a quirky small town movie before. The scope of your cinema experience explains the gushing that is involved in this absolute mess of a movie. Is it a comedy, dark comedy, drama. This Martin McDonagh guy doesn't know. It's everything. First off Frances McDormand is at her weakest ever. Her performance, isn't a performance because she was born to play this. Anyone remember "Olive Kitteridge"? No? Then you are the idiots who need to watch more movies, because this one is in the basement compared to others in its ilk.Let's recap this movie for the people who "loved it" -Mildred Hayes rents three billboards to antagonize chief of police to continue to investigate the murder of her daughter, whose last words to her was "I hope you get raped too." Is this funny? Music didn't tell you that. -Mildred retains a relationship with her ex-husband who is STILL physically abusive. In a bizarre scene...she is lifted off her feet by the throat while the son breaks up the fight by putting a knife under the throat of his father. Then within seconds, they reset and act as if nothing happened. This was seriously in the movie. -Her ex-husband is dating what looks to be a supermodel. When he is some small town hick. Really? Only in a movie can you force this. -Sam Rockwell's character Deputy Dixon lives with his mother and is a dumb brutish bigoted sidekick to Woody Harrelson's chief Willoughby. They both stumble on violations or things that seem like violations. Trust me, this explanation is funnier than the execution. -In a small town where a teenage girl was raped and burned alive, Willoughby and wife leave their children to fish as they go off to have sex (seriously).Anyway, you get the point. Any one who liked this movie have serious mental issues or are retarded. This movie is dumb beyond words. But fortunately there is a dwarf in it, Peter Dinklage who is the best thing in this god-awful mess of a movie.


                
OK, let's just forget all the plot-holes here; like the fact that two people sitting in front of a burning police station would not simply be "free to be on their way". Or like a police officer throwing another man out a window and being witnessed by the police chief would simply be asked to turn in his badge and gun. Or that a woman who has an apparent blood-lust, capable of fire-bombing a building and watching a man on fire simply crawl out while doing nothing would let another strange man threaten her, break her items, then just let him walk away without reporting it. Yes...let's forget these and the MANY other plot holes in this entire mess...and what are we left with? Just a sad, bitter sermon on how all men are just plain evil if left to their own devices...yet white women must always get a pass in life (just because...don't ask why or you're a misogynist!) What this campy, meandering, cartoonish and pointless film DOES confirm is that most people are idiots, and will "love!" any film that confirms their belief or opinions.
Great cast. Acted as well as it could be. Complete crap script, sorry to say. I was expecting something wonderful. Worst movie I've seen in a long time. I wish the casting director had waited to call in the favors until a decent script presented itself.


                
I really expected to like this movie given the cast and the stellar ratings, but no, not at all. I did laugh on a few occasions because of some funny dialogue. But I think, in sum, it's very much a movie about a director desperately trying to be the Coen brothers without the talent or even a concept. Maybe it didn't help the movie to have Frances McDormand in it because it makes the viewer feel like: "Oh, cool, that's gonna be hilarious" and then the movie goes on and on, and it never gets hilarious, and at some time you're wondering what's the point. What are we supposed to make of all these story lines and characters? For instance, the bad guy having a beer at the local pub bragging about raping a girl while she is burning to death? Come on. And all the senseless beating up? The last 30 minutes feel like they are looking for a good point to end this disaster but they don't find one so they just stop.
This movie epitomizes the depths to which Hollywood will sink in an attempt to redeem its misogynistic reputation for by producing formulaic, feminist schlock in the hopes the gullible public will eat it up. The essential and underlying theme of this movie is "men BAD", because, you know, all men will rape anything that moves if given half a chance. And the only redeeming men are the ones who display no signs of "toxic masculinity" (i.e. the effeminate poster salesman). Meanwhile, the anti-hero is a foul-mouthed old hag deliberately cast by a recognizably aging actress so no one can claim the "hot chick won the Oscar" this year. And of course, there's the obligatory (and completely gratuitous) scene where the main character bad mouths the Catholic church, because of course everyone in Mississippi is Catholic (no, really...just suspend your disbelief here one more time) and they film needs to take a swipe at every form of patriarchy known to mankind. Add to this the very predictable "all southerners are ignorant, racist red-necks" and boy howdy, you got yerself a real Hollywood piece of Oscar-bait (or crap...depending on how many brain-cells/capacity to reason you have left).


                
Ok, positives up front. Frances McDormand: great. As someone who grew up in Missouri, Ugh. Hard to swallow. Full of grotesque sterotypes and gratuitous violence. I couldn't figure out why it didn't feel at all like Missouri to me. Then saw that they filmed it in North Carolina neare Asheville! Didn't even bother to travel two states over to give it the real feel. Just gave everyone southern accents and affects, not necessarily Missouri accents, made every man but the advertiser a violent jerk. Everyone says fuck every third word. Not quite like the Missouri I know full of walmarts and fallen buildings and churches (NOT catholic). The mother of Woody had some authenticity. The "people of color" were sophisticates, completely and utterly urban and out of place. The wife of the sherrif had...a British accents?! Really? FYI...authenticity alert...there are no restaurants with white tablecloths and wine in my town or anywhere near if you don't go to college towns or cities. What I guess bothers me about it is that there are so, so many projections on the American midwest now that no one really cares to go and see...you know what is really there. Even if they make a movie about the place they don't go! Missouri is a fiction here. One of male violence, racism and western vigilanteism. And that just doesn't feel right. Where is the picture of that very active grief that is the American midwest, black and white? Ok, so I guess it fell a bit short as a cultural piece for me in sum.


                
Watching this film, then reading the critics tripping over each other to praise it, is like being at the art museum when a docent oooohs and aaaahs over how profound and deep a plain white square on the wall is.First, there is no such place as Ebbing, MO, but thanks for making all of MIssouri look like "Deliverance", without the canoes.Second, every outdoor shot shows rolling mountains and foothills. Missouri is nearly as flat as Kansas. The highest point in the entire state is only 1600 feet.Nobody outside the metro areas of St. Louis and Kansas City pronounces it "Missou-ree". In areas like those depicted as "Ebbing", it's pronounced "Missou-rah". State political figures on the stump change their pronunciation depending upon how urban, or rural, their current audience is.It's obvious not a single person associated with this film ever set foot in Missouri.Why did Frances McDormand wear the same trucking dock jumpsuit in almost every scene?It's obvious some movie critics read a glowing review by a critic they admire, and play 'Me, too!" to curry professional favor.This movie was two hours of my life I want back.


                
There have been plenty of times when I've been annoyed by what was presumed to be the frontrunner at the Oscars and the Golden Globes. So often, the movie that wins Best Picture and sweeps the other categories is something that I consider overrated or cheesy or simply not as good as some of the other movies I enjoyed from that year. In all of those cases, I can at least put aside my frustration and disappointment and understand what it is about the movie that's connecting with other people, or I can appreciate why it was entertaining or moving to audiences even if it wasn't quite my thing. In all the years I've been paying attention to movies, not once has a movie like this come along--a critical darling, an awards frontrunner, a box office smash, and an IMDb user hit that I find to be thoroughly awful nearly to the point of offensiveness. My friends who have seen the movie feel similarly. I honestly cannot discern a single reason for why this movie is being lauded.What's astounding about this fact is that I actually love most of the people in the cast. Frances McDormand, Sam Rockwell, Woody Harrelson, Lucas Hedges, Caleb Landry Jones, Peter Dinklage, John Hawkes, Clarke Peters--these actors are phenomenal in almost every other thing I've ever seen them in. In this movie, they do the best with what's been given them--and Harrelson and Landry Jones almost even come out on top--but the lines they've been given to read are so artificial and inhuman, the situations they've been put into are so false and baffling, that it's impossible to imagine that any of these characters are existing in any kind of stable reality.And look, it's not like I need overly naturalistic realism in all my movies. In Bruges, also by McDonagh, took place in a bizarre, surrealistic kind of universe, but at least its weirdness seemed consistent and self-contained. It established a convincing over-the-top world and then allowed a clever story to unfold within it. I didn't enjoy Seven Psychopaths nearly as much--in fact, I found its meta story to be quite pretentious and not nearly as intelligent as it thought it was--but at least that movie, too, seemed to be playing by its own established rules. What are the rules of Ebbing, Missouri? Is it supposed to have any intersection with the America I live in? Or is it supposed to be absurdist through and through, simply an excuse for unbelievable violence and offensive punchlines? Because it doesn't seem that way. It seems like McDonagh wants us to believe that this movie has a lot to say about what really matters in America. It so frequently mentions things like racism, police brutality, domestic abuse, and sexual assault that it seems like surely it must have something to say about these issues. But instead, it might as well just be posting hashtags across the bottom of the screen. It has as much to do with female empowerment and combating racism as a typical round of Cards Against Humanity.In the early scenes of the movie, I found myself wondering if it was supposed to be set in the mid-nineties. The way characters tossed around words like re**ded and n****r seemed dated and backwards, yet the apparent self-consciousness with which they used these words made it seem like it was taking place in the present day. Bad writing, I thought, like when a period picture uses a word like "nerd" twenty years before it was even coined. But then I realized that this was supposed to be the present day. So why do the characters sound so bizarrely out of place and time? Is it because McDonagh thinks all people from middle America are backwards and ignorant? When Rockwell and McDormand argue about "n****r torturing" vs. "people of color torturing," what the hell is the punchline there? What's the satirical target? Who's the intended audience? Is it supposed to be intelligent elites who understand identity politics and enjoy laughing at the clumsiness of people who aren't quite up to speed? I just don't see why this scene exists or what it's supposed to evoke from me, especially when it seems ultimately irrelevant to the plot of the movie.Is it really necessary for the movie to so casually evoke police brutality and torture? There's not really a single meaningful non-white character in the entire movie, and the trajectories of the plot and the character development don't really have anything to do with that. Is simply mentioning it sufficient to feel as though something is being done about it? One of the most well-directed scenes in the movie is when Rockwell sends an innocent, unarmed man to the hospital while in uniform in broad daylight on a crowded main street. But the immediate aftermath of this horrifying moment is that we follow this character and we're supposed to root for him and appreciate his decency even though he's done practically nothing to deserve such empathy. Look, I'm not opposed to anti-heroes or to trying to understand and forgive the prejudices of racists. My entire family is full of racists, many of whom I love. But this screenplay doesn't put any real work into doing anything meaningful whatsoever with this character. Rockwell's character is a cartoon--far more bumbling and stupid and unaware than the many actual racist people I've known in my life. His actions are likewise far more dangerous and reckless than the actions of anyone I've known in my life. And yet by the end of the movie he's essentially taken center stage as the protagonist and hero.Is that the point of the movie? What message are we supposed to get from McDormand, who barks a bunch of curse words that I guess are supposed to be hilarious because they're coming from the mouth of a middle aged woman? When Dinklage's character humbly shames her for friendzoning him and not smiling enough--is that the moral of the story? Is her assault on two random, presumably innocent teenagers supposed to be rousing? Are we supposed to applaud her fascist vigilantism, a la Dirty Harry, or are we supposed to be critical of the violent cycle of revenge that she's initiating, or are we just supposed to shut off our critical faculties completely and enjoy the flashiness and the silliness and the midgets and explosions?Ultimately, that seems to be McDonagh's point--to make a trashy bit of popcorn. And yet because he happens to drop a few resonant keywords like "people of color" and "patriarchy," audiences seem to be convinced that something really insightful is unfolding before them. The slightest pause of consideration produces a thousand nagging questions, however. For instance, why would McDormand's character be so willing to knee-punch teenagers, yet cower whenever a man comes to her admitting to be her daughter's murderer? Why would the town priest let her ramble on for two pages of insulting, nonsensical monologue? Wouldn't he interrupt her or just get up and leave? Even the part of the movie that evoked one of the only laughs from me doesn't actually make any sense. Sure it's funny that Sheriff Willoughby was the secret savior who paid for the second month of McDormand's unrealistically expensive billboards, but if he's really planning on killing himself and leaving behind a young wife and two young children, would he really be throwing away five thousand dollars like that? I'd be pretty furious if I were his wife.I don't mind popcorn. I don't mind violence in movies. I thoroughly enjoyed John Wick Chapter 2 despite being opposed to gun violence. But John Wick Chapter 2 never preached to me about the most pertinent issues of contemporary American life using nothing but bluster and empty catch phrases, and as far as I know, no audience member thought that such bluster was topically relevant and deeply moving. So why do people think Three Billboards is anything other than curse words and cartoon violence?
Even Frances McDormand's academy award winning performance can't save this film. Yes, McDormand is excellent, but even great actors can't save a story/script this poor. Good movies perform magic, while "Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri" performs a street-hustle trick with a loaded deck of cards. The film drops names of important and timely issues and simply glosses over them, trading substance for melodramatic violence, constant foul language, characters that are mostly caricatures, and a story/script with close to zero continuity and coherence. The film is billed as a dark comedy, but it really is a dark nightmare of a film. Honestly, I've read comic books with a more coherent storyline. There are various incidents of assault, arson, and attempted murder AND not only is no one ever held responsible, but the incidents are forgotten five minutes later in the film! "Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri" is good at shocking the audience at times, but not much else. A huge waste of both good acting talent and your time and energy.
Biggest waste of time ever if you ask me!!
Saw all the other reviews, 9/10, 10/10 etc thought wow must be an awesome movie!!
Well it wasn't, wasted two hours watching this and guess what, (SPOILER) you don't even get to know who did it... 
Yep, waiting for the twist, the sting, who it finally was, etc... Well you don't find out.. heck you don't even find out if they actually kill the other guy right at the end.. 
When it ended I seriously thought there must have been a mistake in editing or something.. no movie could end there!! But it did!!!
Good acting, But story only had a beginning, and a middle, BUT NO END!!!
I can't understand the acclaim this has received. I wanted to like this. It has a stellar cast. I just couldn't find anything to like about this movie besides the performances. I don't feel like the script was very good at all. This movie wanted to be a lot of things (mostly a Coen Brother's movie): a commentary on the red states, racism, guilt, revenge, violence in America, etc. I guess I can't fault the writer for wanted to achieve this kind of discourse. It's hard to really make something with depth and meaning. I can see why people wanted to like this, wanted to see these themes addressed and wanted to root for a picture with such talented performers. That's life though: sometimes we just fail. This movie failed.


                
I stopped watching this movie with about 20 minutes remaining; it was that bad. The phenominal cast could not make me look past the absurd storyline and unlikable (unbelievable) characters. As a long-time fan of Frances McDormand, I cannot see how she won Awards playing this person.


                
I guess I missed the part where this was entrainment, an Oscar winning movie, give me a break, not even close


                
What did I just watch? This was barely passable as a movie, given there was no ending. To have been given the accolades it has? Well, I guess I stand by my statement from 2 years ago, the oscars are now irrelevant.


                
