This movie is so obviously trying to be edgy & artsy, it might as well have had someone walking out with a sign at key moments- "laugh here" "gasp here" "tear up here". I love the actors, the characters were super colorful & the movie wasn't boring. Other than that, it felt like someone took a template of a dark comedy & then just left out the realism. Going out on a limb here but I'd say people don't normally use the F word & C word that often. Policemen don't act like that ...and still have a job. Assault, arson or attempted murder are causes for arrest (even for cops)People don't let their friends do jail time for the sake of leaving signs in the street (that was a friend, right?)That 19 year old girl would not be attracted to the exMaking fun dating a little person might have been funny 20 years ago (and then his enlightening 'look in the mirror' speech as he left the table was ... meh) Also, that was quite a 180 for the vicious, racist cop who throws people out of windows. Too many unrealistic situations & reactions. And why did that random suspect guy come into the shop in the first place? Did he rape someone in Irag? And throw a turtle in there while you're at it.Sorry, love the premise, love the actors but sometimes I think critics just have a checklist they go by.
Seriously, any critic that says this movie is somewhat good, should chance his job. Is the acting great? Yes
Is the story-idea great? Yes
Is the execution great? No way. It almost never happens that i yell at a screen in anger because a storyplot is so unrealistic that it hurts. But here it happend. The scene where Officer Dick throws out the advertising guy of the window and then just sits within his station, nobody arresting him, not even the new Chief that clearly saw it and fires him would arrest him - well, this is just not even in the united states of police brutality realistic and just ruins the whole movie for me. From there on, the movie was just a pain. And im almost never not on the line of critics...dont understand it.
A truly weird experience: incredible acting performances in an incredibly bad script. Yes, it's unpredictable but it's also totally unbelievable, with forced plot twists and character arcs which make no sense. And when Frances McDormand starts monologuing a CGI female deer, all residual good will goes up in smoke just like the billboards.
McDonagh has nothing to say, just like in the execrable but well-acted In Bruges. He prefers shock value over good storytelling, character development and depth. Unfortunately the Oscar success of this misfire means we'll be subjected to his 'art' for a long time to come.
Combine the quirky characters of the master of quirk, Wes Anderson, and sensibility of adolescent wish fulfillment fantasy director Quentin Tarantino, and what do you end up with? The year's most overrated "black comedy," Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri. It's the work of playwright by trade, Martin McDonagh, who's been quoted as saying that he prefers writing for film over theater (why couldn't he stick with the stage if that's his primary area of expertise?).McDonagh's strategy is to appeal to both liberals and conservatives but in the end he remains squarely in the liberal camp. He serves up absurd characters that appeal to the baser elements in our culture but infuses them with "hearts of gold" so they appear to straddle both liberal and reactionary fences, but actually exist in none.Take for example his main character, Mildred Hayes (played by a haggard-looking, one-note Frances McDormand) who puts up the three billboards outside of town, frustrated by Sheriff Willoughby (Woody Harrelson) and his small town police department's inability to catch the man who murdered her daughter seven months earlier. The foul-mouthed Hayes functions outside the law and McDonagh throws a bone to reactionaries, asking us to approve of Hayes' desire for revenge and endorsement of vigilantism.McDonagh's other rebel is Officer Jason Dixon (Sam Rockwell), a racist who tries to top Hayes in her quest to be the top-rated anti-social misfit in town. First he arrests Hayes' co- worker pal Denise on trumped up marijuana possession charges and after he learns of Sheriff Willoughby's suicide following the revelation of a cancer diagnosis, he goes after Red (the man responsible for renting the billboards to Hayes) and throws him out a second floor window (instead of arresting him, the new black police chief merely fires him! What's up with that?).Just like Hayes, Dixon finds a scapegoat to assuage his guilt over Sheriff's Willoughby's death. When Hayes finds her billboards ablaze, she naturally pins the blame on Dixon and firebombs police headquarters. It's at this point that McDonagh rather simplistically attempts to redeem his protagonists. The saintly, all- knowing Willoughby, in a letter he leaves for Dixon after his death, reassures the errant former officer that he's not such a bad guy after all, provided that he gives up his bigoted ways.After Dixon survives the firebombing at the police station where he went to read Willoughby's letter, he decides to help Hayes after overhearing a potential suspect who might have killed her daughter. During a fight with the suspect in the bar, he manages to obtain the man's DNA. In an original plot twist, the DNA does not match and the potential murderer is ruled out as a suspect in Hayes' daughter's death.With Hayes apologizing to Dixon for the firebombing of the police station (she escapes being charged aided by an alibi from a dwarf who lives in town), the two vigilantes make their way to Idaho to seek revenge on the now ruled out suspect in Hayes' daughter's death, as they are convinced he's guilty of other crimes of rape, and deserves punishment.McDonagh, however, is uneasy with the idea that Hayes and Dixon would actually go through with their extra-judicial act-so he throws in a caveat. As they're talking to one another in the car, it's probably the unheard voice of the goodly Sheriff Willoughby which is still in the air. Hayes and Dixon express doubts about actually going through with the plan-the implication of course is that they will not engage in another act of violence-that they in fact have "learned their lesson," and now are ready to act as law-abiding citizens.It might be reassuring to a liberal audience that the bad guys suddenly become "good"-that there is a measure of redemption for the two who have become unhinged by the deaths of people close to them. In reality, vigilantes remain vigilantes, and such reversals in outlook are highly unlikely. But even if one accepts the improbable Deus ex machina, McDonagh's willingness to excuse all the prior bad conduct, suggests a crack in the screenwriter's moral compass.Ultimately, McDonagh wants his quirk-fest both ways. He revels in the bad acts of vigilantism, appealing to the aforementioned "baser instincts"; but offers up redemption for his bad actors, in the form of a martyred lawman, who like a saint from above, offers words of wisdom for the ages.
When I entered the theater I had not checked the director and writer for this film in maybe a week, so I continually asked myself if it was a Cohen brothers film, which to me is bad when it's actually written/directed by someone else. I think that there is a difference between paying homage to artists and downright imitating them.The protagonist (who is played by Frances McDormand) is presented to us a likable person at first. But when she speaks to the police about her problems she seems quite nazi-esque. She wants to draw and test blood from every person who lives in her town to find a criminal. When the police chief informs her that such a thing is impossible because it would be a gross violation of people's civil rights, she doesn't care. He replies, "he could have been a man who was just passing through the state." "Then let's take blood from everyone in the country." Sure... She says it quite seriously. Repulsive.Woody Harrelson provides good acting, but there are multiple scenes in the movie when he does voice-over for comic relief that are mildly amusing at first but feel stale and forced rather quickly. There were many times when I just wanted to shut it off-- when someone is stretching irreverence out to the point of being unrealistic and absurd it's just bad writing. It's also bad form to have so much voice-over in any movie.In the early going, Sam Rockwell's cop character is the type of person who would strike me as reprehensible yet tolerable. When he pistol whips an innocent man and woman then beats the man to within an inch of his life he goes from tolerable to I-want-this-moron-to-die. As other people have noted, the police chief (who witnessed all of these things in person) wouldn't just fire such a person. He would be arrested and convicted for attempted murder. Instead, the chief fires him in an almost nonchalant manner.There is also an additional embarrassingly stupid scene in which Rockwell's character thinks that he is overhearing a violent criminal brag to his friend about his crimes. When the criminal confronts him... he scratches his face... then stares at him. Again, the Rockwell character is borderline retarded, but even the dumbest among us have a survival instinct. When I saw this scene play out I thought that it was part of a strategy or plan-- the Rockwell character wanted to get the guys arrested for assault so he could make his case to the police chief. Nope. Just more idiocy.It has a few solid comedic moments. But I would never watch this film again.


                
I wanted to see this film for several reasons; A) Not another Marvel superhero film, B) I love Sam Rockwell & Woody Harrelson & C) because of the Oscar nods it was getting.
I won't lie, it had a story line that I thought would have a few twists throughout and I found myself saying, it was him or he knows who its and is protecting them. I was wrong. Even when Dixon (Sam Rockwell) obtained the DNA from the man in the bar I thought there would be some kind of conclusion from that. Again, I was wrong.
Other reviews have stated how did Dixon get away with beating up the advertising guy or how did Mildred get to throw fire bombs at the police station and get away with it because a midget who fancied her said she was with him (This character had nothing else to do with the film and was not really given any role in the film other than to be mocked in the restaurant scene). Willoughby (Woody Harrelson) shoots himself and leaves letters that don't really serve any purpose to the film and his wife (Abbie Cornish) is so wooden and was that supposed to be an american accent as her native Australian came shining through.The ending showed two people who no-one but a sociopath could relate to going off to possibly kill someone who had committed no crime. I have to confess I did zone out for about 15 minutes but I doubt I missed anything note worthy to the sub standard plot. I'm at loss as to why it was labelled a dark comedy - I couldn't find anything remotely funny in this film. If you want a lesson in black comedy watch 'An American Werewolf in London'.
I was disappointed with everything the film offered - and it wasn't even filmed in Missouri.
Not worthy of an Oscar and not really worth the bother. Watch I,Tonya instead.
This movie gets an extra star for the really top-notch acting and the cinematography, both of which really stuck out for me. However, as I say in the title, you can't make a good movie out of a bad script. This story just confounds me and it feels really amateurish, most things seem to happen for no reason. Though the first 20 minutes seemed to be going well, things really quickly broke down. Frances McDromand's character seemed to have a good point at first but that quickly degraded into her basically being the crazy woman who set fire to the police station, on top of everything else, her being downright mean to Woody Harrelson's character by the end of it, given the events of the movie. And the oddest thing, the only person with character development, Sam Rockwell, was a racist cop, and his character development has nothing to do with his racism! It's just weird choices like that which might have been corrected in another rewrite on the script, but this, as whole just feels schlock-y.
Most overrated film of 2017, Started off alright but story went all over the place and the ending was terrible. I don't understand how it has such great reviews but 2017 was pretty sad for new movies. It wasn't the worst movie I ever seen it had potential but terrible directing and writing.


                
Saw this due to the reviews and award nominations. Strong acting and a few good lines just doesn't save the movie. Keep waiting for the acclaimed dark comedy mentioned in many reviews, but mean spirited remarks don't always count as comedy. So many better movies out currently.


                
The talented cast and occasional idyllic images of rural Missouri, not to mention Renee Fleming's beautiful rendition of "Last Rose of Summer," can't save this indulgent movie. I know: the whole point is to mock violence, indulge violence, and comment on our obsession with violence while implying the need for justice. But a movie has to be willing to take a stance, risk sentimentality, and risk being moral if it wants to be successful-if it wants to be more than artful and "original." Over-the-top violence is never funny to my sensibility, and I think it says more about our collective inability to solve our mass shooting problem and pervasive social-psychological disconnection (preferring social media to real intimacy) than it does the movie's sophistication. When police chief Sam Rockwell knocks the kid off the roof and then goes down to the street to kick him into the hospital, camera's viewpoint where his gun would be holstered, it's disgusting, pointless, and not at all funny to this viewer. That they meet later in the hospital is supposed to function as some kind of double irony and edgy rapprochement, but it's simply exhausting. And that tired device--hideousness as humor, gratuitousness as art-is getting very tired. I'm reminded of the popular movie "Sideways" (2004)--no likeable characters, no one I'd like to spend time with, no one I admire. And yet the popular consensus in that case, as in this one, said the movie was so hilarious and that it was true on some level, or so true that it was hilarious. In truth, the joke was on us in that we found losers funny because we saw ourselves in them. Truth in "Three Billboards" would have been the Francis McDormand character, Mildred, getting out of the car instead of agreeing to travel with Sam to Idaho to act out their vengeance against the sociopath who, it turns out, didn't commit the rape of her daughter. Clearly, he's not a good guy, and the movie could have meditated on that more meaningfully, instead of turning him into yet another wrongfully accused but rightly unappealing character, righteous now that he has been brutally attacked for something he didn't do. I know: the movie leaves the outcome of their own private Idaho ambiguous. They set off together, but some of their drive for revenge has dissipated. But in this movie, no two people talk to each other in any meaningful way, for that wouldn't be artful. How much more compelling the ending would be if she got out of the car, for example, and walked home. (It's also not very plausible that all the parallels between the war vet and the actual killer are merely coincidental, but that's part of the movie's pretense to high art, its subverting of a cliché--Shane overhearing the Ryker brothers in the darkened saloon.)The only decent character is the new chief, the black officer come to replace Dixon (Sam Rockwell) for his incompetence and inability to channel or heal his rage. The message here seems to be PC--all white people in the movie are rotten, horribly flawed, at the very least limited. The man in the white hat is black. That's a nice twist on an old cliché, but the social commentary is about as subtle as, well, renting three billboards to send a message to law enforcement to find a daughter's rapist/murderer. For God's sake (don't worry; I'm an atheist), don't be so afraid of a true character arc, one that offers the viewer a different lens, something better than: the white hoi polloi are all, as a class, backwater brutes. In the end, what else can an enraged mother (who was herself abusive) do? She can have a change of heart. Or she can find and confront her daughter's killer. But that's too prosaic for this too-cool-for-school best picture nominee.
Well made movie with a poor plot line. There were too many disconnects for the film to be believed.1. The sheriff taking his own life. Most people cling on to life to the bitter end. His wife would have been left distraught in finding the body and the daughter's would have serious mental issues knowing their father had committed suicide. May also affect the rights to a widows pension.2. Mum kicking 2 school girls in the crotch and not getting locked up for it. Pathetic, she would have been arrested within the hour.3. Father taking up with an 18 year old bimbo. Does not help the viewer understand the main theme of the film. Whole scene with son holding knife to dad's throat and bimbo asking for the use of the toilet was unbelievable.4. Deputy beating up the gay billboard manager. What was that all about?5. Sheriff paying $5k for next month's advertising. Why would he do that if he was thinking of his wife and daughter's?Overall a ver disappointing movie.
This movie epitomises the shallow treatment of rural America which Hollywood churns out time after time. And it's directed by a brit! Pay your $12, sit still and shut up whilst one of your former imperial overlords explains to you, very slowly, why you stink.Billy Bob Thornton has written about this type of movie (not this exact one as far as I know) and he's right. It does nothing to advance mutual understanding or art, which is surprising because this is from the maker if the superb In Bruges.I thought this would be a good film. It isn't. It's the opposite of Sling Blade. That film dealt with broadly similar topics and situations but was ten times more powerful because it had truth and love running all the way through it.This film is totally hollow and 2 years from now nobody will remember it.


                
I rarely go to the movies anymore but the film's location, the hype and Frances McDormand brought me out. I was ultimately disappointed with the experience. It seemed that the screenplay's conceit - the three billboards - was seen as such a good idea and selling point that the writer/director, Martin McDonagh, couldn't resist it even though it was beyond him to make anything coherent or believable around it. Moreover, he saw the location of small town Missouri as an opportunity to satisfy the world's base expectation of racism, violence and small-mindedness without the slightest intention or perhaps ability to explore them. McDonagh cut and pasted disparate scenes together in what was to add up to a black comedy and drama but the danger of going for art is that, when you miss, you get irksome, unentertaining, unconvincing dross. Films like "Fargo", "Pulp Fiction", "Good Fellas" and even "Apocalypse Now" are examples of how a roller coaster, collage screenplay can work but it takes skill to make it a unified satisfying whole. 
 
What went wrong? Screenwriting. Some of the dialogue was clichéd and amateurish. Many of the jokes were telegraphed and some of the emotional outpourings hollow. Characters. Whilst the "head" of the film McDormand, Harrelson and Rockwell did well, the gut of the film's cast were given nothing to work with and became pieces of cardboard. For example, how did an English rose (Yes, I know Abbie Cornish is Australian but she seems to effect a British accent) with an education in literature meet and marry a sheriff from small town Missouri? It can happen but there is no rhyme or reason for it within the context of the film. Moreover, some of the actions were uncharacteristic of the established characters. How does a mother and responsible loving father who is a chief of police leave their two little girls fishing by a lake surrounded by wilderness in order to have sex in the woods? The wife's praise of her husband's "cock" on their return home seemed gratuitous and phoney. The aftermath of making love with your dying husband was never so lacking in tenderness or affection. If you want sweetness without too much sugar in a black comedy look at the final scene in "Fargo". With a bit more imagination, McDonagh could surely have written a more touching family scene to symbolize a perfect last day for the sheriff prior to shooting himself. The suicide scene itself was apparently supposed to shock us with its suddenness but it seemed to me be just another obvious and convenient plot point. The letter of explanation by Chief of Police Willoughby for his suicide was utterly unconvincing too. And not to be too facetious or insensitive but I hope to look as well as Woody did and to be able to have sex right up to my end too! You may accuse me of being picky but, for the sake of brevity, I am only pointing out a few of the many cats that barked in this film. Smash up an advertising business, savagely beat up its editor and throw him out a window and brutally assault a female assistant but all that happens to you is you lose your job as a cop! I also found the punch in the face for the nice girl utterly gratuitous, cheap and nasty. Was it not established that Dixon was violently angry by what he did to "Red"? No restraint and definitely no imagination by the writer/director. I could also point out the rather uninspired soundtrack and the lack of atmosphere. Nothing about the film spoke to me of a time and a place except perhaps for some of the posters in the dead girl's room (Nirvana) and the girl's punk/grunge outfit in the flashback scene. Even the original ads on the billboards from "20 years ago" looked more like the 1950's or 60's. I often judge a film by the strength of my impulse to see it again. Good ones get even better the second or third times around. Nothing would convince me to believe that I would find "Three Billboards" any more or less interesting or entertaining than it was today for me. If this is a classic, I will not be venturing to the movies very much more in future


                
Another reviewer summed it up when he/she wrote: "it's unfortunate to use the word comedy, dark or otherwise, with regard to this film. unpleasant would be a better adjective" This sentiment was echoed not just by me, but everyone I personally know who's seen this movie.Francis McDormand, entire cast did a stellar job, and it was a good movie; just not what I expected, given the trailers I saw. I felt misled and, yes, depressed after watching.


                
For some movies, we set aside out fact checking and allow ourselves to be entertained. We don't get upset when Superman flies around holding up skyscrapers without any propulsion system whatsoever.Then there's the invulnerable good guy who lives in the real world and isn't a super-hero, but he dances and prances about, shooting all the bad guys and never getting a scratch. We overlook the absurdity of that and allow ourselves to be entertained.Then there's movies like THREE BILLBOARDS. No superheros, no people that don't bleed. It's set in the real world and the story is supposed to make sense, right?Then why do you let the sloppy writers allow Dixon to break into an office, throw Red Welby out of a 2nd story window, severly injuring him, all of which is witnessed by the new Sheriff, who then announces to the rest of the Cops he is the new Sheriff (and the Cops demand to see proof but the writers let that slide ) and soon, the new Sheriff is ordering everybody around and firing Dixon but not arresting him, while Dixon gets the hurt put on himself and winds up in the same hospital room as Red Welby who decides to make him a cup of tea and be nice to Dixon for trying to kill him.That's enough; there was plenty of other nonsense throughout the film. Did you really enjoy that?
I should have looked to see who the writer and director of this was before watching. Had I known that "In Bruges" wrote and directed this as well, I might have avoided it, or at least gone in with no expectations. Perhaps then I would also have been less surpristed by the weird feel of the characters which is explained by the writer's ignorance of the sort of people he is trying to portray. The overall concept of the film is good, but almost every element of it is poorly executed. I'm somewhat puzzled that none of the actors, especially Frances McDormand did not review their dialogue and protest that their characters were stilted and not quite right, kind of like Invasion of the Body Snatchers imitations of real people. Overall, it was a waste of an extraordinary ensemble cast, especially the principals, McDormand and Rockwell who each do a very good job with the material they were given, but also a waste of Peter Dinklage who seemed to be there just to be the midget, and Clarke Peters who had basically nothing to do. I'm not a prude for language, but the use of it in this movie reminded me of the anecdote about Mark Twain responding to his wife's attempt to shame him with a stream of vulgarity, saying, "You have the notes, but you just ain't got the music." The violence was completely out of kilter also because the director never adequately set a tone to the movie. Was the violence supposed to be comic, and that is why nobody gets arrested, or was it supposed to be realistic and the characters in the show are really that stupid? It's impossible to understand during the course of the film. One starts out very much wanting to be sympathetic with McDormand's character and then, in desperation with any character in the movie, but to no avail. Each of the main characters turn out to be execrable, unsympathetic people with no consistent human pathos. The final "villain" character is nothing more than a tremendous plot hole so deep and dense that he is a veritable black hole that sucks all suspension of disbelief down into an alternate universe, leaving one wishing that another choice of movie had been made.I give it three stars because the actors all acted and the images made it to film okay. Other than that, I sincerely wish the movie had never been made.


                
After all the hype I thought this was going to be dead cert awesome watch.Now I'm of the conclusion that anyone spellbound by this film is basically dumb. The thing is they're not - smart friends of mine loved this. So I've come to the conclusion that if you like this film, you must be like, I don't know, naive.I may be judging here, but I feel like some rich white kid made this film. One that is slightly over confident to self critique his own clever writing, and uses lazy assumptions about poor people's lives to make half-glossy patronising stuff that ultimately feels like Mike Leigh and the Coen brothers accidentally ended up in some circle jerk together.If you wanna climb inside a shallow mind and bounce around some lazy film-school tropes for a while, go ahead and immerse yourself in this film.I'm convinced now that the critic world is just some posh art school boys club.The acting was awesome, which is particularly incredible seeing as they had such pompous material to deal with.I feel sorry for the director, tbh.


                
I went to see this "film" with my father since he heard about how good this "film" is, and I reclutantly went along on Saturday night before the Oscar telecast the following evening.I know who the writer/director is, and he's the Irish playwright behind the cult "vulgar" comedy classic In Bruges, which I liked in spite of its content.However, there is such an idiom as "beating the dead horse," and this "film" is nonsense that tries too hard to be as clever as the Coen brothers in emulation with the familiar murder mystery like that of No Country for Old Men and Fargo. To make it even more grating, the "film" does not cease with the wall to wall vulgarity that includes the repeat use of the most vulgar slang in the English language, which would be tolerable if used once or twice, but abused to such the obnoxious degree that vulgarity detracts from the story of the "film."The director tries too hard to imitate Coen brothers -- including even the lead actress -- with the standard dry humor, but he uses the sledgehammer approach to using as much profanity as the filler, for some lame attempt at drama and comedy.I never chuckled once during the "film," because the sheer amount of vulgarity in dialogues with attempt at some bawdy humor annoyed me. This "film" did prompt a few walkouts with them returning shortly to resume, during the intensely vulgar scenes.I enjoyed the classic films that are peppered with language and some vulgarities, such as Quentin Tarantino's earlier films. But with this "film" with such a long and bizarre title that lends to the mystery, it's long on vulgar ramblings for desperate attempt at cleverness and short on subtleties.Do not bother to see this "film," simply because it's nothing new and revelationary, regardless of acting ensemble and sort-of originality, except essentially aping Coen brothers' theme and style. All that it does is pull some shock humor with vulgar phrasings and some violence for dramatic effects, with a rather lame and tense-less climax that definitely rips off Coen brothers' style by ending it on the abrupt note.If this "film" wins Best Screenplay Oscar, then it should prove that the voters have no taste, that prove them to be as much of a vulgarian as the vintage-Tarantino-wannabe director, who should stick to playwriting rather than make aggravatingly stupider "films" trying to be clever that overemphasizes absolute vulgarity with even less meaning and more irritation, with absolute no point to comprehend. A definitely overrated tripe, courtesy of the dishonest critics that pushed the rating on Rotten Tomatoes for nothing but a farcically pompous and vulgar piece that only test the limit of the audience's tolerance for perfect vulgarity that demonstrate the filmmaking body to be the irrelevant and deplorable.* 1/2


                
I had a suspicion this movie wouldn't be that good whenI saw the opening scene that was supposed to be set in Missouri, when there were mountains in the background of a height that don't exist there. I waited until the end of the credits, and discovered that the movie was filmed in the Great Smoky mountains of North Carolina. That's a pet peeve of mine: movies where the locale is essential, or at least important, to the plot, but where they're shot hundreds of miles away, usually because of nice tax write offs for filming in a certain state or country. I can sum up this piece of crap with: 
it contains the foulest language I've ever seen in a movie - - language that was not just unnecessary, but absurd in terms of how people talk to each other; the plot is so improbable so as to be laughable; the acting was any thing but good, except for Woody Harrelson's. Hollywood liked the movie because it took swings at white, small-town America and its citizens - - read Trump voters. Don't go see--or don't rent or buy-- this piece of junk if you haven't already.


                
I cannot understand how a movie with numerous plot holes and a non ending could be so acclaimed. From the beginning we learn Mildred is determined to find justice and won't let the police rest until they do their job. The chief explains that there is absolutely zero evidence to follow up on, no witnesses, no forensics, nothing. So we should expect Mildred to say, "well if you won't follow up, I will" and take on the case herself, right. Because she's so distraught and determined. Nope. She just keeps poking him with a stick saying "solved it yet chief?" 
And why exactly does the guy come in the store, harass Mildred, and almost confess? He had nothing to do with it and isn't even from there. We learn nothing about the character to explain that. 
And of course the case isn't solved. You can assault high schoolers, throw people out a window and punch witnesses in the face, attack a dentist, burn down the police station and nobody gets arrested. How could they solved a cold case? 
And oh yeah, they actually did have forensics the whole time. That's how they cleared the random guy who had nothing to do with it but repeatedly bragged about doing it.
Wow, the citizens of Missouri should be really offended by this movie. This is an Oscar contender? You're kidding right? Seems like it wants to be a Fargo wanna be............ Only redeemable about the movie is Frances Mcdormand and Woody Harrelson.


                
Not that good. Just because you see a "Wazneack" label, or collectively known as the "Wachowskis" since now are both trans women, or misfit acting using an odd hand gesture, or 'energy" style in performing (and performing they certainly are spotted as doing)... it must be avant garde and chic. Therefore, must watch and agree is good (don't want to speak otherwise...may be thought of as "un-chic" if tell the real reaction).Let's not be "co-dependent" here. I'm not going to be fooled into believing something that isn't any more. Trendy because someone said so (?) Someone who doesn't know the reality from Hollywood perception?
Propagated receptions at Hollywood hotels dulls the sensibility to speak out. Forget stylish acceptance and anxiety to not be included. Rubbish is not art. I don't care how many unconscious Rodeo Drive models say so, or how many olive branch cladded comments are bought (oops, I mean...won) and placed on the cover jacket.


                
I apologize to everyone who loved this dark, depressing piece of trash. I watched In Bruges and was entertained. There was nothing, I repeat, nothing entertaining about this tragic story from a man who hates America and Southerners in particular. It contains every disgusting caricature of ignorant people from the guilt-ridden mother, to the racist deputy and vitually every other character who speaks.I lasted until the Stable Scene and turned it off. Perhaps there was an interlude of dark humor past this scene. I'll never know.PS
I didn't like The Shape of Water either.


                
No really likeable characters and too many cliche scenarios.
A shame that Sam Rockwell was in it.


                
This movie was soooo bad. Unrealistic characters, unrealistic motives, and unrealistic story. The cast was a weak cast to start with, besides Woody. Then they kill him off half way through, instantly making the audience lose interest since he was the only likeable character.
 
You can't even like the grieving mother since her way of dealing with her daughters murder is by committing felony after felony, and being an asshole to people who didn't deserve it. Overall, terrible movie with no glimpse of happiness or realism. DONT WASTE YOUR TIME.
