I will say that I enjoyed this film, mostly due to Frances McDormand's performance. It was surprisingly funny given its subject matter. But after thinking about it for a few days after watching it, I have to say a few words about the writing, because it seems everyone is raving about how "Oscar worthy" the writing here is, and at first glance, I thought so too. But thinking back on it, I'd have to say the writing is actually pretty sloppy. There's a lot of stuff here that doesn't make a whole lot of sense, and I mean a lot. I can't explain this without revealing spoilers, so be warned.--Most strikingly the (deputy?) Chief Dixon violently attacks Welby, busts his face with his gun, throws him out of a window and proceeds to kick him while he's down, all in eyes view of the new Chief Abercrombie. Sure, he gets fired. But not arrested? Not even sued?--And as for Abercrombie. He shows up the morning after the previous Police Chief died and declares that "they" sent him as a replacement. They who? Is there some force outside of Ebbing that dictates who their police chief is? That part really didn't make any sense to me. Also, replacing one of the main characters halfway through the film, a character we're starting to get to know, with a stereotype that we don't know anything about, was rather odd.--Someone lights the billboards on fire. But apparently only the paper on them burns, not the old wood that's been sitting there decaying since the 80s, because they are able to paste duplicate posters to the existing structures without any problems. That's laughable. That old wood would have been a pile of smoldering cinder.--Mildred is portrayed as such a tough-ass, assaulting a dentist, kicking children in the crotch (with no repercussions I might add), storming into the police station spouting vulgarities, but when she's confronted by a guy who suggests he's actually the one who killed her daughter, she freezes and seems helpless. One might say the fact that she didn't go psycho in this scene is what makes this screenplay original but someone else, like me, might argue that it's just out of her character and doesn't make a lick of sense.--Chief Willoughby for some reason is an old geezer but has a young, attractive Australian wife. He also has two young girls. Yet he's completely vulgar around them. While instructing them about a game of fishing he invents, he calls the blanket they are sitting on the "god-dam blanked"--twice--to little four or five year old girls. He says to his wife later that it's her turn to "clean the horse *hit" out of the barn. OK, I actually have quite a bit of experience tending horses. It's not called "*hit" it's called manure and you wouldn't even call it that--you'd just say "clean the barn" if you really owned horses. The writing of his character, other than the scene between him and McDormand while they were sitting on the swings, was actually horrible.--Mildred burns the police station down, throwing 5 Molotov cocktails out of the still broken windows of the advertising agency across the street (not boarded up by then?). And the new Chief just accepts the explanation that she didn't do it because she was with James. No more investigation. Ho hum. Police station burned but oh well. And then a few scenes later, Dixon is apparently in the suppose to be burned down police station sitting there having a conversation with the new Chief.--Dixon is a complete jerk to the bone. He gets a letter postmortem from the now deceased Chief. Suddenly he's a good guy. Yeah right.I could go on and on with this but I'm afraid my word limit here is going to expire soon. I'll still give this film a 7 star rating because I DID enjoy watching it, but the writing here is really not all it's cracked up to be. It does feel like it's a big novel with a lot of twists, but in retrospect it's more like a parody of a big novel with a lot of twists, and the twists don't make a whole lot of sense.
Slow but not boring. dark, intense and complex and not predictable. incredible cast but still felt realistic. powerful and engrossing but not a feel good film


                
Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri is a different take on a crime/drama film filled with bits of dark comedy. What stood out for me in this film mostly was the acting, it was phenomenal. Frances McDormand plays this strong independent woman who fights for what she believes in. She does a great job of coming out as a cold person with no fear. Sam Rockwell stole the show for me, he brought most of the humor in my opinion. Overall the film had a thorough and entertaining plot which had you captivated, especially once the movie picks up pace. Someone in this film definitely deserves to win an oscar, whether it be Frances McDormand for best actress or Sam Rockwell for best supporting actor. If you despise drama films, I would skip this, if not, watch it and you won't be disappointed.


                
I went into this movie with big expectations. I loved the trailer and Sam Rockwell never disappoints. The movie touched lots of modern society's problems as Trumps presidency, priests that molest children and the church's "acceptance" or rather ignorance concerning this huge problem, racist cops and the problematic handling and prejudices many cops have against people of color. 
The scene were Frances McDormand confronts the priest in her kitchen stuck with me the most. All actors deliver great performances, especially Rockwell and McDormand. I do somehow feel like the movie and especially the topic had more potential. Some scenes felt so out of place and should have been cut from the movie (the deer scene and where Woody Harrelson says "goodbye" to his wife). It scratched the surface of so many topics, when instead it could have gone more in depth with the topic of rape culture and how the police handles the investigations. However, I did like the humor and that it didn't feel forced but natural. It didn't ridicule or disrespect the very problematic topic but pointed out how ridiculously fucked up the system and society is.
12/3/17. I got a free ticket to see this but I wasn't sure if I would like it. That's because in recent years McDormand has been playing the bitter older woman,unhappy with life. However, she was a surprise in this. Though she continued in the vein of the unhappy older woman she is somewhat subdued in her anger over the stalled investigation into her teen daughter's death. However, she has enough anger to launch a publicity campaign against the police department, in particular, the police chief who has his own health issues to deal with. The film is basically a slice of life of small town USA and does not paint a very pretty picture of small town living. Worth catching.


                
"Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri" is a great crime movie in an environment of grief, anger, remorse, racism, violence, sympathy and a sophisticated black-humor. The performances are top-notch and it is hard to point out only one or two names in the cast, indeed a constellation of stars. Maybe the performances of Frances McDormand, Woody Harrelson and Sam Rockwell may be highlighted since they are the lead. Unfortunatelly the deceptive ending without a conclusion throws cold water in this film. The redemption of Dixon finding the rapist killer would have given some hope to the story. But the author decided to keep a dark ending without conclusion. Claude Chabrol was a master in mystery films with open end; however his conclusion were subtle and ambiguous, giving the chance to the audience to discuss possibilities based on his or her interpretation of the storyline. But the conclusion of "Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri" is indeed a cliffhanger usually used in TV series or films written for franchise or at least a sequence. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil): "Três Anúncios Para um Crime" ("Three Billboards for a Crime")
Frances McDormand is EXCELLENT! Acting from the entire cast was superb and the script is awesome (pity about all the unnecessary foul language, though). Considering the theme, there is actually so much sadness behind all the humor. Writer/director Martin McDonagh found a brilliant way of not making a very sad story depressing. The drama and humor blends so seamlessly, its quite magnificent actually. The film in its entirety is a masterpiece. It does kinda leave you hanging in the end, but it is truly fantastic.


                
In the words of poet Harivansh Rai Bachchan, the beauty of film is "You get poetic justice in less than 3 hours. You often don't get poetic justice in a lifetime." If that'd be the case than the collective works of Martin McDonagh serves as a counterweight to such thinking. His films, often involve looking in vain for the nebulous concepts of love, justice and meaning in a post-modern world. His characters, likable if deeply flawed, shout into the void but never find the answers they seek.Thus it's hard to truly gage a film like Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri. Much like In Bruge (2008) and Seven Psychopaths (2012), this film is rich with wit yet syncopated in its own world of messy loops, twists, turns and tones. The story begins with the melodies of Renee Fleming's "Tis the Last Rose of Summer" but then ends the first five minutes on the screen in capital letters. The letters spell out "RAPED WHILE DYING," "STILL NO ARRESTS?" "HOW COME, CHIEF WILLOUGHBY". So starts the saga of the Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri, sanctioned by a grieving mother; printed for a dying man.The mother in this case is Mildred Hayes (McDormand), who much like her billboards stands unwavering. She's hassled by everyone from Sheriff Willoughby's (Harrelson) clueless deputies to her ex-husband Charlie (Hawkes). Still, even when her son Robbie (Hedges) is incensed to give her the silent treatment, Mildred demands her message be heard. Her teenage daughter was raped and murdered seven long months ago and nothing has been done. She wants justice.Yet the funny thing about justice in this movie is the moment you get a good handle on the concept, the film bleeds it away like water from outstretched hands. So too do the characters. Every time you get a firm understanding of who they are, something logical yet wholly unexpected forces you to assess and reassess. No one else best exemplifies this than Sam Rockwell's Office Dixon who goes from a racist Barney Fife to a numbed Travis Bickle with nary a dropped beat to make you question the change.The ensemble carries the film through a lot of ugliness with grace. We glide uncomfortably close along the sharpened edges of rape, murder, abuse, suicide, alcoholism and racism. All the while questions like: "is it okay to be angry in an unfair world?" and "how do our decisions affect others," smear into the ashy black comedy and imposing melodrama. Deep care was given to breathe life into these characters. Even when someone as non-consequential as Charlie's nineteen-year-old girlfriend (Weaving) enters the fray you can't help but admire how these people interact and curious about how they must feel.Martin McDonagh more than ever invites comparisons to the Coen brothers in this film. A signal that to me at least proves McDonagh is ambitious, but out of his weight class at this point in his career. For while the Coen's approach their films with the same character-first, free-form narratives, there's always a level of benevolence behind the cynicism. Here, instead of smirk-worthy amusement there is anger. Instead of cosmic curiosity there is more anger. Instead of wonder, there's just more anger, and you know what they say about anger; it just begets more<U+0085>anger.If anger were the spice of life, then this murky soup would definitely be worth consuming. But as it is not, regular filmgoers should approach this witty, richly rendered film with extreme caution. McDonagh's oeuvre is an acquired taste and those liable to agree with Bachchan's approach to film may walk out severely shook. But for those fixing for an overall decent barnstorming black comedy, the "Show Me" state might just have something for you.
Wtf! So much potential! No ending! This better be a trilogy. Toy story had a trilogy and there was an ending in Toy Story 1.
I've not rated this film s high as some because I think there's some major flaws in it. The acting from McDormand is fabulous, possibly her best since Fargo. Woody Harrelson and Sam Rockwell pull out all the stops.
Clarke Peters sadly is like a blast from an 80's TV cop movie but that's not bad, it's just out of place slightly. 
However what really put me off was Abbie Cornish. She's a long way away from being a good actress let alone a great one, and to match her youth with Woody's when he is more than 20 years her senior harks back to bad old days of old men matched with young women. It was unnecessary and if they wanted glamour they could have easily cast someone like Michelle Pfeiffer. 
I didn't know she was in the film so when I saw her and the character she was playing it was very out of place. 
Then we get to a uniquely moving and romantic piece in the film where Woody's character has made love to her for the last time as he has terminal cancer. Reliving that moment Cornish's character as his wife says "Thanks for that wonderful fuck." 
WHAT??? One of the most poignant moments in the film and they reduce it to a fuck??? She then goes on to say how beautiful his cock is!
Utterly ruined the moment for me and degraded what is otherwise a fabulous, tremendous movie. What were the editors thinking!?
Very good movie. Sam Rockwell was tremendous in this role, about as good as he was in Green Mile. Frances McD was also great as her pure realistic role of a mother on the verge of snapping but keeping her cool despite knowing that she'll be in mental agony for the rest of her life. Now, WHY could they not just give us 10 more minutes and show the ending that everyone wanted. Too many films today are getting too cute, too artsy, too above the conversation and too proud with this "unknown/unspoken" trend in Hollywood movies. Just play it in favor of the crowd. Jeez


                
Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri (2017) This is a drama film written, directed, and produced by Martin McDonagh. It is about a mother who rents three billboards to call attention to her daughter's unsolved murder.It stars Frances McDormand, with Woody Harrelson, Sam Rockwell, Abbie Cornish, John Hawkes, Clarke Peters, and Peter Dinklage appear in supporting roles. It grossed $142 million worldwide, and received praise for its screenplay, direction, and the performances. It received seven nominations for the Academy Awards and won two, for best actress and best supporting actor. It also won three SAG Awards. The acting was excellent and it had a generally decent plot. The ending could have been better, but overall it was a decent film.


                
Great performances, good script, unfortunately it has no ending. 
Next time write an ending, please.


                
From Martin McDonagh, director of In Bruges and Seven Psychopaths, comes Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri. If you liked his other films, you'll love Three Billboards. Once again, a large cast of characters who are just just far enough out there to be funny, but grounded enough to be realistic find what should be an ordinary situation rapidly escalating out of control.Frances McDormand stars as Mildred Hays, a grieving mother who decides the best way to encourage the police to solve her daughter's brutal murder is to put up three billboards outside town calling out the chief of police. That is enough to lite a fire under the town, quite literally, as the dying Chief Willoughby (Woody Harrelson), his intellectually-challenged mamma's boy officer (Sam Rockwell), the town midget (Peter Dinklage), the man who owns the billboards (Caleb Landry Jones), and Mildred ex-husband (John Hawkes) all end up on a crash course towards each other. As they say "Anger just begets greater anger" and there is a lot of anger in Ebbing, Missouri.Amazingly, a movie that is essentially nonstop chaos and overreactions manages to actually develop its characters and have them grow. None of the characters are simply caricatures, save a couple very minor roles, and they all have more depth than most movies would have given them.


                
Engaging, interesting, deep, but poorly-paced. Those are the best words that come to mind after I finished re-watching Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri.This was my first Martin McDonagh film and it encouraged me to check out his two, much better, previous films -- Seven Psychopaths and In Bruges. If you enjoyed the unpredictable storytelling of any one of his films, but have not watched them all, you will also enjoy his unpredictable, unique narrative structure of his other films, which particularly shines in Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri. His characters are all well-developed, although some are more interesting and watchable than others. Three Billboards is no exception. The story is very smart and serious, even though the screenplay is as hilarious as the subject matter is dark. Frances McDormand plays Mildred Hayes, a woman grieving after the rape and murder of her daughter. After months of the local police doing nothing for her case, she takes justice into her own hands, first in the form of three billboards calling out the police chief, Woody Harrelson's Chief Willoughby. As the story unravels and the tension builds, the message becomes more and more clear, until it is finally spoken in simple, obvious terms that ruins the subtlety and intelligence of the screenplay. However, the characters are still deep, emotional, and well-developed throughout even when the screenplay falters.I particularly enjoyed the development and arc of Sam Rockwell's racist police officer, Dixon. At first, he is given the simple, one-dimensional characterization that causes viewers to dismiss him as the villain, or at least an obstacle in the way of the protagonist. Over halfway through, a realization dawns on viewers that sets the stage for the wonderful message: Maybe the hero seeking justice is just as bad as the racist cop. The theme of anger begetting anger is brilliantly told through the characters and their actions in the story. The setting is also just as important in this movie as many of the characters are. By naming the town fictionally, it is easier to understand how these characters with unrealistic traits and qualities would interact and live in a town like this. Although the characters seem unrealistic, their emotions are certainly real and relatable. McDonagh has a preference for naming his films literally and directly from what the story is about. Ebbing, Missouri is a place of receding hope and grief. In other words, the love, hope, and optimism in Ebbing, Missouri ebbs away as the film progresses and the characters act more and more. . The largest flaw I have with this film is the pacing of the third act. The first two acts were exceptionally well-made/paced and evoke strong reactions from the audience. Once the majority of the story has been told and the events laid out for us, the film comes screeching to halt, but doesn't end. After the climactic sequence, the story slowly (slower than you can imagine) crawls to its conclusion. As a result, the conclusion leaves viewers thinking, "Finally!" where it could have left us thinking that it was shorter than it actually is. To quote Roger Ebert in his A Clockwork Orange review, "You know there's something wrong with a movie when the last third feels like the last half," and those words have never applied to a film more than Three Billboards. While I still encourage you all to see this (in theaters if possible), it's also important that you know your tastes. If you prefer dark comedy and a subtle, smart story, this is definitely for you. If you hate comedy mixed with serious subject matters and prefer faster-paced films, maybe seek out Dunkirk or Wonder Woman. I also feel that I must admit this: After the Golden Globe awards, I felt highly unsatisfied that Three Billboards won in many major categories and that likely led to me thinking this film is slightly worse than it actually is. While it deserves many of the awards that it has gotten (and is likely to receive), The Shape of Water will always be my favorite of the year, no matter how unpredictable, refreshing, and memorable Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri is.


                
Martin McDonagh's new film is an incendiary dark comedy that has some tonal similarities with his two previous films, "In Bruges" and "Seven Psychopaths." However, this film is also plenty unique, and while not perfect, it's a wickedly thoughtful while also somber film due to its plot and general merits. The film tells the story of a woman in a small town in Missouri who puts up three billboards to depict her disapproval of the local police chief's failure to investigate her daughter's rape and murder. Gleefully profane and politically incorrect, the film's no-holds-barred script generally works to create dramatic irony, tension and a sense of collective outrage. However, there are a few moments where its more hyperbolic senses fail to create the intended effect on viewers--or come across as if such writing devices are simply trying too hard to do so. "Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri" should be commended for its exceptional acting. Frances McDormand's performance in the lead role is simply outstanding. She manages to pull off a genuine sense of grief combined with a twisted and engaging sense of humor that complements her otherwise-serious characterization quite well. The supporting cast is impressive as well, particularly Woody Harrelson's role as the police chief. Despite these unique strengths, the film does also contain some flaws. The climax and ending happen to go on too long for no particular reason, and there are portions of the film that do feel slightly atonal. However, this is a generally well-made and certainly well-acted dark comedy. Recommended. 7.5/10


                
Awesome movie, I would recommend it to those who want to watch a different movie. The film is like a western, but you are not an enemy on either side. The acting is excellent.


                
I saw "Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri", starring Frances McDormand-Moonrise Kingdom, Aeon Flux; Woody Harrelson-War For the Planet of the Apes, Seven Psychopaths; Sam Rockwell-Poltergeist_2015, Seven Psychopaths and Abbie Cornish-Geostorm, Seven Psychopaths. This is a comical drama-or, dramatic comedy-that has good actors and a good story but a bad ending that leaves you hanging. Frances plays a woman that had a daughter that was found raped and murdered and then set on fire. She doesn't think the police chief, Woody, has done his job in finding the killer responsible. Frances decides to put a message on three billboards stating her feelings. Nothing slanderous or untrue. She just poses the question of why Woody has not caught the killer, yet. Abbie plays Woody's wife and Sam is a racist deputy that lives at home with his mother. Almost all of the characters are complex, and will throw you a curve-no one is all good or all bad. Even Frances does things that are questionable and lies about things. If the ending were better, I would have given it a higher rating. It's rated "R" for violence, language and sexual content-no nudity-and has a running time of 1 hour & 55 minutes. I wouldn't buy it on DVD-unless the DVD has an alternate ending-but it would be a good rental.
One minute into the film and I knew I was into something special. I really rate the work of Martin McDonagh. Both In Bruges and Seven Psychopaths are excellent. When I heard about this film and read the premise I felt like this could be something that would make award season waves. The film has got a stellar cast to both and does a wonderful mix of comedy and drama to drive home a piece of film that is one of the strongest of the year thus far.The film follows a lady who rents out three billboards outside of Ebbing, Missouri, which point fingers at the local officer Chief Willoughby, for not solving the death and rape of her teenage daughter. These ads become controversial as the chief is a beloved figure of the community and people start having mixed but strong reactions to the billboards. There is a scramble to figure out the results of the case, and the main characters all have life changing consequences of being involved.This has to be the strongest Frances McDormand performance I have ever seen. She's always great but this was a total embodiment of a determined and strong willed mother who perseveres, despite knowing most of the town can't stand her guts. Woody Harrelson is typically good and we once again get a great Sam Rockwell showing once again showing how underrated he is. You become engulfed into the film and wrapped into everything that occurs.The film has its funny moments but it also is heavy handed and deals with a devastating loss. The film remains somewhat unpredictable and while the end is a bit open ended and brings more questions than answers, it doesn't detract from a strong written work that was satisfying to see at the tail end of the year.7.5/10


                
I was expecting a dull, slow pace and a long winded movie but my god the dialogues in it are really smart and well placed, Frances McDormand and Sam Rockwell did a great job in the movie as they delivered a stellar performance with huge emotional moments and occasionally some really dark and messed up funny moments. The motives of Frances McDormand to challenge the local authorities are understandable as she lost her daughter being raped and murdered because of her actions, the anger and despair of her emotion really did captured my heart. This film also shows that it is a human nature that people will do anything like Sam Rockwell's character Dixon threw Welby out of a window and Frances McDormand's character Mildred set off a fire to burn down the police station while Dixon was in it. This movie is realistic as it does not have a happy ending but they did found out who's the rapist/killer, and the film ends with both Dixon and Mildred deciding whether to kill him along the way. Don't really have any complain as the supporting cast are amazing in it too, Woody Harrelson especially.Overall : 7/10
I liked this movie, but personally, I think it is overrated. As a movie, technically it is really good, but that's all!


                
Anger has been a problem America has been dealing with the last couple of years. Whether it be political or social, everyone has felt angry about the current state of our nation. Here to shed more light on that topic is Martin McDonagh, writer, and director of Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri. McDonagh uses his Irish background and dark comedy writing skills to make a film that is both deadly serious and brutally funny. You may find yourself both laughing and crying in this tale of revenge and forgiveness. Just as you would expect, the film is set in the small town of Ebbing, Missouri. About a year ago, teenager Angela Hayes was raped and murdered. Her case has remained unsolved, much to the dismay of her mother, Mildred (Frances McDormand). Since none of her previous attempts have worked, Mildred decides the best way to call out the police and express her anger is to rent three billboards outside of town (get the title now?). This action quickly captures the attention of the beloved local police chief, Bill Willoughby (Woody Harrelson). What starts out as a small squabble begins to explode into more violent and personal acts between Mildred and the rest of the town. Along for the ride as support are Sam Rockwell, Peter Dinklage, Lucas Hedges, and Caleb Landry Jones.McDonagh's film boasts a mega-talented cast that is able to play both sides of the duality between good and evil. He gives all his characters range and memorable traits to keep them interesting to watch. He also perfectly balances the comedy and drama elements within his characters as well. We get to see their rage, but also their compassion. It's a fitting balance for a subject that doesn't have clear areas of right and wrong. The key part of McDonagh's script is how relatable it is to present day America. The anger each character has are like a symbol for each of us as we battle with the injustices going on in the real world. McDonagh doesn't give us an answer for how to cure our rage but gives us a story so we can see how violence makes everything worse. Surprisingly, one of the only weak parts of the film is McDonagh's script. It's a good script, but it also has some very clear problems throughout. One of those is some on-the-nose dialogue that feels out of place. He also lets the film get too out of hand and over the top by the end. Events escalate and occur almost too quickly and with little support to warrant their excessiveness. Cinematographer Ben Davis does a fine job working his camera through the small town of Ebbing. He gives us a city tour while also highlighting the characters that inhabit it. One expert sequence he pulls off is a continuous shot of Sam Rockwell's character breaking down a glass door, walking upstairs into an office, throwing a guy out the window, and then leaving the office while breaking another glass door. This film and The Shape of Water are in a tight race for the honor of being the best cast of 2017. Frances McDormand delivers an awards capturing performance as a tough mother that has been forced to go to extremes just so she can get the answers she deserves. It's her best role since Fargo and it perfectly plays to her strengths as an actress. She can mix vengeance, snarkiness, and compassion all in the same scene. It's a role only she could play.Sam Rockwell seriously steps us his game to deliver an amazing supporting performance as Dixon, the understudy to Willoughby. Dixon is not like most police officers, he's racist, misogynistic, and just plain mean. Rockwell masterfully blends his comedic skills with intense drama to make his character complex and compelling. He's largely been seen as "that" guy in most films, but after this film, people will know and appreciate the talents of Sam Rockwell. Woody Harrelson gives us his usual country charm with his character Willoughby. It's a character we've seen him play before, but it's a character he knows how to play. Rounding out the excellent supporting cast is Caleb Landry Jones, who is enjoying a marvelous 2017, and Lucas Hedges, who is also having a really good year. They both do well and aren't completely overshadowed by the leads in their limited roles.After watching the film, the main idea that makes this film work is the balance. Everybody uses it very well, whether it be McDonagh with his pretty good script or the actors with their masterful performances. As both an entertaining ride and eye-opening experience, Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri is one of the better films to come out this year.


                
Good but it had many faults and mistakes. 
Also I don't buy that we are going to be best friends after you burn down the half of my face or if someone throws me out of a window I would not forgive that.
If my kid attacks me with a knife I wouldn't act like that. Etc... 
Overally enjoyable that's why I gave it 7.I wouldn't give it a single Oscar for anything. Simly doesn't deserve it. There are many other movies that are not nominated for anything and are better in every aspect. ( Saying all this after about 2000 movies and with a good taste. )
Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri is a film that portrays something that unfortunately is happening nowadays, after the Hollywood scandals where it had many accusations against actors on sexual harassment, Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri tells the story of a mother who is interpreted of impeccable way by Frances McDormand and that possibly will take the Oscar for best actress in the Oscar 2018 that decides to put three billboards on a road that is little used to get the attention of the case that was not solved of a brutal roar and murder of its daughter, is a film that has a great script, but I found the film slow, the direction of Martin McDonagh is good, but not impressive, the performances besides Frances McDormand that steals the film, we have Woody Harrelson making a character that is no longer in the his career, Sam Rockwell who is very well, Peter Dinklage, Lucas Hedges and etc, the way the story is conducted did not excite me at all Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri is a good movie, has many quality, Frances McDormang is impeccable and carries the film, but I expected more. Note 7.7


                
As soon as Three Billboards outside Ebbing Missouri got the best picture and best actress Golden Globe I saw it.I had heard of the story line of the movie - A girl is raped and there are no arrests, the mother takes it in her own hands to do something about it.
I was expecting a usual rape revenge drama. But this gem is packed with much unexpected script delivered with unusual character developments and flow of events - ending in a climax that leaves us - what next?Francis McDarmond is one of my favorite actress of Hollywood. Strong, deep into the character and rarely misses a note of acting. She is brilliant as an eccentric mother and a lone ranger fighter. Her pesona reflects so much anger and grit that one feels that nothing will ever stop her.Within a town run by corrupt police to business as usual people, with eye-balling media awaiting a sensational news-story - this movie is packed with easy going overview of such events that unnerve and harass normal lives prevalent commonly in small towns all over the world.The director Martin McDonagh had seen bill-boards of unsolved crime on one of his trips that gave him the story idea and casting of Francis was kept in mind while writing this fictional story and script of the movie.There are small sub-plots in the movie with extremely well developed characters that are thrown at the audience unpredictably. Some you hate, some you love, and some of them makes you change your perspective from hate to like.A string of small anecdotal comic stream is added to bring relief in otherwise swearing overtones of abuses spoken throughout the movie. I would also point out that there are many obvious flaws and potholes in the narration, that can be overlooked. Francis McDormand brings to life a quirky character filled with remorse, tragedy with grit to fight every road-block she faces. Brilliantly portrayed.The background score of a few country tracks are very pleasing and ear-catching tunes.This movie has already collected more than 50 awards and nominated for more than 150 worldwide. A sure hit at the Academy Oscars.(I give this movie 7.25 out of 10)


                
