"Three Billboards outside Ebbing, Missouri" marks a milestone for writer/directer Martin McDonagh and is an idea piece on a mother's struggle with her town after posting billboards containing a call to action in regards to her murdered daughter. With outstanding screen writing and near perfect editing, this powerhouse of a film is easily one of the best all year and is driven with force and intensity by its lead, Frances McDormand.What begins as a narrow and focused drama, gradually escalates to a film with big themes and ideas, relevant social commentary, and much more subplots than anticipated. "Three Billboards outside Ebbing, Missouri" is packed with questions and a few answers about anger, revenge, violence, and kindness. The story shows people in a realistic light I've never quite seen before. We're presented with characters and their genuine emotions. Nothing feels sugarcoated of fluffed but it never lacks emotional impact either. The movie balances its seemingly contradictory tones beautifully by crafting a dark comedy that feels heavy due to strong subject matter, while at the same time, utilizing comedic moments that feel completely natural to the character's motivations. It's obvious great care was taken into this script and the method in which it's constructed. One of the most talked about elements to this film are the strong performances; particularly by Frances McDormand and Sam Rockwell. Rightfully so, this is some of their best (if not their best) work these eyes have beheld and they steal the show in every film they're in. That's not take away from Woody Harrelson and Lucas Hedges, as well as the entire cast who give memorable performances and paint shockingly believable characters that we feel we know personally. If there is anything that might turn audiences away from this film, it might be its harsh subject matter despite none of it every being depicted as well as its language and execution with the material. Personally, this has a strong impact and I wouldn't have changed anything about it. It's a highly recommended film with a lot to ponder at the end and is definitely a contender for best movie of the year. Definitely don't miss this one.


                
Frances McDormand is, without question, one of the very best actresses of hers or any generation. Wow! And like most of the greatest she goes for characters who don't ask for sympathy. The truth is in her eyes, always. So, naturally, I followed her every inch of the way. She is surrounded by a fantastic group of actors. Woody Harrelson is just extraordinary but perhaps the biggest surprise is Sam Rockwell making his one eighty not just believable but very moving. Martin McDonagh's writing is the magic potion that keeps everything together and when I say everything I mean everything. Humor and horror as if it were practically the same thing. The dialogue is brilliant and Frances McDorman deserves the last paragraph. Her face is a wonder. Superb performance. Don't miss it.
When you think about great cinema, you often imagine some grandiose epic setting which all that greatness builds upon. The likes of Gone With the Wind or Godfather or The Shawshank Redemption, such films span through decades or cover the major historic events.But a great story isn't necessary grand on the outside. Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri is like a tiny rabbit hole size of those three wooden screens, but stick a head in - and you'll see a huge empty space laid with people's sorrow, guilt and regret. And that emptiness sucks you in and leaves no way to stay untouched.But there's also hope. Hope for justice. Hope for retribution. And maybe even hope that it's still not too late to change something, or to change yourself. That nothing is absolutely black and white. That even in the darkest moments of our lives there's some room for a sense of humor, maybe a sad and bitter one but still one worth a warm smile.This world is a crooked place, where crime often goes unpunished. And Peter Dinklage's small role in this film, as a reference to another not so pretty world where the "happily ever after" way doesn't quite exist, is a stinging reminder of that. TBOEM does not, however, try to pull the magic sword out of the stone and go crush the wicked and protect the righteous. Instead, it shows that sometimes, crumbling under the weight of the evil things that fall on us, we lose our own limits and become those who sow evil ourselves. Anger does beget even more anger.And maybe the reason that makes America great indeed is that, with all the messed up stuff happening without and within, it's in your culture to value forgiveness, something Christianity teaches everyone but not everyone tends to listen. To suffer without guilt, yet to offer a helping hand to your offender when he's down and wounded. To break the circle of evil and help each other wake that yearning for decency that everyone has inside them, albeit dormant sometimes. Forgiveness is tough, and, just like revenge, it doesn't bring back the things - or people - we've lost. But at least it helps to hold onto what could still be here.Yeah, it's just a movie, and most people aren't as deep and philosophical as the movie characters can afford to be. But if some unrealistic complexity (and sometimes even wisdom) of the simple people could make some real regular people on the other side of the screen stop and think over their own real regular ways, maybe that's exactly what we need from time to time. Because life is still here, and so are the multiple choices it gives, And which road to choose today, we can still decide along the way.


                
Having recently won the People's Choice Awards at TIFF, Three Billboards outside Ebbing, Missouri is very easy to see why it won.Three Billboards is a dark but also funny and heart-felt story about one woman's quest to get justice for her daughter's rape and murder. After Mildred Haynes buys three billboards with words written on them accusing the town's well-liked sheriff of having not found her daughter's killer, it sets a series of events that turns the citizens and the cops against her.The thing I can say about Three Billboards without going into spoilers is that it is wildly unpredictable. One moment you think things are going one direction as expected then it takes hard left turn that only adds to the dynamic between the characters. As the pressure within the town builds and anger is pointed towards Mildred, we see many of these characters evolve in order to deal with tragedy and grief and learn to find peace. And the movie goes through a roller-coaster of emotions. One moment you are laughing your butt off from the hilarious dialogue then you feel like someone just punched you in the gut. With every victory you think this story brings you feel like it was taken away from because of the world's unfairness and injustice. In lesser hands the mixture of dark and comedic tones would not work, but director and writer Martin McDonagh knows how to balance them to perfection.The performances here just through the roof. Frances McDormand delivers a performance that will for sure get her into the Lead Actress awards race at the Oscars. As Mildred, McDormand just cuts loose with her performance with every line of hate, cynicism and cursing towards everyone she feels doesn't truly understand the internal pain she is going through. But McDormand does now and then show a soft side to Mildred. It shows that Mildred is just person like everyone who has her own way of dealing with the tragedy of loosing her own child. And Sam Rockwell also gives one of the best performances of his career as the flawed and very misguided cop Dixon. The character of Dixon is short-tempered, volatile, and not bright with some baggage of his own that the locals accuse him of. But Sam Rockwell brings his charm and sincerity to what could be a rather unlikable character. And in the latter half, you see Dixon go through a tremendous arc of learning to care about others rather then just being angry towards them. Other great performances that should be called out are Woody Harrelson, Peter Dinklage, John Hawk and Caleb Landry Jones.Three Billboards outside Ebbing, Missouri is easily one of the best movies this year and is worth seeing once it comes out in wide releases.


                
It seemed that the pregnant police detective Marge Gunderson from 'Fargo' would forever be the most memorable character of Frances McDormand's acting career. But now I'm not so sure. Mildred Hayes, the heroine from 'Three Billboards', is a serious contender. This might well be her best performance ever.The part of Mildred Hayes was written with McDormand in mind. Hayes is a divorced single mother, living with her son on the outskirts of a small, remote town. She had a daughter too, but the girl was raped and killed on a quiet mountain road not far from home. Frustrated by the lack of progress of the investigation, Hayes decides to rent three dilapidated billboards, publicly accusing the local police chief of incompetence. By doing so, she attracts the attention of the media, angers almost the entire town and causes a succession of increasingly violent actions.Although the film is about grief, anger, revenge and violence, it is extremely funny. Above all because of Mildred Hayes' stubborn character and her ability to verbally humiliate people by her extremely sharp tongue. The monologue she delivers when a priest visits her house to tell her she has gone too far, is priceless.Apart from McDormand's performance, the screenplay is another great feature of this film. The story is full of unexpected twists, gradually shifting the positions of the main characters towards each other. None of the characters are one-dimensional: they all reveal surprising parts of their personalities as the story moves forward.And then there is the overall, almost Coen-esque atmosphere of a small town full of colourful characters. There is a racist cop, a friendly midget, a smart advertising guy and a pretty girl who is so dumb she doesn't know the difference between polo and polio.It is hard to mention something negative about this film. 'Three Billboards' is, from start to finish, a great movie. I can't imagine anyone not enjoying it.


                
This movie I went into almost blind, but I came out of the theater with it probably being my favorite film in the last year. This film is so smart at being able to keep you at the edge of your seat from simple things that they plug into the film. Heartbreaking and tense situations in the first half of the film come back in some shape or form that leave you questioning what is going to happen. There was genuinely no predicting what the characters were going to do and how they would react to certain events. This unpredictability doesn't just apply to situations, but possibly more notable in character arcs. Without giving to much away, there is a character in this film that does everything possible for you to hate them in the first half, and by the end of the film you are rooting for said character. There's times where the characters that you cared for are becoming real and dis-likable in certain scenes, but to the point of more so being genuinely worried about how their choices will affect them.Every actor in this film did so tremendous as well. I really can't think of an actor or actress that outshines the rest. But if I had to pick favorites, Frances McDormand and Sam Rockwell were just that. But a lot of that just has to go into the writing of the characters themselves. The cinematography in this film allows the actors to take advantage of facial expression. There's a scene relatively early in the film that is mostly sitting and staring but the actors have such convincing movements and gestures, it goes to a point where you don't need dialogue to tell what they are feeling and what they are thinking about.Really the only issue I have in this film is some scenes felt a little unnecessary. Can't give away too much without spoiling, but in a film where every character goes through in arc, there's one character that is just there to break tension and crack personally unfunny jokes. But this character did not affect my score and they were barely in the film.I highly recommend checking this out.


                
The drama of Martin McDon, known primarily for his ability to violate the foundations of modern drama, can easily be considered one of the best in the outgoing year.In the center of the picture is the mother of the deceased girl, seeking justice and justice in a rather cynical manner and the unquenchable hope for which is the meaning of life, along with a single son and a worn blue overall."Where is the cliche?" - I thought, and already on the 10th minute of the movie I stopped speculating about the development of events and trying to predict the replicas and actions of the characters. This unpredictable plot was not in my memory for a long time, considering that all the events taking place for nearly two hours (and there were an unlimited number of them) surprise with their surprise and sometimes absurdity.The non-linear structure of the film makes the viewer systematically ask the question, "What will be the end?", But "What will happen tomorrow?". The same question is asked to themselves and all the characters: the divorced mother Mildred, who is already desperate to find justice, ultimately lives by today and actually loses the intelligible for herself and for the surrounding purpose, humiliating the policeman and accusing them of racism, sexism and other " ". Sheriff Willoughby, who learned that he has cancer, does not know what will happen to his reputation after his death. The sheriff's widow does not know what will happen to her daughters. The assistant to the sheriff Dixon sits up his pants and reads comics, having no motivation, no prospects, nothing.The appearance of three billboards in Ebbinge literally leads this small town into a rage. The hunt for Mildred is accompanied by violence on the screen, both from her side and from her ill-wishers (scenes in the dentist's office, as well as in the advertising firm). Even the church involved in the scandal gets gets on the forehead of Martin McDonagh, who calls her "a criminal group" and "lovers of little boys, and in general, boys." The whole town shows all the dirt, like a fish, rotten from head to tail, stinks of hypocrisy.Thus, the unyielding willpower of the heroine Francis McDormand and her motivation, which at some point is questioned, makes the actress, perhaps, the main nominee for the Academy Award. And the abundance of all sorts of characters (including the hero of Sam Rockwell), well-designed, but sometimes fantastic scenario and satire on acute social problems (racism, sexual harassment, police lawlessness, etc.) make the Three Billboard reflect modern disgusting reality and valuable ( if not the most expensive) coin along with Bruges and the Seven Psychopaths in the treasury of the talented Martin McDonagh.Bravo, McDonagh!


                
I went to see this movie because I hadn't seen any trailers to it. It's something I do because trailers are unreliable and spoiling, but also this case was based around the sheer number of good reviews. I can't even describe how surprised i was when i started to invest in the drama, and I really got my money worth when seeing it in the theaters. This is a movie that grips you good from the start, and holds the tension of the backstory right up until the end. The characters are phonemically written, and the actors did a hell-of-a-good job portraying them. This is a movie that could have been written off with a "strong protagonist"-cinda-story, but unfolds to a much more deep and philosophical tone. To be honest! not much happens in this film, but because of the powerfull characters within - every little detail about their lives, becomes of great importance throughout. I can say without a doubt, that this is my favourite movie of the year (2017...Ofc.)


                
Three Billboards has a soul. It's a study of anger and compassion. Two of the many insights: anger can seem real but is often just a pose, an empty shell, a hollow story. And there's a world of difference between everyday anger (which can be huge) and malignant anger (which can be evil). Even though the film is a bit clunky, you walk out of the theater feeling kinship with the people around you.


                
I now understand why this movie is winning a crap ton of awards and nominated for so many Oscars. The acting was outstanding all around, especially from Frances McDormand and Sam Rockwell. Story was well written and directed. Even had some nice comic relief throughout.
Disclaimer: This Movie is not for the faint of heart. It has some serious dark tones and lots of foul language.


                
Really enjoyed this, it has everything, and all done well. It was refreshing to have characters who are new, not knowing if they were usual predictable sorts. There's drama, pathos and some really good comic moments. The cast are all brilliant, some great cameos from the lesser known. Of all the recent films I'd say this is the one to watch.


                
Superb script, direction, performances, music, editing, cinematography. Did I miss anything? Of course, but you get my drift.Everything comes together superbly, under writer/director's Martin McDonagh's assured hands. The mix of hilarious dark comedy, pathos and adventurous story for adults is a welcome change to the usual banal teen-centric films Hollywood produces all too often.Just go watch it, wallow in it and let it work its magic.


                
I only give 10s to films I watch over and over and over. This would come close though: characters with actual depth, personal problems, nasty quirks but somehow managing to be sympathetic. This could have so easily been turned, in other hands, into a standard, tear-jerking melodrama ... but because of great acting, and the decision to have everyone speaking dialogue that resembles what people think but never say, it turns into a roller coaster of black humor, pain, anger, misunderstanding, and love ... and in so doing defining a form of truth. It does deserve awards in many categories, but surely for the script.


                
A hallmark of a great movie is one that can make you laugh, think, and cry (or at least become emotional) simply through viewing it. Three Billboards is great in this way. Themes contemplating grief and anger, and how they shape us are evident throughout. There is one scene of violence framed in a way that churns the stomach. And a healthy dose of black comedy provides levity (and occasional sly societal commentary) throughout. Three Billboards is one to cherish.


                
This movie deserves every Oscar nomination and award it got, It's a bold statement about America right now. It's filled with Drama delivered through comedy without falling into parody, it will make you laugh and tear your heart down all thanks to its complex characters and poignant themes such as police brutality, Rape and racism, So it's OK if you find yourself riding a roller coaster of feelings while watching. Those billboards are nothing but a symbol of a belief or a stand that everyone else is against and the movie teaches us to stand for those beliefs and fight for them no matter what's the outcome. It's also a representation of our time as you can see those billboards as tweets too, tweets that made the whole community talking about the case and at the same time taking action. A typical image of social media's era with #metoo hashtags and many more... To conclude, this movie isn't about Mildred finding her daughter's rapist but about her standing up in the face of injustice and standing up for herself but the one thing I would reproach to this beautiful story is the ending that felt cut in the middle and ambiguous yet it doesn't change the fact that it's one of this year's best movies and one of my all-time favorites


                
In Bruges is quite simply one of the finest movies ever made, managing the difficult task of being rip roaringly hilarious and gut-wrenchingly emotional at the same time, often in the same scenes. This is Martin McDonagh's signature and he's held it through every one of his films. I admit I wasn't so much a fan of Seven Psychopaths (comparatively), but I think I just need to see it again. Nonetheless it didn't squander my anticipation for his next filmmaking adventure; Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri, which is getting a hell of a lot of Awards attention, and that couldn't make me happier. Three Billboards is quintessential McDonagh; dark, hilarious, emotional, shocking, quotable, filled to the brim with characters that ooze depth and development. It'll have you laughing and crying at the same moment, on the edge of your seat, and wrapped up in the worlds of each individual character and their own personal story.Three Billboards follows the tale of Mildred who seeks justice seven months after her daughter's rape and murder. Angry at the local police department's perceived lack of action on the case, she buys out three billboards outside her home to call out the sheriff and make her stand. It splits the town, between those who support her, and those who are angered by her actions, and those who just get caught up in the middle, like her son, and the advertising company who owns the billboards.Mildred is an enthralling character to watch. On the surface she's an extremely unlikeable person. She's brash, angry, foul-mouthed, and lacks any kind of tact. She's so blinded by her own grief and anger that she can't see the effect her actions are taking on those around her, whether those actions are morally or legally right or not. But she is only one of many interesting characters in this movie. Three Billboards only has one, unseen villain; the rapist/murderer, and no heroes to speak of at all. Every character exists in their own spectrum of grey, from Mildred herself, to the angry, racist cop Dixon, to the dying Chief Willoughby, to the unsure of himself, but morally grounded Red. None of them are quintessentially good, and none of them are quintessentially bad; just normal people reacting in sometimes expected and other times unexpected ways, as people do.I'll skip to the acting now, because that's also such a huge part of these characters. Frances McDormand deserves every accolade she gets over the coming months for her performance as Mildred. In lesser hands Mildred's character could easily have fallen flat, deep in the realms of unsympathetic protagonist, but McDormand takes this woman and makes her so oddly easy to root for. Sam Rockwell is the other standout. I've been singing his praises for years, as he's always the best part of any movie he's in, but as Dixon he's only eclipsed by McDormand. At first a bumbling idiot quick to anger, Rockwell manages to handle the one-eighty with such convincing dignity that it feels natural and real, and that Dixon is still there. He was a smart guy after all, just not very good at communicating. Woody Harrelson is also fantastic as Chief Willoughby, keeping the film firm in it's moral foundations. The supporting cast are all great as well, from Peter Dinklage to John Hawkes to Caleb Landry Jones (who's had a hell of a career so far). The only real weak link is Abbie Cornish who doesn't really know what to do with herself, and whose accent is so bizarrely confusing it's hard to understand where she's meant to be from.But the exceptional character work is only a part of what makes Three Billboards so good. Narratively McDonagh manages to craft a story full of unpredictable turns without convoluting itself with twists, and never feels the need to answer anything (including a plot-cliffhanger of an ending). The way Three Billboards manages to balance dark, serious, violent, and shocking, with funny, silly, and even a dash of slapstick is fantastic, and there's so many moments that completely subvert expectations. One example is an interrogation between Mildred and Willoughby as they play off one another, brought to a halt by a sudden cough of blood, and the tone just shifts with the click of the finger. Mildred goes from smarmy smartass to mothering human being without missing a step. Another is a sudden escalation of domestic argument that results in a knife to the throat, but is quickly interrupted by an injection of humour from someone walking in unexpected and apologising.In lesser hands these shift of tones would feel haphazard and jarring, but McDonagh somehow manages to keep it all tied together. It doesn't matter that a serious interaction is interrupted by humour (and vice versa), because everything shifts so quickly. For every line that makes you laugh ("Penelope said begets?"), there's a line that punches you in the gut ("I hope you get raped too"), and it just adds to the unpredictability of the story. There's never a moment that ends exactly the way you think it will.Three Billboards is definitely a triumph of filmmaking. It's not perfect by any means (Abbie Cornish), but everything it does right, it really does right. Few movies will take you on as much of a rollercoaster as Three Billboards, and fewer still will drive that rollercoaster by characters as deep and interesting as Mildred, Dixon, Willoughby, Red, Robbie, James, and Charlie. The story, the music, the dialogue, the shifts in tone, the acting, the cinematography (that tracking shot, man), it's all fantastic. I give Three Billboards an unquestioning 9/10. What a start to 2018.

Frances McDormand's daughter was raped and murdered, and it seems like no movement has happened on the case in months. Noticing three derelict billboards on a largely unused stretch of road just out of town, she rents them and puts up a personal challenge to local police chief Woody Harrelson. The police department, especially thuggish cop Sam Rockwell, are very unhappy about this turn of events. The town is divided. Harrelson is a popular man, but the department has a history of mistreating the town's less fortunate citizens (particularly the African American population), so many folks like seeing them called to task. This sets up what seems to be a very straightforward "little guy vs authority" story, but McDonagh has a more morally complex story in mind. Harrelson is a dying man, suffering from terminal cancer, and his explanation of why the case has gone nowhere seems quite reasonable. McDormand is suffering from understandable grief, but you learn that some of the grief might stem from a feeling of personal responsibility for the tragedy. Good characters do some really bad things. Bad characters commit horrifically violent actions, but then suffer from violence due to heroically self-sacrificing acts. Besides being a serious meditation on grief and revenge, it's also very darkly comic.


                
Outstanding work by writer/director Martin McDonagh, in a return to form after the off-kilter "Seven Psychopaths." This is a film about the joint cul-de-sacs of loss and revenge. It is both horrifying and touching, and it is also very funny.McDonagh, a first-rate playwright, knows how to structure scenes and write dialogue. To do him justice, first-rate actors are required. They must love the succulent stew of characters he cooks up, because he catches the very best. I can't find enough superlatives for Frances McDormand and Sam Rockwell. They are, here as in everything they've ever been in, great. They are ably supported by Woody Harrelson, Caleb Landry Jones, Clarke Peters, Sandy Martin, Lucas Hedges, John Hawkes, Amanda Warren. The only weak link in this superb ensemble is Abbie Cornish, who is warm and smiley but is unfortunately out of her depth: a very odd piece of casting.Cinematography, production design, costume, editing, music - they're all top of the range. But in the end it's down to McDormand and Rockwell, and the brilliant script.


                
Great performance and deep scenes !
Frances did a really wonderful job !
but I have one question :
the rapist that Dixon met at the bar wasn't the one who raped Angela ?
if he wasn't, then why did Dixon and Mildred travel to kill him ?
With Disney Buying Fox its going to be the end of films like this. That's sad because in 40 years people will still be talking about this film but will they still be talking about "Pirates of the Caribbean 5"? I Doubt it. In this film a woman's daughter was murdered. After months have passed without a culprit in her daughter's murder case, Mildred Hayes makes a bold move, painting three signs leading into her town with a controversial message directed at William Willoughby, the town's revered chief of police.Tensions run high and the suspects are all over the place. To give more away would be a crime. Trust me this film is original. Frances McDormand, Woody Harrelson, & Sam Rockwell prove once again that they are three of the best actors working today. Frances & Sam should make room on their trophy case! What a wonderful film.


                
I watched this movie during the 2017 Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF) after it had won the Grolsch People's Choice Award. I already had high hopes for this movie and it definitely did not disappoint! Concept of the movie seems pretty easy to understand: Mildred Hayes (played by Frances McDormand) is still grieving the loss of her murdered daughter and challenges the local sheriff's (Woody Harrelson) inability to find her killer. From watching the trailer I was a little unsure if this was going to be a drama or a comedy, but turns out it was both, or more accurately a dark comedy. The first few minutes of the movie really set the tone for keeping you interested in the dramatic core, maintaining the humour in events as they unfold. Not only are the characters perfectly cast individually (example my fav Sam Rockwell as Officer Jason Dixon), but the writing of the entire script makes it so easy to enjoy this entire movie. Writer/Director Martin McDonagh deserves a high five for this accomplishment!
Very rarely will you find a non-Hollywood big blockbuster production that is such a winner as this film. The screenplay/writing, directing and acting were all outstanding. The casting was perfect. It's a story very well told and played out. Even the dialogue for each character contributes to the success of this film. This is not my typical type of movie that I look forward to seeing, as I'm more of an action fan, but this one was a hit for me. It's a well deserved 9/10 from me!


                
I just saw this movie, and I found it remarkable. Yes, there is some very fine acting in it, which I will leave to others to praise. What I found remarkable here was the script, not the dialogues so much as the plot development. There are several surprise developments, twists and turns that catch you - or at least me - of your guard. But they never struck me as forced, they always made sense within the context of what had come before. The lead characters were allowed a complexity that I appreciated.There was one thing that left me perplexed: deputy Dixon's change of character near the end, when he decides to help the main character find her daughter's sadistic killer. Yes, I know that he is affected by the late sheriff's letter to him - did the sheriff really write all those letters before committing suicide? - but that didn't seem enough to me. I was amazed that, when Dixon finally sees the fire engulfing the police station, the one thing he wants to save is the file regarding the daughter's murder case.I'd be curious to hear how others reacted to this.
McDormand is undeniably a master of her craft and this film is a twisted, funny, thought-provoking canvas through which she deftly showcases her abilities. I can understand why this film might not be for everyone but if you can handle the full-throttle anger and violence of McDormand's heartbroken character, and the grey moral compass of the supporting cast of characters, you will appreciate the depth and intelligence and complexity of this wonderful, original film.


                
The writer & director, Martin McDonagh, has managed to capture the subtle dark sense of humour which often seems to accompany death and grieving. He recognises how it is used as a coping mechanism to deal with the loss of a loved one; yet the line between drawing offense or being funny is thin. 
McDonagh mastered this in his first film, In Bruge, which was marketed as comedy, even though it dealt with murder and suicide. A lot of the audience see 3 billboards as a comedy too, but it is not. Truthfully, it is another film which deals with grieving and loss, all five stages of it, with all the myriad expressions of denial, anger, bargaining, depression, and finally acceptance.
The small town setting in Missouri works really well. It could almost be a small town in Ireland , or anywhere for that matter. Small towns are small pools in which the big fish are always the more louder and brashist characters. Enter Sam Rockwell, who plays the role of a racist policeman who redeems himself in the end. He is the equal to Colin Farrell's characters in 7 Psychopaths (another McDonagh film which they both starred in) and In Bruge. 
Frances McDormand is commanding in nearly every scene playing a local anti-hero who everyone is polite to on account of the recent loss of her daughter, yet behind her back they all judge. 
Woody Harrelson is just getting better and better at playing yet another role in which he almost sucks in both respect and empathy. 
This is such a fine film that I watched it again, the very next day. It is a non-Hollwood production which despite winning Best Picture at the Golden Globes, it seems to be getting it fair share of 'haters' in America. I would guess that this is because of the dissmissive way in which the narratve deals with racism in the Southern States. It seems to say that at the end of the day, people are just people and that a person's colour is irrelevant.


                
