For a Few Dollars More (1965) is the best Clint Eastwood Western movie and one of my favorite personal classic western flicks ever! It is my third favorite in "The Man with No Name" Trilogy. I grew up watching this film and it was the first Clint Eastwood western movie I ever saw, I fall immediately in love with it and I just love this movie. It is Sergio Leone's best western film of all time my favorite. It is entraining and brilliant western flick with a great original epic story, great cast and the acting is fantastic. You have a great shoot outs, the music score is original epic. I always enjoy this film. It is my favorite Eastwood western movie. In my opinion It is Sergio Leone and Clint Eastwood's classic film that they ever made together. Westerns like this film doesn't exit this days anymore. I have enjoyed For a Few Dollars More a lot. I love this one to death. The film is very entertained, is not boring and It has a good plot and story to tell. The characters, the action shooting sequences are just amazing and awesome. Sergio Leone does what he wanted to do with the film, and become one of the greatest epic classic western movies. I love this movie to death and it is my favorite film! There are other western films that Clint Eastwood made and directed but this one will be one of his best films in the history ever.The first film was more about one hero but in this film there are two heroes. The bullets, the shooting is outstanding. The gun fights are awesome. This is a Western that simply delivers the goods, and it does so with a spectacular marriage of style and substance. From the opening scenes with Cleef and Eastwood, to the scenes in El Paso, and then into the set pieces in the stone ruins in the Mexico desert, For a Few Dollars More displays the utmost skill by Leone in his storytelling, as well as in his use of the camera.The film is intelligent when Col. Douglas Mortimer suggested that the way to break the gang will be easy with one man from the inside of the gang (Monco) , because his younger. The story telling from El Indio about a carpenter who made a big closet were the safe was hiding in it was just plain brilliant.Monco breaks one of Indio's friends out of prison and is admitted to the gang, to prove his loyalty was awesome. The watch that Indio opens during the gun fight scenes and when the song stops by the watch he draw his gun and shoot anyone in the gun fight with him that was so awesome. The last showdown between Col. Douglas Mortimer and El Indio when the song stopped was TERRIFIC!Why I love this movie? Simply because of Clint Eastwood and Lee Van Cleef. I love Lee Van Cleef so much in here because he plays the good guy, he kills bunch of outlaws whit his riffle. He befriends Monco and he kills El Inido on the end. He doesn't split the reward with Monco , but he lets him have it, the money on a honest way. Clint Eastwood as Monco did a fantastic job in one of his best performances as Bounty Killer Monco. He also kills bunch of outlaws, he also shoot Mortimer's hat, he never shoots an Innocent or unarmed person, that is why I love this actor and his character so much. Gian Maria Volonté did a good job on another style he also never shoot unarmed person, he only did that once for a women he fall in love. Mortimer's sister, on the end of the film it was reveled why Col. Douglas Mortimer was hunting El Indio and his gang. He was doing it for both: Justice and Revenge, while Monco just wanted to get money and become rich, but he changed his mind after he saw how Indio is evil and cruel person. The gun fight between Col. Douglas Mortimer and Juan Wild - The Hunchback ( Klaus Kinski) in the bar was fantastic! How Col. Douglas Mortimer killed him. I love this film to death I love it! Sergio Leone did a fantastic job directing this awesome flick in fact I think it is his masterpiece. The film that changed the western movies today and I love the music score from Ennio Morricone. The dialogue and the script was amazing, the weapons used in this film are awesome and they are used well. Action is plenty in the film.What else do you want in an spaghetti Western film like this at all?! The fact is this is the greatest western ever made in the history. I love this film to death! It is my third favorite film in the Dollars trilogy. This movie is a perfect 10 it is my personal favorite western movie.


                
As the second of the three films legendary filmmaker Sergio Leone collaborated on with Clint Eastwood (not to mention his first with Lee Van Cleef and his second with 'Fistful' actor Gian Maria Volonte), For a Few Dollars More gets well earned respect from the fans of the director and the groundbreaking star. And yet, occasionally there are those who'll not even know this film from Leone and Clint exists since it does sometimes get under the shadow of their two most infamous works, Fistful of Dollars (which for the most part introduced Clint and Leone to the public's awareness) and The Good, the Bad and the Ugly (which solidified Clint as a Western icon and gave Leone a similar status for film buffs). But taken as a film unto itself, aside from its place in the trilogy, this is a Western that simply delivers the goods, and it does so with a spectacular marriage of style and substance. The story begins by introducing our two (anti) heroes, bounty hunters Douglas Mortimer (Cleef), former Colonel, and Monco (Eastwood), a drifter. They both set their sights on the leader of a gang of bandits named Indio (Volonte), who is plotting to go after over a million locked in a bank in El Paso. At first, Monco and Mortimer seem like their after Indio for the same reason- reward money- though there seems to be more than each man counted on with him and his gang. From the opening scenes with Cleef and Eastwood, to the scenes in El Paso, and then into the set pieces in the stone ruins in the Mexico desert(s), For a Few Dollars More displays the utmost skill by Leone in his storytelling, as well as in his use of the camera. Using Fistful's camera-man Massimo Dallamano, Leone does what he does best in his spaghetti westerns- he creates a perfectly in sync mood with his characters: each look in a scene, whether it's intense waiting for guns to be drawn, or just regular conversation, the look of the film draws the viewer in without over-doing it. Some points are made bold or repetitious (like Ennio Morricone's score, that keeps its whistling theme and serene watch theme completely in check), though it's not done to any degree of annoyance or by accident. In fact, that's what makes his westerns such fun, is that you take them seriously as films, yet he always reminds you that it's all in the 'movie-world' just by the way Mortimer or Monco strikes up a match. As for the actors themselves, Eastwood and Cleef are total pros in this genre, so ever line of dialog comes out naturally, and the supporting actors (however dubbed over from original Italian) all contribute great notes as well. At the least, it can appeal to a new generation of kids looking back to older movies, which may look at this and consider it more modernly crafted than a John Ford oldie. A+


                
"For a Few Dollars More" has become the template for which most Spaghetti Westerns derive. As Leone went along, his films got more daring and complex, exploring new ideas and raising not only the bar for Spaghetti Westerns (which, contrary to popular belief, were around before "A Fistful of Dollars") but for Westerns in general. However, this exploration at times affected the quality of his films. Leone was a popcorn director - a visual stylist who always entertained first and maybe provoked a thought or two second. However, his films were never think pieces so when he tried to integrate depth into his films the results became uneven. "For a Few Dollars More" is his best film because it catches Leone in his most transitional period. At once the film is more complex and stylized than "A Fistful..." and more tight and efficient than "The Good, the Bad and The Ugly" (which is almost on par with "For a Few..."). The revenge sub-plot involving Colonel Mortimer is more compelling than the similar one in Leone's "Once Upon a Time in the West" because Mortimer is more developed as a character than the Harmonica Player (which is not to insult the great Charles Bronson). And hell, it has Lee Van Cleef as one of the biggest bad-asses of all time. The mere presence of Colonel Douglas Mortimer elevates the film to a new level. He steals the film from "Manco" completely. And Van Cleef's theft of the film is what makes it a cut above "A Fistful...". As a character, "The Man With No Name" (who in actuality has three: Joe, Manco and Blondie) isn't very interesting and there always needs to be a counterpoint to play off of him. That's why "A Fistful..." isn't nearly as good as this film or "The Good..." (which had the great Eli Wallach in one of the best scenery munching performances ever).So in closing, "For a Few..." is a tight masterpiece of fluff Western entertainment. It's mean, violent and immoral, just the way any good Spaghetti Western should be.


                
This is the second movie in Sergio Leone's trilogy, sandwiched between "For a Fistful of Dollars" and the classic "The Good, The Bad and The Ugly"...Eastwood (Man with No Name) and Lee Van Cleef (Colonel Douglas Mortimer) are two bounty killers who eventually team up to go after Indio and his gang of bandits...If you don't like Spaghetti Westerns or don't "get" Spaghetti Westerns, then this movie is NOT for you, but if you do, there are many great lines, great scenes and great showdowns in "For a Few Dollars More"...And the best part of this movie, as is with most Leone movies, is the music by Ennio Morricone...The scores from this movie, "The Good, The Bad and The Ugly" and "Once Upon a Time in The West" are three of Morricone's best (in my humble opinion) and music from the soundtrack of "A Few Dollars More" can be found on a cd called "The Legendary Italian Western Volume 2", by Ennio Morricone, where there are 31 tracks from several movies...Or there are many, many other cds where you can find spaghetti western music, just do a search on "Ennio Morricone, spaghetti western music"...


                
The second entry into the world of Sergio Leone's western landscape delivers more nerve tingling gun duels, a greater insight into what drives the characters, and a more powerful soundtrack which in all Leone films forms the basis of what he is trying to portray. Leone uses the brilliant Ennio Morricone music to demonstrate the emotions of the characters, and the situations that they find themselves in.Fresh from the successful film A Fistful Of Dollars, Clint Eastwood stars again as the Man With No Name, a man who is identified by this spaghetti poncho and his fast drawing gun action. As the title card states "Death Sometimes Had Its Price, That Is Why The Bounty Killers Appeared" basically describes the motives of Clint Eastwood's character, he is a bounty killer that goes up against criminals that have a price on their head.However like anything in life there is competition, for Eastwood it comes in the form of a quiet, intelligent and efficient killer Col Douglas Mortimer played brilliantly by Lee Van Cliff. Mortimer is driven by a deeper motive, one that goes beyond reward money and goes closer to his heart. Lee outshines Eastwood in most of the scenes with his efficient killing style, and his vast array of weaponry.Eventually both men collide as a villainous and psychotic man El Indio escapes from prison, and plans with the help of his ruthless gang to rob the bank of El Paso. Gian Maria Volonte plays Indio with such perfection and realism, and gives the viewers a much more in-depth look into his character. As viewers we sense that Indio is a disturbed man, with a long past that has made him psychotic and ultimately evil. It was enjoyable to see Volonte have a wider role as the villain, as in the previous film A Fistful of Dollars his villain Ramon Rojo didn't really go into second gear. As the film progresses Eastwood and Lee's characters realise that they must form a partnership in order to bring down Indio and his gang of killers, both for different reasons.For A Few Dollars More is one of the best westerns ever made with its greatly orchestrated gun duels assisted by this breath taking soundtrack, making it a must see western. This has always been my favourite in the Dollars Trilogy as it has a well told story and just one you cant take your eyes off. A Brilliant Director and A Brilliant Film!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
I recently watched this movie for the first time after finally finding somewhere to rent it from (thankyou Lovefilm). My first impression was simply thinking wow, why haven't I heard more about this movie? I understand the fame of it's trilogy partners, as A Fistful Of Dollars was Eastwood's debut western and The Good, The Bad and The Ugly was the first Leone film to be widely advertised at it's release, but For A Few Dollars More breaks the pattern of the middle film in the trilogy being the poorest, as it is genuinely the most enjoyable watch of the three. I think that the feel of the movie is about as close as Leone could have got to perfection. Perhaps the most obvious reason for this is that the plot is based on bounty hunting, which just works so well. It's a storyline that you feel like you've seen a thousand times (probably on Warner Bros cartoons), but pulled off in the most satisfying way imaginable. I honestly can't sing this film's praises enough. Agreed, the whole trilogy is a masterpiece, but this one has the balance between a great music score, involving plot lines, superb one-liners, inspiring acting, exciting shootouts and memorable characters down to an absolute fine art. All I can say is well done Leone, you outdid yourself on this one. It's rekindled my love for the Spaghetti Western.


                
****Excellent***Good**Fair*Poor
My teacher once said that when you're starting your career it's great to imitate someone just as practice or to gain experience because if you can be as good as them you could be better! And that's exactly what happened to Sergio Leone. After the success of A Fistful of Dollars a sequel was underway and that gave Leone and Eastwood the opportunity to make this character into there own. Here Eastwood is a bounty hunter not a simple gunfighter like in the original. He teams up with another bounty hunter played by Lee Van Cleef who both are after Indio for two different reasons. In this film Leone emerges as an artist. When this film was released times were changing. The new and old generation were in a battle. The vietnam war had just begun and hippies were taking over the country. By pairing the characters of Eastwood and Van Cleef there was bound to be conflicts."They usually end up shooting themselves in the back."From their partnership they understood and learned from each other. Meaning there is something new to be learned from each generation.RATING: 4 STARS


                
This was my favorite-Western before I discovered "Once Upon a Time in the West" (English title), Sergio Leone's superior-masterpiece. But when I keep on mentioning "For a Few Dollars More" (English title), people to not follow me in the same way. These two Leone-movies have many differences, but they still have something in common. Booth has the excitement and the hard core mood that I seldom find in other movies.The story: The film might seem thin <U+0096> but keeps into it's own core. Instead of focus on too much story, Leone's direction, the set design, the costumes, the presence of the actors and Morricone's music gets in focus and creates an unforgettable masterpiece and one of the most entertaining movies ever. A Western like this doesn't need more story than it has.The storytelling: The film starts with the presentation of colonel Douglas Mortimer, reading in the bible on a train which he stops by his own hand ... the next scene contains 'The Return' of the man with no name ... wee see Clint Eastwood walking through the rain at the side of his horse, lighting a cigar before he enters a smoke-filled saloon. These first eminent scenes contains superb duels, and in spite of the fact that they are long, they have the highest suspense and tempo with booth silence and Morricone's pumping music combined with typical Leone-exaggerated sound effects which steals your whole attention. The presentation of the three main characters takes almost 30 minutes. Slow and boring? I found these 30 minutes to be the best part of this film and this excellent start of the movie makes it a classic in the Western AND in the Action genre! After this amazing start, the tempo becomes a bit slower but the rest of the movie is still a masterpiece...The heroes: The man with no name (Clint Eastwood) is harder than ever <U+0096> Clint is at his best from start to end. Than we have Lee van Cleef, in his best performance, as Douglas Mortimer. He is VERY cool and mean here. Forget about the sequel "The Good, The Bad and the Ugly" (English title). This is his best role. Lee is superb as the former colonel, a relaxed and smart hero in black clothes, wearing lots of weapons ...The villains: A filthy, evil, rotten, bloodthirsty Gian Maria Volenté is El Indio (not as handsome as in "A fistful of Dollars" (English title) but just as powerful and even more menacing) and he has a bunch of bandits where Klaus Kinski, Mario Brega and Luigi Pistilli makes great performances as really tough and bad guys. Just watching Luigi Pistilli in his best shape and a truly spectacular Klaus Kinski can make anyone satisfied.The direction: When it comes to Leone himself this is one of his most personal and stylish directions. No other movie has succeeded to imitate this perfect film. It is not just an Italian Western. This is a fast-paced action-movie. It is loud, fast and mean. Sergio Leone's camera ... with his close ups, the perfect editing, the never-ending pans ... the loud noise from the pistols and the riffles ... and the screams of dying desperadoes.The music: Ennio Morricone has made many good soundtracks, but I think that this is his best together with the one in "Once Upon a Time in the West" (English title). They are two different kinds of Morricone-soundtracks; this is the tough one, the other more operatic and in classic style.The trilogy: The other Dollar-movies misses the pace and speed of this one. This Dollar-movie has the toughest action scenes. From the start to end, the guns keep on shooting...Rating: 10 of 10.


                
For A Few Dollars More is one of the greatest Westerns ever made,an excellent and unforgettable classic that's filled with amazing direction,great performances,incredible Action and a fantastic score. All of those elements make For A Few Dollars More a terrific film and one of my favorite movies that is Sergio Leone and Clint Eastwood at their best.For A Few Dollars More tells the story of The Man With No Name(his name is Monco in this film)who is now a bounty hunter who teams up with fellow bounty hunter Colonial Douglas Mortimer(Lee Van Cleef)to take down sadistic outlaw Indio(Gian Maria Volonte)dead or alive.After the Box Office success of A Fistful Of Dollars director Sergio Leone and Clint Eastwood were both asked to do a follow up and the two responded with For A Few Dollars More the second film in The Man With No Name/Dollars trilogy and is a brilliant,thrilling and intense Western classic that grabs you by the throat and doesn't let go until the very end and will keep you glued to the screen. Sergio Leone was given a much larger budget with than the one in Fistful and it truly shows because with For A Few Dollars More Leone expands the scope of Fistful and gives this movie a bigger and much larger canvas that is gripping and incredible with an epic style that is operatic. Where as Fistful was inspired by Akira Kurosawa's Youjimbo Leone For A Few Dollars More comes up with his own story and does it in a flawless and stylish way that is pretty amazing. With each of The Man With No Name/Dollars movies Leone's style grew and led all the way up to his masterpiece The Good,The Bad And The Ugly where Leone took the trilogy to a higher level. If A Fistful Of Dollars was about the war between two rival families then For A Few Dollars More about how life and death has a price and outlaws were brutal and vicious with violence being the only option and Leone gives us a stylish yet gritty look at the Old West. What makes FFDM so great and interesting is the teaming of The Man With No Name(Monco)with Mortimer because we see both of them are good bounty hunters by themselves but together they make a lethal combination and both want to capture Indio but for different reasons. Monco wants to capture Indio for the money where as Mortimer wants Indio for the money and personal reasons which makes Mortimer a strong and complex character. Monco and Mortimer like any duo that teams up together have clashes because both either want to do their own thing or it's because of their different personalities but the two start to respect each other. You will enjoy the relationship between the tough and gritty character Monco and Mortimer. Where as Monco and Mortimer are charming and likable antiheroes the character Indio who is the villain in the film is a horrible and vicious character who is so evil that he has no chance for redemption or to be good again because when ever kills a person Indio does it with a twisted glee that is disturbing. Every time Indio showed up on screen you feel like no one is safe from his violent wrath and you are rooting for Monco and Mortimer to catch him. Indio is a character you will never forget and is one of the most intense characters you will ever see in a Western film. While FFDM is without a doubt a classic and one of Leone and Eastwood's best the movie is often seen as the weakest film in the trilogy. I guess the reason some people say that is because it's not as groundbreaking as A Fistful Of Dollars or as epic and sprawling like The Good,The Bad And The Ugly or the story is isn't strong. In my opinion the story in FFDM is strong and had enough greatness the keep viewers entertained. The Action and gunfights in FFDM are truly thrilling and are done with white hot tension and suspense that never quits. The ending in For A Few Dollars More is outstanding and a classic finale filled Action,explosive moments and surprises. A terrific ending.The cast is great. Clint Eastwood is excellent once again as The Man With No Name(Monco)with Eastwood commanding the screen. Lee Van Cleef is brilliant as Colonial Douglas Mortimer and has great chemistry with Eastwood. Gian Maria Volonte is amazing and intense as Indio a sadistic outlaw. Mario Brega(Nino),Luigi Pistilli(Groggy)and Klaus Kinski(Juan Wild)give good performances as well.The direction by Sergio Leone is fantastic and stylish with Leone always moving the camera using close-ups,zooms and creative visual style. Amazing direction,Leone.The score by Ennio Morricone is dazzling,haunting and epic and matches the tone of the movie perfectly. Another great score,Morricone.In final word,if you love Sergio Leone,Clint Eastwood,Westerns or films in general,I highly suggest you see For A Few Dollars More,one of the greatest Westerns ever made and an excellent,unforgettable classic that you will watch again and again. Highly Recommended. 10/10.


                
Two bounty killers,Manco(CLINT EASTWOOD) and Colonel Douglas Mortimer(LEE VAN CLEEF),a sharpshooting ex-army officer, hunt crazed bandit El Indio(GIAN MARIA VOLONTE)and his murderous gang. Rivals at first, the two bounty killers later decide to join forces to wipe out the gang. Manco is motivated only by the reward, but Colonel Mortimer has more personal reasons.In the months following the monumental success of A FISTFUL OF DOLLARS, the European population were thirsting for more Spaghetti westerns. Sergio Leone was obliged to make a follow up to his first film. Clint returned as the stranger, again turning in a restrained but ruggedly stupendous performance. In his first Spaghetti western, Lee Van Cleef spectacularly portrays Colonel Mortimer. Lee owns the screen in any Spaghetti western that he appears in and it's fair to say that this film belongs to him.Although,the script refuses to elaborate on the Colonel's military past, thus making the character a tad one dimensional. Regardless of this however, he was still the best character in the film and Colonel Mortimer will always be one of my favourite Spaghetti western anti-heroes. I was stunned by his deadly arsenal of weaponry, which includes several long range rifles and pistols. The Colonel's weapon of choice, a mean looking long range Single Action Army pistol, is put to terrific use in the action scenes.Gian Maria Volonte rivals Lee Van Cleef for best performance in the film. His sadistic laugh pierced my eardrums and the fact that his character is half insane gave Volonte's scenes a horrifying edge.The score by Morricone is better than the score of Fistful. The film's gritty tone is poignantly evoked by the magnificent title song. The "Eye for an Eye" piece impressively sets the tone for the tense final showdown.FAFDM is masterfully scripted with every scene skilfully penned and crammed with sturdy dialogue. There's a welcome pinch of humour added to the script with a couple of scenes prompting a slight chuckle. I did find that the film became a little convoluted in it's second half, but this was only a minor flaw that did not affect the film as a whole. The chemistry between Colonel Mortimer and Manco created a superb atmosphere. The scene that takes place in the darkened street and has the two titans having a shooting contest with each other's hats deserves to be relished.In FAFDM,Leone focuses mostly on suspense,excellently building tension throughout the film,especially in the action sequences.Most of the action in this film comprises of ritualistic duels.These duels are made all the more gripping as the characters ready themselves to the tune of a musical watch, before drawing their guns and shooting as the tune ends. The first duel in which El Indio forces an unfortunate character into one such ill fated showdown(after ordering the man's wife and baby killed)had me uneasily piercing my fingers with my teeth. In my opinion, accompanied by the jarring soundtrack, the climatic face off between Colonel Mortimer and El Indio was the most finger biting, nerve wracking and taut showdown in the entire film. Leone had already tightened the tension into a robust knot, for example with the scene near the beginning of the film in which Colonel Mortimer guns down an outlaw in the street. Sergio had then pulled this knot much tighter for the duel between the Colonel and Klaus Kinski's hunchback. The stunts were awesome, with the action sequences packing some highly impressive kills. The jail break scene was exciting and the bank robbery really had me on the edge of my seat. The final shootout which precedes the aforementioned climatic showdown has Colonel Mortimer and Manco going head to head with El Indio's gang. This sequence was immensely exhilarating. A few chilling flashbacks provide Colonel Mortimer with the motive for wanting to kill El Indio and gave the film greater bite.FAFDM is the grittiest film in the Dollars trilogy. It's grittiness will leave a lasting bitter aftertaste and the flashbacks in particular leave a queasy feeling in the stomach. Despite a few small flaws, like the film's length and it dragging a little at points, Leone still excellently surpasses his previous effort. He continued to blaze a searing new trail in the western genre, a trail that would blaze even more fiercely with the release of the final film in the trilogy, THE GOOD,THE BAD AND THE UGLY.10/10.
Thanks to the huge success of "A Fistful of Dollars", which thanks to Sergio Leone began a new era for Western movies and mark the beginning of his and Eastwood career. Sergio Leone began to make the "sequel" with the same cast of his predecessor, bigger, but with small errors it doesn't surpasses its predecessor, but continued epic and Badass!"For a few dollars more", begins with the cruel criminal El Indio (Gian Maria Volonté) escaping from a Mexican prison with the help of his gang killing in cold blood all the guards on their way. The news comes fast with wanted posters with his pictures scattered in all American cities. One of the posters captured the attention of Col. Douglas Mortimer, a bounty hunter who soon begins to plan how to get Indio dead or alive. Not only Mortimer, but also caught the attention of Monco (Clint Eastwood), another bounty hunter who also covets the reward for the capture or death of Indio. When both hunters unwittingly meet each other face to face, knowing Indio's plan to rob a bank heavily guarded, they decide to work together to get Indio and share the big reward for Indio and his gang. But Monco discovers that Mortimer objectives go far beyond that to receive the reward, much darker than that.Many consider that this movie is not a sequel, but according to Eastwood it is. The reason for this consideration is mainly Eastwood's character. While in the predecessor he was this mysterious man who called himself Joe, trying to take advantage of a gang war cashing out at the end. And in this one he is a bounty hunter who calls himself "Monco" who makes a certain justice catching and killing criminals, those are the differences but the age of time is the same. The first movie was located at the time of the gang warfare on the frontier and the time of the American cavalry, and this one is happening in 1873, the same historical age. And, Joe-Monco in the first one he heard advices from the city's innkeeper saying that one day everyone had to sit in one and honest work, that is exactly what he does this one. Killing bad folks and earning money.The film's problems are few and forgivable, but compared with the 1st movie, it makes a certain lack. I'm talking about the film's narrative, while in the 1st movie she was very well written and flowed perfectly in a superb script. In this one, the 1st hour of the movie almost nobody says something, and we only know most of the story in the remaining hours of the film, now flowing perfectly. And in the first film since the first half hour we were completely coated in history. But this was actually Eastwood's own idea. He liked so much of his character that he starts investing and exploring a lot (the Joe-Monco fur were from Eastwood). And advised Leone to him give less dialog to increase the mystery of his character, and of course, increase our Goosebumps when he talks.But this little problem, paved the way for the magnificent direction of Leone. Not only in the duels scenes, which here are not only better than the 1st movie but are more tense and the direction in each one is simply superb. But the moments that stand out are the fantastic Italian and Spanish landscapes serving as the American Old West.And the performances simply excellent: Clint Eastwood.....do I need to say something?; Gian Maria Volonte who was almost the same role in the 1st movie, the good shooting and cruel villain, but thanks to his exuberant performance it lends an air of a psychopathic villain; Lee Van Cleef superb. Leone's idea of putting two Badasses shooters is a experiencing that at the time of the film no one had ever seen it, jaws went straight to the floor and the chills came by every word. And the duel between the two, it was advanced for the time, is not a duel with both shooting each other, but each one testing the skills of each other.This movie is one of those sequels that are only one step behind the predecessor. But thanks to the genius of Leone in both direction and screenplay, and the exuberant performances, "For a few dollars more" remains an excellent continuation and an important part in the masterpiece trilogy.10/10


                
All three dollar films are great, but this one is special. The story which unfolds, the characters and story line. This has got to be the best of Sergios films. The theme throughout the film is haunting. The cinematography is superb. The only downside, is once you see this film, no other can live up to it and you always end up comparing to this one. I suppose thats when you go to the other two.Lee Van Cleef is most memorable as Mortimer, Valonte is more enigmatic than Ramon in a Fistfull and Eastwood has matured somewhat. There are so many memorable lines in the film. The character interplay is truly excellent. Mortimer ever so precise and thoughtful, Indio always calculating and in a rage and Manco always subtle. It is difficult to describe more without spoiling the film and plot. I guess the next best thing to do is to see it for yourself. If you are a Spaghetti Western Buff, then you must have already seen it. If you are not, then this will make you one.I have always wished a sequel to this great film was made, but then again maybe it just could not have ever lived up to it. A most enjoyable and excellent film.


                
Many consider this film the most perfectly realized of Leone's trilogy, though I prefer the grander sweep of The Good The Bad and The Ugly. This is the best film in the series to start with, though, being slightly more polished than Fistful Of Dollars, and it's easier to follow as a template of the Leone style.Contrary to popular critical opinion, this is definitely not a 'revisionist' western. What Leone has done has stripped the traditional western story down to its essential elements and flipped it. Basically, this is an ordinary western saga seen through a distorted (or clearer, depending on your viewpoint) lens. All westerns were generally made with the same characteristics, that is, a good guy and a bad guy. The good guy was simple: a lawman or rancher protecting something. The bad guy was usually the more interesting one. Leone made the so called 'good guy' more interesting, and more vicious than the villain. The story becomes the mirror image of the American Western, reflected from the deserts of Spain.Eastwood, despite the dispute of others, is "The Man With No Name", and it's not only his identity that's unknown, it's his motives, his purpose, his origin. He's the focal point of the story, even though here he spends a lot of background time, letting Van Cleef and the others stand out in many striking scenes. This is Leone's genius at work. We never forget Eastwood is there, somewhere.The two great characteristics of the trilogy are the close-ups and the music. These are better done here than in the others. Seeing this film for the first time, I was struck by the faces, which seemed to jump out of the screen from another place and time, definitely not the west of "Gunsmoke". The soundtrack, both stirring and haunting, will be celebrated a century from now. But the most amazing thing about this movie is that a film created on another continent and with a cast and crew of mostly Europeans is considered one of the greatest American Westerns.


                
Name For a few dollars more and you will think of The good, the bad and the ugly - and the other way round. Which one is Leone's best? GBU has Ely Wallach, Ffdm has Gian Maria Volonte. Do you think The silence of the lamb is about Evil? Or Psycho? Then watch Ffdm. El Indio enjoys his evil deeds. He is not driven by demons in his head or something; he has chosen for it. El Indio is the most frightening character I have ever seen in any opera, play or movie. The characters in Ffdm are more interesting - those in GBU are archetypical. So GBU raises some philosophical questions, Ffdm does not. The side characters in Ffdm are more developed: think of Cuccillo (Aldo Sambrell), Wild (Klaus Kinski) and Groggy (Luigi Pistilli). Also Leone makes full use of the triangular relation of El Indio, Cpt Mortimer and Monco, something he does not in GBU. But why should we care? A fist full of dollar clearly was a warming up - For a few dollars more and The good, the bad and the ugly both are extraordinary. Closer to perfection is hardly possible.


                
Sergio Leone's "Per Qualche Dollaro In Più" aka "For A Few Dollars More" of 1965, the ingenious second film of the Dollar Trilogy, is a brilliant and essential Saghetti Western milestone, that is only surpassed by Leone's two most brilliant masterpieces to follow, "The Good, The Bad And The Ugly" and "Once Upon A Time In The West". "For A Few Dollars More" even outshines its brilliant predecessor "A Fistful Of Dollars", and deserves to be named as one of the greatest and most important Westerns ever made!Two bounty hunters, Col. Douglas Mortimer (Lee Van Cleef) and Monco (aka. The Man With No Name, Clint Eastwood) are both trying to track down a vicious and sadistic outlaw, the villainous "El Indio" (Gian Maria Volontè). Sometimes working together, sometimes against each other, the two men strive for the same goal for different reasons.The acting in "For A Few Dollars More" is superb. Clind Eastwood plays the Man With No Name with perfection again. Lee Van Cleef is great as Col. Douglas Mortimer, a character who is equally cool, witty and clever as the Man With No Name. And Gian Maria Volontè's performance as El Indio is brilliant and diabolic, Volontè definitely knew how to lay stress on cruelty, evilness and insanity for a role. The supporting cast is not inferior in its brilliance, as it contains such great actors as Luigi Pistilli, Mario Brega, Aldo Sambrell, Benito Stefanelli and the great Klaus Kinski, who plays a hunchbacked henchman of El Indio's.The cinematography is, once again, superb. The movie was shot in the beautiful Spanish Almeira, which was definitely the best location for Spaghetti Westerns to be made, Ennio Morricones brilliant score is not only great (Morricone is always great), it is one of his best compositions.A beautifully shot, brilliantly written and directed Spaghetti Western, "Per Qualche Dollaro In Piu" is a powerful, impressive and violent film. Out of the three Dollar movies, the character of the Man With No Name, who actually has the name (or alias) Monco in this, is the roughest in "For A Few Dollars More" and in many occasions, Lee Van Cleef's character Col. Mortimer is actually the more sympathetic of the two bounty hunters. Excelled only by its successor "The Good, The Bad And The Ugly" (which is arguably the greatest Western ever made), there is no doubt in my mind that "For A Few Dollars More" is one of the best Westerns ever made. A brilliant movie in all aspects, a must-see, not only for Spaghetti Western fans like myself, but for everyone. A brutal, powerful, stylish, witty and impressive stroke of genius, "For A Few Dollars More" is a movie that is, in one word, perfection. 10/10


                
This is, I think, the first of Leone's true masterpieces, and quite possibly Leone's most "watchable" film. A Fistful of Dollars is a great film: revolutionary, gritty, violent, and fun, and it certainly was the true beginning of a monumental change in westerns. However, this is the first film where Leone's brilliance fully comes to the front. On the other hand, while not quite as famous (in the English-speaking world) as the Good, the Bad, and the Ugly (GBU) and perhaps not quite as great a cinematic achievement as GBU or Once Upon a Time in the West (OUTIW), this film is nevertheless not far behind those clear masterpieces.The characteristic Leone visual style and incredible artistry are very powerful here. Although some of this is evident in small amounts in the previous film, here we really get to see the incredible, revolutionary close-ups and the contrast between close-ups and long shots. These and other images are powerful and beautiful. The film also brings the deliberate pacing and wonderful, almost unbearable, build-up of tension before quick action. Leone's sense of irony and brilliant weaving together of various motifs and symbols (particularly religious) also comes to the forefront in this film, as does the humour.The story is more complex than before, and more emotional and profound than GBU or OUTIW. Not until Duck, You Sucker! does Leone really delve more into emotions and psyches more than here, which gives this film an added depth and power. The scenes showing Indio's psyche, obsession, and mental decay are also powerful and perfect. Some (including Leone himself, apparently) feared that Volonte was overacting a tad, while others point out how the flashbacks are supposedly inaccurate portrayals of the effects of marijuana, however, this all works incredibly well. Volonte is quite convincing as a criminal sinking into a form of psychosis and obsessed with personal demons of the past and the flashbacks work brilliantly at hitting this theme home, creating an powerful, surreal, mournful, and lonely eeriness that, although it is not clear at first, perfectly parallels Mortimer's own despair and quest.The the way in which the story progresses, and brings the three main characters together, is brilliant. The introductions of the characters to how Mortimer and Manco focus on the same bandit (Indio), but with the reason for the interests rather subtly and vaguely indicated from the start, to how Mortimer and Manco "duel" before joining forces (sort of) is perfect. The music here, while similar to, and less famous than, the score for GBU, is also simply incredible. Just as this film reveals the first full flowering of Leone's gifts, it is also the first full flowering of Morricone's abilities and style introduced in the prior film. The score is in fact just as incredible as Morricone's subsequent ones and it excels at creating a sense of loneliness, despair, mournfulness, and eeriness in a way the even GBU doesn't and which fewof his other scores have. The only scores of his that I can think of which match or excell it on this point Once Upon a Time in America (at least with respect to despair, mourning, and loneliness), The Great Silence, OUTIW (but the harmonica music only) and The Untouchables (in despair and eeriness). This score thus perfectly conveys the atmosphere of the lonely, unpleasant towns, the lonely, harsh life of the bounty hunters, the harshness of the outlaws and Indio's increasingly crazed mind, and Mortimer's despair and personal quest. Finally, we for the first time get to see Lee van Cleef in a first role and he is simply outstanding. He handles the role so well, it's hard to imagine that he had nothing even approaching this magnitude before. This film really has no real faults, the only ones being a few technical errors such as the discrepancy in the wanted poster that Mortimer slides under the door near the beginning. However, these are tiny, most people won't notice, and no-one should really care about them. They are also problems that vanished in Leone's later films where he had more time and more money. In terms of length and pacing, this is also one of Leone's shorter, faster-paced films. Only a Fistful of Dollars and Duck, You Sucker! compare in those terms. This can be good, or bad, depending on the person, interests, or mood. Personally, Leone's longer masterpieces are my favourites, but sometimes even I don't have the time or patience to sit through their relatively slow development (and I am someone who can watch the 3.75-hour Once Upon A Time in America over and over) and want the quicker pace, action, and wit of this film. Also, certainly for some people this movie will be better suited on this point and those who find GBU or OUTIW to be a tad long should opt for this. It certainly is one of the two most lively and fun of Leone's films (the other being the longer GBU). On the whole, the combination of everything makes this a brilliant masterpiece and the pacing and development make the film extremely fun and fast-paced to watch. It is a clear masterpiece.


                
Why is For a Few Dollars More one of the greatest movies of all time? Passion. This is an exercise in suspense, violence and beauty. From Leone's tic perfect casting to Eastwood's virile hunger to Morricone's iconic score. Everyone and everything here is a purposeful addition to what is inevitably one of THE great films. The interplay between the bounty killers treads that fine line between the light and the heavy heart. That between Mortimer and Indio a simple display of vengeance beautifully layered and represented with the agonisingly tense chimes themselves layered over the harrowing suicide/murder flashbacks. This is how cinema and soundtrack should be done. Perfectly. And the climax, perhaps the greatest in cinema. The showdown. The redemption. The performances. The full realisation of the score. One shot. Sun and blood drenched beauty, an understatement, an overstatement, call it what you will. The effect is undeniable. And has to be seen to be understood.
The Man With No Name is back. Two bounty hunters at opposite ends of the scope. Both killing for money. When they both discover they're after the same man, they start a feuding over who will walk away with the money. At times it gets confusing when you get two thirds into the movie when everyone starts double-crossing each other, but otherwise, it's a great shoot-out of a western. There are several nice pieces of machinery seen in the film, not quite as fancy as those in the Sabata trilogy. Yes, there are a handful of obvious low budget shots, but it still holds up well as the middle piece of the trilogy. It may be the not as popular as the other two, but it's still Clint Eastwood at his best.


                
It took me a while to admit it, but this is Leone's best movie. It may not be as artistic as GBU or OUATITW, but it's a surprisingly well-made movie considering the other 2 get all the attention. This is the most gritty of them, has the best character development, the best shootout, the quintessential spaghetti western score, and is flat-out the most fun.It doesn't have Tuco running through the cemetery, but it has some astoundingly good scenes. For instance, the camera cutting back and forth between Van Cleef's eyes and the Wanted poster with intermittent gunshots heard; the duel for pride between Eastwood and Van Cleef; and, of course, the final showdown. This final showdown is hands-down the best of any Western. It's more interesting than GBU's because the characters mean more. The bad guy is a miserable wretch whose only comfort from his past is violence, Van Cleef's revenge motivation is far more compelling than Harmonica's in OUATITW, and Eastwood is just plain the most badass he's ever been. When Clint walks in with the watch playing the music, you just feel like standing up and applauding. Frankly, I find the duel in OUATITW rather underwhelming and I don't quite understand why some people call it the best ever. It's short, predictable, and nowhere close to this one.The ending is also very satisfying. It's sort of a happy ending, but not sappy because Clint is just way too badass driving away with all the bodies, on his way to becoming a super-rich badass.Overall, it's a close call with GBU, because I also love that movie for many reasons (and West isn't too shabby either). Now I don't want to be one of those guys complaining about a Leone movie being too long, and that's not what I'm doing, but FAFDM also has the advantage of being about 50 minutes shorter than GBU, and 30 shorter than West. This makes the movie more accessible and more practical to watch than the other 2. You can't really watch the other 2 without sort of planning beforehand, whereas with this one, you can watch it on a whim if your bored, without sacrificing 3 hours.Great movie -- the one I come back to again and again.
This movie is tied with "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly", as my all-time favorite western. It's one of several masterpieces put forth by Sergio Leone. I love everything about it- the gorgeous cinematography, the fantastic musical score by Ennio Morricone, the acting, the script, and everything else. It's all top-notch. What more can I say about this movie? Clint Eastwood is of course fantastic, along with Lee Van Cleef, and Gian Maria Volonté who plays the main villain of the movie, El Indio. This movie has a lot of acting without words, lots of watching and waiting, which is typical Sergio Leone Style. There are periods where the camera focuses on the faces of the characters as they watch each other and try to figure out what the other is doing or try to be the first shot in the shootout scenes.This movie is best viewed with your VCR patched into your stereo system or a home theater system, to get the most out of Ennio Morricone's haunting score. And if you've got it on DVD, it would be that much better. Unfortunately this movie came out when I was only about 2 or 3, so I never saw it in the theater, but it must've really made an impression on those who did see it. Watching it on big-screen TV with the sound played through your stereo would be the next best thing. I highly recommend it and I give it a perfect 10 score. Go rent it, or better yet, by it!


                
Just seeing the quality of the images, the photography, and the cool faces (I can't imagine a western hunter with other type of face), makes this movie excellent. The plot is not very complicated and you can argue some decisions made by the villain, but even with that, I think is very intelligent and probably by that you can't guess what is next. Eastwood, Cliff and 'El Indio' are good in their roles and the direction of Leone is superb. No doubt, Leone can be considered the best western director of all time, not by one movie but for his complete work.Please, watch this movie and rank it. Definitely, it will be in your list for the best westerns of all time.


                
Before giving a comment, let me introduce the film to the readers: in 1964, Italian Director Sergio Leone made `A Fistful Of Dollars' starring Clint Eastwood and (the gorgeous!) Gian Maria Volonté. A year later, Leone made `For A Few Dollars More', and, in 1966, his masterpiece `The Good, The Bad and the Ugly'. The 3 films are known as `the so-called Dollars trilogy'.I watched the films in the wrong order, but I must say that FAFDM is an archetypal `Spaghetti Western', a genre characterized by a deceivingly simple plot, few but ironic lines, absurd coincidences, and intense violence. In FAFDM, Gian Maria Volonté and Lee Van Cleef gave a stunning performance, the former as a psychotic criminal, the latter as a cynical bounty killer. And, in the middle, the laconic man with no name (Clint Eastwood), another bounty killer, pairs up with either of the other two, depending on his interest.The soundtrack of that film, provided by the creative Ennio Morricone, was cleverly used to match the scenes.  Watch out for the scene from the past where Volonté rapes Van Cleef's sister, and for the crosscutting between Van-Cleef's eyes and Volonté's face in his <U+0091>wanted' portrait. And Eastwood counts Volonté's men in terms of how much money their heads are worth!That film is rather long, but highly creative and entertaining. I've watched it 3 times and will watch it a 100 times again.If you're looking for THE Spaghetti Western, `For A Few Dollars More' would be it. And, trust me, you should own all three films, like I do, and their breathtaking soundtracks<U+0085>


                
wow, wow.. I loved the good, the bad and the ugly until i saw FOR A FEW DOLLARS MORE. i definitely choose this as my favorite western movie of all time. I saw the film some years ago but it has influenced me very much and i thaught about it a lot. i like it more than the good, bad and the ugly because of: 1. the story is more serious than the good, bad and the ugly 2. the friendship between Manco and Colonel 3. starrings of major characters 4. the timing is in balance and not too long like the third part of dollars trilogy and many other reasons..


                
I'm not one for words or to write out why this film is great and list all the reasons. So to make it simple this movie is one of the best because it lives inside me since I watched it for the first time and still is alive inside.


                
I was late to the party on this one. I always liked it but after a number of viewings spanning several decades I finally appreciate it's greatness. Leone took his time telling a story. But for me, "For a Few Dollars More" is the only one that doesn't seem to be just a bit too long. Great stuff right from the get go.


                
