This is a typical spaghetti Western, which means it has great music and sound effects, and nothing else going for it. The plot is somewhat better than most Eastwood westerns. Two bounty hunters team up to chase down a gang. And there is an interesting duel involving the chimes on a watch. There, all interest ends. Some characters are like comic book super heroes, but without the explanation of being super heroes. For example, Superman was from Krypton and had super powers because he was an alien. The super powers of the two major characters here makes no sense. For that matter, neither do their characters. We're supposed to accept their vicious behavior, but why? No explanation. I challenge anyone to watch a spaghetti western without the sound, using just subtitles, and I guarantee that person will be bored to death. Great music, lots of meaningless action, ridiculous story lines, poor characters, poor acting, and poor writing.


                
For a Few Dollars More (Italian: Per qualche dollaro in più) is a 1965 Italian spaghetti western film directed by Sergio Leone and starring Clint Eastwood, Lee Van Cleef and Gian Maria Volonté German actor Klaus Kinski also plays a supporting role as a secondary villain. The film was released in the United States in 1967 and is the second part of what is commonly known as the Dollars Trilogy.Summary: Eastwood (as the Man with No Name) and Van Cleef (as Colonel Douglas Mortimer and the "Man in Black") portray two bounty hunters in pursuit of "El Indio" (Gian Maria Volonté), one of the most wanted fugitives in the western territories, and his gang. Indio is a ruthless, intelligent man. He has a musical pocket watch that he plays before engaging in gun duels. "When the chimes finish, begin," he says. Flashbacks reveal that the watch originates from a young woman (Rosemary Dexter), who killed herself while being raped by Indio after he had found her with her lover (in Joe Millard's novelization of the film, the young man is her newly-wed husband) and killed him. The watch bears a photo of the woman and was presented as a gift by the young man before being killed. Colonel Mortimer (Cleef) illegally stops a train in Tucumcari, and soon after collects a bounty of $1,000 on Guy Calloway (José Terrón). Mortimer's gun slinging skill is displayed as he easily kills him from long distance. After collecting the bounty, he inquires about Red "Baby" Cavanagh (José Marco), who has a $2,000 bounty, and was last seen in White Rocks. Mortimer is told that Cavanagh has already been targeted by Eastwood's character, who is referred to as "Manco" (meaning one-armed in Spanish — see below for an explanation). We see Manco ride into town and track down Cavanagh at a saloon playing five-card draw poker. Manco kills him and his men, and takes the bounty. Eventually, the two bounty hunters, after learning about each other from different sources, meet in El Paso and, after butting heads, decide to team up to take down Indio and his gang.Questions: What was so important about the bank in El Paso? Who was offered a membership? What was the membership to? Who recognizes the Colonel? Who is the Colonel? Where did the Colonel come from? Who was the Colonel's right hand man? What was Indio up to? Does anyone figure out what Indio was up to? My Thoughts: I like western films and I like Clint Eastwood films. However, this one was a waste of time! Clint Eastwoods talents were wasted in this movie. There was no theme to this picture. I lasted about ½ hour before I loss interest. The plot was simple and it didn't take long to figure it out. Usually when you watch a Clint Eastwood, it has you guessing until the end. This one didn't! Because of the lack of interest and because there was no leading lady I give this movie 2 weasel stars and that was beginning nice.


                
