"For a Few Dollars More" is the middle film of Sergio Leone's classic western trilogy starring a then upstart Clint Eastwood. Sandwiched between "A Fistful of Dollars" and the finale, "The Good, the Bad, & the Ugly." This film provides further insight into Eastwood's "Man with No Name."
Eastwood is a bounty killer who is in search of the feared bandit known as El Indio. Colonel Douglas Mortimer (played by Lee Van Cleef) is in a similar position, and the two cross paths many times in their pursuits of El Indio. The premise has similarities to that of the first, and in fact won't be all that surprising to most younger viewers. But at the time, the various plot turns and twists were unique and revolutionary. The pace is both a pro and con at the same time. Unlike modern films, the usual western showdown scenes unfold very deliberately. Rather than simultaneously begin and end in a furious volley of bullets, the encounters are set up slowly. On the bright side, this gives both the characters and the viewers an opportunity to fully appreciate the choices made and the consequences that will follow. From a negative perspective (not mine), one might say that the gunfights are plain slow, and the action is too sparse. While I enjoyed the change of pace, I also understand why some will say otherwise. Others portions of "More" can hang with any western sequences ever put on film. Highlighting the action is a robbery scene, the creativity of which ranks with any modern heist out of "The Score" or "The Italian Job."This trilogy catapulted Clint Eastwood to Hollywood fame, and one can see his star-making charisma ooze through the screen. Blending stoicism and machismo wonderfully, Eastwood produces the epitome of the tough and arrogant loner cowboy. In a role that could easily have been overshadowed, Van Cleef holds his own against Eastwood. His character was probably similar to Eastwood's in his youth, but Van Cleef accurately reflects the wisdom that would likely come with his character's age. The motley crew of baddies is filled with men who completely look their parts. That's about all that is asked of them, and they deliver. The cinematography of "More" follows in the groundbreaking footsteps of "Fistful." While one might not notice anything revolutionary now, at the time shots like that had scarcely been seen. Shots like the low-angles utilized prior to a few shootouts, as well as the framing of space are all now staples of cinematic westerns, and they originated here.
Ennio Morricone's score is also a classic. Whether serving as epic background music for sweeping crane shots or providing aural cues during action sequences, the music is always appropriate and often the best part of the film. Bottom Line: While it might not seem as great now, so much of this movie was groundbreaking and remains classic that it merits 8 of 10.


                
"For a Few Dollars More," the middle installment of the iconic Sergio Leone/Clint Eastwood "Dollars" trilogy, is the most brutal of all three films. Throughout the movie, ruthless bounty hunters, all of who seem to have no respect for human life, often perform cold-blooded murders. The bounty hunters use the "wild west" as a free range: they track, they kill, and they collect.One of these bounty hunters happens to be The Man with No Name (Eastwood), who returns to us now after his introduction in "A Fistful of Dollars," which was the first movie of the trilogy. (An interesting observation is that the "man with no name" actually does have a name in each installment -- here, his name is Manco, but this is a fact that is often forgotten.)The Man with No Name/Manco is on a mission to find the criminal Indio (Gian Maria Volonté), whose capture is worth a large sum of money. It is quickly set up that local law enforcement is weak. Sheriffs are cowards. Only the vicious bounty hunters know how to drag in the criminals: dead or alive. Along for the journey is a fellow bounty hunter named Mortimer (Lee Van Cleef), whose own reasons for seeking the man differ from Manco's. At first, the two killers go their own separate ways, and then decide to team up together and improve their chances of finding Indio -- despite the fact that their intentions for his capture are different.Not only are the two men's intentions different, but also their methods. Mortimer is a ruthless, cold-blooded murderer whose self-confidence is revealed through his barbaric actions. Manco, the hero, is less of a murderer and more of a law enforcer. Leone quickly sets this up through a sequence of shots: Mortimer's introduction, for example, begins with his search for a criminal, which finally comes to a finish as Mortimer confronts the man (who is hiding in a brothel). His foe manages to escape through a window, leaping onto a horse and galloping away through town. The images that follow reveal an insight into Mortimer's own self-confidence and startlingly calm nature.Manco's appearance is even more dramatic. He tracks down his own victim, and corners him in a saloon, only to see three cowboys appear out of nowhere and block off all exits. In one quick motion he swings around and fires three successive shots, each bullet finding its target.Here it is established that Manco is an underdog; therefore, our story's hero. He isn't as ruthless as Mortimer (who mercilessly picks his prey off from a distance) and his actions are somewhat admirable. The cowboys who tried to kill him were the bad guys. Manco was the good guy.Its lesser admirers often describe the film as being "too long". It's true that the film contains some unnecessary scenes, and these are often dragged out for dramatic effect -- but that is the point. The movie, directed by one of cinema's most ambitious and visionary directors (Sergio Leone, 1929 - 1989), is all about long passages of close-ups and wide-lense shots. Along with its predecessor and particularly its sequel, the "Dollars" trilogy revolutionized the derogatory "spaghetti western" description. In the years to come, Hollywood would actually aim to create films similar to the "Dollars" movies -- all of which were inferior. The entire "Dollars" trilogy has such scope, and ambition, that its Hollywood counterparts pale in comparison.Leone's direction is magnificent and would later inspire -- of all people -- Quentin Tarantino (whose "Kill Bill" movies owe something to the "Dollars" trilogy). Long, wide lenses and extreme close-ups only accentuate the fear of the men. There is a particular sequence of shots that clips back and forth between Mortimer and a wanted notice pinned to the exterior of a building. Leone slowly builds up the back-and-forth shots until they burst into a pattern of super-speed images, distinctly closed with the sound of gunshots. It's this sort of blazing, distinct style that makes the film so infectious and enjoyable.The acting cannot be criticized, although the English dubbing is sometimes rather laughable. Eastwood is one of the only actors whose voice is not dubbed -- but he rarely speaks. His face does all the talking. Lee Van Cleef (who was re-cast by Leone as a separate character in "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly") manages to turn Mortimer into one of the quintessential bad guys of cinema. Although the dubbing can occasionally detract from the flow of scenes and dialogue, the two lead performances by Eastwood and Van Cleef more than compensate for this slight flaw.Hollywood was cautious about releasing "Dollars." Eastwood, known for his role in the television series "Rawhide," was the only marketable star. The director was an unknown Italian with no commercial successes. As its predecessor before it, "For a Few Dollars More" was delayed release in the States, where it was deemed "unworthy."However, the movie was a huge success in Italy, in particular; Clint Eastwood quickly gained a cult fan base overseas, but it was not until May 1967 -- after the US release of "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly" -- that "For a Few Dollars More" and its predecessor would open to critical accolade and deserved celebration in the United States. Now, almost forty years later, it's still a fascinating piece of classic cinema.


                
It's the second installment of the ¨Dollars trilogy¨ along with ¨ For a handful of dollars¨ and ¨The good ,the bad and the ugly¨ with Eastwood as ¨Man with no name¨. The epitome of the SW is violent, beautifully crafted and exaggerated , it pits crafty ¨Man with no name¨ though named Manco (Clint Eastwood) and shifty Colonel Mortimer (Lee Van Cleef as old man , however in reality Clint was already 35 and Lee only 40 when was filmed ) forming an uneasy alliance against badder guy named Indio (Gian Maria Volonte ) but their reasons to pursuit him are totally different . The bounty hunter gunslingers reluctantly join forces pitting the psychotic outlaw who uses twisted means to chase them and terminates in a deadly feud. ¨Man with no name¨ is helped by the old prophet (Joseph Egger who also appeared as gravedigger in For a handful of dollars).This classic original Western contains slow and deliberating filming , taciturn acting on cynical characters, sense of style , elaborate shoot-outs , and portentous close-ups of grime-encrustred faces with bloodbaths including high body-count as total kill count: 30, though two of the murders were heard, but not shown . Unforgettable scenes as when Lee Van Cleef fires a match on the back of the hunchback Klaus Kinski , the spectacular final duel , and many others . The impact of this Spaghetti opened the gate for the huge numbers of Italian-Spaniard Western which made fortune for their producers and directors in the sixties and early seventies . The trilogy made Eastwood an international star previously better-known for his running character in TV series ¨Rawhide¨. Leone did revive his career almost instantly on the strength of these films . All of Eastwood's later Western and his ¨Dirty Harry¨ movies owe a considerable debt to Leone. Furthermore appear Leone's habitual secondaries acting as ominous hoodlums such as Mario Brega , Benito Stefanelli , Aldo Sambrell , Antonio Molino Rojo, Lorenzo Robledo, Jose Canalejas , Frank Braña , among them.Ennio Morricone's musical score is terrific with sensational compositions blending human voice, guitar and buzzing harmonica, the atonal soundtrack has been imitated and copied thousand times . Excellent production design by Carlo Simi , Leone's usual and cinematography by Massimo Dallamano is fascinating . ¨For a few dollars more ¨was filmed in acceptable budget during several weeks in location on austere outdoors of Golden City (Sierra of Madrid), Hoyo De Manzanares , Colmenar Viejo, Madrid , and Almeria : Albaricoques and Tabernas ; besides interiors located on Cinecitta Roman studios . This quintessential 'Spaguetti' originated great influence of wide range in Western and changed the face of the genre . It was such a good picture that had a great success , it expanded in a flood of Italian/Spanish Westerns, but none hold a candle to Leone's masterpiece . The ¨trilogy of the dollars ¨ is followed by ¨ Once upon a time in West¨and ¨Duck you sucker¨. For Leone enthusiasts with his usual trademarks , it's full of which made his films so memorable, others might find it a bit long but no one can deny its sense of style what achieved a great burst of world-wide popularity .


                
This morning strictly by chance, I happened to watch "Any Gun Can Play" from a DVD set of spaghetti Westerns, a film largely considered a knockoff parody of "For A Few Dollars More". So this evening, in a bit of cosmic serendipity, the Sergio Leone classic happened to be playing on AMC, thus inviting a chance to compare notes.'Dollars' has not one, but two scenes where Eastwood's Monco character guns down three outlaws in rapid succession, the first time when confronting Red Cavanaugh, and later on the trail to Santa Cruz to rob the bank with a trio from Indio's gang. It's the latter that more closely resembles the opening scene from 'Any Gun...' However the dead on copy is the balcony binocular scene when Eastwood and Van Cleef realize each other's presence as a potential payday threat. It sets up an interesting hat duel between Monco and Colonel Mortimer.Hey didn't you just love those facial tics on Klaus Kinski as the Hunchback when Mortimer strikes a match on his face; I tried doing it and it's not that easy, especially when you add the menace. The other character that got my reaction was the Old Prophet telling Monco how he didn't sell his land to the railroad (as the train passes by - great touch!); I had a mental picture of Robin Williams doing that scene in exactly the same way.I started counting when Mortimer considers three reasons for he and Monco to team up to defeat Indio. For starters, it would be fourteen against one for either of them to go it alone. Secondly, better make it fifteen to one while each has to keep track of the other bounty hunter. Now was it just me, or didn't Mortimer spell out the third reason, unless one assumes it was for one of them to infiltrate Indio's gang. Anyway, as far as story continuity goes, after Monco takes out three of Indio's men on the way to Santa Cruz, the gang is shown riding a couple of times and you can count thirteen men on horseback. Forty years later and this version of the Western genre is still going strong, and for my part, they'll always have a taker when I'm flipping through the channels. I guess it's the no nonsense way of dispensing justice and the fearless mentality of it's protagonists against insurmountable odds that captures my fancy. The haunting musical score doesn't hurt either.
El Indio, a notorious bandit, is sprung from prison by his gang of hoodlums and hatches a plan to rob the bank of El Paso. However, two ruthless bounty hunters are after the reward on his head, and are soon on his trail ...Per Qualche Dollaro In Più is to Leone's great revisionist western Per Un Pugno Di Dollari as Dawn Of The Dead is to Night Of The Living Dead; not as original, but in every other way a better film. It's more mythic, much better acted, has more spectacle and a grander style, and cemented the reputations of Leone, Eastwood and composer Ennio Morricone as the spaghetti western auteurs par excellence. At the heart of it are three totally different and utterly enthralling performances. Eastwood is completely iconic in his classic Man With No Name role - he's so mysterious he's really just a collection of props: a poncho, shrunk-to-fit jeans, a hat, a leather gauntlet, a cigar, a gun. He's the hero who never behaves the way a hero should and yet somehow still is. Van Cleef, as the smart, capable Colonel Mortimer is the puppet-master of the film - the other characters seem to dance around him - and his cool, unblinking resolve is extraordinary. The scene where he strikes a match on hunchbacked Kinski's hump (cult movie star heaven for film geeks) and they stare each other down is a definitive Leone moment, as crucial as Van Cleef's pipe or his Buntline Special revolver. After languishing in bit-parts and TV roles for years, this role made him a minor star who went on to appear in many offbeat classics, such as El Condor and Escape From New York. Yet for me the best performance in the film is Volontè's astonishing turn as Indio, one of the most fascinating, vicious, complex, thoughtful bad men in all cinema. Indio is an almost unique character-type; the burned-out villain. He's done such dreadful things that almost nothing can satiate him, yet he keeps going. He doesn't seem to care about himself or money, he dices with death, he's haunted by the memory of Mortimer's sister, he smokes marijuana to fend off his demons and keeps exclusively male company. He's almost child-like and yet deeply philosophical at the same time. It's a wild piece of acting. Morricone's brilliant, toe-tapping, lunatic score is one of the most memorable in any western, full of odd instruments (Jewish harps, whistles, timpani, recorders, bells) and incredible trills which act almost as quotation-marks around the action and characters. The last ten minutes are awash in extraordinarily beautiful music. Leone, along with his writing partners, Fulvio Morsella and Luciano Vincenzoni, create a riveting, action-filled, heart-in-the-mouth western adventure, packed with machismo and sly humour (the cut-throat town of Agua Caliente literally means "hot water"). Leone's great genius was to galvanise his players and technicians into creating something completely unique and totally cinematic. He went on to even greater heights with his subsequent Il Bueno, Il Brutto, Il Cattivo, but this preceding classic is a treat to savour, with three mesmerising performances. Shot in Almería in south-western Spain and at Cinecittà, and released in the US in 1967 by United Artists, with the title For A Few Dollars More.
For those like me who did not see this western when it was released, be prepared to spend a bit more than two hours with your adrenaline flowing. This time there are two stars in the film, Lee Van Cleef and Clint Eastwood, with Van Cleef shining just a little bit more. Both are bounty hunters who seem to only care about money, but you feel there is a mystery in relation to Van Cleef. They are interested in a bank in El Paso, which seems to be more protected than any bank in the country. This bank is also the aim of the bandit El Indio (Gian Maria Volonte) for whom there is a high reward. There are great scenes in the film, the camera always seeming to look for new angles, and great moments also, like when Van Cleef provokes Klaus Kinsky who cannot really answer because it will compromise his mission. You can see the anger in Kinsky's face as it twitches. For this film to be great instead of very good, it would only need a visit to the editing room where a sacrifice would have to be made and a bit of cutting done. The problem is that the final part is a bit too long and confusing. Gian Maria Volonte is a great actor, but we were spoiled by Eli Wallach in The Good, The Bad and The Ugly, who was magnificent in a similar role, so it is hard not to compare.


                
'For a Few Dollars More' is the second movie in the "Man With No Name"-trilogy starring Clint Eastwood and directed by Sergio Leone. It is not as good as the first, 'A Fistful of Dollars', but comes close to it. The third, of course, is the masterpiece 'The Good, the Bad and the Ugly'. This trilogy together with 'Once Upon a Time in the West' and 'Once Upon a Time in America' show us how great a director Leone actually is. Although this movie is the least of all I mentioned above it still belongs to the best westerns I have seen.The story is almost as simple as it can be. Two bounty hunters, one played by Clint Eastwood, the other by Lee Van Cleef (who was "the bad" in 'The Good, the Bad and the Ugly'), work together to get an outlaw. They each have their motives, both are not really people you can trust, both are great with their guns.With Leone it is not really what is happening but how it is presented to the viewer. Often shown with close-ups of sweaty faces Leone knows how to create suspense in a gun fight where you can predict the outcome because Eastwood is in it. But not only Leone deserves credit for this movie, or actually the complete trilogy. Eastwood is in his element here and he makes sure the choice of greatest western star is not necessarily John Wayne. Van Cleef, who normally plays real villains, is terrific here as what seems to be a good guy. Another memorable thing is Ennio Morricone's score. Although his most famous scores are from 'The Good, the Bad and the Ugly' and 'Once Upon a Time in the West' he also adds something to the atmosphere in this movie (and of course 'A Fistful of Dollars'). Leone, Morricone and Eastwood have created a great trilogy. With 'For a Few Dollars More' as the least movie but nonetheless a very good one, enough is said.


                
I was very surprised at this film. I was impressed with A Fistful of Dollars, but For a Few Dollars More was just wonderful. The plot was better, and more interesting, though the film was slightly too long for my liking. The chemistry between Clint Eastwood and Lee Van Cleef was fantastic to watch, but the thing I enjoyed most about this film was the villain. This character was wonderfully realised as a sadistic maniac who was thrilling to watch. The film was surprisingly emotional, especially the scenes involving the villain and the musical locket. It was more thrilling, more interesting and more engaging than it's predecessor, and some scenes in particular took my breath away.


                
The one thing I didn't like about so many Clint Eastwood movies is he manages to shoot a bunch of people all at once, say 6-12 or more, without getting shot!!! It defies the laws of physics or something!!! But that didn't happen in this movie. The plot was much better. I just wish the girl had shot Indio, but then there would be no movie, lol.
Without a doubt, one of the best Westerns ever. Of course it's not the best film by Sergeo Leone or Clint Weatwood, but it's still really good. Highly recommend.


                
"Dollars" aka "Man With No Name" trilogy is considered a trilogy because all three movies are written and directed by Sergio Leone, music for all three is written by Ennio Morricone and in all Clint Eastwood is playing leading role. Also, all three are spaghetti westerns with similar theme and atmosphere. However, their stories are not connected and Eastwood plays three different characters.This time around, Eastwood is a bounty hunter who crosses paths with his match and they together start a hunt for a notorious gang that will bring them a huge reward. The story and characters are more complex than in the first movie and you can see certain progress in many ways, but personally, I find this movie too long and somewhat diluted. The majority consider this movie to be better than "Fistful of Dollars" and I completely understand their point of view and even agree to some extent, but I can not go against my subjective impression. Although I can not point my finger and put forth solid arguments for it, "For a Few Dollars More" has left a bit weaker impression on me. While I rated its predecessor 10 out of ten, here I can not go higher than8,5/10


                
"For a Few Dollars More" is a highly enjoyable spaghetti western film. Situations and the plot are designed specifically for the fans of this genre. It is the 2nd film of the Dollars trilogy, which is also known as The Man with No Name. The films in the trilogy have nothing to do with each other in the means of story, but after seeing the 2nd film, it starts to make sense to me why they are called a trilogy. Even though the stories are completely unrelated, these films are gathered more or less around a similar plot. Soundtracks are equally beautiful, the leading actor, Clint Eastwood, stars in all three films. Even the names of the first two films are completing each other. "For a Few Dollars More" is more serious and complex compared to the first film of the trilogy, A Fistful of Dollars. From the point of view of action and story, I find this one more satisfying. You can feel that, in "For a Few Dollars More," director Sergio Leone has more trust in himself because of the success of the first film. He is more focused and his distinctive directing style is more visible in this one. The leading actors Clint Eastwood and Lee Van Cleef are completing each other. The villain El Indio, played by Gian Maria Volonte, seems to be the evilest character of the Western films I have ever seen. Besides the performances, soundtracks and the western atmosphere are the strongest points of the film. Even though there is well-structured story, you get the feeling that, things are happening based on the situations. It seems like the characters don't follow a plan, but react to incidents. This makes the film more complex and hard to anticipate.Lee Van Cleef, as Colonel Douglas Mortimer, is added to the second film as an experienced bounty hunter. This gives Sergio Leone a strong hand to play with, he is not limited in the means of characters. This liberty makes him create a better, a more independent story. Clint Eastwood, as Manco, is the other bounty hunter. His role is more or less the same as the first film. He wears the same clothes, talks the same, acts the same and even the way he smokes his tobacco is the same. He is a complete icon for western films. He shares the leading role with Lee Van Cleef, and this removes the responsibility from his shoulders to carry the film on his own. Sergio Leone uses Eastwood in the roles that are more suitable for him, which creates a more reliable character.Both Colonel Douglas Mortimer and Manco are highly talented gunmen, who make living out of the prize money issued for capturing or killing outlaws on the loose. We get to know Colonel Mortimer, Manco and the psychopath outlaw El Indio in the first scenes of the film. These scenes create a credibility for the future references. We are highly aware of what these men are capable of doing. After El Indio is taken out from the jail by his gang, a prize money of 10k USD is issued on his head. Mortimer and Manco decide to go after this guy, for different reasons, which are revealed in the end of the film. When they find out about each other, they decide to team up against El Indio and his gang.The film plays host for the iconic scenes where Mortimer and Manco shoot each other's hats, or the old man talking about the train company who wanted to buy his house to make a railway for the train and how he didn't sell it. "For a Few Dollars More" is a film where English-speaking guys are leading the roles made by Italian speaking people. Like the first film, this one is also a co-production of Italy, West Germany and Spain. Clint Eastwood's presence was critical for the second film, and it was not easy to convince him to star in it because he hasn't seen the first film and didn't know what to expect from it. So, the production company sent a copy of the film to him, which was Italian back then, and Eastwood gathered his friends and watched it. Based on his friends' positive feedbacks he accepted the role for a total sum of 50K USD which is 3 times more than his salary for the previous film. "For a Few Dollars More" has everything in it about western genre. It is action packed, highly enjoyable and satisfying. Because of the reasons I have counted above, "For a Few Dollars More" is one of the best films of its genre.
Set to the tune of what is, for my money, the best musical score of the three 'Man With No Name' pictures and perhaps my favourite western score of all time, this larger-scale sequel is an improvement on the first mainly in terms of its plotting. 'For A Few Dollars More (1965)' casts Eastwood's nameless stranger - who's introductory sequence is one of the best in cinema history - as a dangerous but reckless bounty killer, pairing him with Lee Van Cleef's methodical and sophisticated Colonel as they aim to take down a well-known criminal and pocket the large reward. Van Cleef has a more personal stake in the action whereas Eastwood's in it for the cash and this juxtaposition wisely adds variety to the already well established formula as their uneasy partnership is never as straightforward as it may seem. Along the way we get the blistering confrontations and cool cigar-chewing banter we'd expect from a picture of this calibre. Those stare-downs are just as good as ever and, while there's nothing here quite as intense as the final showdown from the trilogy's first instalment, the feature as a whole is just a lot more fun. 8/10


                
Sergio Leone's For a Few Dollars More (1965, ***1/2) is, in theory, a sequel to A Fistful of Dollars, which was itself a big hit for the man and the studio. The bad news is that it's a sequel mostly in name, but the good (great) news is that it's every bit as deliciously violent and captivating as its predecessor.Clint Eastwood returns, although he's no longer The Man with No Name; he's Monco, a "bounty killer" – not a bounty hunter, because that might imply he intends to bring 'em back alive. Monco has his eyes on a desperado named Indio, played by Italian actor Gian Maria Volontè. Trouble is, another bounty killer, name of Colonel Mortimer (Lee van Cleef) also wants Indio. The fact that the man has a reward of $10,000 on his head probably figures into things a little. Add in the rest of the gang, and you're looking at maybe $27,000. Which today I assume would be $75 million. I don't know, you look it up.Mortimer and Monco do decide to team up; after all, we can't have too many bad guys. That doesn't mean that they won't try to double cross one another. The plan is for Monco to infiltrate Indio's band and get him to move north, toward the town of El Paso, where they'll attempt to rob the town's Fort-Knox-like bank. Oh, Indio goes north all right, with Monco, and the bank is hit, but<U+0085>well, let's just say things don't go as planned for anyone.For a Few Dollars More is an epic, even though it's "only" 132 minutes long. I mean it's an epic in the same way that Lawrence of Arabia is an epic, with majestic, sweeping vistas followed by (in Leone's case) extreme closeups of the three leads. There are duels in the streets, just as you'd expect a western to have. For all I know, this happened all the time, and in this movie it happens repeatedly. Still, it's not as if every fight is carefully sanctioned, as there are plenty of ambushes to be found.This was the middle film in the series that really put the then-somewhat-young Eastwood on the map. Van Cleef's Mortimer calls him "kid," and Eastwood's calls Mortimer "old man"; in reality, the two were only five years apart in age. Eastwood, of course, is still kicking; he turned 86 a couple of months ago. Maybe his days as a taciturn gunslinger are long behind him, but he's still a creative genius. And he learned a lot of the directorial tricks of the trade from Leone himself, a master of the western genre. This, along with its series counterparts, is definitely not to be missed.


                
Greetings from Lithuania."For a Few Dollars More" (1965) is a really good old western. Made by Sergio Leone this is a spaghetti western so if you have seen some other his movies, you know what you are getting into. The story is kinda simple (as usual for these kind of movies) where two bounty hunters team up to catch the fish of their lives type bandit. And basically that's it. I like Sergio Leone movies for the same reasons i liked "For a Few Dollars More". They are specifically performed (you won't find this acting in "Unforgiven" for example), the set design is always something to look at - there are many details in the backgrounds which helps to create this real place and time and transport you to it. Cinematography is gorgeous. The music is always good, adventurous. The gunfights are OK, these movies again are not "Unforgiven" type gritty reality, they are "fun Westerns" and i like when they for example can shoot the very cigar- end with a revolver - a trick which in reality probably would end up with dudes half of face being blown up. Overall, if you like this stuff, you will like "For a Few Dollars More". Being the second installment in "Dollars" trilogy, it's not as good and epic as the "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly," but it's a very fine genre picture.


                
That famous "hat duel" scene in "For a Few Dollars More" is one of my favorites in a Sergio Leone movie, and it's emblematic of the film's tone: dangerous and a lotta fun. Two genre icons showing off their quick-draw precision in a scene that speaks volumes without uttering a single word.And the whole movie rests squarely on the shoulders of these two men, and each makes his own grand entrance; Van Cleef and that scowl just radiates menace, while Eastwood swaggers in like he owns the screen. It's a thrill watching these guys go to work. Everything just clicks with this movie, and for my money, it's the best of the trilogy (the best gunfights, score and overall gritty vibe). It's the movie that comes to mind when I think of Sergio Leone.Fantastic movie.8.5/10
Fans of Quentin Taratino need to watch the Sergio Leone trilogy: Fistful of Dollars, For a few Dollars More, and The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly to see what inspired him to the achievements he has made as a director.Fans of Clint Eastwood need no encouragement to see him in his early work on his way to stardom.Eastwood and Lee Van Cleef are bounty hunters on the trail of El Indio (Gian Maria Volontè). Eastwood is out for the money, but Van Cleef has other motives. Bullets fly, bodies are stacked like cord wood, and the action never stops all to incredible music by Ennio Morricone.Enjoy!


                
The second film in Sergio Leone's 'Dollars Trilogy' is a definite progression from A Fistful of Dollars. Utilizing many of the same cast members, Leone's follow up is more layered and stylised than before. It was the most successful Italian film of its time and remained so into the early 70's. For this reason its probably fair to say that more than any other movie, this was the definitive template of the Spaghetti Western genre. Its story of mean bad guys and mean good guys entwined in a revenge plot was mimicked several times in other Italian movies. Leone, however, was the master of this sub-genre and in this film he begins to really show why. It's paced magnificently and is consistently visually arresting. It exhibits many of the director's recurring imagery - extreme close-ups, scenes of operatic violence and an eye for interesting faces. But of course, this is only part of the story because what would these films be without the contribution of Ennio Morricone? The soundtrack maestro is once again on peerless form and the score is quite brilliant. It's unthinkable to imagine Leone's films without the contribution of this musical genius. Similarly, the cast add good value. Clint Eastwood is a solid presence but he is overshadowed by Lee Van Cleef as Colonel Douglas Mortimer – despite being top billed Eastwood often essentially played second fiddle to his co-star, think also of Eli Wallach in The Good, the Bad and the Ugly. The villains are also very good too. Gian Maria Volonté is always compelling as the chief psychopath, what with his mixture of physical menace and psychological damage. But perhaps best of all is Klaus Kinski as the unforgettable hunchback bandit. He is criminally under used, however.For a Few Dollars More is not quite up to the standard of Leone's two masterpieces that followed it – The Good, the Bad and the Ugly and Once Upon a Time in the West – but it remains an awesome western nevertheless, and perhaps the best place for a novice to start when first dipping into the joys that constitute the Spaghetti Western genre.


                
This movie is like being blind and suddenly getting your sight back. The quality of storytelling is so poor in most films that you almost become inured to it. Then you watch something like For A Few Dollars More and your eyes are reopened to the power and promise of cinema. Yeah, I know that sounds a little pretentious for a Spaghetti Western about bank robbery, bounty killers and familial revenge. When filmmakers can bring this level of skill and vision to an ubermacho cowboy drama, though, it shames all the supposedly more sophisticated work that flounders where this motion picture soars.Colonel Douglas Mortimer (Lee Van Cleef) is an aging gun man who uses his wits and cutting edge Wild West tech to claim the rewards on wanted men. Monco (Clint Eastwood) is a younger gunhand cocky enough to walk into any situation and fast enough on the draw to shoot his way out. These two men decide to team up to bring down the notorious bandit Indio (Gian Maria Volonte) and his gang as they execute a daring bank robbery. The tormented and utterly ruthless Indio proves to be much smarter than they expected, however, and the bounty killers are forced into a desperate battle where Colonel Mortimer reveals a much more personal vendetta at work.The key phrase in movies is "show, don't tell" and the three opening sequences that introduce Mortimer, Monco and Indio are about as sterling an example of that as you will ever see. With each man barely speaking, their actions tell the audience everything they are and starkly define the differences that separate them. Moritmer and Monco are introduced trying to collect the rewards on two violent men, but how they do that is definitively different. Moritmer is relentless will and dispassionate intelligence, while Monco is pure balls and lightning reflexes. Indio's introduction finds him taking revenge on a traitor in a way that shows him to be utterly without scruples but with an emotional depth that prevents him from being nothing but an automaton of evil. So many ambitious filmmakers worry so much about what they're going to do with the camera. Sergio Leone shows them here that it's what you do with your characters that matters most.Not that Leone doesn't know what to do with the camera. There are so many great shots and great scenes here that it's hard to decide which is the best. Is it the standoff in the street between Monco and Mortimer? The final climatic shootout? Monco's wagon of corpses? Indio's unforgettable vengeance? Monco's welcoming committee to Agua Caliente? Mortimer unveiling his arsenal as his prey tries to flee? There's such beautiful staging and rhythm to it all.And the music, good grief. The soundtrack isn't quite as all encompassing as Conan the Barbarian (the Arnold original, of course), but For A Few Dollars More is one of the rare movies that can match Conan's score for thrilling intensity and thematic punch. When Indio's revenge explodes into organ music and the final gunfight evolves from delicate chimes to a symphony of anticipation, only someone's whose been dead for three weeks won't feel their heart beat a little harder and their blood pump a little faster.The performances here are also about as fine as you get for this sort of thing. Clint Eastwood is effective but mostly unexceptional. He's played more interesting versions of this same character many times. Gian Maria Volonte is spectacular in all his sweaty, unstable glory. He marvelously projects this tortured, self-destructive drive in Indio to the point where it's never clear if he's defeated by the bounty killers or by himself. And Lee Van Cleef may be the manliest man to ever walk the Earth as Mortimer. His controlled, mature machismo is not just in contrast to the younger, brasher Monco. Mortimer is sort of the last stand of grown up masculinity before it got swallowed up in a flood of adolescent smartassery in cinema.For A Few Dollars More is an absolute must see, and not just among Westerns. The timeless art and craft here deserve to be ranked among the best films of all time.
Clint Eastwood's "spaghetti western" trilogy with Italian director Sergio Leone stacks up well against other top director groupings of film classics such was Francis Ford Coppola's THE GODFATHER trilogy, Akira Kurosawa's epics of feudal Japan (think RAN), or British helmsman David Lean's series of war-time stunners beginning with THE BRIDGE ON THE RIVER KWAI. What these films share are strong characterizations, unhurried pacing, unpredictable developments, a "playing for keeps" mentality, and well-built suspense.FOR A FEW DOLLARS MORE is filled with nail-biting duels, sudden explosions, swiftly shifting crosses and double- or triple-crosses, and gallows humor. Simple things such as an apple tree and a musical gold watch determine the fates of several dozen (mostly bad)men. Women are few and far between, as this version of the post-Civil War American West is a man's world.With the help of composer Ennio Morricone's indelible scoring, FOR A FEW DOLLARS MORE deserves its ranking among the 250 most popular movies of all time. And, if you saw it during its initial U.S. cinema run, you probably did so "for a few dollars less" than any of your recent trips to the show!
Where life had no value, death, sometimes, had its price. That is why the bounty killers appeared."These are the famous words that greet the viewer at the start of "For A Few Dollars More". The Follow up to Sergio Leone" A Fist Full Of Dollars". The first film , although groundbreaking , had many Faults. The good thing is , that with the follow up , Leone seems to have ironed out the glitches and has produced a near perfect Western.Eastwood is a keen-eyed, quick-witted bounty hunter on the bloody trail of Indio, the territory's most treacherous bandit. But his ruthless rival, Colonel Mortimer , is determined to bring Indio in first...dead or alive! Failing to capture their prey - or eliminate each other - the two are left with only one option: team up, or face certain death at the hands of Indio and his band of murderous outlaws.It's very important when making a western to have characters that you love and hate. Heroes and Villains. With the original film there was Clint Eastwood " The man with no name" and he was the only one with any personality to speak off.With this film we are introduced to not only Eastwood's character again but Col. Douglas Mortimer (Lee Van Cleef ) and El Indio ( Gian Maria Volontè) . One a suave looking stranger and sharp shooter who has a score to settle and the other a ruthless bandit who is tortured by his evil past.Talking of Scores , the music is amazing . The haunting sound of that electric guitar is a constant companion and is one of the most iconic scores in movie history.Lee Van Cleef for me is the star of the film. His addition is a stroke of genius of Leone's part. The director also added quite a lot of humour to the film which the first definitely lacked.There are so many great scenes in this movie but my favourite has to be the stand off at the end. When El Indio says to the Colonel "When the chimes end, pick up your gun." Go ahead and shoot me Colonel. Just try." He opens up that pocket watch and the chimes that have troubled both men for years , start . You know there is only going to be one winner.My favourite Western of all time has always been" The Magnificent Seven" but now there is a clear contender for that title.I will be reviewing the final film in the trilogy " The Good the Bad and The Ugly" very soon and if it's true what they say that this is the best of the three , then i cant wait!9 out 10


                
A Fistful of Dollars was merely the warm up, For a Few Dollars More quickly followed and raised the bar even further. Shot in 1965, but not released in the US until may of 1967, it was already the biggest box office hit in Italy's history by the time it was finally released here. Countless Italian westerns followed in For a Few Dollars More's wake, none of them came close to matching Sergio Leone's work.For a Few Dollars More has so many memorable shots and scenes that i'd be writing for days if i listed them all here. Personally i tend to refer to this one as "the one where Lee Van Cleef lights a match using Klaus Kinski's neck". Even though Eastwood gets top billing, he actually doesn't do a whole lot, instead he sits on the sidelines, giving most of the spotlight to Van Cleef. And in the climax, he literally does just that.Ennio Morricone's score is as classic as they come. Once you hear it, you remember it forever. I remember hearing my dad do the unforgettable whistling "music" from the film when i was a kid.For a Few Dollars More is quite simply one of the best westerns of all time. But then again, everyone already knows that. The best part of all, is that Sergio Leone was not done yet, he still wanted to raise the bar even further with a few more westerns.


                
In this "Man With No Name" movie, Eastwood's character is identified by the sheriff who pays Van Cleef his bounty money as "Manco" - or "sleeve" in Spanish.Note that when Eastwood goes into the tavern after Baby Cavanaugh, he does all his fisticuffs with his left hand only, leaving his gun hand, the right hand, always free. He even deals the draw poker hand entirely with his left hand. This is probably how he got his nickname of "sleeve." (In French, "La Manche," or "sleeve" is the English Channel.)IMHO, this is the best of the "Man With No Name" trilogy. The scene following the macho confrontation in the dark street, observed by the three muchachos from under the boardwalk, is classic, even though the third reason somehow never gets brought up. Van Cleef is an underrated actor and is at least as good as Eastwood (IMHO) in this film."Let's drink to this partnership - with no tricks."


                
This is a typical Sergio Leone western, with a style that made the spaghetti western one of THE genres of the '60's and redefined the western genre in general. "Per qualche dollaro in più" is the middle movie of the 'Dollar'-trilogy and although its not the best out of the trilogy it's of course still better than just your average kind of western!It's a movie that's solidly written, with also some fine solid characters in it. But it of course is the directing and story-telling style of Sergio Leone that makes the movie work out so well. He takes his time to build up sequences and its excitement. This movie is really not halve as action filled as you perhaps would expect but it still is at least halve more exciting than most other westerns with lots of action in it. This says something about the effective directing approach of Leone. Of course his trademarks elements such as extreme close-ups of eyes, flashbacks, slow storytelling, gritty atmosphere and stand-offs are all present here.Lee Van Cleef plays one of his very best roles. Gian Maria Volontè also did a really good job at playing the movie its real main villain, although of course I still prefer Eli Wallach. And Clint Eastwood does what he can do best in this movie; playing one tough but righteous character. It was also quite nice to see Klaus Kinski in this one!And of course you can't get around Ennio Morricone's musical score. Wasn't he one of the first ever composes to give each character a main theme and motive throughout the movie, that gets featured prominently? His score for this movie is just great and it above all really serves a purpose within the movie, which makes the score really suit the movie its story as well as the overall atmosphere.It's a movie that just gets better and better toward the ending, until it gets to its unavoidable stand-off sequence at the end, that is really exciting and memorable, once again not in the least thanks to Morricone's musical score, that actually plays a real important part during the sequence.In my opinion this movie gets nowhere close to the brilliance of "Il Buono, il brutto, il cattivo", which is the 'follow-up' of this movie and the last part of the trilogy, but that of course doesn't mean that this movie is a bad one! Not at all!8/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
Very few trilogies spark as much controversy as to which installment is the better than the "Man With No Name" movies. These movies not only started a genre(spaghetti westerns) but set a template as to how a great soundtrack can compliment a film rather well. Ennio Morricone is without a doubt, one of the greatest composers that ever decided to write scores for films. I'm not going to go into the plot of the movie for I find myself quite annoyed when I read a comment under movies that has everything short of the script written on them. But film fans and film students alike can really benefit from these films, especially For a Few Dollars More since it is arguably the best one. I personally like The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly best but For a Few Dollars More is probably the best one. This film has it all. Visuals, Leone's staple face close-ups, quirky one- -liners, and a soundtrack that will knock your socks off. Leone is a legend and a reminder that film DOES exist outside Hollywood.


                
