Italian director Sergio Leone changed the face of the Western genre in 1964 when he introduced what would be known as the "Spaghetti Western" with the brilliant "Per un Pugno di Dollari" ("A Fistful of Dollars"). Not only the films looked grittier, violent and realistic; the characters in Leone's westerns became complex men with complex and obscure moral codes, very far away from the classic clear moral opposites of previous westerns. "Per Qualche Dollaro in più" ("For a few dollars more"), is the epitome of all this. It is a powerful, raw and ruthless masterpiece that transcended its genre and became one of the best movies of all-time."For a Few Dollars More", the second in the so-called "Dollars trilogy" (a group of films by Leone with the same style), is the story of two different yet very similar men, Manco (Clint Eastwood) and the Colonel Douglas Mortimer (Lee Van Cleef) are two bounty hunters who are after the criminal named "El Indio" (Gian Maria Volontè). An unlikely alliance occurs between the two lone wolves as they decide to cooperate and divide the reward, but are these two killers after "Indio" for the same reason? Written by Fulvio Morsella and Sergio Leone himself, the film's main characteristic is the complex moral code the main characters follow. They are no longer the perfect clean heroes of classic westerns, both Manco and the Colonel have well-developed attitudes, motivations and purposes; they are neither completely good nor completely bad, they are just real. The story unfolds with a fine pace and good rhythm, it is probably the best structured of the "Trilogy" and the easiest to follow. It is also the one that represents the elements of the Spaghetti Western style the best.Stylistically, the film follows closely the conventions established by Leone's previous film but it takes them to the next level. The excellent use of minimalistic cinematography and the superb musical score by Ennio Morricone complement Leone's realistic vision of Westerns and completely redefined the genre's conventions. "For a Few Dollars More" is a violent tale of two hunters, and visually the film transmits the same emotions the characters feel. No more myths, the Westerns never felt this real.Clint Eastwood's super performance as Manco is very important for the success of the film, as he is the one that takes the audience through this brave new world, however, the star of the film is Lee Van Cleef as Colonel Mortimer. In one of his best performances ever, Van Cleef manages to be both menacing and interesting, giving life to Leone's brilliant script with great talent. Gian Maria Volontè as Indio complements the two big talents as the crazed criminal with a dark past, he is the perfect counterpart of the two lone wolves."Per qualche dollaro in più" is a near flawless movie, as every piece of the puzzle falls into the right place to create a marvelous and unforgettable picture. It's only minor problem may be the dubbing, but fortunately, it still is superior to the one heard in other Italian productions of the same time and it doesn't hurt the film. Fans will always argue about which of the three films of the "trilogy" is the best, and while personally I prefer "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly" over this one, it is just a matter of personal taste as this film is as perfect as that one. A real classic that changed the face of Western as we knew it. 10/10


                
Exceptional performances by three heavyweight actors, Gian Maria Volonte and Lee Van Cleef - both of whom, it's a shame, did not have all that many more opportunities to shine in quality films after this one - and Clint Eastwood, along with taut direction, editing, cinematography and gripping and unique music (by the great Ennio Morricone), make this movie a real standout. (The music's almost a major character in this film, in fact.) Stylistically iconic, this Sergio Leone opus has an endlessly fascinating and spellbinding story that surprises to the end. Plus, we really come to like the co-heroes, Van Cleef and Eastwood - we want to befriend them and emulate them. Volonte was priceless as a demonic villain - his facial expressions rich with narcissism and a strange kind of violence-fueled euphoria no one else has ever matched in film history, for my money. Though he clashed with director Leone and purportedly did not like the Western genre, Volonte's performance rises above the film's genre and could be favorably compared to the best portrayed villains of other more mainstream movies. Volonte brought a realism to his character and an intensity you don't see in many films. But so did Van Cleef, whose work in this film is incredible. You'd have thought other movie makers would have rushed to cast Van Cleef in important roles after this film, but no. Very strange. Though some might question the wanton violence in this film, the truth is that the real wild west was even more violent and the violence often much more capricious and random. Like all great artistic works, this film never grows old for me. I am always drawn to watch it again and again for it is of such a depth and complexity that it only reveals more of itself with each viewing.


                
Completely defying the tried & tested Hollywood formula and introducing his own style of narration that was more character driven, glamorized violence & also added a new dimension of moral ambiguity into its characters' psyche, thus bringing both heroes & villains very much on the same level, Sergio Leone presented a whole new outlook of the Wild West in A Fistful of Dollars but with this second chapter, he further accelerates the inevitable rebirth of the western genre.The second installment of Leone's Dollars trilogy is quite an improvement over its predecessor in almost all departments of filmmaking & gradually portrays the developing maturity in Leone's craftsmanship. Starring Clint Eastwood as a bounty hunter looking for a number of wanted suspects, who later partners with another bounty hunter looking for the same guys & make a deal of splitting the reward but in the end when it comes down to final showdown, one of them shows their real motive behind the hunt.Featuring an improved direction from Sergio Leone, For A Few Dollars More presents the director in more control of his artistry & has a much stronger script to muster ahead with. The scope of camera-work, the precision of editing & overall production design also get their upgrades plus the performances from the recurring cast turn out to be better than the previous film with Clint Eastwood & new addition of Lee Van Cleef impressing the most.On an overall scale, For A Few Dollars More is another huge step towards placing the coffin on traditional westerns & presents a significant evolution of every single aspect of its making when compared with A Fistful of Dollars. Ennio Morricone's music also leaves a bigger mark than before & it's exciting to observe how seamlessly it accompanies the drama. A rare sequel that improves upon the original, For A Few Dollars More is absolutely recommended.


                
This movie is the second best western i have ever seen with The Good, The Bad, The Ugly being first. I disagree with someone who wrote that this movie is not as good as A Fistful of Dollars. This movie is way better than a fistful of dollars. The reason is (as i pointed out in my other post) is that Clint's role or character is better when he has a good supporting member because it gives Clint's character more depth as well as throw a wild card into the mix. Lee van clef is excellent in his role, i still have him labeled as the bad but it was surprising to see him play a good guy in this one. Both bounty hunters have their own styles which meshes really good on the screen. Gian had more depth to this one which played perfectly into Lee Van Clefs character. In a fistful of dollars Gian didn't have much depth at all and some of the characters were annoying. I like how leone tied all of the characters into each other in this one, having all of their stories somehow play a role in the other ones. If you haven't seen this movie i suggest you watch Leone's films in chronological order with A fistful of dollars first, this one second, and finish it off with the good the bad the ugly. You'll be glad you did.


                
Col. Douglas Mortimer (Lee Van Cleef) and Monco (Clint Eastwood) are both bounty hunters. They're both after the bank robber El Indio (Gian Maria Volonté) for his bounty. They decide to join forces to bring El Indio and his gang of robbers down.Lee Van Cleef makes this a superior spaghetti western. He's not only as good as Clint. In many ways, he plays a superior character. His character has secrets. He has mysteries. Clint is playing a much more simpler character. For me, this is superior to 'A Fistful of Dollars' in the trilogy. The story is more iconic, cleaner. The characters have more depth.


                
Excellent fun with sadistic humor from Leone.  Eastwood's best performance in a Leone film.  Van Cleef is good in a role similar to Chuck Bronson's in "Once Upon a Time in the West".  He is menacing and sympathetic, whereas in "The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly" he is just campy and all "bad guy" (but still fun).  What makes both performances so memorable I think is that Van Cleef seems to be in touch with Leone's dark humor, where Eastwood is used as a straight man.  Volonte is also excellent in the bandito role Leone used (an example of a standard European character type who reminds the audience of earthiness and the basic ignorance and greed of man).  A much better film than most people who've seen it on a Saturday afternoon on TV probably realize -- you have to see these movies in the theater to get the full hit.


                
One of my favorite movie lines of all time as spoken by Klaus Kinski upon recognizing Lee Van Cleef in the little cantina as the one who used his (Klaus') cheek to strike his match earlier in the movie.  When Kinski ask if he "remember me, amigo," Van Cleef just reply "uh uh."  To which he's asked to try that trick again, which prompts Van Cleef to utter another one of my all time lines - "I generally don't smoke 'til after I've eaten; why don't you come back in five minutes."  Just typing this brings smiles to my face. I've been a Lee Van Cleef fan since High Noon (with Robert Wilke) and Kansas City Confidential (with Jack Elam and Neville Brand!) and this was/is the movie that made him a star.  Granted it didn't last for long, but he did have his 15 minutes.  This is my favorite Spaghetti Western, it was also my first (didn't see "Fistful" until much later - and Good, Bad, Ugly was a major disappointment - I wanted Van Cleef to play the same role).  And the music, especially the pipe organ, just blows my mind.  Highly enjoyable; think I'll go and watch it again.


                
For a Few Dollars More seldom gets the praise it deserves. Moviegoers mention A Fistful of Dollars, which started it all, The Good, the Bad and the Ugly, on the short list of the best movies ever made, elegiac Once Upon a Time in the West, even the more political entry Duck, You Sucker, and Leone's venture in another genre, Once Upon a Time in America; but FAFDM almost seems forgotten at times. Which is a shame, because it's sheer brilliance.The opening is pure Leone, with his classic introductory vignettes: we meet two bounty hunters, Manco (Clint Eastwood), who favours a down and dirty approach, facing a bandit in a saloon and gunning down his henchmen, and methodical Col. Mortimer, who calmly chooses a weapon to shoot a fugitive from an impossible distance. Then we are introduced to Indio (Gian Maria Volontè), a borderline psycho bandit. Manco and Mortimer team up to kill Indio and his men; the older man has a personal vendetta against the criminal.This movie oozes class. From the scene of Clint walking into a town under a light rain to the final duel, everything is filmed with flair and elegance. Eastwood is an unflappable icon of charisma. Volontè plays Indio as a nasty piece of work who is also smart, and dangerous. Van Cleef is magnificent as Mortimer; it's interesting how, in two movies of the Dollars Trilogy, the Man with No Name is the lead, but the emotional compass of the film is another character (Tuco in TGTBTU, Mortimer here).The final scene is fantastic - Leone has rarely done better. A milestone of westerns.9/10
For a Few Dollars More really marks the breakthrough into enormous heights by legendary director Sergio Leone. Whereas A Fistful of Dollars was still a fantastic adaption of Kurosawa's 'Yojimbo', Leone's wholly original story in For a Few Dollars More allows his direction to shine a lot more due to the fact that there is no direct comparison.For a Few Dollars More arguably has some of the greatest introductory scenes of main characters ever seen in film. Colonel Douglas Mortimer's ( Lee van Cleef ) menacing stare towards a passenger in the train, the convincing ability to use the emergency brake and get away with it just because nobody dares mess with him, or the cold and calculated way he eventually kills his bounty target with not a slight sense of nerves or fear. Monco's ( Clint Eastwood ) card game against his target in which he later reveals that he was playing for his life, and afterwards continuing to smack him down with karate chops from his left hand only. The simplicity with which he turns around and kills three adversaries and the seemingly eyes in his back move when his target reaches for a gun. All of this tells the story of the main characters brilliantly in their introduction sequence. Let us also not forget Indio's ( Gian Maria Volonte ) introduction sequence in which he is rescued from jail by his gang and searches for payback on the person who sold him out. He has no trouble killing this man's family, but the duality in his eyes and the fact that he gives him a chance in a fair duel state that there is some kind of weird morality in him, and this continues for the entire film. Thus these introductory sequences are some of the absolute best in cinematic history, because i for one can't think of another that manages to put so much character personality in just these intro's.This movie doesn't have a single bad scene. In fact, it is a consequent series of superb scenes. The entire film is just a testosterone filled thrill ride of epic proportions. The fearlessness and masculinity displayed by especially these two main characters is nothing short of spectacular. One of the risks when you have these two seemingly superhumanly quick protagonists is that you are unable to relate with them because they are never in trouble. However, like all great action hero's, there is one scene in particular where both are at their most vulnerable, and this scene makes them look human. Incredibly manly and superhumanly accurate and quick humans, but humans nonetheless. They are just as vulnerable as anybody else. Nowadays this only makes the film better because the age of masculinity in men is far behind us, and this film reminds us of a glorious time in which men were still considered as men.The score by Ennio Morricone is as you might expect once again absolutely stunning, with a soothing and yet somewhat epic whistling tune throughout. The marching shots of people on horseback with the widescreen direction of Leone while Morricone's score is playing is just visually stunning, and the sound design ( Every single sound was shot pre-production as the film was shot silent ) is impeccable. The sheer sound of Mortimer's revolver will probably haunt you for some days to come.Now one point i feel is always overlooked in this film is Indio, who is no doubt one of the greatest villains ever created in cinema. This is because while this is a character that is evil personified in a lot of his actions throughout the film, there is a sense of true sadness and regret in him, and you can constantly see this in his facial expressions which is ofcourse all thanks to the brilliant acting by Gian Maria Volonte. There isn't any joy either when you see him killing the guy that snitched on him to get him in jail. His eyes just show constant sorrow, perhaps for what he has become, or perhaps because of a certain flashback event shown later on. This is a very morally complex villain, because even though he is evil, there is a duality in him, a struggle between his good and bad side. All of this is shown without dialogue, but instead with just looking at these fantastic Leone close ups of Indio's facial expressions. In a strange way, we as the audience still kind of feel for Indio because of this.The dialogue, particularly the ones between Monco & Mortimer about if Mortimer was ever young, or the re-meet of Wild ( Klaus Kinski ) & Mortimer is also perhaps a bit of an overlooked point in this film. Dialogue, as is usual in Leone films, is only there to further the narrative, and not tell the audience things we can already figure out for ourselves. But these little conversations as the one mentioned above are really just the perfect talks when you consider the personalities of these characters. Leone understood his characters, and never made them contradict their personalities.The final 10 or 15 minutes are some of the greatest closing minutes in a film ever. The flashback sequences featuring Indio are explained and a twist is confirmed with just a single line of dialogue ( Naturally, between brother and sister ). The closeups in this duel between Indio and Mortimer while Morricone's incredible watch chimes ( Combined with an epic trumpet halfway through ) plays is just cinematic perfection. Van Cleef in particular manages to convey so many emotions in these close ups, emotions that he has managed to leave behind him for everything else in the film. However, when facing his sister's killer you can truly see the desperation and sadness in van Cleef's eyes in these scenes. The little things are also what make this scene so great, such as van Cleef stroking the picture of his sister in the locket a bit in a melancholy kind of way, or a quick glance he gives to the now dead Indio after picking it up. It is just pure perfection.For a Few Dollars More is not just one of the greatest westerns ever made, but it is also one of the greatest films ever made. It does not have the scope and scale of Leone's later masterpieces like The Good, the Bad & the Ugly or Once Upon a Time in the West, but it comes close nonetheless, and the result here is just a fantastic motion picture.
This would be the only film from the Dollars Trilogy (between A Fistful of Dollars and The Good, The Bad And The Ugly) that isn't an Empire 5-star rated film. So, in order to complete the trilogy, I decided to watch this one anyway to satisfy my need for completion to see why it wasn't awarded the prestigious five stars.Compared with A Fistful Of Dollars, For A Few Dollars More is a far more developed film, albeit a completely different story. The stories lead into each other though (although you don't need to watch the first to understand the second), as The Man With No Name continues his bounty work which we are introduced to in the predecessor.The introduction of The Man In Black - Colonel Douglas Mortimer - helps to prove that Eastwood's Man With No Name - this time referred to as Manco - is not as omnipotent as he appeared in the first film. That said, Eastwood's character still retains the mystery as the number of lines he is given are few and far between. We never learn much him, but that doesn't stop us admiring his quick hands.For A Few Dollars More also uses the same iconic soundtrack as its predecessor and, while its whistling can become irritating, it is one of the key driving forces behind the film as the camera flicks between characters during the agonising stand-off.Personally, I prefer this film to its predecessor. Maybe its because I knew what to expect, but its probably more likely that Sergio Leone was given far more freedom to express his unique characters.


                
Two bounty hunters are going after the same man <U+0096> a crazed escaped convict named Indio (Gian Maria Volontè). Realizing that the job is too big for either one alone, Col. Douglas Mortimer (Lee Van Cleef) and Monco (Clint Eastwood) decide to put their egos aside a team-up to get their man. But can these two men take on and take out an army of outlaws? A Fistful of Dollars may have come first and The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly may be the fanboy's choice, but my favorite movie in Sergio Leone's Dollar's Trilogy is For a Few Dollars More. In contrast to the first movie in the trilogy, For a Few Dollars More is a more sophisticated, more confident film. Leone took the ideas he developed in A Fistful of Dollars and ran with them. There's definite growth in Leone as a director. Similarly, you can see growth in Eastwood and Morricone. All three <U+0096> director, actor, and composer <U+0096> were coming into their own with confidence to spare. And in comparison with the better known third movie in the trilogy, For a Few Dollars More is a tighter, more fluid film. It may be one of the best movies ever made, but The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly does tend to drag every now and then. That's not he case with For a Few Dollars More. There's not a wasted moment. But please, don't misinterpret anything I've written <U+0096> I think all three movies are works of genius. I just happen to prefer For a Few Dollars More to the other two.Beyond Leone, Eastwood, and Morricone, any discussion of For a Few Dollars More wouldn't be complete without mentioning the rest of the cast and the sets.<U+0095> The Cast: Eastwood may be the more known commodity, but he often is upstaged in this movie by both Van Cleef and Volontè. In fact, Volontè steals most every scene in which he appears. His dope-smoking, homicidal Indio is one of the most ruthless and memorable characters I've seen in a Spaghetti Western. Another interesting casting decision is that of Klaus Kinski. His screen time may be limited, but his scenes with Van Cleef are among the most memorable in the movie. The rest of the cast, especially Mario Brega and Luigi Pistilli, are just as solid.<U+0095> The Sets: For a Few Dollars more looks like a million dollars thanks to some wonderful sets. Some of the villages found in and around Almeria, Spain, are incredible looking. It would be difficult to duplicate the authenticity of a place like Los Albaricoques with its cobbled streets and white-washed adobe buildings. Yet when called upon to do so, Carlo Simi designed and built some equally impressive sets. His attention to detail in the planning and set decoration is impressive.
The first movie I saw in the Dollars trilogy was THE GOOD, THE BAD, AND THE UGLY. This was the third in the series I saw and Lee Van Cleef had two strikes going against him. Because he was playing opposite Clint Eastwood and because he was such a nasty villain in THE GOOD, THE BAD, AND THE UGLY, I was a bit prejudiced against Van Cleef's character, Col. Mortimer the first time I saw this movie. Now, after several viewings, I've come to sympathize with his character almost as much as Clint's Manco. Like ONCE UPON A TIME IN THE WEST, Van Cleef's character is a bit like Harmonica's in that he has a personal score to settle with Indio. Also, like ONCE UPON A TIME IN THE WEST, Col. Mortimer's motives are shown through piecemeal flashback sequences throughout the movie. Though his and Clint Eastwood's characters have different motives for wanting to track down Indio, I found myself rooting for both of them the last time I saw this movie, ie, Manco is motivated by money, Mortimer motivated by revenge.The only annoying thing I found about this movie, and it seems to be true of every Western I've ever seen, is that while the main villain is kicking the crap out of the good guys (and in a Sergio Leone movie, that term is used rather loosely), his cohorts are standing around giggling like a bunch of little girls. I have seen this in just about every Western I've ever watched and it tends to get a bit annoying. Barring that, anything put out by the team of Leone, Eastwood, and Morricone with his haunting music is nothing short of great. That chimes tune will move you to tears once you understand what it's all about. And that hunchback would have done well to heed Eli Wallach's advice from THE GOOD, THE BAD, AND THE UGLY. "If you've gotta shoot, shoot, don't talk." But that's for another movie and another time. Great effort, L, E, and M. 9 out of 10.
<U+0085> death sometimes had its price. After the success of the groundbreaking Fistful of Dollars, Sergio Leone returned with his second instalment in the dollars trilogy. The scale was bigger, the style was bolder, and the moral standards were lower.The title itself works on many levels. The films budget was of course somewhat more than the cheaply made Fistful. On top of that everything is pushed just a little further in this picture. Whereas Fistful was just set in one town, we now travel all over the old west, and for the first time we see those incredible landscape shots that Leone did so well. The direction and storytelling is much more confident. There is a fairly bizarre level of stylisation, with huge facial close-ups, fast paced editing and long-drawn out stand-offs.Many viewers talk of Leone's debt to classic Hollywood westerns, as well as the films of Akira Kurosawa, but while these are part of the mix his style really reminds me of nothing more than Sergei Eisenstein at his most flamboyant. Think about those fast edits between Mortimer's face and Indio's poster, or the series of close-ups during each build up to a gunfight, then look at Eisenstein's Strike or October and you'll see what I mean. Those films must have been a massive influence on Leone, although it's rarely acknowledged.Each of the three main characters gets their own lengthy introductory scene which take up nearly a full half hour before the story really gets underway. We open with Mortimer, his head buried in a bible. Given the way he acts afterwards <U+0096> forcing the train to stop, intimidating people and coldly and calmly killing an outlaw <U+0096> this is an example of the rather ambiguous attitude Leone takes towards religion throughout this and his other pictures. Manco first appears in a thunderstorm. Indio's first scene is gloomy and sinister. All three men are established as killers. Nearly all the characters are after one thing <U+0096> money. It's not just the bandits and bounty hunters. Even the boy who holds Manco's horse is always after another dollar. I say nearly all the characters <U+0096> there is of course one goal more important in the spaghetti western than money, and that is vengeance.For a Few Dollars more isn't just bigger in every way, it's also better in that it is more professional, particularly the acting. Clint Eastwood had by now gained more confidence, and had perfected his slow, silent, moody persona that would become his trademark. There are plenty of great supporting parts, and the dubbing of Italian actors is pretty seamless. However the real jewel in the crown was the rediscovery of Lee Van Cleef. Van Cleef had made a career of bit parts in Hollywood westerns, usually as a mean-looking outlaw. Leone cast him as the most heroic and honest of the three main characters. Perhaps a touch of irony was intended, but the truth is Van Cleef turned out to be a great actor (I'm always particularly struck by the very genuinely emotional look on his face when he realises Manco has taken his watch), and ideally suited to playing the good guy for a change. Having retired once in Hollywood, he eventually enjoyed a second career as one of the most prominent leading men in the spaghetti western genre.Of course, the mix of Leone's films wouldn't be complete without the music of Ennio Morricone, and here for the first time director and composer are truly in synch. Morricone is truly Leone's musical equivalent. Just like Leone's shooting style, Morricone's music isn't afraid to draw attention to itself. In this era a good film score was supposed to be one you didn't notice, but Morricone does the opposite. It is weird, wonderful and very listenable in its own right. The music in For a Few Dollars more is also matched up to the action in a way that hadn't happened since the days of silent cinema. Each character gets their own little musical motif <U+0096> Mortimer has the Jewish harp twangs, Manco the bouncy flute melody and Indio the ominous bells. It's not a background score <U+0096> it's excessive musical punctuation for Leone's style. In that first great duel in the church between Indio and the man who turned him in, when you hear that eerie little pocket watch tune, and then the organ crashes in with a rip-off of Bach's Toccata <U+0096> then you know you're in the Leone zone!


                
When discussing the amazing films of Sergio Leone, the one movie that usually gets lost in the shuffle is `For a Few Dollars More'.  This is slightly understandable, since it's just a hair below the impossibly good standards of `The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly' and `Once Upon a Time in the West' (among others), but there's no denying that `For a Few Dollars More' is still a terrific movie in its own right.  In fact, if judged on its own merits instead of in comparison to Leone's other works, it's nearly a classic.`For a Few Dollars More' pretty much picks up right where `A Fistful of Dollars' left off <U+0096> the Man With No Name (Clint Eastwood), who's now been dubbed `Manco' by a couple of his fellow bounty hunters, is working his way through the Old West, systematically picking off and collecting the reward for despicable criminals and other lowlifes.  He's worked his way up to hunting down the most ruthless bandit of them all, Indio (the incredibly underrated Gian Maria Volonté), a depraved killer who's recently escaped from prison.  Also on the hunt for Indio, however, is the bounty hunter Colonel Mortimer (Lee Van Cleef), who has a personal score to settle with the killer.  The film becomes an interesting three-way game of cat and mouse, as Colonel Mortimer and the Man With No Name struggle to work around (and with) each other, as well as to hunt down Indio, who's decided he's not going to be taken down without a fight.Eastwood's portrayal of The Man With No Name really getting to flourish for the first time in this film <U+0096> there's glimpses of it in `A Fistful of Dollars', but this is the first time it becomes apparent how weirdly moral the Man With No Name is.  He can be a bloodthirsty, brutal bully at times, but he only acts that way around people he thinks deserve to knocked down a peg or two.  To women, children (at least the ones that try to steal from him), and others he considers to be `innocent', the Man With No Name is surprisingly deferential, even kind.  There's a lot of complexity to the character, and Eastwood pulls it off with some serious style.Van Cleef is also great as Colonel Mortimer, although it's weird to see him in this film as Mortimer and then in `The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly' as the dastardly Angel Eyes <U+0096> the two characters are such complete opposites. Mortimer is a lot like the Man With No Name <U+0096> adhering to a strange code of honor, doing heroic things by often unheroic methods.  Because of their similarities, the relationship between the two characters is terrific, veering between complete distrust and grudging respect.  In a way, `For a Few Dollars' more is one of the first modern `buddy' action movies <U+0096> the way Eastwood and Van Cleef interact with each other seems eerily like the predecessor to movies like `Lethal Weapon' and `48 Hours'.Director Sergio Leone does a great job with this film as well <U+0096> the initial meeting between The Man With No Name and Colonel Mortimer is appropriately tense, bordering on near film perfection.  So are the scenes with Indio and his gang (watch Indio's storytelling explanation about how he plans to rob a bank), as well as the final confrontation between all the characters -- awesome.  Leone also uses the score of Ennio Morricone to great effect, using a haunting little tune from Indio's pocket watch to great effect throughout the film.  The pacing, the backgrounds, the shot set-ups <U+0096> all awesome.  Leone's one of the unappreciated film greats of all time.`For a Few Dollars More' is simply a fantastic film; if you haven't already seen this one, rent it immediately.  The only reason people don't rave about this as being one of the best Western of all time is because it fell between two cracks of Western perfection: `A Fistful of Dollars' and `The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly'.Grade: A


                
The film begins as you see Lee Van Cleef tracking down and killing wanted men. He is so cold, calculating and non-emotional that he is perhaps one of the creepiest heroes in Westerns. Then, the action switches to Eastwood--doing pretty much the same thing, though with a bit more bravado and a little less menace. Both men are bounty hunters and apparently are nearly unstoppable. Then, the film switches to a prison break, where "El Loco" is being extracted as his gang wipes out almost everyone in the prison.Well, El Loco has a $10,000 bounty and each of his men have bounties as well, so both Van Cleef and Eastwood head to El Paso, as they assume his gang can't resist attacking the richest bank in the West. However, shortly after our bounty hunters arrive, they discover the other is there for the same reason. So, instead of killing each other (which it sure looks like they might do), they decide to team up and split the reward money. However, down deep they both seem pretty foolish as they seem to want to take on the murderous gang alone and not split the money! The plan is for Eastwood to infiltrate the gang while Van Cleef attacks. This seems reasonable, as one of the gang members (the ever-handsome Klaus Kinski) knows Van Cleef. To infiltrate them, Eastwood "stretches the law a bit" by breaking one of El Loco's buddy's out of prison. Because they seem to trust him, Eastwood is sent with a few guys to divert the El Paso authorities to a fake robbery in another town. Eastwood does this but then kills the gang members with him. You see, Eastwood doesn't want the sheriff and his men on hand to get the reward! Unfortunately, the robbery does NOT occur the way Van Cleef and Easatwood reason it would, and El Loco and the surviving gang members escape with the money. It's actually nice to see this because up until now, the two have looked invincible. So, Eastwood re-joins the gang and Van Cleef follows. Once again, it seems very uncertain if these two really are a team or out to trick the other out of the reward. It's obvious that Eastwood's sole motivator is money, whereas Van Cleef's is only revealed at the end of the film.Eastwood AND Van Cleef both infiltrate the gang (after Van Cleef kills Kinski to prevent him from talking). All seems to be going well and the two guys are waiting for their chance to pick them off one by one and return the stolen money to El Paso. However, it turns out that the incredibly sadistic El Loco is quite the schemer and knows the two are bounty hunters. So, the gang beats the stuffing out of the duo (though only a short time later they look just fine!) and tie them up and place a guard on them. However, El Loco is a major jerk and plans on killing off most of the gang and keeping the money for himself. So, he arranges for Eastwood and Van Cleef's escape (this is a really DUMB plan and a big shortcoming in the story). He reasons that the gang and the bounty hunters will wipe each other out as El Loco and his friend escape with the dough.Unfortunately for El Loco, the gang is quickly wiped out and he is face-to-face with Van Cleef at the end of the film. Van Cleef shoots him but the wound is not fatal and El Loco's shot knocks away Van Cleef's gun! This leads to El Loco's trademark--he has a shoot out with his opponent which is to begin the second his pocket watch stops playing music. Well, just before the music stops, Eastwood shows up and saves Van Cleef's life--allowing him to retrieve his gun. It turns out Van Cleef had an identical watch to El Loco's because many years earlier El Loco had murdered Van Cleef's sister and brother-in-law! So, Eastwood being a cool guy and all, lets Van Cleef have the honor of killing El Loco in the gun fight. Van Cleef is so thrilled that Eastwood gave him a chance for revenge that he decides that he doesn't want the money and tells Eastwood he can have all the reward money. The final shot is of Eastwood stacking up all the MANY bodies and figuring how much money he will have earned. The dollar amount isn't quite right and he quickly spins around to waste the one surviving bad guy who just came out of hiding--telling Van Cleef he must have either miscounted or forgot to kill one of them! Now that I've given a pretty thorough overview of the film, let's talk about what I liked. The music is classic spaghetti Western music--over-the-top and really, really cool! The villains are pure evil and fun to watch. The good guys are also pretty scary and fun to watch. But what I liked most about the film was its sense of humor (despite being a very violent film). The scene where Eastwood is talking to the crazy old man in the shack is wonderful and so are several little vignettes spaced throughout the film. The not-quite-a-prequel to this film, A FIST FULL OF DOLLARS was based on Kurosawa's Yogimbo and Sanjuro--and in this film, humor was also occasionally used to break the violence and tension extremely well. One final note is about the performances of Klaus Kinski and Van Cleef. I was absolutely amazed at Kinski's facial expressions--as he was able to make his face tick violently when he was scared. This was amazing and I doubt many people could do this. As for Van Cleef, I really think he stole the show in the film despite Eastwood being so strongly associated with the film. He was truly menacing and the focal point for much of the film.
For a few dollars more is in my opinion the greatest western yet made,it has everything a fan of the genre could possibly want. You have the lead character who is a bounty hunter,he is not a perfect role model far from it but forget all that he kills bad people! You have another bounty hunter now he is a good man with even better reasons to kill criminals you can root for him with no feeling of guilt. Then you have the baddies and especially one who is both evil and mentally deranged on top of this is a superb soundtrack brilliant flowing direction from Leone at his absolute best and great locations,the only reason I don't give this film top marks is because I'm not stupid enough to realise that this film is really only aimed at fifty percent of the population!
This is the last movie I had seen in the Man With No Name trilogy. This one, too, features Clint Eastwood as the Man With No Name. This one too, has stunning cinematography and an excellent atmosphere. What this movie doesn't have, is a captivating villain and a spectacular climax.The other movies in the series featured awesome villains - Ramon in "A Fistfull of Dollars" was quite plain as a character, but he had something unique about him, he used a Winchester rifle against the Man With No Name's Colt Peacemaker pistol. "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly", the best movie of the trilogy without a doubt, had Angel Eyes. Where else can you find a villain so cool and heartless as this bastard? Now what do we have in this movie? We have Lee Van Cleef (who played Angel Eyes) but not as a villain. He's an anti-hero (no character in the trilogy really fits the description of hero), and a cool one, but the villain is El Indio. And Indio was plain, boring and uninspiring. He was just a big angry Mexican, and there was nothing special about him.The other thing this movie lacked is a gripping climax. The other two films had amazing climaxes, and in both the climax was the highlight of the movie - it just kept getting better and better until it reached that climax. The duel against Ramon was special because the Man With No Name found a smart way to deal with his enemy's superior battle, and then it still turned out a quick-draw duel - only one of the men had a rifle! In "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly" we had the most amazing climax ever - a Mexican Standoff between three outstanding characters. And it was filmed in such an astonishing way that no movie climax has ever surpassed it. Here however, the climax is simply a duel. Man against man, pistol against pistol. It doesn't have the uniqueness of the climax in "A Fistful of Dollars" nor the brilliance of "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly". It is a good climax, obviously, but not on the same level as the other movies in the trilogy.Still though, I rated this movie a 9/10. And appropriately, because the movie has many highlights. The scenery is stunning, the cinematography is beautiful, the atmosphere is engrossing, and the acting is superb. And some scenes are near perfection, such as the opening sequences that introduce us to the two bounty hunters, Manco (The Man With No Name) and Colonel Mortimer, or the bank robbery scene. And therefore, this movie warrants a watch. While not quite so genius as "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly", it's an overall better movie than "A Fistful of Dollars", although with an ending not quite so powerful.
The middle film in the unofficial Man with no name films For a few dollars more is a fantastic chapter with certain shlock elements which seem dated. Eastwood returns as the bounty hunter as does a new dude played awesomely by the great Lee Wan Cleef. He is so good that you almost start believing he is cooler than Clint. Both meet one another and together they pursue the bandit El Indio and his henchmen who are planning a raid on the biggest bank in the region. El Indio is played by the great Gian Marie Volonte, who if you ask me should be equally well known and beloved as Le Cleef or Eastwood. It is a shame that such a great performance is not measured in the same words as the more popular ones. He was amazing as the middle brother Rojos Ramon in the previous film and just as devilish in this. The cinematography and look are fantastic- old film stock shot in hot, humid rocks. In a western the location is perhaps as important as the theme and Leone's films exemplify this. Unmissable film.


                
The middle part of Sergio Leone's dollars trilogy sandwich is a mighty hunk of meat and pasta. Plot has Clint Eastwood and Lee Van Cleef as bounty hunters who form a very uneasy alliance to bring down violent bandit El Indio (Gian Maria Volontè) and his gang.As befitting Leone in this sub-genre, the pic positively oozes charisma and class. His compositions are as striking as the coolness he wrings out from his lead actors, the characterisations bristling with a calm grizzle factor that beguiles as the story jumps from violence to suspense, from humour to misery, with surprises is store as well. The screenplay adheres to some clichés of the Western formula, but never at a cost to suspense and mystery, such as with the finale that looks set to be formulaic, but joyfully brings its own identity whilst simultaneously adding extra layers to the protags and antag. The dialogue (Leone and Luciano Vincenzoni) pings with literacy, something which is a pleasant mercy in the Spaghetti Western world, while Morricone fills the key scenes with aural shards of atmospheric delight.A great film in its own standalone right, but also a super precursor to The Good, the Bad and the Ugly. 9/10


                
I rarely see cowboy movies but got attracted to it with the Good, bad and the ugly and was stunned to see such a movie. I thought no other movie could better it and now I have to change my opinions! If the former was a perfect one for entertainment, then this one is perfect in almost everything. Couldn't find any holes. The performance of Clint Eastwood just got better here as the "man with no name" and "the man in black" Cleef is very good in this movie comparing good bad and ugly.The story was succinct, screen-played into a 131 minute epic with no unwanted scenes and with correct detailing in every shot. Thats what I call a must watch one!!As a critic, this one is better. But as a Eastwood fan, good bad ugly still is better and will be my favorite!


                
Clint Eastwood returns as the Man with no name, a wandering gunfighter, now bounty hunter, who, along with Col. Mortimor(played by the appealing and steely-eyed Lee Van Cleef)is after a big bounty on crazy Indio(Gian Maria Vollante)and his gang. Both men distrust each other at first, but come to an understanding, and form a partnership, pledging to split the reward money; that is of course, dependent on them surviving the ordeal, involving Eastwood infiltrating the gang...Marvelous sequel is much better, thanks to two unforgettable lead performances, and incredibly stylish direction by Sergio Leone and music score by Mr. Morricone. Long but involving story is most compelling, and film remains a firm classic.


                
For A Few Dollars More is a fantastic western with a terrific storyline that stays fresh and entertaining from start to finish and a brilliant cast that know very well how to act in a western.It is the second of the three movies in the Dollars trilogy,and manages to be even better than its already brilliant predecessor A Fistful Of Dollars.Clint Eastwood returns as The Man With No Name and his character and acting skills are even better than before,and the addition of Lee Van Cleef really helps out.Glan Maria Volonte returns as the villain in this,and he is as enjoyable as ever.A Fistful Of Dollars is terrific,but For A Few Dollars More is only an improvement.A Must see for all fans of the western genre.Two bounty hunters work together to find and kill a murderer with a reward for $10,000 if they get him,but it proves a lot more difficult that their passed experiences of catches criminals.


                
Why this is has never been held in the same "classic" status as A Fistful of Dollars and The Good,The Bad and The Ugly is anyone,s guess. This is director Sergio Leone,s true masterpiece of the trilogy. More stylish and ambitious than the first,but not as overlong or pretentious as the third.It,s the greatest spaghetti western ever made.Clint Eastwood,s second performance as The Man with No Name sees him team up with ageing gunslinger Lee Van Cleef to bring down psychotic Gian Maria Volonte (one of cinema,s most evil villains) and his gang. The plot is cynical and brilliant,the stark imagery is perfect and Ennio Morricone,s score is my favourite.What always surprised me about Good/Bad/Ugly was how underwritten Eastwood and Van Cleef,s parts were.Basically the film was about Tuco.But in this film,Leone actually seems equally interested in all three of the main characters and brilliantly fleshes them out.Eastwood was always meant to be quiet and mysterious,but in this,you get a sense of his personality and purpose,unlike the third,where he came across a bit bored,which he probably was by that time. And Van Cleef was a great addition to the film.Although I,m not usually a fan of his,he was great here in his most sympathetic role as the haunted army veteran. Together the two formed one of cinema,s greatest partnerships.Their stony eyed double act is a joy throughout,especially in the sequence where they shoot at each other,s hats in the street. Leone even put some thought into Volonte,s role.As Indio,he is not a cardboard villain.He is sadistic,psychotic,treacherous to his own men and (dare I say it)even almost human in sequences where he flashes back to a despicable act he,s committed.The first 30 minutes of the film are riveting,showing the main characters in unrelated incidents before the strands twists together for the main story,which is never short of suspenseful,involving and enjoyable.It combines black humour,melancholic moments and great shootouts that all build up to an unforgettable climax and tops off my favourite Leone film.
A perfect good vs evil western. Clint Eastwood is cool and strong, and never gives up. Lee Van Cleef is mature and sensible, but sturdy. Gian Maria Volontè is thoroughly brutal and cruel. All three show us a perfect professionalism and are equally attractive, and the equilibrium of these three actors keep us thrilled and excited to the end. The land is vast, the sky is blue and the mountains are steep. Ennio Morricone's music is a perfect match to this film, and the opening whistle melody echoes in the head even after finishing the film. Clint Eastwood is now a giant actor, producer and director in front of us, but we should never forget his starting point as an actor such as in this film, which impresses us for good.


                
Even better than his first groundbreaking Western, Sergio Leone does himself one better in this second film of his Man With No Name "trilogy." In this story, Eastwood conquers the screen as a bounty hunter known as Monco, who finds himself in deals with another named Colonel Mortimer who has a secret agenda for completing this mission. As these two titans of terror combine their powers, the stage is set for one of the most breathtaking, operatic, and violent showdowns in the Western genre.As I said before, director Leone does wonders with this new-found style he uses in these spaghetti westerns as he sets up each scene and does it with such grace and perfect execution, you can't help but be amazed. With so many intense close-ups, fast-paced editing, and dizzying flashbacks, the story is crystal-clear and even brings out the best in the actors who are great nevertheless. Eastwood is so perfect in this role it's no wonder he became an icon; and Lee Van Cleef also does great as the Colonel. Maybe the best performance belongs to Gian Maria Volonte as the drug-induced, crazy villain El Indio. All these great actors, the superb storyline and the beautiful landscape combine to make this one of the best Westerns, if not one of the best films of all time. This is a timeless and exciting piece of work that will never lose its flavor.


                
