This movie is a good example of the pitfalls of relying on user reviews/ ratings for selecting movies to watch. By no stretch of imagination should this movie have been in the Top 250 list or anywhere even close to it.The acting and direction were poor, the story very lacklustre, unimaginative and predictable and many of the scenes were downright ludicrous.Leon appears retarded in many scenes but an attempt is made to depict him as an intelligent person.Some of the scenes will require you to suspend disbelief - one of them being a rocket launcher being fired at an apartment from inside the building by cops!


                
Are any of us happy we responded so enthusiastically to La Femme Nikita that we now have to sit through shiny garbage like The Fifth Element and the Professional?  Wow, this movie's stupid.  The movie begins attempting no nonsense-realism by choosing gritty, not picturesque parts of the city, as well as chucking in the pretty gratuitous murder of a child to make it that much more "edgy", and then the movie just becomes an orgy of gun-worship and impersonal murder, strung together by a silly, yet sickening plot, where this mass murderer's (Leon) really kind of cute and avuncular when babysitting this heavily made up 12 year old.  Hey, he drinks milk!  How bad could he be?  And he refuses to shoot women and children!  What a guy!  I, being an adult male, he would happily kill given the business opportunity, but serves me right for not being a woman or child.  In the course of the plot he teaches this alarmingly sophisticated neighbor girl how to be like him, how to kill strangers.   Ahhh.  The "lessons" he offers her, the tricks of his trade are chestnuts you'd  never ever think of like, "relax.  keep your eye on him."  I would have thought panic and look away, so shows what I know!  And not like I'm mister puritanical, but something quite pronouncedly creepy is at least SUPPOSED to be going on in this film, I have never seen a child quite so "advertised" which is an extremely sleazy thing to be half-heartedly suggesting in your half-baked movie about the lovable hitman and orphan annie who likes to sing "Like A Virgin" and dress up as Marilyn Monroe.  Which reminds me--the abysmal humor that appears throughout the film, is that like a trademark with this guy?  "The Fifth Element" had an equally annoying cute streak.  Lastly, if you really watch Jean Reno, forgetting he's French and interesting looking, his performance is pretty rank amateur.  He really looks even more lost than the lovable murdering dope he's supposed to be playing.  They also refer to him in the film as Italian, which he's clearly French.  Does the French director not know what French accents sound like?  Gary Oldman is laughabale, at best, and that really is almost a compliment, or as close to one as this thing deserves.


                
Really, who enjoys a pap movie like this? Illiterate, supposedly cold-hearted 40 year old killer who drinks lots of milk (what's milk got to do with anything - movie was funded by the dairy lobby?) befriends a 12 year old girl whose family (all morons who deserve death) was gunned down by a lunatic drug dealer and his gang. I suppose giving the girl a place to live was OK. However, to teach her how to kill? Come on! No evidence that she went to school. I could not watch more after an hour and only lasted that long because people gave it good reviews. I assumed something almost intelligent or exciting would happen. Lots of sad music backed scenes of people doing nothing. If one cut out the dull moments, this movie would last 10 minutes, if that. I stopped after the girl professed her love for the killer. This movie, as many others that receive high marks, is an IQ test. If you liked it, you failed the test.


                
Highly overrated. I didn't believe it for a second. In the opening scene, Leon peeks through a bullet hole in a door into a dark room with light behind him, and in doing so shows the gunman on the other side exactly where he is. Another time, when a hit goes bad in an apartment building, Leon only steps over from the door a foot or two as the man inside seeks to spray the entire wall with machine gun fire. Leon's character is completely unbelievable, he is never shown to have any degree of intelligence, not by the storyline or the acting, yet the other characters strongly push this notion. When I think of a character who is intelligent and good at killing, I think of Hannibal Lecter played by Anthony Hopkins. Leon is abysmal in comparison. Not only does the linear plot have no shred of plausibility, it is also made up of predictable scenes and dialog, which only infuriate the viewer as they drone on. Every scene feels forced, so unrealistic you can almost feel the presence of the film crew in the room, complete with the director frantically trying to think what should happen next. The unwarranted dramatic music is clearly a futile attempt to cover the bad acting. Nobody reacts to anything properly. The villains are cartoon-like at best. The only thing shocking is the amount of cursing in a story which was so clearly written for a children's TV show. The first few pages of comments almost had me convinced I was crazy, until I found the realistic ones buried at the bottom.
Leon/the professional is unoriginal, badly shot and just a terrible action movie. Anyone who liked this must be out of touch with what a good movie is.Leon/the professional should NOT be rated higher than The Man With No Name trilogy, Yojimbo, the killer, desperado, THE Terminator trilogy and other movies that are painfully more awesome then this is. This movie is unoriginal, full of stereotypical characters and old, man has to deal with little girl, not fitting his life style, with hilarious results and love Plot line. The movie also has a sense of humor that does not fit the feel of the movie.The action is unmemorable and laughable. "WHAT? an entire swat team and not one throws a smoke grenade or teargas bulls***" -thats me screaming at the fake stillted "action" in a later scene. The bad guys also look so overly menacing they're funny. The main bad guy wears all white and reminds me of Moco from El Meriache except Moco was cool.I don't have enough space to say all the reasons why I hate mediocre action films like this, they make the genre worse. This movie also bothered me because it is badly edited with useless segments, a boring overall feel and no story arc. It looks like it was made by pedophiles because they put that little girl in every sexual look they could. It makes you feel sickened. If you liked it please watch the movies I mentioned during this review. Then you will understand. Bottom line: mediocre films like this with lame dialog, LAME action, bad acting, no message/point and nothing new weaken the action genre!


                
I don't know what bothers me the most about this film.  The main storyline revolves around a professional murderer who "adopts" a 12-year-old girl and teaches her how to kill.  The action is so ridiculous it becomes comical. At one point, you're forced to endure a lengthy scene in which the two main characters try on different types of outfits/styles.  OUCH!
The film is corny, offensive and somehow finds time to be schmaltzy.  Maybe it should be classified a Mystery because I'll be damned if I can figure out how anyone could like it.


                
It really deserved to last only 10 minutes, but I give every film at least 30 minutes now before switching it off (if it is poor). The acting, script, and story, in the 30 minutes I have just seen, were shambolic and a waste of my time. There is no way a film with that start can possibly get any better.No-one in this film talks or behaves like a real person, and the direction is all over the place. It's just more moronic titillation for the mindless masses, and yet ANOTHER overrated film in IMDb's top 250. Seriously, some of the films in that list are there because of dumb people - and dumb people alone. These days, plot isn't necessary as long as you have cartoon characters shooting people left, right, and centre.No thanks.


                
I have to say I found this movie so offensive I stopped watching it after about half an hour. It's beyond just violent, it's pornographically, sickeningly, gloatingly violent, and the victims aren't bad guys but naked women and kids. The jarring discontinuity between the excrutiatingly graphic murder of her family andMathilda's lack of emotional response is especially disturbing.There is a line of good taste which even action movies shouldn't cross and, for me, this one - like Face/Off - crosses it. Women and children can be 'in peril' but shouldn't  be killed, especially not with the kind of gleeful sadistic intensity shown here. If you want to make a movie where women and children are goingto be the victims, then for me it's a different class of movie, not an action thriller. It goes without saying that the director's attribution of sexual characteristics to a 12-year old child - and the way he deliberately perverts the friendship between Leon and Mathilda in a sexual way - is deeply sick and utterly reprehensible. Disgusting.
Often, I think and say things that could be taken as offensive, I love it really, what's the point in being nice when everybody else is a savage? Like the fact that the human race has lost its grip and is rating trash like Leon so highly. Even so called intellectuals will violently steam into those who don't rate this film, as if you've just assaulted their mother or something.It is unadulterated Diarrhea, the story is dreadful, Jean Reno is diabolical, Gary Oldman walked onto the wrong set and Natalie Portman is a Peado's wet dream. Oh yeah, there's guns and stuff, wow what a great story. Cool Indie Flick, "oooh I'm just misunderstood, etc. Lets make a film about a child assassin, that'll get the horny voters in, ooh we're so cool voting Leon so high, I don't know what I'm doing, ooh blah"What I say is correct and is always great and accurate.


                
I went to look up 'The Professional' thinking I was looking up one of the most underrated, cultural classic films ever. Then I saw the rating - 8.6. What... Now I realize that 'The Professional' is the most overrated movie on this entire Top250 list. An 8.6! That is absurd! Do not get me wrong, this movie is so great. Gary Oldman is my favorite actor. This is maybe his best performance. All of his scenes are fantastic. It is all of the scenes without Gary Oldman that I have a problem with. What is so 8.6 great about the give and take between Jean Reno and Natalie Portman's characters, which essentially dominates the film. Those scenes are sort of boring. The story is too over the top too, and the things that happen and the things that the characters do seem too unbelievable. The action is not all that believable either, although it is very well done. As great as Gary Oldman's character is in this movie, he does not elevate it enough to be listed as a top 30 movie of all-time. I am laughing at that rating. This flick should be in that 7.9 to 8.2 realm, not 8.6! I would truly give this movie an 8 out of 10 rating, it was an awesome action-drama, but I got to give it a flat 1 out of 10, just because so many people drastically overrate this film.According to the Top250, 'The Professional' is better than 'Saving Private Ryan', 'Gladiator', 'Braveheart', 'Aliens', 'The Departed', 'L.A. Confidential', 'American Beauty', 'Unforgiven', 'Die Hard', 'Heat', 'Fargo', 'The Lion King', 'The Sting', 'Raging Bull' and about 50 other movies it shouldn't be in front of. Ch'ya! As if!
Has anybody seen Cassavetes's "Gloria"?It's the same story,particularly the beginning.A rip-off,a shameless plagiarism,Luc Besson's only stroke of inspiration,so to speak, being the sex reversion.Jean Reno is listless and totally inexpressive and Natalie Portman is totally bland:the nineties Judy Gardland,she definitely is not;her dramatic ambitions are limited,as "star wars " and co will demonstrate later.Nothing to do with Gena Rowlands in Cassavetes ' movie.It's a crying shame that the first movie-the second now,cause of "Amelie"- made by a French director on the top 250 should be this appalling piece of garbage."Leon" epitomizes what's the most despicable: a French director trying to ape the American to earn a lot of dough.Besson should direct Christophe Lambert,whose ambitions are similar.It makes you sick.Yuck!


                
Judging from the French names in the credits, this was not an American production. Euro influence also shows in the misplaced cultural references in the script. An American child in the 1990's imitating Charlie Chaplin or Gene Kelly - give me a break! All those tourist shots of the Manhattan skyline; maybe that sells in Hong Kong, but I'm not buying. I don't understand why this film is rated so highly by IMDB users. It's a standard violent action movie with a bit of Lolita thrown in...nothing wrong with the concept, but really, what's so great about it? Jean Reno is very good, Gary Oldman is annoying as usual, and the kid is just another movie brat. This film faded from memory as soon as the credits were over...barely worth a rental.


                
There aren't many words I have for this film. First of all it STINKS! Sure the story is okay, but it doesn't fit with the rest of the movie. The part that I hated the most was at the beginning where they made leon some sort of teleportation machine and he appears everywhere. Totally unrealistic. And lastly, The cover of the tape is so BORING! Don't see it. It's a waist of time. You'll never get that 2 hours back. Yep, It's just that bad!


                
slow movie, had to fast forward half of the movie. Story line was boring. Promoted a distorted relationship between an adult and child.Acting was fine, however due to the story line it seemed inappropriate. Only good parts were the few (hardly any) action scenes that were dominated by different types of weapons...interesting really didn't like the actor that plays the cop...the character was stupid..tried to act " crazy" however came across as lame.I would not recommend this film.Worst movie I have seen in a long time.Boring and not worth the watch, unless you want to go to sleep


                
The villain Gary Oldman acting was perfect!. But the 12 year old kids thinking on matured matter is too much. Because of that I couldn't enjoy the movie as I was suppose to enjoy the revenge plot.Thanks,
Meena.
