It actually started out well with some decent action scenes and seemed promising at first but shifted into a boring plot with some ridiculous action scenes and some really awkward scenes of sexual tension between Leon and Matilda, although I understand these were removed from the North American version of the movie... gee, wonder why? Normally that wouldn't have been an issue if she wasn't 12 and he looked like he was in his 50's.I am very shocked to see this movie on the top 250 list on IMDb. This movie was honestly one of the most terrible movies I've seen in the last 5 years. There's a lot of movies on this list that should have been in its place. I actually registered an account just to try to save some others from making the same mistake I did.


                
I don't know why people are so thrilled about this movie. I generally like both Jean Reno and Gary Oldman, but these two performances rate at the bottom for me from these fine actors. First of all, JR is supposed to be Italian? Give me a break. His accent is so french, I could smell the Brie through my television. Gary Oldman tries to create his typical megalomaniacal character, but this one is more comical than anything. The plausibility of this 12 year-old girl becoming enamored with this lifestyle is ridiculous. The films flirting with pedophilia is disgraceful. The ending is stupid. The whole idea of JR's illiteracy is asinine. The sum of $5000 a hit is unbelievable. Sorry guys, you missed the mark on this one.
How is this movie in the top 100, let alone the top 250?I will answer my own question and say that apprently most filmgoers do not find the idea of a "perfect assassin" turning out to be a good guardian ludicrous.On one hand we have "Leon" the "perfect assassin." An assassin is someone who kills people for aliving. This is not a nice, responsible adult. Portraying him as a supportive caregiver is insane. Why would he ever take in a 12 year old girl? Because he's lonely? Don't you think this would get in the way of his work? I like the scene where he tells her not to smoke cigarettes. This guy kills people but he's got a problem with cigarettes.I also like the cliched portrayal of his two-faced boss. That's original.Or how about Gary Oldham as a psycho d.e.a. agent...don't get me wrong I think the government is full of psychos, but really would a complete raving psychopath get this far up in the political machinery? I kind of doubt it. His outbursts have to be bad for p.r. And then we come to Natalie Portman's character. A 12 year old orphan thinks it'd be a good idea to move in with an assassin? I guess her parents never told her not to talk to strangers. And then she's going to become an assassin? If your parents had just gotten killed by people you don't even know, would you want to move in with an assassin and become one? Doesn't she have relatives? This film is completely ridiculous. What is even more unbelieveable is that so many of you liked it.2/10


                
All you have to do is scroll down through the myriad reviews of this movie to find accolades and epithets such as , "wonderful", "remarkable", "masterful", "intense", "phenomenal", "excellent", "genius"!Hello? First of all, our fantastic phenomenal genius friend Leon, is now doing UPS commercials! Hello! Just how fantastic and mahvellous and wonderful and indescribable do you have to be to be doing UPS commercials as a follow-up to this unforgettable and simply stunning movie?This movie was nothing more than a kind of warmed over Russian loser manages not to fornicate with the 12-year-old Lolita, in the Nicole- Kidman-is-Russian-gansta genre! And what about the child? You know? The all-knowing child! The all-knowing 12-year-old! Gimme a break from these car-crash junkies who think that this brain-dead one man and a baby remake is Schwarzenegger immortalized! Sheesh! I've got a UPS commercial you're just going to love orgasming over!


                
Seriously what's wrong with people? "Best action-movie ever made", "one of the best of all times", "a touching and entertaining film"... Are u guys kidding me? This movie is just outrageous! The plot is completely stupid, the pacing is slow, the characters seem to come out directly from a comic book (particularly Gary Oldman's one who is simply laughable) and the action scenes are not good at all! Have any of you guys watched any real action movie lately? because this one clearly is not! To make things even worse the director decided to make the entire movie revolve around the sentimental and sexual tension between a killer and a 12 years old girl! And what is incredible is that everybody seems to be ok about it!
I will stop trusting reviews around here, because they're evidently written by incompetents. This movie should be among the list of the 250 WORST movies of all time!


                
Be aware. This movie is NOT action, this movie is more drama than anything else. Sorry but I can't help to see the similarities with these movies I am mentioning. Of course the parallel with Nikita is because it is the same director, but the story in general is quite similar too! Add to this the little girl characterization of Pretty Baby by Malle. Anyway, I have to say that I did not watch the original version of The Professional, I have just seen this one by Besson.--- Spoilers ---The first thing I want to say is... do these people know they are dealing with children? How the hell they make this 11 y.o. girl smoke and put her in other scenes learning about weapons, etc? For heaven sake! This is why this movie has a lot of Pretty Baby. In Pretty Baby Brooke Shields learned about prostitution and wanted to be a whore, now in Leon Natalie Portman learned about weapons and wanted to be a "cleaner". I make the question again... Do these people realize that they are dealing with children, and that somehow this kind of things affect the little actor psyche??? Because of this... I found most time of this movie very disgusting! It was very hard to stay in front on the screen. I like to study English with movies and that is the only reason I kept watching this garbage. I rented this one and well... and had to watch it, at least to learn English.This movie was extremely violent without reason, had many plot holes and impossible things... I mean things no plausible at all.First... I understand the girl had a bad childhood but she wanting to be a killer is not convincing, even with her brother died, an 11 y.o. girl does not have that kind of feelings and wants to murder people.Second, I do not understand why so many people say in their comments that Jean Reno character is a good guy... Do you think a good person would say to a little girl that life is "always like this" when she ask if it is always so hard??? Even if the life is so hard, you would never paint it in black for a little girl, man! Do you think a good person would teach a little girl how to use a long-distance rifle to kill someone even if she insisted with the matter? And in fact, a good person would have not hesitated to open the door when she was crying for help.Third: DEA agents leader is a junky??? Hahahaha... This was really laughable. How could I guy like that be in the force? If we have that kind of policemen in US we are in GREAT TROUBLES, bro!Fourth: How can a baby girl go into that high security building without problems, and MORE... how can a single guy breaks into the same building some minutes later shooting everyone without any problems either?Fifth: Jean Reno character is a Terminator model T-101. Nothing beats him. They brought 500 SWATs and no-one can scratch him...Also I found very disturbing this relationship between Reno and Portman, she is in love just like Shields in Pretty Baby, I can understand that, girls that age fall in love easily, but that means you can make a movie and insinuate they sleep together or something? OK, do it, make the movie, but then do not make a scandal when something like that happens in the real world!I will not continue because this movie made me sick... but wait, somehow the final is good and the plant finale scene is really moving. After all, the girl will have a second chance in life... again, just like Pretty Baby finale.Hard childhood... and they want to show it cruelly. But I don't think it is good to use children for this, in this explicit way.
Much of the flak that this film has received has been directed at its alleged paedophilic inclinations; I think this criticism has some truth to it, but is often overplayed. What really bothers me about 'Leon' is another form of child abuse: the 'grooming' of a minor as a would-be professional assassin. Hollywood revenge flicks are a dime-a-dozen of course, and they usually end up endorsing vigilante violence in one way or another. But what makes this film so awful is the application of this trope to the realm of childhood, and, further, its blank refusal to consider the moral implications of this stance. Sure, the little girl's family has been wiped out, and she wants payback, but is the most humane response to the situation really to help satisfy her desires, and get her even more entangled in the world of brutal criminality? The criminals are simply regulation scum who deserve what they get, and a little girl is deemed as suitable an agent of vengeance as an experienced hit-man. Leon is just as much a criminal and a murderer as the bad guys, but he is strong, taciturn and endowed with a sentimental streak, so he's 'noble'. No deeper reflection is required. Dress it all up in the odious trappings of fey Gallic whimsy (ye Gods, it's worse than 'Amelie'!), and the movie's nasty little heart beats on unnoticed. Seldom has a soundtrack got on my nerves quite as much as this one did. Yuck, yuck, yuck.


                
hmmm, my first comment ever on IMDb, just because i am so nervous that people actually liked this picture. Come on every one, it is a very bad picture, very very very bad! I see that some people understand that. Bad acting, very bad, except for the little girl, she was good. Bad story, very bad. Unrealistic, very unrealistic. Not artistic at all. Very overrated!! Bad director, bad camera, bad casting, bad producer, everything bad! i really don't know how to show to everyone how bad this movie is. Everything i say, people are not going to accept so, there is no use of talking about this picture any longer. For the ones who love it, keep watching more films to understand the badness of the movie, for the ones who think this picture is bad, thank god there is someone!Thank you!


                
I tried, I really tried to watch this based on a friend's recommendation and the fact that it was the same director that did "La Femme Nikita". Unfortunately it was also the same director who did the "Fifth Element" which goes to show that "Nikita" was a creative fluke.
    I am sorry, I just could not buy the premise.  When you cannot buy the story from the first 15 minutes, then the whole movie is lost.   One more thing, can we nominate Gary Oldman for the "Overacting Hall of Fame".  Between this and "Fifth Element" he shows just how much a waste of talent he really is.  I think he could be great but he takes these nonsense roles and then overplays them.


                
Average action drama movie that involves a mafia Hitman and a little orphan girl.Entertaining if one can forgive unbelievable and inexcusable action sequences.Very good story but sloppy execution of script and screenplay.Could have been a classic if done better.Very European style flavor was nice.Only for Liberals who like action dramas and for big fans of the lead actors.....


                
this movie was a real drag.i found it dreary and depressing and agonizingly slow.it has a high rating of 8.5 on this site,which boggles my mind.it's about an professional hit man who ends up befriending a young orphan girl and eventually (though reluctantly) begins teaching her is craft.Jean Reno plays Leon,the hot man and Natalie Portman plays Mathilda,his young charge.this is an early performance for Portman,her second in fact.she is certainly a talented actress,and Reno is also a skilled actor.it's not there performances that are the problem.rather,for me,i think it's the stilted dialogue and the overly dramatic script that sinks this movie.i don't think been this depressed about a movie in a long while.i wouldn't recommend it,myself.it's not the worst movie i've ever seen(and i've seen a lot)but it is certainly closer to the bottom than the top.i don't think i can muster more than 2/10 for this one.


                
And that's why you shouldn't let a teenage girl enter your life! You're a kid what do you know about love or killing someone. 2 stars for the acting though!


                
