luc besson will never top this movie. This is his benchmark, his classical composition. Look at the precise, intricate scenes. It's a symphony in cinema. Straight off, it's action. Intelligently shot, and scripted. It makes everything that follows hard to live upto. But it does so easily. It's stylish without being showy, it's deep without being sentimental. And it's just hugely enjoyable. Seeing the friendship between newly orphaned mathilda and skilled assasin leon bloom, is tenderly done. At risk of slipping into a sappy bond, besson keeps it easy on the emotions, without coming off as shallow.The actors are all spot on, most notably the debut from a young natalie portman as mathilda. Showing an angry, sad, pent up, in love girl is no simple task but she breezes through it, touching all the right notes. And jean reno as the title character, is minimal but very effecting. Hard to understand, but easy to relate too. But gary oldman steals it, with his glorious overacting. He's as scary as he is determind. His line delivery is almost perfect. And his fate is very fitting. If only they made more intelligent action movies, then they could contend with this film. But as it stands right now, leon is one of the best action dramas ever made.


                
To me, no year in cinema history is as important as the year 1994. It is the year that created cinematic masterpieces, Pulp Fiction, Shawshank Redemption, Forrest Gump, the great Lion King and another masterpiece, that some may forget, Leon: The Professional. This alone makes the movie a must see Leon the Professional is a masterpiece Crime Drama movie about a hit-man named Leon and a young girl, who after the loss of her half family, seeks revenge on the people responsible for their murders by training alongside Leon. This movie has a plot that is extremely simplistic and just very easy to follow. The movie is also absolutely amazing in pretty much every way.The acting in the movie is superb. Young Natalie Portman really shows exactly how good an actress she could be at the age of 13. Since I haven't seen Black Swan, this, to me is her finest performance. Jean Reno as Leon was absolutely wonderful as the two shared some great scenes but the star of the movie, to me, without any doubt is Gary Oldman. There is no need to go on about him as an actor in general but in this movie, he is something absolutely unbelievable. He does that Heath Ledger's Joker type performance and is absolutely amazing as Stanfield, the one who murdered Mathilda's parents.The story itself is incredibly movie. By now, its a story that's being done to death with a bad guy falling in love with kids and growing a heart but no movie has ever nailed the idea like Leon. Seriously, the 2010 Despicable Me is the exact same story and is done horribly when compared to this. Leon is far more detailed. I mean, its not like Leon saw Mathilda and just loved her straight away. No! He tried to kill her during her sleep. He gets annoyed at her, he plays with her and he does everything. The way the relationship was executed was phenomenal.The characters in the movie are just absolutely wonderful and are extremely detailed. Mathilda is probably the finest child character I've ever seen, as Empire Online have said themselves. I could NOT agree more! There is just so much depth to her and not just she lost her brother and wants revenge. You understand her as a character for some strange reason and everything feels real. Leon is just an exceptionally cool character who keeps reminding me to the Terminator. The way his life turns on its head after meeting Mathilda is fantastic. However, my favorite character of the film is the one they didn't give enough screen time, which is a pity, and that is Stanfield. Seriously, he was such a great character in the movie. When Mathilda stated that the only one whom she loved in her family was her younger brother, we get a bit of an idea as to why but I honestly wish, that it was shown more so we could perhaps care for Mathilda EVEN MORE! The cinematography is great in the movie, the soundtrack is well composed and the editing is very nice.As part of my IMDb Top 250 quest, I'm glad I actually saw this movie as its pretty much a flawless classical 90's movie. 5 Words to describe this movie would be: Classical 90's Masterpiece, Great entertainment! To conclude it here, this movie is certainly one of the very best movies of the 1990's and when it comes to the great movies of 1994, it sits alongside the three masterpieces of '94. Please watch this movie as I'm sure you will be emotionally involved in this movie and have an absolute great time with the film. Its a great example of '90's movie magic.
This movie reaches the heights of predictability that any action movie can possibly get.It is good but is so so so overrated. I will definitely say that it is easily the most overrated movie in IMDb.I could guess its climax in the first 15 minutes of the movie. The action in the movie is very well done. The saving grace is definitely the climax,the ending is superb and really redeems the movie, which otherwise could have been dull and insignificant.The casting consists of Jean reno and Natalie Portman. Natalie Portman is a 12 year old precocious child who has an immature love for Jean Reno who happens to be a Hit-man. After her entire family gets knocked out by Gary Oldman, he takes her into his wings and teaches her the secrets behind becoming a hit-man or say a hit-girl rather. Amongst the performances only Portman 's worth watching.. Gary Oldman is disappointing so is Jean Reno.The movie fails mainly because of its poor character development. The characters are very superficial especially Gary Oldman's character. You are left wondering why they are doing what they are doing.Overall as i said IT IS HUGELY OVERRATED.....I would give it7.2\10..


                
I did really like this film. Léon just felt misunderstood. At times his relationship with Natalie Portman's character was hard to watch but apart from that good movie


                
I have been dying to buy Leon for years now and when i saw it on the top shelf at my local music store (why it was there i don't know) i bought it straight away, went home and watched it and it was awesome. The directing was as smooth as a circle, the writing inventive, the action was limited but awesome when it was there, the acting holds up mostly and then there is the greatest villain of them all, Gary Oldman. Starting with the acting, Jean Reno aced his performance and really did portray the 'cleaner' profession, i really do wish all films based around hit-men could be like this, i really do. The writing, it sustained a brisk pace throughout the movie and plotted twists and turns in different places creating this fantastic film. But there is one character who i find unusually disturbing and this was Matilda played by Natalie Portman, Matilda was weird, disturbing and a little bit looney, but on the other hand she is still a innocent kid who loves to copycat and play games, yet she acts like an adult to lure Leon into her trap where who knows what would have happened. Matilda disturbed me yet showed me the innocence of childhood and that is exactly what a charterer like her should do, divide your opinion and question their every move. Then there is Gary Oldman, and he honestly was more disturbing, you could see the insanity in his eyes, yet he could be disturbingly calm or the complete opposite and we never actually get to know his character which i love to see, every film needs a character like this, i think it just keeps the audience on the edge of their seat just connecting the dots. To conclude i feel as if Leon has made it into my top 10 favourite films of all time so i award it with a 9/10.
I was very surprised to see that this film received such a high grade. I did not think it deserves it.Things i liked about it. It is the acting of two principal actors, Mr. Reno I like very much from the times of La Femme Nikita, he is a spectacular actor, especially in the roles like these. Natalie Portman is also excellent in a role like this, later in the Star Wars I did not like her that much. I think as a young teenager in this film she is excellent, for the later roles I am not that sure.Things I did not like. Plot is not realistic. I simply do not like that. When is something like this possible in the real life? Never. Also too much violence, but films of Luc Besson are always like that. I guess it has to be that way. Violence and sex sells. Especially if you throw a slight nudge of pedophilia in it.


                
'Léon: The Professional (1994)' is a much more tender affair than you'd expect, one that's not so much driven by the eponymous assassin's life-meddling day-job but by his surprisingly human home-life and the relationships he forms during a time where both begin to catastrophically collide. The central dynamic is a little odd, though it's nothing compared to what was in the original screenplay, but ultimately turns out sweetly serene and incidentally innocent. The scenery-chewing villain is a little pantomime but menacingly hunts down the duo like dogs, which allows for some great action set-pieces punctuated by pure emotional moments. 7/10


                
Having not heard of this film much less seen it before now (I was living in the jungle (rainforest to you) for several years when it came out) I was gobsmacked by how many people rated it and rated it highly. I appreciated the lower end reviews near the end and am embarrassed I gave it a seven but I was riveted by the movie when I was not thinking how ridiculous it was. But then aren't Star Wars, Indian Jones et al just as ridiculous? If I can "accept" a starship making noise through warp space why not an erratic DEA agent and a twelve year old wanna be assassin?


                
The little girl played by Natalie Poryman, just twelve years old in 1994, is forced to grow up quickly due to the unfortunate events that resulted in the death of her biological baby brother and her father. Even worse, she never felt cared for or looked after and thus felt a strong sense of duty to look after her younger brother who was barely living his life as a toddler before his untimely death. Leon, the savior, is a strong figure in her life. Despite a vengeful undertone he sets her on the straight and narrow otherwise. He teaches her to defend herself, care for plants, to be independent. She was robbed of her childhood and becomes quite precocious. I am relieved the film did not portray leon as anything more than a plutonic protector. Matilda was curious and deserved a much better set of cards. The film was about Matilda learning to trust again.
Two months after my first viewing, I'm still not quite sure what to think of this movie. I kind of wish I could watch it in the nineties so that I could really appreciate it, and this certainly isn't the only film I would do that for. Part of me says that I'm being under-appreciative of it, but at the same time I can't quite see why this is ranked as one of the top thirty movies of all time. Certainly it's an impressive work of cinema and a well-crafted story and an all- around solid movie, but I can't help but think that it's a little overrated. I guess I was just expecting there to be that one element of it that would make it so well rated like an iconic line, some incredible action sequences, unforgettable characters, an unbelievable twist ending, or that one scene that everyone talks about and that gets referenced in comedies over the next thirty years. But it doesn't really have any of that.Our story focuses primarily on the simple but incredibly skilled hit-man Leon and his neighbor/foster child Mathilda. Even though he has little charisma, he gives the audience a lot of reasons to root for him. He works by a code, drinks milk, is good with kids, lives on much less than he makes, and has some very impressive combative abilities. He's got an almost perfect profile for a movie hero: warm hearted but no less awesome as a result. Mathilda wins the audience over with her hardships, her desire for revenge, and her premature independence as an adolescent. I kind of expected Leon to be averse to teaching her to clean, thinking he would see it as unseemly for someone so young. But maybe he just decided that Mathilda would take revenge on Stansfield no matter what so she might as well be equipped to do it properly without hurting anyone else. I know there's the whole thing about the creepy romance between the Leon and Mathilda, but I saw it as more of a parental relationship than a romantic one. After all, Mathilda's real father didn't seem like he would be up for any parenting awards and it reflected on her. Leon's kindness to her gives her a chance to stop growing up and just enjoy being a kid for a change. So because of Mathilda's unfamiliarity with the feeling of being cared for she, and by extent we, easily misinterpret her feelings for Leon to be uncomfortably romantic.When the story isn't dealing with their relationship, it delves into the progression of Stansfield's investigation of Mathilda's family. At first he's just going for Mathilda's drug- dealing father, but later he goes after Mathilda unnecessarily when he realizes she's alive. Even though Stansfield doesn't have almost any interaction with Leon, he is basically the inverse of Leon. He kills for enjoyment rather than for a living and has no code about who he kills. Eventually, we learn that he is working with Leon's boss Tony, which isn't the greatest of unexpected turns, but it does make Stansfield more hateable. There's also a little subplot with Leon teaching Mathilda how to clean, and those scenes are some of the best in the movie.It's very well directed with the use of slow-mo and camera-tricks and such. The action sequences aren't anything very special in a stunt sense (though I am saying that twenty years out of context), but we can clearly see that Leon is one of the best of his kind and knows how to outsmart and outshoot his targets and their hired guns. The script isn't the greatest aside from the noteworthy execution of Mathilda's dialogue. This was probably helped by a solid performance from Natalie Portman, who plays her part impressively for her age and even for actors in general. Jean Reno also gives a solid though low-key performance of his mellow character. Gary Oldman is a little over-the-top with his character, which I guess means he had fun with the part but maybe he could have done with a little less eccentricity.If you like hit-man movies, just be warned that this has more emotion than it does action. It's not a huge imbalance, but the two jobs that we see Leon pull are pretty quick sequences that have little relevance to the rest of the film. That's not to say that there is a deprivation of action, just that it might not come in the way you're expecting. The external plot is action driven so you don't have to worry too much about how Stansfield is connected with Mathilda's father and Tony. If you don't like action movies, you might still enjoy this, but just know that it's not very representative of the hit-man genre even though it has many of the same elements. Overall Rating: 8.3/10.
I wish I'd never seen that "Leon: The Professional" was rated #27 on IMDb. With an outrageously high score like this, I get my expectations too high--way too high. Now I am not saying it's a bad film but it's certainly not THAT good. In fact, it's not among writer/director Luc Besson's best ("The Fifth Element" and "La Femme Nikita" are definitely better). Why is it rated so highly? The film stars Jean Reno as a top ninja-like assassin. However, in an odd twist, this lone wolf killer falls in with a girl (Natalie Portman) and he becomes her foster dad. This is hard to believe but even harder to believe is his training her to be a killer as well as he going after the baddie lone wolf style! And, speaking of the baddie, Gary Oldman pretty much plays the same guy he played in "The Fifth Element". Saying the film has some ridiculously difficult to believe aspects is certainly an understatement. Now I am not saying it's bad...but it cannot be a great film, in my opinion, if so much of it is difficult to believe. Interesting, yes....top 100...no way.By the way, I think it's safe to assume that Portman was named Mathilda in the film because of her and her family's strong similarity to the characters in the Raold Dahl book "Matilda".


                
Although this might seem just another movie which everything happens in America, it was however directed by a french director (Luc Besson). Plus, Jean Reno's accent is clearly french (yet his character's name - Leon - sounds Italian or even Spanish).This film is also known by the alternative title 'Leon: The Professional'. Its title obviously refers to the film's main character: Leon, a professional hit-man (or "cleaner", as he says). Leon is a different kind of hit-man: he does his daily life like a normal person in some ways, he lives all alone, he enjoys watching Gene Kelly's musicals and at the same time he is eccentric to the point of having a houseplant as his best friend (LOL!).Leon, despite being a criminal, is actually pretty cool and likable. Besides, his french accent is cool and his voice is nothing of what you might think. The way he talks is usually very calm and cool and he rarely speaks aggressively.The movie takes place in Little Italy, an area in New York City. The modern scenario is one of its qualities and certain angles of view are exceptionally well filmed, which contributes for a nice visual experience.As a movie, it is so modern even now and it shows how messed up this world really is.This was Natalie Portman's feature film debut in the role of Mathilda, a 12-year-old girl from a dysfunctional family and already smoking cigarettes. She and Leon are actually neighbors. But soon Mathilda's entire family is shot to death, including her much beloved 4-year-old brother. They don't actually show her brother being shot (likely for obvious reasons), but still it's horrible to know that that cute and loving little kid is murdered. That is, without a doubt, the saddest and most horrifying part of the film.Mathilda is the only survivor because she was out shopping when it happened. Mathilda then seeks sanctuary on Leon. She soon finds out what he does for a living, however begs him to take care of her and protect her, as well as to teach her how to be like him (a "cleaner"), so that she can avenge the murder of her little brother.Mathilda even falls in love with Leon, but he doesn't feel the same way about her, so nobody can say that this movie deals with a certain inappropriate subject. On this, however, Mathilda's behavior is questionable and inappropriate at times.Too bad that Leon dies in the end. But on the positive side, the bad guys are killed as well. The song at the end (Sting's "Shape of my Heart") is a good song.Natalie Portman and Jean Reno have good performances. Natalie Portman, here as a younger girl, has a haircut that I just don't like at all. But she already had all the traces of a young girl who was gonna grown into a hot woman. Gary Oldman's performance was awful and his character was so annoying and so devilish that I kept wanting him to be brutally "cleaned" by Leon or Mathilda.So, in conclusion, an interesting and intriguing action film, one of the best of its kind, but long and somehow overvalued. It also deals with serious subjects, such as corruption, crime, violence and revenge. There is also brutal violence in this.
This film held my interest for exactly one hour. It was about at that point that Gary Oldman's character was revealed to be a cop, and then the head scratching began. I mean, really, did he and his goons have to take out Mathilda's whole family over a drug deal gone bad? And when Stansfield (Oldman) is questioned about the massacre, he storms out yelling that he doesn't have time for this spit? What police force allows it's own to go renegade like that without stepping in? Then you have Mathilda (Natalie Portman). OK, I know we're pushing our kids like never before into a maturity they can't handle, but come on. Was anything about Mathilda believable? I can understand her wanting to get revenge on the scum that killed her family, but she was more than ready to go out and target practice using live rounds on joggers in the park. Who comes up with this stuff? There was nothing remotely believable about anything that occurred in the second half of the story, especially after Leon (Jean Reno) wasted the two cops right inside police headquarters. After that, it all became too absurd for comprehension.So then I call up this flick's stats on the IMDb, and it sits at #35 in the Top 250 of all time! What's that all about? That's just a total perversion of any kind of integrity in the rating system. This film is an escapist action adventure flick where one's sense and rationality is best left checked at the door on the way in. To give it the kind of adulation that most of the reviewers here seem to bestow upon it just makes me wonder what we all have become. It's not pretty.
Léon is a very fun movie, with an outstanding performance from the young Nathalie Portman. The balance of its strange sence of humour, the abnormal romance, the young girl committing crimes and of course the presence of all the action makes the movie great to watch not only at fridaynight.However my experience with watching this film was that it made mee feel a little uncomfortable with its structure. The 'first part', as what I am referring to as the part from the very beginning untill Mathilda knocks on Léons door, the movie seemed like an ironic actionmovie with strange but great scenes. This was unexpected because people would expect a serious relationship coming up between Léon and Mathilda.That's why there is the 2nd part. The part the movie get's more serious in any way. You see Mathilda and Léon growing an relationship, there's only a little doubt whether it's a father and doughter relationship or it's just love between those two. In the 3rd part, where we actually see them really loving each other, wich was kind of expected, the movie feels like just another romantic movie with a guy who cannot love anymore...At the grand finale the movie made clear it came straight from hollywood. The overuse of explosions, and just action in general. The unrealistic (almost) surviving of Léon and the killing of the villain at the end is a real anticlimax for the film. At first, everything seemed funny and ironic. Then it became serious because there was an interesting relationship going on, but the unrealistic end destroys the rest of the movie.One thing you can't discuss is the stunning acting from Portman troughout the film. There are loads of ways to the describe it but there is no way to do that negatively. On the other hand I think Reno played a little boring role. He needed to be a cold killer because of his merciless past. I get it he had to play a feelingless man and he did it well. I just don't think he was the right man to play it. Here's why: People like him, people with a traumatic and unforgivable past, should indeed be acting like that and should indeed have a face like that but, you should read their former pain in their eyes, and I don't think I have really seen it in the eyes of Jean Reno. He did feel emotionless, but it felt like that for almost the whole movie wich is a little boring. The mysterious eyes from someone else would have made the character have a little more depth.
Léon is a mix between a comedy, a romantic drama and an artificial action movie. But none of it really dominates the movie so it is in that way a unique movie. Just with a little anticlimax.
The Professional is interesting and intense. Jean Reno and Natalie Portman make a good team on film and Gary Oldman is terrifying. I had a few issues with the plot and characters, but overall I'm glad I saw this film.


                
Mathilda (Natalie Portman), a 12 year old girl, sees her family murdered by Stanfield (Gary Oldman) and his gang, and is taken by Léon (Jean Reno), a professional hit-man that teaches her the trade.I know that cinema, has an art form, may serve to break the boundaries of reality, but I like to see some plausibility in movies and stories; I say this 'cause the action scenes are, as usual, exaggerated and unrealistic, mainly at the beginning of the movie. But as it progresses, we get to know the characters and are plunged into their world due to first-class acting and the strange relation Léon and Mathilda develop. The camera work of Luc Besson is very interesting and well thought out, greatly enhancing the quality of the movie.Is it worth watching? Definitely! Its cult status is well deserved.


                
There is no denying that this is an odd film. A 12 year old befriends and falls in love with a professional assassin who trains her to kill the rogue DEA agent Norman Stansfield. Yet despite this, the film works well. It combines together two starkly different narratives: the revenge story and the love story. Jean Reno and Natalie Portman in her debut film role were great together. They provided a lot of the humour in the film, as did Gary Oldman who was brilliant as Stansfield.SPOILER ALERTThe main gripe I do have with the film though is that Natalie Portman's character never kills anyone. Sure, I understand that it is a romantic gesture that it is Leon who is the one who kills Stanfield, but I feel that Portman's character should have been the one to do it. After seeing her mature into a wannabe assassin, I was disappointed that she was never able to take her revenge.Read my full review here: http://goo.gl/8ihukO
Wonderful film. Has pretty much a bit of everything for everyone, blood, gore, sadness, love, happiness. I have watched this film over and over and never get bored of it. Tragically a young girl loses her family and Leon, after some thought, helps her in her hour of need. He now has to keep her safe and the keep moving about to avoid the people trying to kill her. There are some rather comical parts to the film, that made me burst into laughter! Mind you that could just be my sense of humour!!! Leon teaches the girl the basics of his trade to help her get by I case the worse should happen to him. In the end, Leon completes his objective, but not without a price. The ending for me was really sad but at the same time you can't help but be a little glad of the overall out come.
Here's the scene: All characters are unhappy souls, surviving in a grim world, unable to improve their lot, with violent dogs barking everywhere. A gritty, hard movie about gritty hard people. This film is dark, brooding, intense; it is hard to watch at times and difficult to call enjoyable, but the story is still powerful. The trains of righteousness can't be stopped and their movement brings about reactive forces in the people they affect. I know places and people that might pass for the world in this movie. I have witnessed people fall apart because of those around them. The acting is effective. This is the kind of film that proves that a small story can be much more meaningful than a larger one. Rent it!


                
Most of the IMDb commentators seem to find no fault in this movie, which I can almost understand.  The acting, directing and dramatics of the picture are almost there, but not quite. Everything that could be good about this film is limited by faulty writing.  Acting: Aiello is great in a minor part, but bad writing kills all the efforts of Reno and Oldman and the twelve year old.  Leon's character is very one dimensional, leaving Reno no room to stretch as an actor, unless you count his bad John Wayne bit or his plant stroking.  Oldman plays a comic book character, so he can't help being over the top.  As for the kid, she leaves an impression but her part is simply not believable. 
Directing:  Besson was writer and director, so any positive points one might give him for directing are canceled out by the completely implausible story and unmemorable dialog.  Dramatics:  There were some very good action scenes, but the "tender" Lolita scenes I could do without.  I give the movie a 7 overall.


                
SPOILER ALERT!Overall, The Professional was a good watch. I was particularly impressed by Natalie Portman's acting - especially considering it was her first major on-screen appearance. I also liked how it wasn't necessarily a happy ending - Leon dies at the hands of the main antagonist.The characters were a bit exaggerated, especially the main antagonist.The plot moved along at a decent speed, as there were minimal lull. The actions scenes, however, bordered on unbelievable. It's better than Rambo-style shooting scenes, but it is a bit ridiculous that Leon could take on so many enemies at once.I did not like the "romance" between Mathilda and Leon - or, at least, how Mathilda thought that she was in love in Leon. Really weird. Not sure what it added to the movie.
French filmmaker Luc Besson's darkly intriguing, absorbing modern noir about a precocious, orphaned preteen girl in New York City (Natalie Portman) who attaches herself to a thorough, yet curiously mild-mannered hit man (Jean Reno). Begins as a rich character study studded with small bursts of violent action, with very little theatrics or inane hyperbole. Unfortunately, in the third act, Besson allows the violence to take over, leading to an over-baked finale with an eye on the commercial market. Still, a sleek and handsome piece of work, entertaining, mature and straightforward, with terrific performances by Reno and the shockingly unself-conscious Portman. *** from ****


                
An unlikely relationship forms between 12-year-old Mathilda (Natalie Portman), who seeks revenge on the gangsters who slaughtered her family, and an assassin, Léon (Jean Reno), who lives in the same apartment building and teaches her how to 'clean'.A love story between a grown man and a twelve year old girl: sounds a bit dodgy, doesn't it? Director Luc Besson tries his hardest to pull it off by making Reno's character almost childlike, and having Portman's Mathilda act well beyond her years, swearing, smoking, and more than capable of looking after herself. In the end, though, it still feels very awkward<U+0085>Sporting a Louise Brooks bobbed haircut and wearing shorts and a vest, Mathilda is definitely sexualised, kinda like a cross between Lolita, Mindy from Kick Ass and that girl from Lazy Town, which makes her relationship with Léon rather uncomfortable viewing at times, especially when the characters declare their feelings for each other, or when Mathilda tells a hotel manager that she is Léon's lover.Thankfully, the film's love angle is never developed beyond the platonic, and Besson breaks up the emotional drama with numerous shootouts and explosions as Mathilda tries to find and kill villain Stansfield (Gary Oldman) with help from Léon. It's mindlessly entertaining, I suppose, but not nearly good enough to warrant the film's current IMDb ranking (#27 in the Top 250).6.5 out of 10, rounded up to 7 for IMDb.


                
The movie has a really good Script Natalie Portman did a great job Jean Reno and also Gary Oldman did a great job. but i think that Leon looks like a Perv, I just got a little bit scared when Mathilda ask him for a kiss and i saw that also he wanted something with her but he was to scary to accept it. In the first 30 minutes you know how the movie its gonna end. But i enjoy it, its not the usual movie about a hit-man and i like that. The direction is really good the crew knew where the movie need to go. Norman Stansfield became one of my favorite Villains he really makes me feel scary specially when he consume drugs great movie and great actors!
Very good, acting a movie for romance and action lovers combined. Not the greatest plot line but an outstanding performance by gary oldmen. This film is apparantly correlated to the 1990 film "miller's crossing" a drama/gangster/romance film that adds a little noir to finish the movie. I wouldn't recommend watching this unless you enjoy this genre. If not this movie is a simple civil crowd pleasure for some people. If you want romance combined with action/gangster I would advise you to see the above movie (Miller's crossing) or some arbitrary movie involving Gun's and Romance. To my knowledge that can not be done with exceptions of notable movie's you've probobly seen or heard of. The real thing that will leave you crying is the excellent score By Eric Serra who composed movies such as Golden Eye, And The fifth element. Music scores have been notable for doing such...If you look at all the comments made you will notice that they are all in favor of this movie. However this movie has gotten several bad rating's by critics and imdb members. The base line is you either care so deeply about this movie it causes you to write a 10 paragraph commentary on it. But then again the movie can concur a wide berth that will leave you saying.. That wasnt so great...


                
