The whole premise of the movie is idiotic and gimmicky. It caters to a dumb auidence.


                
Undoubtedly the most overrated movie of the year
average overhyped
nothing else


                
If plot twist after plot twist after plot twist after plot twist after plot twist ad infinitum keeps you entertained even when the so-called plot has not been sufficiently laid out - go for it. Me? I got tired of the twists.The characters are given classy dialogues but depth is sacrificed at the expense of a plot twisted around itself in a dozen knots. Dilliwala Ayushmann Khurrana makes no attempt to let go of his dilli heritage. For example, when he's angry, his trademark annoyance expressed in rapidfire spitting of sentences is same across all his movies. Didn't look for a moment that he belonged to Pune.Acting by others in the main cast is mediocre at best. The only character who shone in acting is the betrayed wife of the police officer. Her expressions and responses are extraordinarily well done in every single frame! Hats off to her. Too bad her role was paltry. Her amazing acting was the only highlight of this movie.It's a film written for the forever finger swiping smartphone generation that outsources cerebral functioning to apps loaded on their screens. With their phones on silent, any appreciation of depth or meaning in life is lost on to them. All they care for is to swipe from one twist to the other.


                
Plz dont waste your money its not worth to watch waste of money and waste of time


                
A very over rated movie with rating of 9/10.this movie don't deserve such high rating.it deserve 4/10 at best.
Ending is crap which destroy whole movie.half baked really poor
I was sorely disappointed. The movie was dumb, the twists and turns made no sense and there is no suspense at all.in the movie culprit remain alive. pummy murder is never explained in the whole movie.


                
No suspense at all . Before intermission you are just seeing the characters passing the time. Second half is okay . Overall a poor suspense thriller with extended scenes . Please don't watch it for your own good


                
The high point of the movie was the piano scene. After all everything went downhill so fast that my head started spinning. Too many senseless twists.I think people are in love with the concept of this movie. Classic case of praising something just because others are doing the same. No thought given to why things are happening a certain way. When you ask questions, everything falls apart.Save your money and time. I wish I could give a 0


                
Okay movie.......... Don't know but its nt that good


                
Worst movie ever ,no acting ,no drama ,no storyline,no entertainment


                
Very bad I am not satisfied very bad it is a predicted movie vey bad


                
A fabulous thriller movie.lots of suspense and the acting level of ayushman,tabbu and Radhika is outstanding.The other side roles are also amazing!.It is the best comedy thriller we have seen in Bollywood in very long time


                
I don't know what to say, this movie is quite alright and entertaining


                
