Let me start by saying.... Yes the movie started with a bang... or maybe thats in my head as due to all the hype which made want to like this movie. I actually saw the movie twice.... but honestly... i didnt find it all that ... im sorry but i tried.... whats so special abt this movie since everyone is so hyped it abt it ? I mean its ok... but not even close to being extraordinary...... i hvnt seen Tumbadd yet which everyone is
Praising so much.... as the trailer does not look interesting at all.... and before judging me.... yes i to detested Thugs and Race 3... so im not
One of "those" but i did not find anything out of this world abt Andhadhun !!


                
The movie was super long-winded. And very boring.
The movie was super long-winded. And very boring.


                
Overly convoluted and disjointed story, full of fortuitous turns (for the director), mediocre performances (except Ayushmann's), pedestrian dialogues, story writers trying too hard to script a 'dark comedy'.


                
Feels like reading a cheap crime novel that you buy at railway stations. Do not go by the ratings on IMDB. They are all fraud and lies. In the age of the Facebook, nothing on the Internet can be trusted. When whole elections can be hacked, the hacking the movie ratings by trolls in Asia is very easy.In short, do not waste your time. Its complete nonsense.The last scene where a rabbit accidentally saves the main protagonist's life will resonate very well with Indian audiences. That is the only scene where the viewer is left to wonder what is the message of the film - "God" saves the good from the bad. Alas, only if the reality was so easy.


                
So much of false word of mouth and the hype over this movie, i've been thinking is something wrong with me since i didn't quite like this movie? but i guess i am quite okay , there's nothing superintelligent about this movie nor the plots and twists etc thank god watched this on netflix and saved myself some money. a very okayish movie to be watched over a very boring afternoon. and no it's definitely not worth all this hype!


                
Below average. endless plots, nothing made sense. technically deficient (decent camera work)


                
First half was good. Second half the director had no clue on how to end it. Went on and on with a predictable twist.
Other than Radhika Apte all others were buffoons in the movie!
Don't know what the hype is all about.


                
Giving 4 just for the good acting by Ayushman. Other than that movie left with so many questions.


                
Movie Is Average
Ayushman Is Good 
Tabu Is Good Radhika Apte Is Also Good


                
Andhadhun is a suspense thriller from Bollywood. Perhaps director or story writer thinks that the continuously twists make a movie more attractive. But they are wrong here. After some time of successive twists story losing its importance and logic and eventually it goes like a kid's game. Here hero is not blind (?) or blind (?) but viewers must be blindfolded while seeing such foolish movie. When bollywood come from its nest and make meaningful movies with global standards? Keep mind at home and watch only for enjoy such movies. I was completely feeling cheated after seeing this movie. However, story was good and would have been made perfectly if director did some more work on story. Overall it is not recommend much.


                
