Its a very good movie and 1 of the best from bollywood since years but surely isnt a masterpiece as it has too many plot holes and sometimes very logic-less and unrealistic.but u sure can watch it and prefer over other trashes bollywood make .this is the 2nd best indian movie for me this year 1st is ratsasan please watch it if you are looking for a better thriller


                
Andhadhun, this world exactly describes the feelings/vibe of the movie.Really happy to see a layered movie from Bollywood.The casts are bang on.The 'lil lil things' are taken care of in the movie,may be thats why it relates.Movie got situational comedy and the comedy is pretty rich.I never laughed at a crime scene...the situation makes u laugh and its not forceful,thats the beauty of it.The movie beautifully presented the human behaviour and with smart twists.
And the casts really add the right amount of flavour to it.It's a chef's special and 'must have'.Just ask one question to urself 'Why/How that rabbit head used for the stick!!!'
This question will answer every question of urs.(About d movie).
Good movie with good twists, Crisp editing so it will not loose grip and keep you riveted. Tabu's roll was well developed and portrayed so she showed her class. Ayushmann Khurana's performance was not bad as well although his roll was not as well developed as Tabu's.Being a novelist, I have to be honest about the story. I will say that story could have been better crafted although there are some twists and turns, you enjoy and appreciate, while there are others, which seem artificial, enforced and don't make much sense. For example, after seeing the murder, Akash (Ayushmann Khurrana) behaved like a smart and intelligent person but when he went to police station he looked like an idiot. I would like to ask this group of story writers that on that very moment where was his friend (who helped him in coming to Landan). 
Similarly, when doctor(Zakir Hussain) and his helpers tried to take out his Kidney he very intelligently escaped the dangerous situation but soon after the same people tied him on the chair and he was not smart enough to anticipate the possible betrayed. So, during the entire movie I was not able to decide that he is smart or dumb. So the major disappointments was the improper and incomplete closure around many plot elements. There could be many interesting things which could have been done with the character of Radhika Apte, in place of adding Akash's imaginary friend who helped him in coming to Landan. I think the reason behind all this is very obvious - Four writers cocked the story- Arijit Biswas, Yogesh Chandekar, Sriram Raghavan, Pooja Ladha SurtiSanjay Agnihotri
Novelist


                
Movie is very interesting in the beginning. As the story develops, the events seem illogical. Overall, it is an ok ok movie but not a must watch or mater piece as reviewed


                
Good concept and story but not a perfect execution...


                
Simi lives in such a high class society and there is no CCTV in the apartment she lives??
A good revival attempt by Sriram Raghavan after 'Ek Hasina Thi' and 'Johnny Gaddar'. The core strength of the movie is it's pace which causes the viewers to overlook the hints that are key to the climax. The linear plot and several twists in the story engross the viewer. Like the typical Hollywood thrillers, the climax is left open to interpretations. As opposed to the public opinion, I don't think that Tabu, Khurana and any other actors have performed spectacularly but that's the beauty of the direction - the flow itself is simple and doesn't demand any compelling performances. There are several shortcomings as well, the characters of Sophie, Inspector Manohar and his wife seem unnecessary. I couldn't believe that a senior inspector is/was so docile and dumb! I am fan of Amit Trivedi but he and the others have failed to be even noticeable. IMHO, it's more of a comic suspense drama rather than a nail-biting thriller. Definitely a good watch, given the ever-dwindling quality output of the Bollywood cinema.
I don't think I've ever properly reviewed a Bollywood film and these are definitely odd times to review one but I like to separate art from politics and simply celebrate the craft of storytelling put on display and this film excels at every single thing from acting to writing to music. This is the kind of movies that Bollywood SHOULD be making where the emphasis is on telling an interesting story instead of on item numbers, cheesy dance sequences, Salman Khan's biceps or visual effects.This is a Hitchcockian thriller about a blind pianist aspiring to become a star who gets into some serious trouble but things aren't quite how they seem. I won't say anything else.It spends the entire first act by making you like the protagonist. He isn't overly interesting or complex though he is quite charming (in fact this whole movie is). What makes him interesting is the circumstances around him. The inciting incident throws him into a corner and puts him in situations which turns his moral flaw from which he benefits but harms others, against him and challenges him.I breezed through the super fast paced first act, and somehow the second act outdid the first act as the conflict and tension kept building throughout the second act and since I really cared about the protagonist, there were some pretty nail biting sequences where I could cut the tension with a knife. There was a lot of spot on dark humor that had me in laughing my heart out. This is credit to a fantastic concept which I heard is inspired by a foreign short film but a lot of credit goes to the team of this film as well since it's not a direct adaptation.The story kept twisting onto itself and then .. it sort of deflated at the start of a third act which I felt like went in directions it didn't need to and became a typical Bollywood film until that ending where everything went CLICK and the film redeemed it's entire third act. The protagonist's character arc suddenly started to make sense because for a while I thought the film had lost it's steam in the final act and was becoming messy but I didn't know it was a setup for a fantastic reveal.The performances were all great too. Ayushman Khurana is a one man show here. The actors knew what they were doing and they were just having fun with the roles instead of taking themselves way too seriously. The music was great too, from all the piano covers to the original soundtrack of the film, was pretty catchy and instantly hooked me.Though this film follows simple beats of a story, it understands what makes a story good. It pits the main character against his biggest fears and challenges him in order to send him on a journey of change. It creates tension with conflict. These are simple things Indian filmmakers often overlook and this is why some of the blockbusters fail to work. It's not rocket science, they are simple things about storytelling.Props to siriram raghavan for this film, I had a lot of fun with it and it proved bollywood can make genuinely good films and that they SHOULD.Final Rating: 7.8/10. The third act could have been a little graceful but it was a little messy and over the top despite the ending which made up for it. This is still a solid rating and the highest rating I've given to any movie of 2018 that I've watched so far.


                
I completely missed on this movie, learned from movie shows that this movie is indeed a good one and many actors wanted to have the lead role if they were offered in the first place.
Ayushmann Khurrana, this guy is simply wonderful, the kind of cinema he is doing is simply brilliant and he is putting his skills beautifully into the characters. Similarly here in this movie Ayushmann Khurrana has performed exceedingly well, but then again its Indian Cinema, such good work movies will only be talk about in gatherings but numbers at box office will be low.
But do watch it, a must must watch, throw everything else away and just be in a mixture of all.


                
A great movie, good actors but somehow they didn't played well with the science or the blind thing like the characters were busy matching the blood group for cornea transplant. But cornea is the only organ which doesn't require any blood group matching for transplant. #dumb
This film is selling lies to the viewers at the important turns of incidents, how can it be in 250!!!


                
Andhadhun is like a thriller of yesteryears, lots of twists and turns. The plot revolves around a blind pianist. Quite a few corpses, lot of comical situations and sudden situations, the movie has it all.
To give it a feel of old time suspense thrillers, Raghvan has thrown in Anil Dhawan in a cameo. With him, many of hit songs from his movies are brilliantly used.
The movie keeps you guessing even after it ends, and that is the beauty of story telling. The only downside is that the director has made few situations over-comical and that takes out the fun. However, this movie is a beauty in its genere.


                
I watched "Raja The Great" in Telugu casting Ravi Theja. It was a beautifully made movie about a blind person which satisfies all the logics. This story is presented differently showcasing a dumb hero at the core as an intelligent to elevate some scenes. I liked it but not a very great movie to rate 8 or 9. It's a 7star movie and don't forget to watch it. If you are into movies like me, you would love every movie with out any disparities.


                
The script has been brilliantly crafted,it shows the protagonist not a decent man who often lies for his advantage,he lies even to us the watchers and its beauty being we get forced to believe it.Except for loopholes like showing the police the dumbest creature alive on this planet,not giving proper attention to minor details like hospital scene,traffic and so on,it carries a huge symbolism and has a modest dark done.A perfect crime thriller that leaves you guessing


                
Movie is very exciting, more than a mystery or thriller it's exciting. Acting and screenplay is a delight. Movie has twists and turns, also a subtle knowledge of Karma is depicted. The story is well written. Its silly at some places but is still exciting to watch. Definitely one time watch.


                
Story has many ups and down but overall movie hasn't impressed much


                
Andhadhun is a thriller mixed with humor and does not disappoints. This 2h 30m film has piano piece, suspense and almost every scene is filled with humor which keeps our interest, This film managed to thrill and entertain us which made this film worth our time and money. Films like this should be supported its a must watch because of its engaging story and mix of genre. I recommend this film for its interesting story, performances and humor.


                
The movie keeps you interested from the beginning but as you digest it after the movie, we start to see some flaws which affected my rating. Akash's character appears be the most morally correct character of all but movie keeps you wondering why he keeps the simple fact from his sweetheart. We see the contradictions in other characters... Although there are songs, there are no dance sequences which is rare in bollywood movies and a welcome development for mystery movies like this. Khurrana and Tabu performed well and others are okay. Overall, a good movie to sit back and enjoy.


                
The movie runs flawlessly fine until the two(won't name) are held tied to a chair in the room. It gets boring from there and makes it hard to believe what goes on at the end. Disappointed with that.


                
A Coen Brothers black comedy twist on the French short film The Piano Tuner plays out exactly as I expected it to. Ayushman and Tabu tries to outshine each other with every other scene. While Tabu has a track record of doing such amazing roles, this must be the best performance of Ayushman who seems to be the actor currently selecting all the right projects. But honestly, all the reviews made me think this would be better than I think it would be and wanted to see what they are going to do that makes it better than the original short film, but that wasn't really the case.


                
First half s good... 2nd half s totally messed up. Der s no clarity wat d director wants to convey in 2 nd half... useless movie


                
"Andha Dhun"-Review"Andha Dhun" belongs to the noir genre and like Sriram Raghavan's movies is interesting but dark in spirit, background , lighting and humour.You have to be prepared for sudden twists and turns and shocks throughout.I find his movies a compelling watch but also somehow disturbing,as I did with this one.
Well,the movie has an interesting first half very reminiscent of Agatha Christie's plots complete with a blind pianist and a black and white cat,frequenting his bachelor's pad in Pune to complete the picture.It is immensely watchable.But for some reason I felt the second half which is Agatha Christie meets Robin Cook with the organ donation racket,largely meandering.You miss the excitement of the first half and a taut editing could have worked wonders.
What works for the movie based on a blind pianist becoming an accidental witness for a murder,is the apt casting.It is refreshing to watch Ayushman Khurana as only a blind person and for a change without any reproductive issues- he deserves to play the complete man too.Being a singer,he plays the perfect pianist and the flicker of rapid change in his facial expressions is a treat to watch.So is Tabu who has perfected the art of playing the deviant and her meanness and negativity without any remorse is chilling and stays with you long.Tabu has played this cunning and conniving widow in "Maqbool" and "Hyder" to perfection before .Radhika Apte ,as Ayushman's short-lived romantic interest,has a role which does not do her justice and could be done by any newcomer.
The surprise casting of Anil Dhawan as a yesteryear actor with a second wife,is a nice touch and plays homage to some nice songs of his from the 70's-"Annadaata","Honeymoon","Hawas" and "Samjhauta"- incidentally most of these had hummable melodies.Incidentally,I rather liked Anil Dhawan as a kid as he was perfectly soft and chocolatey and sad.This touch makes the movie relatable.Manav Vij as Tabu's romantic interest looks the perfect body builder type police inspector who is terrified of his wife,played brilliantly by Ashwini Kalsekar.
The doctor,the rickshwallah,lottery seller play their bits in this twisted web of deceit.As a thriller,"Andha Dhun" is better than most movies of this genre .It is just that it needed a tighter second half in the same league as it's crisp first half.The movie is ironical in parts and makes you think.
You should go for it if you like the noir genre.I would go with three and a half stars.
Rashmi Sarkar


                
I use to see a lot of movies which belonged to genre psychology, mystery, crime or thrill a few years ago after onset of adulthood. Today I term those movies as dark I don't prefer to watch such movies at least not on big screen. After watching the trailer I decided not to spend money on this one. Finally when I got a chance to watch it for free I was happy with my decision.Tone, Script & Story: There are critics which say by disclosing the plot they would ruin the movie experience of people who will be watching it later. I still would discuss few things. How could someone go along so easily with a crime scene if they were just experimenting? How the dialogues of the killed matched precisely for the witness? How could the witness not pay attention and consume the sweets. How come the plan, to take away ransom stand so weak? Didn't the faith in God handled arbitrarily?Direction, Screenplay, Cinematography: Direction was justified. Other factors were justified too. The cinematography doesn't demand much whatever is shown is justified. Music: Music is good, my favorite track is 'Naina da kya kasoor'. Acting: Justified.Final Verdict: If you belong to audience who has not seen movies belonging to genre psychological, mystery, crime or thrill especially from the movies released in the west you will love it (a prediction from IMDb numbers).


                
It's okay for one time watch, can't compare it with legendary movies as stated by some newspapers.
Plotless, confuses you intentionally.


                
A struggling (blind) musician who actually goes blind this movie does indulge you and keeps you interested till the very end, A highly underrated movie
A Must watch
