This was a very engaging and entertaining movie, peppered with great acting performances.But the concept is borrowed from a French short film, which I watched and it serves as an interesting benchmark for the strength of Andhadhun's storyline. And I would say while Raghavan has done a great job of converting the premise into a full length film, lots of holes remain. It's bizarre of Tabu to open the door to him in the first place, (in the original short film the pianist says "I'm blind" so she opens the door, where as here she asks him way later). Apte's character is used quite wastefully and she's missing through most of the movie. After Tabu makes up the fanciful story of Ayushmann being her lover, I would have thought the natural conclusion would be that the police go after him as he's now the suspect. Instead there's no sign of the police.The whole plot is fanciful and not very well thought out.So overall this movie fell quite short of perfection.
Akash(Ayushmann Khurrana) is a pianist who acts as a blind man and director has shown this thing in first 20 mins only. He met Sofie(Radhika Apte) by accident who runs a restaurant with her dad. One night a famous 80-90s actor Pramod Sinha saw Akash playing piano in Sofie's restaurant and impressed. He offers Akash a private concert for him and his wife Simi(Tabu) for their wedding anniversary. When Akash reached their home, Pramod Sinha is already murdered and he witnessed some activity related to murder. Now he can't say anyone about this murder because for the world, he is a blind person. Now all the twists and turns and mysteries start from here. What happens next is another 1 hr 45 mins for you. One of the plus points for the movie is the songs which are executed in a way that they help the plot to go on.What's Good : Screenplay, performances, pre-interval scene, climax.What's Bad : Nothing.
Non - SPOILER Review ....
This movie is not for some normal Moviegoers... This movie will have its own
audience who will either appreciate it Class or will scratch his head.
People are not idiot that they will rate this film over 9.0 on IMDB, but does this film deserve such high rating ?
Of course it Does , people who have watched Usual Suspect will surely know what i want to convey. There are some elements (keypoints ) in a film that u have to remember to understand what does a director want to convey and this film have does element but they are tangled in such a way that different viewer will come up with their own idea to satisfy their doubt about this movie.. since it has multiple conclusion...
And as for my title this is OVERRATED for those who will have hard to digest the plot and keywords and MASTERPIECE for those who understand all the elements
Now i feel that i should have watched this on Theatre instead on Netflix... and yes it is a Masterpiece for me... Kudos to the director Mr. Sriram Raghavan..
Just go and watch it, if you don't get it at first time watched it again ....


                
I have gone to watch this movie with high expectations, built up by the very good reviews on many media outlets and the very enticing plot summary here on IMDb. However, I was disappointed.
The first reason I will like to mention is, the totally deceptive and falsely enticing, plot summary, mentioned on this film's IMDb page:"He sees what he shouldn't. She sees what he couldn't. So the question is, does he see it or not?"The movie is unlike from whatever idea you might get from above. There is no suspense or doubt regarding his seeing abilities in the entire movie. There are some other hints and ideas you might get from the summary and all of them come out to be false on viewing.(this plot summary was written well before release, so I suppose it probably was the work of someone from the film making crew)
Second, the movie is a roller-coaster ride, in a bad sense. Let me explain: there are some films with twists and turns, you enjoy and appreciate, while there are others, like this one, in which the twists and turns, seem artificial, enforced and don't make any sense because they don't seem to go anywhere meaningful.Other major disappointment was the improper and incomplete closure around many plot elements. Also, there could be many interesting things which could have been done with the character of Radhika Apte, but sadly wasn't.If you go to watch this, without any high expectations, it might prove a good one-time watch.


                
ANDHADHUN7/10DIRECTOR: SRIRAM RAGHAVANACTORS: TABU, AAYUSHMAN KHURRANA, RADHIKA APTEWRITERS: SRIRAM RAGHAVAN, ARIJIT BISWAS, POOJA LADHA SURTI, YOGESH CHANDEKAR, HEMANTH RAOMUSIC: AMIT TRIVEDICINEMATOGRAPHY: K. U MOHANANA joyous ride of a thriller and dark humor with a confusing tale of crime and bluffs which you should definitely get on.The worst part of Andhadhun is that it ends!Sriram Raghavan might have risen to fame with Andhadhun but he started off with a National Award for his Diploma project, The Eight Column Affair. The extremely talented director has been overlooked numerous times in his directorial ventures. He has directed a documentary about the infamous serial killer Raman Raghav and feature-length films Ek Hasina Thi, Johnny Gaddar and Badlapur. The underrated piece, Johnny Gaddar, by Raghavan has similar notions of Andhadhun. Having watched all his works, I was somewhat prepared for the confusing tale and the twists before going into the movie first hand.Andhadhun is a well-crafted crime thriller with the flow of crimes which are well connected for creating enough twists and turns. The film has nuances of Cohen brothers and Sexy Beast in Particular but still manages to be original. The scene starts off with a hare running around and then cuts to the present time. In the end, the same opening scene is intertwined with the ongoing drama in Akash's (Aayushman Kurrana) life. This particular theme is inspired by Sexy Beast, a British movie starring Ben Kingsley where Ben Kingsley's character is somewhat of Tabu's character and Ray Winstone's can be replaced by Aayushman's. Despite the similarity in the theme, the content is totally different and this is the very fact that made me like Andhadhun equally as I liked Sexy Beast.Andhadhun has also credited the French gem of a short movie, The Piano Tuner, as its inspiration. They have few shots inspired too and somewhat of the plot but the elaborate illustrations of the theme are just mind-boggling.Keeping in mind that I cannot reveal much to keep this review spoiler free, above all the spoilers, if it is so. Till now I have only talked about the inspirations and the tone of the movie.The star cast ensemble is more than you could ask for. Tabu has given an awesome performance as always and Aayushman and Radhika are also quite amazing. Talking about the performance is a waste of time as it has been nailed very well.Huge thanks to Anurag Kashyap, Amit Trivedi, the gem of Hindi Music Industry has risen to such a fame that he gets lots of movies to entertain us. The music is the kind that you need for the movie. Amit Trivedi is always able to create music which contributes to the content in all possible ways.The movie is filled with events that lead to next without much confusion but when it ends, everything is questionable. It is very much confusing after you have done watching as there is no clear conclusion that the movie offers. You can derive your own conclusions but what is the fun in that. The ending makes it even more exciting as you are left with plenty of questions and answers. The answers you have can be different from others and everyone is correct because that is what the film tends to do to you.


                
Story and screenplay are good but the story is very much away from reality. Police are shown like dummies. Murders are done very easily and it is not a superhero movie to do murders and escape that easily. So from the beginning it is removing suspenses out of audience.
I hope I am right in predicting that we are going back to the era in Hindi cinema possibly as far back as the 1950's and 60's where the SCRIPT WAS PARAMOUNT AND EVERYTHING ELSE CAME AFTER!Recently we have been getting a spate of movies where this has been the case and "Aandha Dhun" is one of them.This beautiful movie has you interested and on the edge all of the time with competent performances by everyone in the movie, except Anil Dhawan who was as horrible in emoting as he has always been. However, besides being overweight, he looked quite good,for his age.Besides Salman Khan who for some strange unacceptable reason delivers box office hits through his useless movies and a few flukes from some others, everyone else (including Aamir Khan) has to rely on a good script in order to achieve success which is really wonderful to see.Hope this trend continues and grows!


                
When I was watching this movie I felt the same feeling when I watched HBO's Night off. Intense as hell it went went first incident happens. But after that movie got very dragged & lost the creativity as it went. Piano music were really nice. A master piece work. Bollywood need to come up movies like this .


                
I've seen this film with my husband at home in the last day of 2018. it was astonished by this indian film. it's an extremely wonderful movie.
It's deeply describe the dark side of human nature, The film has a very strong logical structure, the background music is very nice,And make me think of a Japanese novel Malicious, their theme are very similar, ... It's full of a lie through and through. the liar want to make himself more kindness and nobility and want people feel sympathy with him. He told a lie to all the people who trust him a lot. The human nature is very complex and can't use language to describe.The director is actually a shrewd judge of character and harbors deep knowledge of the dark side of human nature. The movie carried a powerful message and it's thought provoking. Its worth to be recommend to your friends.


                
This is an exceptionally good movie that we watched on Christmas 2018. All six of us viewing this movie (and ranging in age from 35 to 68) found it absolutely gripping. Admittedly the first half was tighter than the second half and perhaps 20 minutes of the movie could have been cropped out without issue but even then, our final verdict is that the movie was very good. We spent about an hour the following day over lunch discussing the various loose ends and wondering if the director had left those open in order to make a sequel in the future. :) My strong recommendation is watch it if you would like to see a well-made Hindi thriller.


                
Andhadhun is an acting masterclass. Ayushmann acts as if he can't see what he can see. Tabu acts as if she can see that Ayushmann can see. Radhika first acts as if she can't see that Ayushmann can see, then as if she'd rather not see what she can see. But he can't see. Must see! 8/10
From the very beginning this film will capture you in its magnificence, many a times you may jump off the seat out of fear, but after all throughout the run its a complete joyride.
Do watch and have fun


                
The movie consists of many twists and turns some of which are really good ones. It starts on a lighter note and remains hilarious for the first half when comes a shocker.A great one in deed. The end will leave you with many questions with no answer so use your imagination for that as you may never get to know the answer. A must watch for sure. The performances were splendid especially by Ayushmann. Expected it to be a serious kind but turned out to be a laughter riot.
Unpredictable from beginning to end, AndhaDhun is an engaging thriller that keeps you on your toes and leaves you guessing all the way. It is a thriller par excellence. Very rarely does Bollywood deliver a thriller that shocks and stuns you so well. Although the second half does drop but the impact is made and this would surely result in a good word of mouth. Recommended!...


                
Story:
A visually challenged piano artist finds himself in a mess when he is invited by an ex-popular film star of Bollywood over to his apartment for a private concert. What follows next is anyone's guess.Screenplay:
Probably the most tightly kit screenplays in the recent times that Indian film has witnessed. Just so you know, Sriram reveals his pivotal plot point even before the first frame. Not with sound or dialogue or something else, just by simple text on the screen. That my friend is the definition of guts. The only complain I have is with the 'filmy' way in which the ending was conceived. Had it been a little better, the ending would have been a bang on! Of course, even now, it's no less from being a brilliant piece.Direction:
Fabulous! The way Sriram plays with the way we think about what's gonna happen next, he always, each and every time, he catches you off guard by being a step ahead! "You think you are an intelligent patron, then I'm sorry to inform you, you 'll definitely miss out on many guesses" is how I heard Sriram scream through the canvas.Cinematography:
Subtle colour palettes and decent take by KU Mohanan. Few shots are impressive. Some are frightening as hell! We'll witness more of him in Mahesh Babu's Maharshi.Editing:
Fantastic and on point! One of the best parts of the film is this satisfyingly fast and crisp cuts! There is this sharp transition from a very cheerful moment to a very intense moment and that was... Voila! Pooja Surti, the woman behind the editing desk, seems to be a very talented person and sad that she has done only a handful of films.Music:
The soul of the film is this Amit Trivedi's far beyond the excellent score. He is one of the most underrated music composers in India, a sad truth. Nevertheless, he gave an absolute blast of music here. The piano was on fire!Performances:
Ayushman and Tabu gave really legit performances. And yes, of course, you have the Netflix girl Radhika doing her bit. The supporting cast was really good too, no complaints at all.Final Take:
Though it is a one-time-watcher for most of the people, the amount of cinema study that one can do in this film is of great magnitude. An excellent outing from Sriram and team. Do not miss this exhilarating watch.


                
Movie is really good ...a gripping story actors ticks all the boxes, but movie does get slow down at some points although such a good movie
before watching it i didn't expect this excellence <f0><U+009F><U+0091><U+008D><f0><U+009F><U+008F><U+00BB><f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+0080>


                
He took the deal offered by the doctor. She IS dead but not in a car explosion but by having her kidneys sold to the prince. He is clearly NOT blind at the end because he took her eye cornea. He basically made up a story for her.Movie review: Good, entertaining, well-written and progress steadily in a captivating manner for the better half and then the story gets sloppy and "plot-holey". But nevertheless.. worthy of watching.
The movie binds you till the last moment.wonderfull music. Good storyline and screenplay.


                
Would you Like Suspense Movies Then you should Watch it


                
Now this was a masterpiece. The bgm just blends with the screenplay perfectly.
Every scene was planned perfectly. The storyline was wonderful. Will definitely keep you pinned in. The cast was yet another plus point.
Overall very good movie


                
This is a brilliant movie , which keeps us hooked from the start. after the slow intro scenes, the movie picks up pace once we know the truth about the hero. and following events unfold in rapid pace and never a second we feel bored.
Lots and lots of twists :) noone can be believed.though the post climax scenes are kind of twisting. its an enjoyable movie experience. Must watch hindi movie in recent times.


                
Absolute treat. Will keep you on toes till the end. Amazing performance by all. Haven't watched a Bollywood thriller like such in a long time..


                
After seeing Drishyam and A Wednesday, this is the third Indian crime story is watched.
And again it was a delight to watch. The story has clever and unexpected twists. It has humor, proper acting. Pure content (story) over form (effects). The moment you think you understand what will happen, events unfold differently but credible. Only during the final scenes you find out what happened and even then, it leaves you puzzling about what the main character might have left out to tell us.
Anybody who likes humorous, well played, clever and unpredictable stories will not be disappointed. Enjoy!


                
This movie is amazing, it was made with nothing but it doesn't feel chip though more like it feels grounded and I'm so glad people went and watched it, it has a tight story which never feels to long for a movie which is more than 2 hours long actually you keep wanting more of it and even in the last 20 minutes or so i didn't knew how it was gonna end, the ending is fantastic btw and no its not an accident it's completely intentional just think about who is telling the story


                
Super-duper film. Every Actors doned very well acting. Entertaining, thriller as well as funny movie.Andhadhun is 2018 best movie. This is the best movie of 2018. Great work<f0><U+009F><U+0091><U+008D>


                
