Andhudhun means Blind Music and Andhadhund means chaos. What is life? It depends on the liver. Sounds philosophical. We don't know if it's the person being referred or the body organ. Everything in the movie has two meanings. It's rarely I watch any movie twice - Andhadhun happens to be that movie. Apart from the story-line, there's a ton of hidden puzzles, clues and in general the director communicating with us either paying homage to certain movies or the 70s or clues in general. This movie is not just a movie, it's a dark comedy, an experience that will leave you confused, entertained and most of all questioning what exactly happened.**If you haven't seen the movie, don't read any further. You have been warned.**I won't dwell into the story-line, that's not analysis that reading out of a book. Hint: Most reviews tell you the story. In my opinion that's bad writing and owning a website domain doesn't make you a writer. Moving on. Here are few questions that might pop up in your head and I'll try and analyze them.1) Movie starts with "Ek lambi kahaan hai, Coffee?". This might imply parts of the story-line might be the protagonist's (Akash) point of view. What is true, what is not, it's up to you to believe.2) Simi's character tries to run over Akash with the car. Another homage to "Karz" from the 70s where the actor's real name is Simi Garewal. Coincidentally Sriram Raghavan's first movie was "Ek Hasina Thi", another homage to the movie "Karz". As you can tell, the director likes to tease his audience in subtle ways.3) The Ending- Lot of questions about the ending. The director very cleverly cut the part to where they changed the scene to Europe and then continues with A-Kash's version. The truth? We will never know but my analysis is he took the deal with the doctor. A-Kash also could imply the one with the money. Another pun, another tease indicating he has the money now. And the friend he was talking about was Daani, she was someone Akash could trust. Also, at one point in the movie she was shown to talking to someone over the phone for a few seconds. Nothing happens in a Raghavan movie without a reason.4) Radhika Apte's characters father wearing a tee shirt with a rabbit printed on it. Hint. Clue. Tease.5) Akash acts as Ismael the detective, right after that they click a picture and maushi says "Ismael" please. Tease. Pun.I don't think this level of intelligent cinema can be matched up for a long time to come. Sriram Raghavan's best movie so far! Watch it only if you want to look beyond the story-line, if you grew up understanding Indian Cinema, if you like Pune, if you understand subtle dark comedy, if you speak the same language as the director. Both Hindi and Cinema language. I had two meanings there for a reason. Catch it if you can.
I saw this in a theatre. Being a fan of Raghavan movies, I was looking forward to it n I enjoyed it tremendously inspite having seen The Piano Tuner.
I liked this more than the original.
The screenplay is awesome. The writing team n the director did a fantastic job n successfully made the transition of a short film into a feature. The script never loosens its grip on the nerves.
The potential challenges of losing the heart of a short film while making it into a feature is always present but the makers of Andhadhun really succeeded in laying the foundation for future talents.
Coming back to the film, it is chaotic, hilarious n very ntertaining.
It is well paced and has funny situations as well as a black sense of humor.
Watch out for that shady hospital scene man.
The movie is well cast, with amusing performances by Ayushman n Tabu.
The director did a superb job.
Raghavan was definitely having a little fun after the dark thriller Badlapur.


                
Brilliant...This cinematic experience will not let you stay back in your seat relaxed.
Writers have knitted a pitch perfect Mystery around : Murder,Money & Man who is Blind (!). Taut screenplay and black comic narrative by Raghavan, the story's audacious characters and twists, keep you riveted.Crisp editing grips you.Cinematography is something that boasts the storytelling.Piano scenes are superbly crafted and choreographed , underlined by Amit Trivedi's music and Daniel B George's background score.Couple of acts veneered with poetic touch & Tribute to Chayahar & Chitrageet is something that needs applaud.
Tabu is showing her class. Ayushman delivers career best. Rest all are fab too.Dont miss line '"What is life? It all depends on the liver" from prologue.;)


                
It was a thrill ride with many great turns and characters are so well developed and portrayed , great performance by Ayushmann Khurana and Tabu , so cunning yet so entertaining and pace was slow at first but it was necessary for what was coming and the master idea at the end is brilliant and is not lesser than any cliffhanger.


                
Andhadhun is an Indian masterpiec. Literally the best thriller of India & Bollywood. The main character is AKASH(AYUSHMAN) who is a blind pianist got entangled in a case.While watching this movie remember to be very cautious about following every small detail.All right, now I am going to give a bit of spoiler and explain the end of the movie.
#SpoilerAlert
#SpoilerAlert
#SpoilerAlert
#SpoilerAlert
#SpoilerAlert
The last 5 min of the movie is a psychological part. Where Akash meets sophie and he tells her that he's become really blind. He tells her that After sedating Pramod Kumar's wife the doctor promise Akash that he will sell her organs and as a reward of saving his(Doctor) life he will transplant her eyes and he will be able to see again. But, Akash requested the doctor not to kill her and said he doesn't want his eyesight back either. Suddenly, a sound comes from the car's boot. The doctor stopped the car and went to check what happened. """""Then, you suddenly see a "Hare" beside the road.""""".
When he finished telling sofie the story then the waiter brought his stick which was also made up of hare design. Which meant his story after that is a lie. Besides, a blind persone can forget anything except his stick. Therefore, he transplanted her eye and sold out her organs.
I had really enjoyed this movie. I can say this is blast of the year.Comedy thrill and much more...
Just combination of everything..


                
This movie is a perfect example of how you can tell a nail-consuming thriller in a comedic way...the plot of the movie seems to be normal but as the movie progresses, you will come to know that this cinema is more than just a usual thriller...a perfect screenplay and story-telling with a mix of music and black humor...hold your imagination horses before getting stunned.


                
Firstly Ayushman knows how to pick the right scripts. I couldn't guess what's coming next , the movie is just full of suspense from start till the end. The director will keep you guessing and your in for a surprise.


                
Andhadhun what a spectacle of a movie. Story is too good and each character is well cast. This movie just changes the tone from first half to second half.
In first half its a feel good film and in the second half you get to see what sreeram sir is famous for "thril". Though this movie has lots of silent spaces between scenes in second half but you never get bored as you are so much engaged in this movie and it never lets you get bored. Please watch and make these kind of movies the biggest hits so that Indian film industry makes more of this kind of cinema.
You won't regret it and you will fall in love with Ayushmann's acting, what a great actor he is and always chooses the unconventional but entertaining scripts.
This movie is the perfect balance between indie and commercial cinema as it has both, great acting by fine actors and perfect movie masala.
Very impressive film yet again by the master of thriller and my favorite Sriram Raghavan. This would be after a very long time the entire theatre experiencing a roller coaster ride along with the characters, so much fun- especially the first half, not a dull moment. 
The second half fails to retain the steam, though it gets back on track during the climax, winding up on the right note. 
It's an out an out Tabu film, very happy to notice she being utilized to her potential at last in mainstream films. 
Highly Recommended !!


                
Extremely thriller....Go&watch it let you in Chaos after watching full movie..


                
One of the best movies I've seen in the theater. It almost never lets its grip off you and successfully makes you laugh. Music given by Amit Trivedi is outstanding. There are scenes which only progress through the music (especially of Piano). It is brilliance from the director Shriram Raghavan's part, too. When Simi and Manohar was cleaning the wine and blood, and clearing Pramod's body from the hall, just see how the music of piano played by Akash is changing. It is quite in sync with the expressions of Simi and Manohar. And it is not the only one example, it is displayed throughout the movie ant many places. Surely, the fact that the protagonist playing piano is used judiciously.The acting of all the three characters were very good. At the very last, you feel true disgust for Simi who tried to kill Akash even after he argued for her with the doctor.My only complaint is with Sophie and Manohar's character. On the one hand where the character of Sophie wasn't explored more and on the other, Manohar's character looked weak to me as an inspector. But all and all, the movie is befitting the title - Andhadhun. Everything happening on the screen was Andhadhun. A must watch movie I'd say. Ayushmann... take a bow!
Easily one of the best movies to come in the neo-noire thriller genre..the director keeps you guessing till the end and leaves you with an ending that could be interpreted in two different ways depending on viewer's intellect and understanding of the genre.. Brilliant.. must watch..!


                
"Andhadhund" the movie was upto it's name . The 140 min storyline is beautifully defined and directed . Climax was upto your view on the movie . Ayushman did a fantastic performance. Simmi character was the brutal one and that was defined by tabbu beautifully .


                
After a real long time- good suspense movie.Finally, a great breakaway performance from Ayushmann Khurrana and well supported by rest of the assemblage. Radhika Apte however, was under utilised.
Director Raghavan does a great job- yet again- after Badlapur. This one being way more refreshing.There wasn't a lot of scope to hold the suspense- but the way the director manages to surprise with the twist and turns is commendable.Well written stories are the need of the hour- and this movie is a great manifestation of what must be done!


                
It's a masterpiece. Raghavan's best work till date. He's a master in thrillers.


                
First half of movie is a complete surprise. Well made movie


                
To the point, no non-sense bollywood type, great story, fantastic acting. It's one of a rare movie (especially in bollywood) which is a good combination of comedy and SUSPENSE.
The cast crew is good but hats off to Ayushmann Khurrana and Tabu, you guys just nailed it.A must watch for those people, "you know what I meant to be"...


                
Supplanting the conventional thriller expectations from Bollywood, Andhadhun absolutely enthrals the user attention, repudiating the surmise and predictions, and stupefying the audience with novels twist in the plot.


                
Outstanding movie. Would give 10/10 if the story wouldn't coil much at the end. Overall it's superb. 9/10


                
One of best movie I ever watched , Ayushman acting was awesome


                
Movie is filled with suspense and twists, kept me on the edge of my seat. Brilliant acting from everyone, especially from Tabu. Background music using piano adds perfect intensity to the scenes.


                
Summary: It is a MUST watch.I did not know what to expect from the movie, except for that fact that I knew it was well received, but I was kept on the "edge of my seat" throughout the movie. It is a out-and-out thriller that is set in a amazing yet brutal world filled with individuals that have more going on than they initially let on.Pros:
Characters feel like real people which certainly helps the story feel grounded and well, real.
The world the director creates is urging to be explored further.
Cons:
Now this is nitpicking however, I felt the movie could have been "tighter" in terms of the story telling especially towards the last act of the movie.
Finally I felt the ending should have been less of a "happy ending" for our main character as a darker ending would certainly suit our main character.All in all it was an amazing movie, filled with interesting characters and a setting that makes the characters feel grounded and brings them to life.


                
Though I rated 10 bcz considering all other aspects but in the scene when she(Tabu) drops the old lady from the apartment, why didn't they go and check the CCTVs?
Treat to watch. Ending remained unexplained.
Multiple theories can be made to justify the post climax sequence. One of the best thrillers though.


                
