I first saw this show in 1981 when I was 10 because my mom thought PBS was airing a circus(bless her ignorance). The episode was the one with Scott of the Antarctic, the one where the lady runs down the beach and loses articles of clothing to cacti. I was hooked. Wacky comedy and scantily clad lady, a boy just starting puberty couldn't ask for anything more. By the time I was 15 I had seen most of the episodes, all of the films countless times(plus Time Bandits and Yellowbeard, which I saw in the theater), and owned half the audio tapes. My sense of humor was permanently warped.I've never tired of their antics, and if anything they've become funnier as I've aged. I'm extra greatful to these fellas, because without their comic genius we surely wouldn't have the brilliance of The Kids in the Hall and Mr. Show.


                
Graham Chapman, John Cleese, Terry Gilliam, Eric Idle, Terry Jones and Michael Palin are by far the funniest people ever to fall off the island of England. What Python did for other great national sketch comedies like Saturday Night Live, it is from earlier television roots like the early Sid Caesar show that helped enlighten future off the wall / "black" comedians to produce programming like Flying Circus. Way before their times, the 5 remaining Pythons are today are as big as the Beatles were in the 1960's. Considered legends to any comedian worth laughing at, the Monty Python gang as by far the funniest comedy group in western history. While 30 years of Saturday Night Live has been funny, Flying Circus gave equal if not better laughter. In fact, you never see a sketch go wrong. Although it is not live like SNL, to a degree it was for BBC standards in the early 1970's. Some comedy is only jokes. Python has been considered by many a brilliant way of looking at comedy. Years later, their sketches still makes people laugh. Timeless.


                
I didn't get this show the first time I watched it, but it turned out to be better on the second viewing. I enjoyed many of the sketches, including "Funniest Joke in the World", "The Lumberjack Song", "Falling From Building", "Battle of Pearl Harbor", to name some. And the movies were just as good. The best Pythons are Eric Idle (who would later star in Transformers: The Movie) and John Cleese (who would later play Q in James Bond 007: Die Another Day). Even though I don't own the complete DVD set, I can always catch a sketch or two on YouTube. And that's how I'll do Monty Python from now on for the foreseeable future. Make this your British comedy show if you're not sure where to start. It gets better!


                
