I have nothing more helpful to say, really. It wasn't funny. Tired too hard for laughs and fell flat. It felt so forced. Because of the glowing reviews, I watched the whole season thinking I must've missed something. Someone else wrote "amazon must've bribed the Emmy judges". I agree (so why was I not allowed Vote that review as helpful?) I'm so SHOCKED this won Emmy awards. How?!?


                
This show is beautiful to look at and nothing else. Juvenile writing, humorless and utterly irritating. I love New York Jewish comedy. Jerry Seinfeld was a hoot but this is utter garbage.


                
Why they label this a comedy i don't get it. I never even cracked one smile for 2 and a half episodes that I bared to watch. At least leave it just as a drama...The only thing good I see in this show is the atmosphere, costumes, production quality. Of course they have that the "critics" and the "snobs" gonna praise it. You will laugh a whole lot more at a standard sitcom comedy, that the "critics" and the "snobs" are going to trash on. Hell, I laughed more watching North By Northwest, and they don't label it nowhere a comedy.


                
I am convinced most of the 10 star reviews are from the cast, crew and their friends and family.There is no way so many people gave 10 stars to this annoying and flat show.The only thing good about the show is the set and wardrobe.


                
I'm all for entertainment. Mind candy, even. I know people don't go to a wildly popular Broadway show to see Checkov, Pinter, Beckett or Ibsen. And I have a really hard time critizing wonderful writer/directors like Amy Sherman-Palladino, or the wonderful set design, or the terrific acting talent on display here. But we're the audience! We're the fans, the watching public who pay the salaries of all those folks! We should get a two cents, right? The semi-marvelous Mrs. Maisel suffers. It suffers from a glaring lack of attention to detail. And just reading its "goofs" on IMDB doesn't begin to cover it. I mean, c'mon. The dialogue alone. "Yada-yada-yada?" From Seinfeld? Really? And the characterization. The same Mrs. Maisel who showed her breasts after getting drunk in a 50's nightclub has to say "we ... er .. 'spent the night'" to her gritty New York manager regarding her husband's return, instead of "we screwed"? The inconsistensies are glaring, the mass-orientation is almost sickening, and the dumbing-down borders on revolting. The reviewers here who wrote things like they "tried to find this funny but never cracked a smile, or they only watched it to see the amazing Alex Borstein got it right. They hit the nail on the head. I like to think viewers are smarter than this show gives them credit for.
Too bad about this show. It seemed quite promising to begin with. But it went downhill in a hurry. Too much time spent with secondary characters in unfunny set pieces like the one at the exercise class. That scene was so lame it made me grimace. And that isn't the only cringe-worthy part of it. The parents of the two principal characters are cliche-ridden caricatures that are so over the top they could only be funny to someone who is not woke enough to be offended. I tend to think the writers of the show took the path of least resistance. Instead of nuanced characters with something clever or meaningful to say, they're all loud-mouthed boors without any discernible motivation for their actions.And don't get me started on the portrayal of Lenny Bruce. I'm sure he would have some choice words for this pile of crap.


                
I saw the other reviews and thought, " were we watching the same show? " This was near unwatchable and definitely not funny. Who is this made for? If this was a pilot then they shouldn't make the show. I would give it 0 but I can't. I've been a member here for about 10 years and never written a review before now. This is how bad I thought it was.
The show went from a strong woman juggling powerful issues. To a woman who's morals are: abandoned kids, acts like a kid, talks like Sheldon from Big Bang theory (show #3), sleep with doctors all week, get mad at your ex for taking care of the kids while at work- cause you want to sit at home with daddy and mommy,The supporting cast, directors and set designers saved this show completely.I understand that the finale, answers all the changes in one scene. Though it wasted an entire season, just to vaguely say "if I'm going to be famous, I can't be a house wife"
Very irritating self conscious forced tedious. What the hell? Oh and um..not funny.


                
I'm giving this one-star in part to counter-balance the unrealistic 10/10 reviews that are padding this show upward. If it weren't for all of those, I would have given a another star each for the set designer and for Alex Borstein, who appeared to be the only actor on screen. My wife and I watched maybe-twenty minutes of this. We weren't sure if it was supposed to be drama or comedy and am still not quite sure which way it was going. At any rate, people who do period pieces should really have to know something about the period. As L.P. Hartley wrote, "The past is a foreign country; they do things differently there." The writers of this show need to commit that line to heart. Incidentally, she's a pretty girl, but obviously not Jewish (nor a New Yorker) in so many ways. It wouldn't be so much of a distraction if she weren't the main character.


                
I just don't understand what's so good about this show except for the costumes and set designs. I'm a New Yorker and have lived and worked in the city for many years and understand the Jewish culture, this show makes a mockery of it all. The characters are like all the cliches you have ever heard of, very obnoxious characters. None of the jokes are funny and it's rapid fire dialogue but goes nowhere. It's all so unbelievable, pure fantasy, it comes off like a bad broadway show. One star is all I can give it, I've tried watching so many times but I can't just get into it.


                
The pilot was good and we couldn't wait for season 1 to drop. Drop it certainly did. One of the worst shows ever. I have never written a review on IMDb but so passionately hate this show that I had to vent somewhere.Everything is there to make this show a hit. The actors are great, the setting is great and the premise is sound. Sadly, the writers are apparently tone deaf morons because even Tom Hanks, the best actor ever (he was able to captivate an audience for over an hour talking to a soccer ball) couldn't make the scripts for this show interesting.


                
I gave up after nine minutes of the pilot. I didn't find it even remotely funny.


                
I noticed KH's review saying essentially: watched some of it "...because of the glowing reviews..."The 'glowing reviews' are equally mysterious to me since for me the show was jarring, shuddering, grinding, irritating cringe.The one star I've awarded is for the benefit of the crew: cameras; set makers; dressers; makeup, sound, effects. I do realize the crew deserve a higher rating star than 1, but I attribute to the crew at least: professional discernment to understand the weight of my award. And besides, the crew had to live through producing the ghastly thing.Credit where its due.


                
I really wanted to like this, as I love the era, with the clothes and automobiles. But as usual, Hollywood has to make everything trashy, and to (of course) make it PC.My biggest complaint is that IT IS NOT FUNNY! She is supposed to be a stand-up comedian, but I guess if you don't live in SoHo, you won't get the jokes. But the language is crude, and it DID NOT HAVE TO BE. Like the PC lesbian who becomes her manager saying "Horse f-word-er".The reason I gave it one star was for Rachel Brosnahan's breasts, which are lovely.


                
I have to say i was really excited about this period drama-it looked very fun compared to all the other shows amazon had. Right off the bat it had tons of language and nudity. its not like the language was needed, it could have been so funny without the language. i am sadly disapointed. Comedy is allowed to be funny without the language and nudity


                
So the show had charm and wit and was interesting in Season 1.
Season 2 is like a never ending stream of empty vapid cacophony.
What made the show is gone.
It feels like the wrong decision makers decided to make it an award entry submission for like costumes and junk that does NOT make a rewarding watch in a show.
Seems so empty and lost, like a group of the best writers got canned maybe?
The show lost its appeal.
Binge season 1 and leave it there. Season two is a massive disappointment.
Seems like they are trying to set the tone for a prequel to dirty dancing or something else here but it leaves me searching for other entertainment. BTW the reviews on here have a suspicious similarity. Like they were not written entirely by us common folks, like there is an agenda here. Amazon seems to be curating our own responses here. Shame on you guys that stinks.


                
A woman I know just loves this show so I gave it a shot but it's impossible to get past the disastrous casting and bad acting. The main actress - oh, dear Lord. What famous person owed her parents a big favor that they gave the woman this role? She can't play this role. The looks, the bad, bad accent. She's supposed to be Jewish? Not on this planet and not a chance in NYC.And her dad seems to have a Spanish accent. What? And the writing?FAIL.


                
As much as I love Tony shalouub; I couldn't take more than three minutes.


                
Wow something is rotten in season two.
First season had charm and was really funny. Season two has some form of dysfunction. This is not working for me.
Seems the editing and the focus on the Mom (Stinks)
The show has lost it's way. This is when they typically start saying the show has "Jumped the shark".
I was really looking forward to the show and now I must admit I am disappointed.
Seems like someone that was important to the writing staff has moved on?
What made the show outstanding seems to be gone. Over. sad.
I miss it.


                
I could NOT get into this show, mainly because it's boring, NOT FUNNY. The dialogue seems stilted. It's more of a nostalgia show than a comedy...nice sets, music, etc, that's about it.


                
Within the first 15 minutes of the first episode, there was a close-up of a strippers breasts, followed by the main character having sex. I could watch no farther. Apparently, the reviewers who are rating this series approve of this type of writing or have become numb to it. I was hoping for a period piece in the classic style. It was not to be.


                
When one of the first "jokes" made is about a plus sized roommate, I'm immediately turned off. Not only is it lazy writing, but it's body shaming, pure and simple. Not OK. Do better Amazon! I was so hoping to enjoy this new series, but I refuse to support a show who throws women under the bus in the first 5 minutes.


                
People want good entertainment not trash! I'm going to cancel my Prime membership becuase everything Amazon produces is full of garbage!


                
I enjoyed season 1 and kept watching my Amazon Prime screen to see when season 2 would start. I got through 2 episodes of season 2 and turned it off. It was such a dissapointment and as if the writers got nervous that they had a hit show on their hands and tried to jazz it up. It was wonderful the way it was. I will wait for season 3 to see if they learn their error in changing this show into a play instead of a relateable show. Season 1 made me think of Joan Rivers and other great female comedians with what they must have had to contend with to start out early on. The actors have been wasted in season 2 and sadly have been given horrible dialogue from these writers. I have no idea if they changed writers, but this was sad to watch. I also do not understand these glowing reviews and it makes me suspect that at least some of them are connected with the show. The other reviewers were right and it seems forced and the dialogue is not genuine like a play that is trying to reach the back of the audience. These are good actors, but if given this to work with, I feel bad for them because it is a real waste. Please bring back the realness and authenticity of season 1. I would give it another chance if they do.


                
