I know, Season 2 was released on Prime only yesterday. And I told myself, I'd pace it, make the ten episodes last....no more than one episode a week. Wait, no more than one episode per day. Darn, I've devoured all ten in just 24 hours. And I want MORE! 10 stars for rating are not enough. The Marvelous Mrs. Maizel deserves 1000.


                
Superb writing, comic geniuses are definitely on board. The sight gags in Series 2 (eg Susie's plunger and camp stalker, the telethon) are especially priceless. Arguably the funniest and most philosophical show, well balanced with drama, I've ever seen. The setting, wardrobe, music and production is impeccable and elevates this above anything in decades.


                
We've recently retired and are enjoying a lot of television time. The good news is there is a lot of TV available. The bad news is that it can't possibly all be good. At some point as you flick through the options, you can't help but laugh at the absurdity of some of these shows. I get the challenge to producers and artists to fill hundreds of channels, 24/7, I really do. I've learned to seriously adjust my expectations. But frankly, the ones that look promising and don't deliver are more disappointing than the ones that didn't look appetizing in the first place. You get what I'm saying, right? All that said - don't be afraid to have high expectations of this show. Just make sure you listen closely to the dialog so you don't miss one delicious bit of hilarity which often occurs in simultaneous dialogue at a dramatic moment.The acting is crisp, the caricatures of a rich New York Jewish family in the 50s are spot on. Rachel Brosnahan is intelligent, independent, strong and funny. Her energy paired with Alex Borstein's drollness leaves me clamoring to find out how this all plays out. (PS - if you like it, I encourage you to take the time to fill out Amazon's survey which will help them decide whether to continue this series. I'd hate to see it go the way of their terrific series, Good Girls Revolt, which was discontinued after one season because it premiered in the thick of the 2016 election when its primary audience was otherwise occupied.)


                
Who knew that Rachel Brosnahan was such a treasure! She IS this show and you won't be able to take your eyes off her. Her comic timing is incredible, and she is "woman hear me roar" funny. I was bereft that I have to wait to see if enough people feel like I do and Amazon gives this show a green light because it deserves it. Great production values, perfect casting. It's a little bit "shticky" but not too much that it gets in the way.(Frankly I love all the shtick anyway) Midge is a 50's woman who faces the same issues women do today- finding her voice as she is forced into believing she has something valuable to offer the world. PLEASE PLEASE give us the full show! We can't wait to see Midge's budding talent develop and watch as she grows in her independence.


                
what a tremendous delight! i can't say enough about this project. if it bites the dust there is no justice. please take a look and rate it high. it needs support! the whole thing slams into one with endless surprise. the 'mrs,' is acted with verve and great focus. one knows she's the funniest one in the marriage from the get-go.


                
I love this show I watched every episode in the first season at least 10 times because it's jus so good and I want everyone I know to see it. I do not give 10's to many shows but this one completely deserves it. I don't quite understand why everyone is saying this show isn't funny, because it all is hilarious I mean Tony Shalhoub is hilarious, and Alex Borstein was just born to play this role.
If you are a hater saying this show isn't funny, rewatch because some of the jokes are subtle and I didn't completely get them until watching a second time because I was focused more on the plot.
If you are a hater saying that you don't relate to any of the characters... Huh? How? I'm nothing like any of the characters yet I can relate to each one in different ways, I mean Miriam's husband cheated on her, which caused her to do something new. Has an event in your life ever caused you to try something new... Well there related.
I feel like a lot of the haters are just mad this is a show where a huge theme is feminism. Well the thing is women are funny too and I'm glad there is a show out there showing how amazing women can be truly, and that women can be funny. This show is what our world today needed.


                
***Spoilers****
Im seriously bugged by the build up the Midge & Benjamin relationship all to end it back with Joel! I get he was her first and her everything, all that, but come on! Hes too insecure to support you! Other than the ending of the season I loved it.
Susie and her plunger was the absolute best!
My wife and I checked this out after watching the buzz-worthy, darling of the TV blogs pilot, Oasis (my wife made like 20 jokes about the band). Anyway, Oasis was good, but this was even better. It captures the period and NYC extremely well. Love the lead actress, and the woman who works the bar at the comedy club. Tony Shalhoub is fantastic as always as Mrs. Maisel's father. The kicker was when after we'd watched it, we looked up who created it. Haha, no less than one of the greatest TV writers/creators/producers of all time, Amy Sherman-Palladino! I should have known.This is going to be a hit and for all the right reasons.


                
I really enjoyed this show! I agree with another reviewer that this world has a lot of mean people, and we all live with their nasty energy, but I happen to think that laughing helps. Also, I do not feel the main character was manipulative but charmingly "in your face". I love that she stood up for herself. I am a west coaster to my toes and have no preconceived opinions of the "jewish princess" culture but I found it to be entertaining and different from anything else on TV. I started laughing with the opening scene and enjoyed even the not- funny parts, they felt real and drew you in. Watch it, laugh and cry with the hilariously funny and slightly neurotic Mrs. Maisel!


                
I loved everything about this pilot - except the fact that it ended after only 51 minutes. Rachel Brosnahan is a revelation -- fierce, funny, and extremely likable. The venue (NYC) and period (late 1950s) add a star in my book, and the focus on the then-embryonic standup comedy art form all conspire to make this an absolutely outstanding program. Rachel's parents are a hoot as well. This somewhat-edgy effort needs to be expanded to an entire season ASAP! Get on Amazon Prime and vote early and often!


                
My eyes are welling up. Welling up cuz season 2 is now over for me. Welling up cuz I'm sad for what parts of the show did to my emotions, welling up because I'm happy for what parts of the show made me Feel. Half way through I realized my face hurt a little because I had a Mona Lisa type smile plastered on my face the whole time. Even during the sad times there is this little half smile because I was so happy for everyone on the show for doing such a great job. I want to pat everyone on the back. I won't be the first to tell the Writers to hurry up with season three one day after they came out with season two! I think I'm in love with all of you! I also thank all the actors for their Time & Talent.


                
I almost missed this series. I was half way through the first episode, wasn't invested in any of the characters, and saw nothing amazing enough to make we watch the second episode. But, I hung in, deciding to watch the entire episode, as I had some free time to waste. There's something like a nuclear bomb that gets dropped just before this episode ends, and if you miss that, you'll miss the brilliance behind the rest of the series. Midge suddenly becomes, and remains, so much more than amazing. She's one of the most delicious characters I've seen in a very long time. Clever repartee, an array of quirky characters, and a machine gun approach to dialogue that drew me into hanging onto every exchange, even though I usually agonize through four letter words. They aren't constant enough to assault those who don't appreciate them, so it was a small price to pay for some of the best screenwriting I've seen in a long time. Don't miss this series!


                
From the opening scene to the ending, this was a real treat. The writing and cast are excellent and I hope this gets picked up as a series because this is the first Amazon Pilot that I have seen that grabbed me from the beginning and entertained me throughout. I was not expecting much from this when I began watching since I had not heard anything about it prior to viewing. Was I surprised! Nice to see Tony Shaloub again and although I did not recognize any other names or faces among the cast, everyone did a fine job. The writing was tight with no wasted moments (no filling). A nice touch was adding Lenny and Honey Bruce in the story as well as showcasing The Gaslight. I want to spend more time with these characters and am excited to see what the writers can do with this if it gets picked up. Kudos to all involved with this production!


                
In true Amy Sherman-Palladino fashion, this show centers around a strong, sassy, fast talking, female who makes no apologies for being any of those things. It combines the best of wit and raunch in a fun and entertaining way. The casting is spot on, from the incredible talent of Rachel Brosnahan as the lead to Tony Shalhoub as her father to Alex Borstein, who Gilmore Girls fans will remember as the dry and hilarious Drella. I can't wait for more!


                
Brilliant writing and acting! Side note, I have not seen some of the props used in the set for decades. So fun to pick out the details...vintage makeup, kitchen pots and home decor.


                
Smart, funny writing. Marvelous performances particularly the women. And Tony Schalhoub, for goodness sake. It doesn't get any better that that.The set and clothing design was spot on and fabulous. Everything about it just hit the mark.I want more of Mrs. Maisel as soon as possible!
Amazon gets it right! A well-written, pithy, punchy, dramatic comedy that is as wonderful to watch as it is to hear. Rachel Brosnahan was darkly complex in House of Cards, but here she shows her comedic chops to the nth degree as a housewife and mother whose husband (a failed wannabe stand-up comic) decides to abruptly abandon her for his secretary. Miriam accidentally becomes a stand-up sensation when she vents her frustration with all of this from the same stage where her husband bombed. She's comfortable in the spotlight, indifferent to the audience laughing at her situation, but that's the charm. She hates her situation, and she has a way to complain in a way in which she is not judged for speaking her truth. Although, the police have issues with her language. Perfect casting with comedic icons, period accurate music and props, and filmed in bright colors. An absolute feast for the soul.Don't binge this, yet savor it, for gems like this are very rare indeed.


                
I've found this show completely randomly by watching some YouTube trailers. The idea of a show about woman-comedian interested me and I've decoded to give it a go. And I sure wasn't disappointed. On contrary, I am now hooked and can't wait for the rest of the season. The show is very well written, filled with quirky lines and great atmosphere. The fact that its set in the 50's could go in a bad direction but it actually makes the story more unique and situations funnier. Separate praise for the design of clothes, apartments and presentation of New York in the 50's. And, of course, I just have to give credit for such an amazing lead character - a funny, smart, gorgeous woman that acts way ahead of her time. Finally an interesting and very well presented female character!All in all, I am extremely happy that I've found a new show that I'm in love with and I 100% recommend everyone to check out the pilot and decide for yourself if you will continue watching ( though I'm pretty sure it will not disappoint ).


                
Funny from the first minute to the end of the final episode! Such a smart comedy every character is so well developed!


                
Loved it and hope it continues to be so snappy and funny.I presume this is just a pilot but hope there are more being written as I speak.The production values were very high, the writing was sharp and the acting from all was excellent. This family will definitely be watching when it continues. Please tell everyone you know to watch it because there are very few shows that are worth recommending these days.


                
More brilliant writing from the creators of Gilmore Girls


                
innovative unique capturing of the late 50s with a marvelous cast - eclectic. funny unique--- a little like a woody Allen movie-better. WANT MOR. a real delight!!!!CAst. 5 starpilot-- not enoughera- captures the 50sflow. perfectscenery. wonderful


                
I had delayed in taking a look at this show, mainly because of the title, but then I saw a positive review and thought - why not check it out. Glad I did! Love the main character! Love the 1958 mood that is set.


                
This one of the best series I've seen lately. Story line is short and fluid, with a bit of drama and fun, excellent script and acting.


                
I was introduced to Mrs. Maisel through Amazon's "on deck" feature. I think this a bit intrusive and reminds me of the old Columbia Clearing House's annoying "director's choice" where the company sent a DVD without asking. I sent every one of them back. Likewise I kept deleting Mrs. Maisel because it's a choice that was made for me, not by me. Then, I finally watched the first episode and my mood quickly changed. It quickly became obvious that Amazon knows what make me laugh. I should've never stressed about this in the first place as all Amazon Studio's creations are hits, so far. And, Mrs. Maisel is another one. What a delight. Constant laughs, start to finish and I got to see some of my favorite actors working. Tony Shalhoub as Abe Weissman, Mrs. Maisel's father is a strong supporting character and as funny as we're accustomed to. Alex (Lois Griffin) Borstein is, Susie Myerson, Maisel's impromptu mentor also funny and a strong supporting character. However, Rachel Brosnahan as the lead, Miriam 'Midge' Maisel was the most surprising. Whereas, I can expect only the greatest comedic performance from the aforementioned, I only know Rachel from Netflix's "House of Cards" and WGN America's showing of "Manhattan" about the America's development of the first two Atom Bombs. Both of these are dramas so, why would I expect her to be funny? Well, she did it and I'm hooked. Definitely an eclectic skillset which I'm looking to seeing more of.
