The way equality works is that you still have to be funny and entertaining. Seems like they're pushing this more for the agenda versus real quality. I found her obnoxious and annoying.


                
I was forced to watch series one at the behest of my son who raved about it. Oh dear, I really tried to like it but hour after hour of the most miniscule of plots left me bored senseless. Dreary, repetitious and I don't care about any of the characters. As for it being "funny"........


                
I am a New Yorker, Jewish, love all things NY, and have a good sense of humor. Our friends and family said "omg you've gotta watch this!". I grew up watching Neil Simon plays and Woody Allen movies. I can barely watch this show. The acting and dialog are forced, and the people are caricatures. But hey, it makes my parents happy, so it earns another star for that. Just not my cup of tea.


                
I didn't laugh once during the whole pilot - but I did yawn a few times. It's just not funny. Stereotypical and shallow characters and situations, thin plot, even Rachel Brosnahan's character starts out strong and independent, and then turns into a dull housewife.
Cast is very good, and they did a great job at creating the atmosphere, but it is plain boring.


                
Disclaimer: I watched this through VidAngel which edited out all the foul language and nudity for me because I don't like foul language or nudity. The most disappointing thing is that SHE'S NOT FUNNY. I wanted her stand up to be funny, but it wasn't. She obviously relied on swearing and indecent exposure for her humor which wouldn't be funny to me. Worst of all, in the 3rd episode she speculates that she shouldn't have had her children! During her stand-up routine! How is that funny? Being a mother of 3 kids that I adore, I can't imagine how little she cares for her kids. It's not believable and NOT funny! That's where I had to stop watching. I give 2 stars for the costumes and sets. I wanted to like this, but it's intolerable.


                
The show is OK at best mostly just mediocre. Lead actress with her hard jewish act is sooo annoying. I would glady leave my wife for the secretary, over that masculine sounding matzoh ball in a dress. Amazon completely, without a single doubt bribes the Emmy judges, making real quality shows take a back seat. Amazon knows that if these borrring shows win some awards, then the next day, viewership will raise. Maybe they can get some people to actually watch the low ratings show. They pulled the same bribe with Mozart In The Jungle. Another overrated show that nobody watched. Because it wasn't that great.
This is a fairy tale with costumes. A world that never existed with people who never existed. A mix of flat stock characters and a few stock flat characters with a twist. The central character, Mrs Maisel seem to have some story, but there is not much story, and she is a cartoon. And she does not have much details. And it's a series, it's not like the script team did not have enough time to write something. It's a comedy, but the jokes are far apart. It's a disappointment.


                
Ever feel like your not in on the joke? That's how I feel with this series. It has gotten such excellent reviews, but aside from the gorgeously stylish 50's era sets and costumes, the show has nothing else going for it. I didn't laugh once. Perhaps that is the joke.


                
I never watched such dirge nothing cerebral here. Just a woman with an irritating twangy american voice who thinks she is it, but then gosh gasp her partner does something that changes her life. Sorry but I don;t see anything here to grab on to literally or metaphorically.I'd rather watch paint dry.


                
A show based on fictional stand up comedy, I can't think of anything more wince inducing.
A Cliché story with Bad jokes from concept to the final product.
It's almost like the people behind it have never been to a comedy show, much less performaned and killed at one.
Not worth your time, if you want to see women stand ups (that aren't fictional) go check out Joan Rivers, Maria Bamford, Christina Presitsky, or even Aisling Bea.


                
We absolutely loved the first season. I watched it twice! Painfully funny, witty and bright. Much to our surprise, the 2nd season comes off as a parody of the first. The characters seem to be making fun of themselves. I think either the success of Season 1 was too much pressure for the writers/producers or they just ran out of ideas. Either way, we gave up after watching 3 episodes. Oh well.


                
Lead female seems so obnoxious. I don't know who could date such a personality. High maintenance. No thanks.


                
50's you are kidding.. then this is out of sync. .. They did not talk like this.. specifically the ladies.. If anyone used language like this, never mind it wouldn't happen.. Writers can't be funny without swearing.. Then they have no brains.. Costumes are fine.. It even looks like it cost a lot to make .. The posturing is not right.. The swearing turns my stomach..


                
I sloughed through this pilot, which managed to encapsulate the 1950s status of woman with all its oppression of them, and their use of manipulation to advance their interests. The writing was clichéd and predictable, because most of us, of a certain age, have lived it, and I am not interested in reliving that disaster of a life experience. It was painful at the time. It doesn't get better to watch the mutual abuse (handling of people for self-interest alone) nor am I ready to consider it funny. Yes, Mrs. M (N.B. not Ms M) breaks from that to become a comic. Yes, a comedian often arises out of pain, but I am tired of laughing at the pain of meanness. In this culture where people are causing malicious harm to many, this is not the right show for a culture of pain and meanness. The show did capture the look of the time and the New York Jewish American Princess...but it took too long to get to the change. I was always taught--start your story where the story changes. In this episode, the real change doesn't happen until 3/4 into the show. The first 3/4 is back story leading up to the change. I'm not sure I could risk sitting through 3/4 of an episode each week to get to the good/important part.


                
I did watch several episodes. I wanted to laugh but I could not. Basically the writers had a ton of 'Jewish' jokes. The wanted to get rid of them with a show. what's the best way to do it without hurting anybody? Get a Jewish Woman as a lead.


                
