I wanted to like this. I really did. I dragged myself to watch as many episodes as I could take, you know, to really give it a chance and see what the fuss was about. I managed to sit through until midway of episode 6 and then, NO. 
Sorry I couldn't take it anymore. Because I kept waiting.. and waiting... and waiting.. for something funny, or interesting, anything please, even just one line that would make me crack for a second.
But for 6 episodes I sat there stone-faced. Irritated. It's that feeling, like you're surrounded by idiots.The thing that gets my eyes rolling is every time, they will make it seem like it's hilarious because the audience in the show laughs. Well they're paid to act to laugh. That doesn't make it funny. You can only fool some and I ain't one of them.Lack of decent humor aside, I liked the setting, but that's about it.
I gave up on the comedy aspect and just wanted to get into the story, but then I couldn't care less about the characters. Dropping this show. I already wasted more than enough time.


                
It's definitely funny, I'll give it that. And maybe I'm a stickler, but I simply don't find it believable, which really bothers me. A typical 50's Jewish housewife goes on a bender and winds up taking the stage at a comedy club, where she swears like a stevedore and exposes her breasts. Mmmmkay. Then, after sobering up, she becomes besties with Lenny Bruce because of course she does. If I loved the characters, I could suspend belief. But truthfully, I find Mrs. Maisel more annoying than marvelous.
The capsule description of this series hinted at some great entertainment, but sadly, it fails in every regard save that of acting and of wardrobe interest. My first big annoyance was with the soundtrack: way too many songs, makes the writer's job easier, as less imagination or dialog has to be written. Unfortunately, the music doesn't strike a single genuine note. At times, I felt we were in the 1940s, sometimes, the later 60s, but the whole doing the 50s thing was definitely off.
The dialog, in addition to being hard to follow, constantly sounds strident, exaggerated, overbearing, and not even remotely funny. Worse still, it sounds with all its coarse sexual overtones and constant expletives as if it were spoken today. I'm wondering if the writers are young Gentiles from the west coast who aren't at all familiar with this milieu. I love New York Jewish humor, but this wasn't it. In fact, the sit-come Rhoda was a lot funnier and more to the point than this series. The characters are over the top and frankly, their behavior is just unbelievable, which I wouldn't mind if it was funny, Brash tone-deal predictability just spoils all of this for me, and the incessant interruptions of someone's fave pop songs put so much distance between the audience and the drama that I find it hard to care enough to stick through one more episode.


                
Who knows why this is getting rave reviews? A semi-interesting premise is ham-acted to oblivion. Only the Dad is watchable. 6 episodes in and nothing to keep us hooked. It's a series of expletive-filled skits interspersed with loud music from 50/60/70s. Makes no sense.


                
My issue with this is very simple its not funny.
It goes ALL-IN on the comedy they invest so much into it that it makes or breaks the show, don't find the comedy to ur liking ... well then u don't like the show.
The rest except the comedy is fine, above average acting, ok script and its gorgeously made the settings the light and the clothes draws you into the time period.
Think its could have been fine drama had it not tried to hard to be ha-ha funny which is hit or miss and nothing between.


                
First let me say that I am NOT easily offended, but my goodness.....! These writers not only hit every Jewish cliche they could find, they really had the actors lean into the turn. It is painful and cringe-worthy, so I am stopping watching now. I love Alex Borstein so much; she is why this got three stars. I would rather watch a show based on her character than the shlock I see now.


                
I watched a few episodes and just do not see the attraction. It has been greatly hyped and perhaps that explains its success. The entertainment industry is so incestuous I no longer trust or pay attention to any of the hype, and definitely do not trust the awards shows.


                
I've seen 7 episodes now and I've yet to laugh out loud or really get into it. I've given it time to get really interesting but it hasn't. I am baffled by the high reviews. I did enjoy the setting, clothes and decor. I like a series that I can't wait to watch the next episode. This isn't one of those. I've not laughed out loud or really gotten in to any of the characters. The last episode that I watched, "Put That On Your Plate", did it for me. I'd like to know where it goes and what happens with Joel but not enough to watch anymore of it. I had high hopes for enjoying this show but I've given it enough of my time.


                
After seeing this show win big on the Emmys I figured I'd check it out. What a disappointment. Yes the sets are outstanding but that's really all I was impressed by. I was hoping to enjoy at least a few hearty laughs. Sadly no. The ham fisted clichés of Jewish culture are alternately offensive and tedious. The actors while talented they may be, are over acting their stereotyped roles. I also failed to be inspired by the supposed female empowerment angle that has been loudly touted.


                
I tried watching this when it first came out but it didn't make me crack a smile. After it won big at the Emmys I watched again & still don't see what the fuss is about. It seems forced & inauthentic. Oh well, glad others enjoy.


                
Season 1 was so interesting. I loved the alternate universe feeling. Clever writing, fun and fast-paced acting, and cool sets and costumes enhanced the story of Mrs. Maisel's trials and tribulations. Season 2 was a complete departure from this unique storyline. Without revealing any spoilers I can say that the show isn't even close to what it was before. It's nonsensical and quite ridiculous. It's like the writers did everything they wanted to do all in one season...and now they're making stuff up as they go along. I'm also not happy with the gratuitous and glamorous use of smoking in almost every scene. I'd give season 1 9 stars, season 2 1 star (or less)...for an overall 3 stars.


                
Whoever hands out Emmys need to actually watch this and not have their bankers tell them how to rate. Just tried too hard to be funny. Three Stooges were funnier and had more intelligent script.


                
Probably as much as many Japanese Americans resented Mickey Rooney's Mr. Yunioshi in "Breakfast at Tiffany's"


                
I binge watched this and it seemed ok at first but then the story line kept going off tangent if not dragging. The main character is a great actress but the storyline ughhh it has so much potential but it does not go anywhere


                
This hit series has all the right elements for a comedy series, but for us the constant crude language became tiresome.


                
