Okay, I keep reading these raves, and wondering what all the fuss is about. As a longtime New Yorker, and born long enough ago to get all the references, I keep waiting for this to be anything but a standard shtick comedy cliché. Cool 50s clothes (and endless misplaced music, that just keeps going back and forth from 50s to 60s) are not enough to surmount a lack of reality (and if you're going to bring Lenny Bruce into this morass, you do need some reality). Does anyone really believe that this upper middle class Jewish housewife swears like a truck driver when "under the influence," whether it's alcohol or her first joint, shows off her breasts, and curses at a judge? If it wants to be funny, it will have to try a lot harder to avoid the clichés (and that includes casting such scenery chewers as Mary Testa and Caroline Aaron). Know we're in the minority here, but this series needs a lot better writing to carry off the premise. I will admit that the third episode is slightly less irritating than the first two, but this will never be a go-to series for me in the long run.


                
The first season was a delight. Funny, witty, cute, a sweet look into another time. But this season.... A little more than half way in and I want to gouge my eyes and ears out! The main character, Midge, is THE WORST! Arrogant, rude, crude, self absorbed, stuck up and let's not forget the worst mother I've ever seen on TV that's isn't meant to be one. The struggle and sweetness that made the first season so relatable and fun to watch is gone. The whole **will they or won't they** with the marriage is thing boring. They still love each other and are some how best friends but "he can't be with her if she does her comedy (even though she's not even really doing it this season for some reason other than at the worst moments one could think of and in extremely awkward to watch ways) but she's GOT TO do it cuz she's sooo good"... STUPID! The fast talking, everything is a 'bit' thing that Amy is famous for doing in her stuff-Gilmore girls speak- was cute the first season but now it's just exhausting. IT GETS OLD GUYS!!! Who would have ever thought her awful parents would become the best part of the story line? It's a shame. When you can't stomach the main character anymore what does the show have left? Susie, her parents in small doses... That's ALL it's got going for it. And sorry, but it's not enough to keep this once die-hard fan engaged.


                
Second season not as good as first. Situations at turns stilted, arbitrary or pointless. First season felt like the opening of a great story with a clear destination, not so in second. Good costumes, love the fashion of that era!


                
Retro soap-drama (like Mad Men) with added comedy and obtrusive period pop music, set in late 50's Noo Yawk where Miriam 'Midge' Maisel, West-side Jewish princess is found to be a better stand-up comic than her husband, who steals Bob Newhart's material for his open-mic slots at the Gaslight. The ups and downs of Midge's stand-up career and divorce, or not, follow. She's not actually all that funny, just kind of ahead of her 1956 time. And way too pretty to do the neurotic proto-feminist sassy housewife shtick. Joan Rivers, a prototype for Midge, was sexy, but not pretty.For me the stand-out performance is Alex Borstein as Midge's would-be manager Susie Myerson; bitter, inhibited, unattractive but completely lovable, and she has (much) better lines than Midge.Great to look at, lots of 50's haute couture, middle-class Jewish interior decoration, middle-class Jewish family dynamics and it's refreshing to see middle-aged men getting a shot at comedy dialogue for a change. The divorce subplot, which gives Midge her mojo, is somewhat contrived - and the two kids gradually disappear from existence, somehow.SPOILER: the big plot turn of season 1 is where Midge manages to get a booking opening for "Sophie Lennon", a kind of burlesque Queen's fishwife caricature (kind of Phyllis Diller) who in fact lives in pampered luxury with a team of formally-dressed servants. She gives Maisie a Saks mink coat, because it's snowing. (A coat worth $thousands, bought by a hefty woman of 6'4" that fits a spare woman of 5'4"). In her act later, Midge goes on to spontaneously lay into Sophie for her inauthenticity and gets her and Susie blackballed by the Noo Yawk comedy circuit. Like, that's supposed to be edgy.Midge, did you give the coat back? If you don't give the coat back in season 2, you're a hypocrite. Even if it does fit. Going to watch season 2 for Susie.
So really, what is the big deal with this show. I've watched 4 episodes so far and don't see anything special. Am I supposed to root for a wealthy white female that isn't even a good mother? I mean, seriously, think if you've ever seen her taking care of her kids. So she wants to be a comedian? Big deal. Acting is good, but wardrobe overdone. Honestly, why should I care or watch a privileged white family and their vanities. Midge does have a nice rack though, way to promote feminism.


                
I loved season 1 and you can watch it without worrying what season 2 will bring.Season 2 is the producers wanted a cheap location without expensive sets as they have the viewers attention, Just give me the money!I hope they rescue this show because it deserves to be a classic.
