This. This is what it a real comedy series should be. They've also found a real charmer in Rachel Brosnahan, who's not just lovely and energetic, but genuinely funny. A cast of bright characters with great writing rounds out this great show. The other guys could learn a thing or three from The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel.This fresh-feeling comedy, the brainchild of Daniel Palladino & Amy Sherman-Palladino leaves almost nothing to be desired. This is a full-bodied comedy series that really grabs your attention and never lets it go. Everything from the camera work, to the sets, to costuming is very well done and does a more than adequate job in immersing you in a lush, colorful, mid-century snapshot of 1960's New York.Miriam "Midge" Maisel, the matriarch-in-training of her young nuclear family, exceeds by every measure to be the wife she believes her husband deserves. She dotes on him, cares for his emotional well- being, and is perfectly happy. Until changes happen that sets her on a path she's not sure she's able to handle.I can name, both with TV shows and movies, many where the focus was to witness the genesis of a stand-up comedian, or where we look into the life of a seasoned comedian, or view the last bits of a comedian's career. Usually the actor portraying the comedian (or even sometimes an actual comedian portraying one) just isn't funny. We see the story taking pains to make us believe they're hilarious by cracking up the on screen audiences, winning awards or accolades, and receiving praise. It never really works, because unless you can make ME, the real audience, believe he or she is funny, it hasn't done its job. Rachel Brosnahan is funny. Her timing is perfect. And obviously the jokes have to be good, so the writers are no slouches either, but the material goes nowhere unless you have the right person delivering that dialogue. They've found her. Effortlessly, Brosnahan delivers line after line of well written material with a confidence, brashness, and stereo-typically New York swagger that has you saying "yeah, I can see her doing stand-up". That's rare, and that's very special. De Niro couldn't do it in "The Comedian". Sally Field couldn't do it in "Punchline". Heck, Adam Sandler couldn't really pull it off well in "Funny People". And it has FUNNY in the name for Christ's sake!The rest of the cast is a manic pleasure, and the show has done a great job with who they've cast to be her family. Tony Shalhoub wasn't in the pilot much, but now that the rest of the episodes have become available for streaming, I see that he stands out with great dialogue he was given and an intensity I hadn't before seen in him. It works. As well, Marin Hinkle who plays Midge's mom, does a wonderful job in the role. We see her character expand exponentially from the pilot with the new episodes. Every fall that rolls around, I get excited to see the shows and which ones I think will swim or sink, and I believe we have a winner here. What may seem to be a standard, formulaic "dramedy" really has a feel of its own. There are comparable shows in level of quality, but as far as I'm concerned, none just outright better. I hope it maintains its quality and has a nice, long run.


                
Amazon is doing it right providing pilots and letting the actual consumers vote on what they want to watch. This is the latest of a string of good entertainment that should see a full season.The writing is smart and fast paced, the acting is top notch and it runs just edgy enough to keep you stunned without devolving into a parody.Give it a watch and vote for it on Amazon. This is TV that needs made.


                
I put off watching this show for a while now, I thought that there was no way this could be good. I Loved this show! I had two days off and I watched the whole first season. It all just clicked, the cast was just first rate, the time period they picked to make the show about, the music playing in the background, it just worked. It's been a while since I've enjoyed a show so much. If you enjoy funny, witty, nostalgic, TV you will enjoy this show. I can't wait for a second season. Watch this and tell your friends, they will thank you.


                
I will agree with the other review I read that mentioned the slow start... but I had no problem with that. A roller coaster slowly clanks to the top of the first peak, the aforementioned cup of tea starts as cold water. The build up makes the final payoff sweeter.Even during the 'slow' start, the script drops little moments that foreshadow where it's going. If the first viewing surprises you, go back and watch it again and see all the plot seeds being planted from the very first scene. I have always been a fan of 'writers movies' a clever quip or sizzling dialog does more for me than breathtaking cinematography or jaw dropping CGI action sequences. I loved all those Benzedrine- fueled screwball 1940s comedies with Roz Russel, Kate Hepburn etc where the scripts were the size of phone books and if you sneezed you'd miss half a page of witty banter delivered at machine- gun speed. That's what I've always loved about Ms Palladino's creative work. She definitely has her own signature style, and it's quite evident in this pilot. There are a handful of 'imprints' that will get me to check out a work. Palladino - like Aaron Sorkin - has become a reliable brand. Love it or hate it, you have a good idea what you're going to get. Mrs Maisel is quite worthy of the Amy Sherman Palladino imprint. Even if you find the beginning a little slow, stay with it. It's setting everything up... the payoff is worth it. And best of all, in true pilot fashion, the payoff itself is just a hint and promise of the ride ahead. btw - some 'fact police' have pointed out anachronisms and glitches... none of them tarnished my enjoyment of the story. I'll make huge allowances for 'artistic license' if the art is worthy, and in the case of this pilot, it certainly is. (imo)


                
Season 1 was a smasihit all the way. season 2 starts off very well however the majority of the time it got too serious and not funny. The final episode left me very disappointed!
Why does she have kids in the show?? She doesn't even take care of them it's like they are forgotten about.


                
I have only watched the pilot episode. The remainder of the season will stream in a few days. Loved it.Rachel Brosnahan steals the spotlight in any scene, whether she is working in television or on the big screen. She is super talented and charismatic. I am so glad Amy Sherman-Palladino created this show, and rightfully cast Miss Brosnahan. This show is perfect for her! The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel is smart, real, funny, sexy and fun. Does the it lean toward the interest of a female audience? Sure. But it's funnier than Mad Men and sexier than Gilmore Girls. Give it a go. You won't be disappointed. I hope the remaining episodes live up to the pilot. Excellent!


                
This is for chicks, so it's for every woman, very entertaining,loveex the storyline love the act, will deserved Emmys...Waiting for season two.


                
Brilliant cast and crew! Very entertaining! The only problem, is that they don't mention her kids at all in the whole show. She runs a single life! Which I find it odd and not up to reality. Everything else I love love love


                
Love the acting...love the writing...love the characters. But PLEASE do not let them get back together...he's such a shlub. He deserves to be without her.
Watch this, it is a load of fun. Having said that, I do wonder about a few details. - The story line is very Jewish, reminiscent of Phillip Roth. So why is the lead character played by a shicksa goddess? Okay, she's terrific. And does a great job, but after trying so hard on so many other details, why? - There are several scenes that seem inserted just to prove the director could spend a big budget. E.G. the exterior of the garment district, the women's exercise class, the professional dancers at the wedding. Fun, but definitely not necessary for plot development. More to show "period" details and the director's ability to handle the big scene? - In Ep. 2 (or 3) we learn that Joel's father bought their apartment and once they've split, he intends to rent it out. Midge's father goes to Moishe and says he'll pay for half the apartment, so Midge and children can continue to live there. So why in Ep 4 and following are they living downstairs with her parents? -Joel scores four tickets to the "Music Man" and a colleague from work eagerly agrees to join him and Penny at the theatre, only to cancel at the last minute, so we see them sitting in an otherwise packed theatre with two empty seats. Couldn't Joel's parents have come with him? - Then there is the finale set at the Gaslight, where Midge performs, after the owner has banned her and threatened the manager, Suzy, by saying she should never appear there again. So of course that's where the finale occurs. (Okay, Midge performs under a different name, but are we supposed to think that wouldn't matter?) - Have New York Yellow cabs ever been that clean and shiny?Okay, I'm picky and none of these should prevent you from viewing and enjoying the series. But since the production crew obviously went to such great length recreating so many aspects of the late 50s in New York, why did they fail at minor details?


                
It's hard to rate this. After all, it's the pilot episode for a new Amazon series and the rest of the episodes are coming in a few weeks. But, based on what I've seen, I look forward to seeing more...and that means it is an effective and enjoyable show so far.The film is about a young Jewish lady living in Manhattan. She thinks her life is pretty amazing and it does seem that way until she eventually learns that her husband is cheating on her. It's not like it's a great loss--the guy seems like a real putz. And, in many ways, he's as successful as he is due to his loving wife...but Mrs. Maisel doesn't have a lot of confidence in herself and her ability to live without him. Overall, a clever show and one that is wholly original and enjoyable. So far, so good.


                
Miriam "Midge" Maisel captured my imagination for the entire first season and left me craving more. The show is set in the late 50's New York, with set designs and vintage fashion that will set any artistic heart a flutter. Rachel Brosnahan leads a terrifically talented cast of actors who have excellent, snappy scripts, and a world of stand up comedy as their playbox. If you like a character-driven show that entertains and challenges, I'd say this one is for you. If, on the other hand, you want more things blowing up, less lush surrounding, and tepid female leads, then run, don't walk away from the production so delightfully produced.The second season was even better than the first! Tony Shaloub turns in a hilarious performance as Midge's tightly wound father.


                
Marvellous Mrs. Maisel is a very different and refreshing show.
A few reasons why I liked it so much:level of attention to detail in recreating late 1950s New York is top notch, and really makes you feel like you are living it yourselfdialogues are one of the most realistically written I have seen. And probably because of that you really don't have a favourite character. You root for all at same time or another, but they're all flawedway funnier than I anticipated. Back and forth between Midge (Mrs. Maisel) and her agent Susie, or between Abe (midge's father) and Moishe (midge's father in law) are just geniustopic is actually very refreshing. A crude look at the "shame" of being divorced at that time and how hard it was to step out of what society expected of a woman in 1950s... And they approach the subject without any major morale lessons or anything, they just show you what it is likeacting is amazing. Probably it goes to the well written but stillBRING ON SEASON 3


                
Well, Mrs Maisel actually happens to be marvellous in this series. She is an exceptionally talented stand up comic who turns every incident of her daily life into an act. Not only Midge, but every character has an utterly raw kind of comic sense which elevated the standards of the show.
The script is awesome, execution is crisp, overall I really enjoyed every episode of this series. Season 1 is a delight but season 2 is hilariously outstanding.
If you are looking for a fresh comedy with smart writing you should stop by this entertaining Prime Original.


                
I totally enjoyed season 1 &2, great show binge watched it in 24 hrs! Loved every minute of it until S2 E10 ended! Of course there's going to be a cliffhanger until season 3 but Really...u left the audience completely in the dark on so many levels it ended up be more disappointing then the wow factor of a finale...Usually u find some answers to what you have been trying to determine all season but this finale left us w no answers n opened up entirely new threads w no resolution to any of the threads from the entire season we wanted sewn together...Instead it just went into a totally new direction w no resolve from the tbe old direction...Com'On Man....
This show just shines with a constant stream of infectious patter that bounces between caustic truths, aching pathos & zany absurdities that managed to keep me entertained the entire time. Jane Lynch and Alex Borstein nailed their characters to the wall with portaits of 2 really desparate women who have sacrificed and struggled and become hardened in the process. However, they're still quite likeable. The main character Midge is a rare character for commercial television - a confident young woman. She has little baggage, but she's defined her life as Joel's Wife & Mother and loses herself when Joel decides he wants out of the marriage because Midge becomes the stand-up comic he wants to be. The people are interesting and the dialogue is real.
Absolute pleasure seeing the 1st episode and how beautifully the characterization was established around the character of Mrs. Maisel.This show is unique, witty, smart and alot more in territory of good TV time... This is a must watch!!


                
Brilliant acting makes this a really interesting series to watch. You need to watch it and I am sure you will like it.


                
Do not eat popcorn while watching this. Could become a choking hazard.


                
I still hear relics about the roles of women from time to time. "Women are not funny". is a staple.What a lovely fantasy, to portray a woman whose sense of humor is her sanity and savior back when women were TOTALLY supposed to stay home, bake cakes, raise kids, and not ever be a smart ass, even one with wonderful wit.There were so few women, Joan Rivers springs to mind, who actually got to do comedy back in the 50's and 60's. People's view of what a woman "should" do and be should of been more challenged.It's a great "what could of been" and the comedy is very on target. Great roles for the leads, I hope it's on for a few seasons at least!


                
Me and my wife enjoyed the show till the end, it started little slow but picked up quickly, the actors are extremely spot on, the show is not simply a comic show, it is funny, entetraining not simply silly,
We liked the main actress and the father actor the most, great performances


                
Everybody keeps heeping praise on Brosnahan and Shaloub but Alex Borstein is the true break through superstar! It reminds you of the banter on Gilmore Girls.Mark my words, ten years from now she'll needs a wheelbarrow to haul around her awards. To me watching her is like when I saw Carrey on In Living Color and saw he was a giant on that show, among munchkins. Any decent actress can do that constant banter like Palladino has on her shows, Borstein does so much more than simply put on retro dresses and talk fast
.


                
I watched Seasons 1 and 2, back to back. At first I thought Season 1 was pretty good, then, I started really liking it. Early on in Season 2, I was laughing out loud, and, then at then end of the season, I almost cried because it was ending and, because....no spoiler alert here <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+0089>, Now, I can't wait for Season 3! Love this show,


                
It's not often you find a show that makes you want to binge watch but this one captured me from the first episode to the last. The only regret is there were so few episodes in season 2. You'd think they'd reward the audience with something more.I loved Midge's moxie, her intelligence and humor. She is a perfectly written character. You can see her struggle with who she is supposed to be with who she wants to be. At first, I thought her parents were a bit cardboard-stereotypical but season 2 gave them more depth.But Susie the surprise delight of this show. Both hard and soft in unique ways. Funny without meaning to be so. Smart and sassy and brave. Absolutely love her.


                
Hilarious, dramatic, intense none of those words can accurately describe MRS maisel. An amazing show that's commercials do not do justice. A must watch for everyone. The second I started watching I could not stop until I finished both seasons. Cannot wait for season 3 primes best show ever.


                
