Every episode of Coupling (22 to date) has been a brilliant gem showing just what is possible when you start with the assumption that your audience has an IQ higher than paste and is comprised of adults.  The show is wickedly funny, occasionally profane, and smartly written the writers (and their cast) never back down.One can only hope that the intelligence of the show is not totally destroyed by NBC's remake, although home seems faint.


                
THIS show is absolutely the funniest show ever. The first three seasons, anyway.Some years ago I arrived at the conclusion that humor is at its core, simply absurdity - the absurdity of the unexpected punch line. You have a set-up - called a straight man in the past - and then you deliver a line out of left field, and then everyone blurts out (laughs) their reaction to the absurdity. And the more absurd, the funnier. If the unexpected isn't part of it - if any of it can be seen a mile away - then it won't have the impact. Well, this show has the most absurdity you will find anywhere, any when. The impact of the humor is just amazing. At any moment, a line out of nowhere. And topping the charts even within this Top O' The Charts ensemble, is Jeff. Bumbling Jeff. Absurd Jeff. Ohmygod Jeff. I am not sure they ever wrote a line for Jeff that wasn't off the wall, over- the-top absurd. If they did, I must have missed it while tending to my aching abdomen muscles and wiping the tears. You name it, and Jeff put his foot in his mouth over it - and the greatest thing about it is that he (the character) never even knows he's stepped in it. Well, actually, not quite true - but his efforts to extricated himself are even more absurd than his initial blurts. Jeff the Burter. Jeff the abysmally horrible self-extricator.Situational comedy is, then, setting up absurd situations and letting fly with all the silly absurdities that will arise. Well, welcome to the capitol of all absurd situation comedies. They don't miss a punch line - and often slip in 3 or 4 even before the one you might expect.So MANY times you the audience just want to let your head sag, as Jeff digs himself deeper and deeper.And yet, Jeff is not the star, though he steals the show so often. Steve bumbles his way out of the arms of one and into the arms of another, and does such a cuddly Jeff-imitation in the process that even the one left behind can't hate him. Susan, even while being the "straight man" for so many situations, manages her full share of "yowch" lines and physical humor. (Episode #1 has a doozy.) Jane is the dizziest woman since Gracie Allen, 50 years earlier - but 10,000 times hotter. And yet, as hot as Jane is, Susan is more so. Wow, one of the all-time beautiful blonds. Even if she is a bit "perky"...LOL Über oblivious, womanizer Patrick and his manhood are the object of many a scene (mostly unseen scenes, except in the imagination), and the audience is the beneficiary of the great writing that exposes them to his prowess. Cosmetologist Sally is the most normal of the ensemble, and yet her aging "vanity" (and its situations) still outdoes anything on "Sex and the City."A gem of gems, Coupling is to die for, to laugh out loud at, and to watch again every year or two, just to wallow in the absurdity of it all.If I could give it as many as 20 stars, I would. Alas! 10 is all they allow, so 10 it is...p.s. In Season 4, when Jeff no longer is on the show, the replacement character is simply 7 notches down from Richard Coyle and his characterizations. For that season, the show drops to about 6. What a loss Coyle was to the ensemble. . .


                
This is, by far, the best comedy with best lines I've ever watched, and maybe the best of all considering relationships between men and women. I simply couldn't stop laughing and it's hard to make some more describing comment for this big piece of comedy art. It's simply impressive how besides very open language and pretty open conversations about anything in this relationship and sex area, there is nothing offensive in the script, and how almost every sentence is hilariously funny. ALthough all main characters are really great, I am almost more impressed with female characters because in many series of this (or any) type, they tend to be cliché, plain boring or stupid, or just annoying, but not these girls. They are cool as much as male characters even though writer is a guy. And that's just wonderful! Total recommendation, a must see!


                
I don't like British shows (excluding Dr Who and Red Dwarf) and I find sex jokes vulgar. Coupling changed my mind and within a month of seeing one episode I bought the whole series. Yes there are many many sex jokes in this show but their delivery is not vulgar the way they are in American shows. I'm quite disappointed that there are only 4 seasons. Each show cracks me up totally. You cannot watch just one episode you must watch them all. The cast is perfectly suited to their roles and it is nice to see Jack Davenport dressed in something that is not comparable to a Mardi Gras float.The Americans did try to make their own version and failed miserably as usual (see Dr Who and Red Dwarf US versions). Perhaps the Americans should stick to Pie and Scary movies and quit trying to copy the Brits.


                
Steven Moffat has created the best TV show in history of television. I am a big fan of Seinfeld and Friends, but they're pale in comparison.This is the story of 3 guys and 3 girls and their sex lives. Nothing really new you'll say. Well, you don't know Jeff, apparently ! All the situations are extremely funny, and the great lines delivered with such talent by an incredible cast. Thumbs up to Jane Davies for choosing these people. I've watched all the episodes aired (I've even bought the first and second seasons in DVD) and the show is still great, maybe even funnier after 3 seasons.So, do whatever you can to watch it, buy the DVDs, catch a rerun, smash you TV against a wall (well, maybe this won't help) but you have to see it.I read a review on this site that said that acting was 10 times better and dialogues were 100 times better than Friends, well it's not true, I think it's 1000 times better than Friends (I've watched all the Friends episodes to date, so I know what I'm saying).I see that there's an American remake of Coupling, I just hope it won't be the end of the British show(I have no expectations about the U.S. version, they should have shown the original episodes to American audiences).


                
The USA have made all my favourite TV dramas, but when it comes to humor, no one beats the UK. Every year I must watch one or two shows that make me think, "Wow, this is the greatest comedy show I've ever seen!" A couple of years ago it was The League of Gentlemen, then The Mighty Boosh, then The IT Crowd. Last year it was The Thick of It, and indeed it's very, very hard to top Malcolm Tucker's foul-mouthed tirades and the government's screw ups he has to solve. But for now I'll go with Coupling as the best comedy show ever.Coupling is a deceptively simple show about relationships - between sexes, between friends, between husband and wife, between rivals - but it's made with quirkiness, a great cast and some of the most intelligent dialogue ever to grace TV. Steven Moffat, the writer, loads the dialogues with insightful and original observations about language, human behaviour, the different way men and women think about certain topics like sex, faithfulness, marriage, etc., that makes this show one of the sharpest modern treatises on human relationships of our times. I think male and female viewers, watching this show, will frequently nod, "He's absolutely right!," even when he's saying something very insolent about men and women.He's also helped by an excellent cast - Jack Davenport, Richard Coyle (the real star of the show, who sadly left after season 3), Ben Miles, Kate Isitt, Gina Bellman, Sarah Alexander, and the under-appreciated Richard Mylan (who has the unenviable task of replacing Coyle as the crazy, wacky character); they worked well together and their friendship and occasional spats were convincing and emotional. Richard Coyle stole the show as the socially awkward, sex-crazy Jeff - any scene with him is unforgettable, as are the weird situations he gets himself into. He sadly left the show after three seasons. Although I missed him, I disagree with some who think the show took a nosedive in the last series - Mylan was quite good as the comic book store owner Oliver, an insecure but lovable geek.In fact the last season has many of my favourite episodes. One of the things that made Coupling so good was that it also played with timelines and parallel stories, and sometimes told stories out of order. In episode 4.1 we have the same story told from three perspectives, and 4.2 has one of the highlights of the show, a phone conversation that starts with two people and ends with the five characters all getting in it. Moffat's scripts are brilliant at a sense of crescendo - they start small and turn into epic situations that completely distort the everyday world. And what of 4.5, when Jane visits Oliver's porn-filled apartment? As far as hilariously embarrassing moments, only Jeff stripping naked in front of his co-workers tops it.Coupling is one of the few TV shows I'd call perfect. The writing, the acting, the jokes, the timing, everything is just right about it. It's a pity it didn't go on for more seasons, but then probably it wouldn't have been so good. Excellence can only be sustained for so long. So thanks to Moffat and the cast for four amazing seasons!
I stumbled on this show almost by accident (recommendation features do work after all) and was instantly smitten. This is not your typical sitcom, or even a very well written/cast/hilarious outlier like Arrested Development, this show is in the league of its own and should be justly compared to the comic gems like I Love Lucy. A lot of people like to compare it to Friends or Seinfeld which I don't quite agree with. I honestly cannot recall a single joke from Friends that would stand on its own, if not delivered by its cutesy/huggable main characters in their inanely padded lives. Seinfeld would be a more appropriate comparison in style, yet that show just wasn't that funny to me, no offense to its fans.Coupling, on the other hand, is chock-full of one-liners and short exchanges that are outrageously funny and smart at the same time - that's why I Love Lucy comes to mind. Coupling also reminds the latter classic in that it has wonderful chemistry among the main characters (with the exception of Oliver in season 4). I think, both shows owe a lot of their authenticity and charm to the fact of being written/tightly controlled by small writer/producer collaborations. With Coupling, it was Steven Moffat who loosely translated his relationship with wife/producer of the show Sue Vertue into a hilarious script.Some other reviewer aptly noticed that characters in this show walk the fine line between being absolutely annoying and hilariously amusing. My favorite is Jane, a confidently beautiful and utterly insane girl who makes seemingly simple matters like parking a car into roaring bouts of laughter. A lot of her barbs play on a semantic reversal of logics of the interlocutor - it is incredibly amusing if not very original. The rest of the cast is almost equally outstanding in both written material and performance. However I did not care so much for Oliver in season 4 who delivers a rather forced attempt at slap-stick.The story lines are very inventive and usually involve two or three distinct chains of event that intersect and interact in unexpected ways. It actually adds a keen plot interest, a redundant and delightful treat in a sitcom. In another pattern, the blokes' and girls' opposite takes on the same development ring only too true.This show resonated so well with me because exaggerated as they are, its characters exploit the very real traits and personality types that flustered me before and continue doing so in precisely the context of personal relationships. Laughing at these changes my outlook on the world from 'depressed' to 'maybe not so bad'. And it is truly refreshing to feel a tickle of thought in the middle of the most outrageous laugh! - something that the teevee of today is simply not aware of. Speaking of comparisons, a french Canadian sitcom Catherine is very close in spirit and humor, if not quite as raunchy or sharp, and Sylvie Moreau delivers an outstanding performance - think of a combination of Lucille Ricardo's slap stick, Jane's femme fatale and Sally's getting older and 'bottomier' obsession.


                
this 'Brit Com' gets an easy 10/10 from me.the Brits really know how to make a great sitcom.the writing easily rivals that of any North American show of this genre or any genre.the show is more risqué than many shows we have here,though things have changed in the that regard in the last few years.this is due mainly to the proliferation of specially channels.anyway,back to "Coupling".the writing is superb as are the performances.i would probably say that this show is equal to "Friends" in quality writing and performances,but that is just my opinion.if you have fairly conservative tastes,this show is not for you,as it could be considered offensive or worse.everybody has their own opinions.for me,nothing beats "Coupling" for pure hysterics and misunderstandings.as i said,an easy 10/10 for me


                
I finally rated something 10/10. (I would give 9542/10000 but you got the point. :) ) Comedy being my favorite genre; if a series is "that" good, there is more to it then it meets the eye at first glance, dare i say. The script was so beautifully written and the themes were well chosen that i couldn't believe. Of course there are better episodes but the level of quality never decreases below a certain point which is incredibly high. In addition, production, cast and all were excellent. The conflict and attraction between genders had never been funnier. But... Don't take my word for it, i became addicted to this master piece reluctantly. (Every now and then i watch a few episodes when i get bored.) By the way; contrary to common belief, i find it rather different from "friends" which i also really like. Coupling focuses on relationships of its characters, whereas friends is more spread on the daily life.


                
Coupling goes to the heart of male-female relationships. Confusion, misunderstanding, and a complete inability of one gender to understand the emotional space occupied by the other. And it is hilariously funny. For me the character, Jeff, steals the show. His bizarre, off beat, surreal interpretation of what it means to be a man is classic. This could only be done by British TV. It is too subtle, to nuanced, to be tackled by US sitcoms, where the characters look at the audience and wait for the laughs to come. But perhaps the writer and director should be acknowledged for their light handedness and their wisdom to allow the characters to 'speak for themselves'. It does not get any better than this.


                
I've seen the show and I think it's hilarious! I could see why some people might compare it to Friends, particularly if you added a pinch of Sex and the City and a dash of Three's Company. Otherwise, I don't see it having a genuinely American counterpart. It's a clever show that is both intelligent and ridiculously funny and very much dispels the myth of "Brit Wit" being dry or having an acquired taste.It's a shame that Richard Coyle didn't continue the role of "Jeff" through the entire series. His character definitely was the comic relief and if you were to compare the show to Three's Company, he certainly was the "Chrissy", albeit more absurdly sex-crazed. I highly recommend this show to anyone who is interested in interpersonal relationships (both seriously and for poking fun at).


                
...then you'll love this show.  Whether your a man or a woman, straight or gay; this show will speak to anyone who's ever dated, been in a relationship, or just noticed that men and women are different creatures.This is truly one of the funniest shows I have ever seen.  The writing is magnificent with great pacing and just unbelievably funny.  While the plot points seem outlandish if you catch them out of context, they are artfully weaved together in a way that never seems false or overly contrived.This owes as much to Moffat's writing as to the fantastic cast that totally nails their characters.  Richard Coyle's Jeff is one of those master performances in which a despicable character is made lovable, and Jack Davenport's Steve stands out as a perfect straight-man.I was crushed when I first caught this show and realized that there were only 6 episodes and am on cloud 9 tonight to realize that it's back in production with the original cast!I don't give out very many 10's, but this show deserves it.  If it were a US Network show, it would be unstoppable.


                
This is one of the best sitcoms of all time and is massively superior to Friends. Coupling has much stronger characters, is better-acted and better-written than Friends. Coupling is hilarious. I can't understand why Friends is beloved by many millions of people whilst most people haven't even heard of Coupling.The US remake of Coupling is dreadful and bland. They took away the characters' personalities.


                
With 100 odd reviews in place for this title, and a wonderfully high IMDb rating (especially for a TV show) I prefer not to rehash the excellence of this show, but, rather, to try to come to terms as to why this single show -- FROM A FOREIGN COUNTRY no less -- garnered such a solid fan base? In no special order, the possible explanations are 1. England invented the sitcom, ergo, over the years they have got really good at it. (This is a riff on the old argument that since England invented the English language, and therefore the art of drama, they have an edge on the stuff from North America. I suggest this theory not be dismissed out of hand. While the US has boasted some unique talents, which were then successfully transformed into comedy (Pryor, Seinfeld, Cosby) the boys on the other side of the pond have been consistently cranking out high quality and consistent product for decades, while we here occasionally lose track of ourselves and do odd things like Mr. Ed and My Mother The Car. 2. Steven Moffat. There is fancy scientific word for any argument which is on its face self-explanatory but, not being British or a master of the language, I have forgotten it. But I do believe merely repeating this name over and over could occupy several points on my list, not just one. 3. Americans lead the world in dramas featuring ACTUAL sex - porn - the Brits are the best at SUGGESTING sex. 4. A brilliant cast, especially Gina Bellman and Sarah Alexander, two ladies who can claim to have built a worldwide fan base entirely on their sassyness, without ever disrobing or losing their cool. 5. Steven Moffat (I warned you I would repeat this point!) 6. Steven Moffat (Hey, I wasn't kidding!) Summary: It is no coincidence that some of the most successful "relationship" comedies in the US were stolen from the UK -- Three's Company comes to mind. These people are very very good at this. And more power to them.
It surpasses the comedy bar which US sit-com have set for us , easily. Genius comedy , magnificent acting, interesting plot , weird but likable characters , this show has it all. The speeches given by Jack in the show , has to be the best speeches on those topics.There was a speech on why Male loves Vagina , and the speech was delivered with such splendid performance , gosh - one of the best speeches I have heard. The characters are weird , everyone with varying characters , interesting personalities, and on that a unique one. People compare this to friends , but the only thing common between the shows are both have 3 male leads and 3 female leads. This show is legit funny , its definitely worth a shot.


                
The lives and loves of three Britsh men and women. Sort of like a British version of "Friends".I was surprised to see there's only a grand total of 28 episodes considering it ran 4 years! I caught this on BBC America. The insertion of commercials hurt the shows a little--it broke up the flow of dialogue and acting. Still it was always very funny. The shows have VERY explicit sexual talk (for USA viewers at least) and it shocked me a little...but I'd be lying if I said I didn't laugh. The cast were all attractive and young and were very good in their respective roles. Also there is some partial nudity (both male and female) in certain episodes. This isn't for everybody but if you would like a fun, sexually explicit (mostly in talk) British sitcom--it's right here! Well worth seeing.


                
Firstly people will relate this to friends because both have six characters and three female, and that is where the similarity ends. Coupling being a British comedy is honest and funny no writing to be liked or to be politically correct. The characters and plots are about relationships and sex with some more sex and a little lesbian porn thrown in for good measure, i don't think it is possible for Americans to understand or appreciate this masterpiece of comedy, it would have to be dumbed down too much.The actors are all great and the scripts never fail to please, more coupling bbc, it is one of the few sit coms that are actually funny.


                
My summary probably doesn't do this show justice. I only caught one rebroadcast of this show on PBS,I was immediately hooked. I now own the entire DVD collection & watch it a frequently. Funny, witty, smart & memorable. Wish this show was brought back on the BBC. I hope to god they don't do to this show what they did with the Office, and and do an American conversion of this gem of a show. If BBC picks it up again, please bring back Jeff. He was the heart & soul of the show. Great characters, great writing (The Girl with Two Breasts) and just a lot of fun to watch. I hope the cast of this show at least has moved on and is doing well in whatever ventures their involved in. They are way too talented to go to waste. Sarah Alexander is !@#$ hot. Sarah if your not busy, call me! Cheers!


                
Wow, my friends have kept telling me that I just have to watch this show... I always put it off and wasn't really interested although they kept quoting it all the time. But then the other day I did start watching it and was hooked after the first episode. Jane really cracks me up, as well as Jeff. But what I like most is the way the episodes end: it's never what you expected. You are always left behind with a "What?" written across your face at the end of the episode.A masterpiece, really! I mean, I love Friends and Scrubs, but Coupling is a whole different league! The only think I really have to criticize is that Jeff left the show after season 3 - it's just not the same without him.


                
The British sitcom Coupling is a show that that will captivate viewers everywhere. I have taking a huge liking to this program for many reasons. I have now watched the entire series on DVD and I really must say that Steven Moffat, the show's creator, has really outdone himself here. The story that surrounds the show is very interesting if I do say so myself. The central players here really know how to make us glow with joy. They all shine like stars.The show's main characters include: Steve Taylor, Jeff Murdock, Patrick Maitland, Susan Walker, Sally Harper, and Jane Christie. In the fourth and final season Jeff is replaced by Oliver Morris. Over the course of the series, the gang has various discussions about relationships and sex; situations pertaining to such matters are the show's main outline for the general plot. Many of the episodes here succeed at sticking close to that formula. Once more, Mr. Moffat is a genius.One more thing...the women here (Susan, Sally and Jane) are exceedingly beautiful and incredibly attractive.
This is just the funniest show ever made... Sort of a trash Friends more daring, more fun (and I like Friends!). Actors are very good and Steven Moffat's writing ability and humor is legendary.Look especially for Steve and his long monologues where most men can recognize themselves as the untold being, at least, told!... and Susan who, besides being played by the beautiful Sarah Alexander, brings a very appreciated down-to-earth tone. Do not miss it, it is just a pity it stopped after only four seasons.Even te fourth season that many dislike because Jeff's departure is very funny, but it is in a different way and a slightly different atmosphere.


                
I just saw 2nd season and it was hilarious. Its been 18 years since it was made and it hasn't aged at all. Though I find Friends to be the best sitcom ever but this is just the next best thing.I don't prefer british accent so I saw the 1st season of the american version which I liked but this is way better than that.


                
Some people have compared this show to "Friends," mostly because it involves three men and three women of approximately equal age.  However, that is where the similarity ends.  In comparison to the middle-of-the-road sitcom writing of "Friends," this show features its characters in very R-rated situations.  The writing is sharp, bordering on vicious at times (e.g. Jane showing up at a dinner party not properly dressed because she expected a more intimate setting), and the acting is very good all around.I question whether the US clone of this show will be any good, or whether it will die a quick, unlamented death like the dismal US clone of "Absolutely Fabulous."  One can hope for the best, but in the interim, BBC America and this show are the most compelling reason for an expanded cable package.


                
I accidently found this show while watching the BBC Funny Awards and it is the funniest thing to hit TV in years. I watch this show every week on BBCAmerica even though there are only 14 episodes and I watch them again and again. Great writing and characters. Jeff is the funniest man on TV and Steve is the best straight man. Susan is the sexiest woman around and Patrick is a treat. There is talk that NBC bought the American rights to this show and is making it into a sitcom here to take over for Friends and its done and they could not have picked a better show. It is better that Friends and funnier too.V-


                
So sad I only just saw it for the first time now (13 years late). The characters are so real you feel that you are part of the 'family'. I wish I could go to the wine bar to meet them but then I realize it was just a show. I'm ordering the DVD collection so I can keep watching them. The antics and situations they get themselves into is almost like a Brian Rix farce. The show is very clever in changing the plot line around like in the "Girl with Two Breasts" where "Jeff meets and tries to "chat up" an Israeli girl who doesn't speak English. Also where they replay various segments so to see them from different viewpoints very well done. As Jeff would say "brilliant!". If you haven't seen it it's worth the risk to see it . You will be hooked if you like Brit humour or situations for late 20's early 30's types.


                
