I'm a Yank who is only now catching the show on local PBS, courtesy of BBC America. I never saw the (aborted) NBC attempt and, having seen about a half dozen episodes, I'm glad I *didn't* As someone old enough to remember "Monty Python" from it's original run, I must agree with other posters that I feared that truly hysterical "Brit wit" was a thing of the past. I never really cared much for "Fawlty Towers" (as much as I love Mr. Cleese), and only the medieval episodes of Black Adder really tickled me fancy.But "Coupling" -- hoo hah! Anyone who compares this to "Friends" has clearly never watched more than an episode. At the height of its mild amusement, "Friends" never equaled the least of this absolutely *brilliant* series. For all the stereotypes of Brits as dry, stuck-up and stodgy, I've found that, humour-wise, we across the pond can't hold a candle..."Coupling" is the height of "cultured rudeness" in the vein of "Absolutely Fabulous" -- one of the most adult Brit-coms I've ever seen. Every episode is consistently ROTFLMAO funny. I couldn't even begin to pick a fave character.Patrick plays the "stud" character in an amusingly original manner: he has his way with the chicks, and yet is dim enough to not *totally* emasculate us lesser males. The episode where one of the gals has him bring out the "big guns" in the loo, to intimidate a bloke, is something you'd NEVER see on American TV.Jeff is.... well, the most creatively addled loon since Seinfeld's Kramer, albeit *nothing* like him. Almost a child-man, he reminds me of the Frasier line in "Cheers" - "What color is the sky in *your* world?" Jane is so annoyingly self-absorbed and yet, like Jeff, also such a waif that you don't totally despise her. It amazes how the series' creators walk the edge, crafting characters that *ought* to pluck your last nerve but, unlike George and Kramer from Seinfeld, could actually be tolerable in real life.The other three characters are brilliantly crafted as well, but these three stand out after the limited viewing I've been exposed to. I have never even considered purchasing a TV series on DVD but, in addition to wanting to see at least the entire first three seasons (I have read here that Jeff is not in the fourth season, and I don't think I could warm up to a substitute), I really must turn on many of my close friends to this marvelous show.For those of you Yanks out there who only know of this show from NBC's feeble attempt to import it, you *must* catch this on your local PBS station if and when it airs, or pester them incessantly until it does. You'll not only understand why the attempt at translation failed, but you'll finally get to see what the fuss was all about.If *anything* on the American telly was this consistently funny, we wouldn't have to suffer the endless rot of "reality" TV, and the "dead in half a season" warmed over '70s-era situation (non)comedies. Twelve out of ten... a *MUST SEE*!!!


                
I totally disagree with the previous reviewer's comments. I found "Coupling" to be hilarious. It was unlike anything I had ever seen before. This person seemed to be totally confused as to the origins of the show. First it is said to be a copy of an American show, then it is stated that it is unbelievable that America wants to make their own version. It is originally a British show. It will tell you that on the special features of the DVD. The special features also include a lovely story about how the concept of the show came about. Everyone is entitled to their opinion, and mine is that "Coupling", while different, is brilliant and should be given a chance by all to form their own opinions of it. By the way, here's an example of the hilarity:Sally: Mary Kelly thinks you're a complete idiot.Patrick: Then why does she keep looking at my arse when we're talking?Sally: She's lip-reading.


                
Just simply amazing how Steve Moffat and his wife are getting away with it: words that would be censored in most series, fly about in this one and you don't feel offended. Every episode is different and the build-up (flash forwards, split screens, themes that run through various episodes) is amazing for a comedy series. British humor at it's very best and very recognizable for every modern day couple. Don't hesitate to go out and buy the four series, you will not regret it and they will put a smile on your face over and over again.


                
I've just spent the weekend watching seasons 1 and 3, and this is about the funniest show that I've ever seen. People compare it to Friends (the only real similarity is that there are 6 people involved, Coupling, however, is actually really funny instead of kinda funny.) but I'd say the show reminds me of Seinfeld, or Arrested Development in the sense that a variety of completely separate plots come together in an unexpected way in the end. It's flawless in its execution. Jeff really steals the show for me. I'd give a list of suggested episodes, but that list would essentially be a list of the entire running.My sides are still sore from laughing so hard. If you live in America, you can either get it on BBC America or get the DVD's. And you should. Seriously.


                
Steve Moffat has created a rare thing. A rude sitcom which is actually funny. Most people will say that Richard Coyle steals the show with his fantastical character Geoff, but I personally believe that most of the credit should go to Ben Miles for his interpretation of the character Patrick. When Miles produces just one funny line he steals the show, and the other actors and actresses aren't bad either. Each person who has seen it has their favourite character whether it be statistical Sally, mad Jane, sensible Susan or paranoid Steve. It is virtually impossible not to like this show. I love this show, and I recommend that you should see it today for you will fall in love with it too.


                
I'm an American who just saw Season 1 of "Coupling" on DVD for the first time. Based on those first six episodes, I think the BBC's "Coupling" -- along with a new US series over here called "Arrested Development" -- is possibly the sharpest, funniest, and best-written situation comedy since the golden days of Norman Lear and MJM Productions.The cast chemistry is amazing. The archetypes are extremely identifiable, even over here, which is why the series translates so well. In comedies the subject of sex is often treated adolescently, and it's true that the characters in "Coupling" have some childish, "American Pie" reactions to sexual politics, but they're still, clearly, adults. As with "American Pie," there's a big heart behind the hormones and phermones. But the gags in "Coupling" are brilliantly written and executed. The writers don't take the easy way out; the bawdiness of their humor is cut with intelligence and a really, REALLY great sense of left-field punch lines. Maybe naysayers have to wander through the bereft nature of many American sitcoms to understand why "Coupling" is so appreciated by a cult American audience, but it's the real deal.Episode 4 of Season 1, called "Inferno," contains an extended monologue in which an embarrassed male character attempts to outline the plot of a lesbian porn film. He is forced to defend his affection for the stuff by being asked to give a cogent plot summary. He's squirming under this challenge -- he's got to defend his proclivities, maintain a balance between self-defense and self-effacement, and STILL intellectualize the plot of the film enough to prove he's smart enough to rise above it. This whole sequence is, possibly, the best-written and funniest 5-minute quasi-monologue ever to be televised."Coupling" takes a traditionally pubescent subject matter, the puerile male fascination with sex, opposes it with the progress of rational thought, and is extremely funny in the process. Lots of US sitcoms (and some UK ones) are lucky if they get one horse laugh from the viewer every three minutes. "Coupling's" ratio is more like one horselaugh every thirty seconds. It's that good.(I never saw the NBC version of this show, incidentally, and have no interest -- apparently it sucked.  I can understand why someone would want to use the BBC version as source material, though.)


                
One of the best sitcoms for many years. Clever comedy that doesn't cross the pond well. Each episode is an absolute gem, written to tease and tantalise you towards its climax which usually isn't quite what you thought it was going to be. It's Friends with intelligent humour. Overblown as the characters are you can relate to each and every one of them and the two straight characters offset the other four so perfectly you're never quite sure which you'd rather be. Jeff who is so cringe-worthy but lands himself in the most incredible positions, Patrick with his suave naivety and ignorance but with the image, the job and the reputation. Then Steve the calm centre who is anything but calm, full of doubt and fear and so like you that it's uncanny. Facing off against these three we have the panic-ridden self-obsessive Sally, the utterly ditzy but so desireable Jane and the seemingly composed Susan with her devilish streak.The episode about Jeff and the prosthetic leg without doubt made me laugh more than anything I have ever watched - except perhaps the first viewing of Del Boy keeling over in that Wine Bar in Fools 'n' Horses but where that was one moment this is half an hour of gut-aching laughter.


                
A British show about six people ultimately connected by "coupling" (relationships) more than just friendship ... thus this is not really a "British Friends," but is a sort of "British Seinfeld."  It is sharper than "Friends" and the characters are more complex than "Seinfeld" (which has one "straight" guy and three knuckleheads), a good combination. The "Seinfeld" influence is specifically shown by the Jeff character, who outrageously explains different relationship concepts in a Seinfeld-like way, a sort of invented language.On the other hand, the characters are all more mature ... having real jobs, unlike say Kramer or the ne'er'do'well George. The show at times has mature humor, but it earns it by being a mature show ... these are not the twentysomethings (now in their mid-thirties and much more boring) of "Friends" or the largely childish "Seinfeld" gang, these are mature adults with serious concerns, even if they are portrayed in often amusing ways. And they don't submit to the lowest common denominater or do things quite in the meanspirited way at times seen in "Seinfeld." And the fact there are six interrelated individuals makes things more complicated ... but still, the "friend" aspects of it all aren't really emphasized as much.The show also is often hilarious, much so than the often mildly amusing (and less so in recent years, but then again, there are so fewer episodes of this show) "Friends." A particular find is Jane ... the egotistical sexual focused nut ... her very voice is funny. Susan is the beauty that is levelheaded, but she is played by a gifted comic actress as well. The other roles are also well played.I don't know if the US version will know how to translate all of these positives to our shores, but I hope so. We need more comic gems like this in the wasteland that is American sitcoms.-j


                
Every episode of Coupling (22 to date) has been a brilliant gem showing just what is possible when you start with the assumption that your audience has an IQ higher than paste and is comprised of adults.  The show is wickedly funny, occasionally profane, and smartly written the writers (and their cast) never back down.One can only hope that the intelligence of the show is not totally destroyed by NBC's remake, although home seems faint.


                
Many people have drawn comparisons between "Coupling" and "Friends". I'll admit there are similarities. Six friends in the city living out their lives. But what Moffat has created is a comedy with multiple levels, superb plots and fantastic comedy. The performances from the six main actors are superb. Mention must be made of Richard Mylan (Oliver Morris Series 4 -)who had the difficult job of stepping into the shoes of Richard Coyle (Jeff Series 1-3), while Jeff is holidaying in Lesbos (cue many Lesbian jokes). Mylan does this successfully and , with the help of Moffat, has created a Jeff-like character but a character who is distinctly not Jeff. The Programme is quite simply the best sitcom on British TV.


                
THIS show is absolutely the funniest show ever. The first three seasons, anyway.Some years ago I arrived at the conclusion that humor is at its core, simply absurdity - the absurdity of the unexpected punch line. You have a set-up - called a straight man in the past - and then you deliver a line out of left field, and then everyone blurts out (laughs) their reaction to the absurdity. And the more absurd, the funnier. If the unexpected isn't part of it - if any of it can be seen a mile away - then it won't have the impact. Well, this show has the most absurdity you will find anywhere, any when. The impact of the humor is just amazing. At any moment, a line out of nowhere. And topping the charts even within this Top O' The Charts ensemble, is Jeff. Bumbling Jeff. Absurd Jeff. Ohmygod Jeff. I am not sure they ever wrote a line for Jeff that wasn't off the wall, over- the-top absurd. If they did, I must have missed it while tending to my aching abdomen muscles and wiping the tears. You name it, and Jeff put his foot in his mouth over it - and the greatest thing about it is that he (the character) never even knows he's stepped in it. Well, actually, not quite true - but his efforts to extricated himself are even more absurd than his initial blurts. Jeff the Burter. Jeff the abysmally horrible self-extricator.Situational comedy is, then, setting up absurd situations and letting fly with all the silly absurdities that will arise. Well, welcome to the capitol of all absurd situation comedies. They don't miss a punch line - and often slip in 3 or 4 even before the one you might expect.So MANY times you the audience just want to let your head sag, as Jeff digs himself deeper and deeper.And yet, Jeff is not the star, though he steals the show so often. Steve bumbles his way out of the arms of one and into the arms of another, and does such a cuddly Jeff-imitation in the process that even the one left behind can't hate him. Susan, even while being the "straight man" for so many situations, manages her full share of "yowch" lines and physical humor. (Episode #1 has a doozy.) Jane is the dizziest woman since Gracie Allen, 50 years earlier - but 10,000 times hotter. And yet, as hot as Jane is, Susan is more so. Wow, one of the all-time beautiful blonds. Even if she is a bit "perky"...LOL Über oblivious, womanizer Patrick and his manhood are the object of many a scene (mostly unseen scenes, except in the imagination), and the audience is the beneficiary of the great writing that exposes them to his prowess. Cosmetologist Sally is the most normal of the ensemble, and yet her aging "vanity" (and its situations) still outdoes anything on "Sex and the City."A gem of gems, Coupling is to die for, to laugh out loud at, and to watch again every year or two, just to wallow in the absurdity of it all.If I could give it as many as 20 stars, I would. Alas! 10 is all they allow, so 10 it is...p.s. In Season 4, when Jeff no longer is on the show, the replacement character is simply 7 notches down from Richard Coyle and his characterizations. For that season, the show drops to about 6. What a loss Coyle was to the ensemble. . .


                
This is, without question, the best situation comedy I have seen in a good many years. As a devout follower of the medium, an expert in its ways and a firm believer that it is NOT dead, but rather misunderstood, I can state unequivocally that "Coupling" is as good as it gets.I will not belittle this show by comparing it (as everyone else seems so fond of doing) to "Friends" "Seinfeld" and "Sex and the City" three American comedy series to which it bears fleeting resemblances. There is nothing that p***es me off than taking an original and innovative show and trying to explain it by cramming together a handful of old shows. It is a show about single friends who discuss love, dating and sex but there the similarities end...Except to "Friends" I guess, seeing as there are three girls and three boys...anyway...The strength of the show comes from the same place that it does in all great shows, and that is in the characters. Compare "Star Trek" to the obviously superior "Next Generation." The difference? The former is concept-driven while the latter is character-driven. So "Coupling" may be a show about nothing, but unlike "Seinfeld" it is saved by seven wonderful characters.Primarily "Coupling" is about Steve and Susan, who are quite clearly ideal for one another but keep splitting up because Steve is stupid and indecisive and Susan is strict and unrelenting. But they gravitate back together with alarming regularity. Joining these two are Patrick (Susan's Ex), a ridiculously well-endowed pursuer of S-E-X and little else, Jane (Steve's Ex), a self-obsessed, delusional, bisexual horror who, in her capacity as a traffic reporter, has caused several accidents, Jeff (Steve's best friend and a coworker of Susan's), who is like a twelve-year-old boy who just discovered sex and hasn't grown out of his obsession with boobies, and Sally (Susan's best friend) torn between her own obsessions, one with sleeping with Patrick and another with looking forever young. In the fourth series, a new character was introduced, a nervous, comic shop owner with what can only be described as "verbal diarrhea," Oliver is a charming addition to this group of confused singles.Here's the number one reason why British shows are better than American shows: After the opening titles of "Coupling" after all six of the cast members' names have been listed the ONLY credit that we see (apart from the actors) is "By Steven Moffat." Writing is the first and most important ingredient to a good show. "Fawlty Towers," "Absolutely Fabulous," "The Office," "Blackadder," and "Father Ted" were not created by a staff under pressure from network execs. Each was the vision of but one writer.Okay, I guess that's everything. And since I can't think of a clever ending I shall simply stop right here.
This is, by far, the best comedy with best lines I've ever watched, and maybe the best of all considering relationships between men and women. I simply couldn't stop laughing and it's hard to make some more describing comment for this big piece of comedy art. It's simply impressive how besides very open language and pretty open conversations about anything in this relationship and sex area, there is nothing offensive in the script, and how almost every sentence is hilariously funny. ALthough all main characters are really great, I am almost more impressed with female characters because in many series of this (or any) type, they tend to be cliché, plain boring or stupid, or just annoying, but not these girls. They are cool as much as male characters even though writer is a guy. And that's just wonderful! Total recommendation, a must see!


                
I don't like British shows (excluding Dr Who and Red Dwarf) and I find sex jokes vulgar. Coupling changed my mind and within a month of seeing one episode I bought the whole series. Yes there are many many sex jokes in this show but their delivery is not vulgar the way they are in American shows. I'm quite disappointed that there are only 4 seasons. Each show cracks me up totally. You cannot watch just one episode you must watch them all. The cast is perfectly suited to their roles and it is nice to see Jack Davenport dressed in something that is not comparable to a Mardi Gras float.The Americans did try to make their own version and failed miserably as usual (see Dr Who and Red Dwarf US versions). Perhaps the Americans should stick to Pie and Scary movies and quit trying to copy the Brits.


                
Having seen all the Brit version on DVD I can assure anyone that it is the best Brit comedy since Monty Python .. funnier than Fawlty Towers. It isn't above adolescents, but it is aimed at thirty somethings. If I were to criticize it, I would complain that there were not enough episodes, as Brit seasons have shorter runs than the US. The six characters are well balanced, three guys and three girls. They are in various stages of being couples. One couple are cohabiting, another are getting along and another are learning to see eye to eye.The structure of the episodes involve great comic timing, occasionally a single act is played from six different perspectives to great effect.This is a series that is not just about love, it is made with love. Detail is observed in the smallest. Things change, characters that lose a limb one week don't have it grown back the next. It wouldn't surprise me if you found yourself in these characters.
Steven Moffat has created the best TV show in history of television. I am a big fan of Seinfeld and Friends, but they're pale in comparison.This is the story of 3 guys and 3 girls and their sex lives. Nothing really new you'll say. Well, you don't know Jeff, apparently ! All the situations are extremely funny, and the great lines delivered with such talent by an incredible cast. Thumbs up to Jane Davies for choosing these people. I've watched all the episodes aired (I've even bought the first and second seasons in DVD) and the show is still great, maybe even funnier after 3 seasons.So, do whatever you can to watch it, buy the DVDs, catch a rerun, smash you TV against a wall (well, maybe this won't help) but you have to see it.I read a review on this site that said that acting was 10 times better and dialogues were 100 times better than Friends, well it's not true, I think it's 1000 times better than Friends (I've watched all the Friends episodes to date, so I know what I'm saying).I see that there's an American remake of Coupling, I just hope it won't be the end of the British show(I have no expectations about the U.S. version, they should have shown the original episodes to American audiences).


                
First, this show is nothing like Friends. Comparing Coupling to Friends is comparing apples and oranges. They've both got three male and three female leads, and that's about the only similarity. To those who think that that's enough to call the two shows variations on the same theme I would like to say: congratulations, you can count to six. You are slightly smarter than a rabbit.Friends is about friendship. You could develop an allergy to hugging by just watching one episode. Coupling is about sexual attractiveness; how we exploit it and how we deal with getting stung by it. The jokes may be cheap at times, but the telling is never crude; nakedness is suggested, rather than shown.Coupling could have been, say, five gay guys and a straight one. The jokes would have worked as well (different jokes, of course), but then the series probably would have been compared to Kids in the Hall. Sigh. I guess I should just be glad that Coupling does not (yet) play in New York, because then we would be in a comparitivational quagmire.Also, the Jeff character is not all that brilliant. Sure, he's the crackpot, the clown. They had them in circuses, you know? Where Seinfeld's Kramer is off the map, Jeff is just normal abnormal. The true funniness of this show--and it is funny, let me assure you of that!--stems from the sharp observations, and these are made by all the cast, including but not limited to Jeff.I liked Rob Belcher's review. He wrote: "this show will speak to anyone who's ever dated, been in a relationship, or just noticed that men and women are different creatures." But if you really want to get a taste of the show, don't rely on these reviews, but visit the official web site, which has clips and quotes (including the 'breasts with brains' and 'sock gap' bits). Judge for yourself.If you want to see similar British humour, I recommend "Game On!"(P.S. I like Friends too, but for totally different reasons, which is just as well, as it is a totally different show.)


                
I always knew that British sitcoms were far more risqué and funny than the ones in the U.S., but this takes it to a whole new height. If we were being truthful with ourselves our sitcoms would mirror this. The only thing that disappointed me about this show was the fact that they didn't continue it on. I would love to see how Steve and Sally would handle being parents. And as for Patrick and Susan, wow. How could Patrick ever learn to stay monogamous? As far as getting rid of Jeff, well I never understood that, however it was hilarious when they brought him back as a woman. Still perverted as ever. Oliver was not exactly the greatest edition to the show, but at least he helped with the ratio. And as much as Jane's stupidity annoyed me, I can't imagine the show being as funny without her. She truly turns narcissism into an art.


                
The USA have made all my favourite TV dramas, but when it comes to humor, no one beats the UK. Every year I must watch one or two shows that make me think, "Wow, this is the greatest comedy show I've ever seen!" A couple of years ago it was The League of Gentlemen, then The Mighty Boosh, then The IT Crowd. Last year it was The Thick of It, and indeed it's very, very hard to top Malcolm Tucker's foul-mouthed tirades and the government's screw ups he has to solve. But for now I'll go with Coupling as the best comedy show ever.Coupling is a deceptively simple show about relationships - between sexes, between friends, between husband and wife, between rivals - but it's made with quirkiness, a great cast and some of the most intelligent dialogue ever to grace TV. Steven Moffat, the writer, loads the dialogues with insightful and original observations about language, human behaviour, the different way men and women think about certain topics like sex, faithfulness, marriage, etc., that makes this show one of the sharpest modern treatises on human relationships of our times. I think male and female viewers, watching this show, will frequently nod, "He's absolutely right!," even when he's saying something very insolent about men and women.He's also helped by an excellent cast - Jack Davenport, Richard Coyle (the real star of the show, who sadly left after season 3), Ben Miles, Kate Isitt, Gina Bellman, Sarah Alexander, and the under-appreciated Richard Mylan (who has the unenviable task of replacing Coyle as the crazy, wacky character); they worked well together and their friendship and occasional spats were convincing and emotional. Richard Coyle stole the show as the socially awkward, sex-crazy Jeff - any scene with him is unforgettable, as are the weird situations he gets himself into. He sadly left the show after three seasons. Although I missed him, I disagree with some who think the show took a nosedive in the last series - Mylan was quite good as the comic book store owner Oliver, an insecure but lovable geek.In fact the last season has many of my favourite episodes. One of the things that made Coupling so good was that it also played with timelines and parallel stories, and sometimes told stories out of order. In episode 4.1 we have the same story told from three perspectives, and 4.2 has one of the highlights of the show, a phone conversation that starts with two people and ends with the five characters all getting in it. Moffat's scripts are brilliant at a sense of crescendo - they start small and turn into epic situations that completely distort the everyday world. And what of 4.5, when Jane visits Oliver's porn-filled apartment? As far as hilariously embarrassing moments, only Jeff stripping naked in front of his co-workers tops it.Coupling is one of the few TV shows I'd call perfect. The writing, the acting, the jokes, the timing, everything is just right about it. It's a pity it didn't go on for more seasons, but then probably it wouldn't have been so good. Excellence can only be sustained for so long. So thanks to Moffat and the cast for four amazing seasons!
I stumbled on this show almost by accident (recommendation features do work after all) and was instantly smitten. This is not your typical sitcom, or even a very well written/cast/hilarious outlier like Arrested Development, this show is in the league of its own and should be justly compared to the comic gems like I Love Lucy. A lot of people like to compare it to Friends or Seinfeld which I don't quite agree with. I honestly cannot recall a single joke from Friends that would stand on its own, if not delivered by its cutesy/huggable main characters in their inanely padded lives. Seinfeld would be a more appropriate comparison in style, yet that show just wasn't that funny to me, no offense to its fans.Coupling, on the other hand, is chock-full of one-liners and short exchanges that are outrageously funny and smart at the same time - that's why I Love Lucy comes to mind. Coupling also reminds the latter classic in that it has wonderful chemistry among the main characters (with the exception of Oliver in season 4). I think, both shows owe a lot of their authenticity and charm to the fact of being written/tightly controlled by small writer/producer collaborations. With Coupling, it was Steven Moffat who loosely translated his relationship with wife/producer of the show Sue Vertue into a hilarious script.Some other reviewer aptly noticed that characters in this show walk the fine line between being absolutely annoying and hilariously amusing. My favorite is Jane, a confidently beautiful and utterly insane girl who makes seemingly simple matters like parking a car into roaring bouts of laughter. A lot of her barbs play on a semantic reversal of logics of the interlocutor - it is incredibly amusing if not very original. The rest of the cast is almost equally outstanding in both written material and performance. However I did not care so much for Oliver in season 4 who delivers a rather forced attempt at slap-stick.The story lines are very inventive and usually involve two or three distinct chains of event that intersect and interact in unexpected ways. It actually adds a keen plot interest, a redundant and delightful treat in a sitcom. In another pattern, the blokes' and girls' opposite takes on the same development ring only too true.This show resonated so well with me because exaggerated as they are, its characters exploit the very real traits and personality types that flustered me before and continue doing so in precisely the context of personal relationships. Laughing at these changes my outlook on the world from 'depressed' to 'maybe not so bad'. And it is truly refreshing to feel a tickle of thought in the middle of the most outrageous laugh! - something that the teevee of today is simply not aware of. Speaking of comparisons, a french Canadian sitcom Catherine is very close in spirit and humor, if not quite as raunchy or sharp, and Sylvie Moreau delivers an outstanding performance - think of a combination of Lucille Ricardo's slap stick, Jane's femme fatale and Sally's getting older and 'bottomier' obsession.


                
this 'Brit Com' gets an easy 10/10 from me.the Brits really know how to make a great sitcom.the writing easily rivals that of any North American show of this genre or any genre.the show is more risqué than many shows we have here,though things have changed in the that regard in the last few years.this is due mainly to the proliferation of specially channels.anyway,back to "Coupling".the writing is superb as are the performances.i would probably say that this show is equal to "Friends" in quality writing and performances,but that is just my opinion.if you have fairly conservative tastes,this show is not for you,as it could be considered offensive or worse.everybody has their own opinions.for me,nothing beats "Coupling" for pure hysterics and misunderstandings.as i said,an easy 10/10 for me


                
It seems as if you will either love or really hate Coupling - judging by the comments made here. So to help you predict which side of the fence you will fall on, try this simple test.Do you consider sex to be something dirty and shameful, only to be done with a bible in one hand and with one foot resolutely on the floor?If so, it looks like you will be unable to get past the quite tame talk about sex to see the frankly magnificent writing, spot-on acting and involved plot development. Sure its a farce, and sure its taking an exaggerated view of real people in real life - but there is more acting chops and pathos in one look of Sally at Patrick than in all the episodes of F***** put together. Emotion is the most important differentiation, not subject. Coupling has it while most other sitcoms don't have the actors to pull it off convincingly.Plus the jokes are actually funny - which helps.Live in the real world - get the DVDs and watch some utterly sublime TV. And if you happen to have a teenage son I recommend you leave them around for him to watch on the sly. The jokes about sex will act to allow some of the deeper truths of personality types and relationships to sink in, better than any sermonising the bible thumpers could manage.


                
I finally rated something 10/10. (I would give 9542/10000 but you got the point. :) ) Comedy being my favorite genre; if a series is "that" good, there is more to it then it meets the eye at first glance, dare i say. The script was so beautifully written and the themes were well chosen that i couldn't believe. Of course there are better episodes but the level of quality never decreases below a certain point which is incredibly high. In addition, production, cast and all were excellent. The conflict and attraction between genders had never been funnier. But... Don't take my word for it, i became addicted to this master piece reluctantly. (Every now and then i watch a few episodes when i get bored.) By the way; contrary to common belief, i find it rather different from "friends" which i also really like. Coupling focuses on relationships of its characters, whereas friends is more spread on the daily life.


                
Coupling is just what every comedy sitcoms should strive for. EXcellent in every aspect.The actors are absolutely in line with their character.Every episode is fresh and refreshing and the approach towards 'SEX' is wonderfully hilarious!My favourite Character is Jeff!His character is the most interesting of the lot!Dumb,naive and obsessed with 'breast and Ass',his adventures are the most exciting and memorable.The episode," The Girl with Two Breasts" where he had the most ridiculous and hilarious fling with an Isreali girl is a classic! Other characters are just as interesting,notably Jane, an easy going,independent, wild woman who reports traffic from a helicopter!Wonder why the BBC just produced 4 seasons.A great loss for us, fans.


                
Coupling. A show of impeccable taste, of two breasted women, of men and their cupboards. Of love. And the lengths three men, and three women go to to find and keep it. Nothing is sacred, as long as the sock barrier is not broken. Jeff, Steve and Patrick, and Susan, Jane and Sally, are three young men and women in pursuit of the one thing that makes life livable: procreation. Sex. This series shows us more brands of sex than Wal*Mart has knock offs, and does it well, surprisingly without getting old. You might think that you would get sick of this much sex, but I would speculate that the the only thing that could be better than Coupling is real life sex, and a monkey.


                
