Coupling is just what every comedy sitcoms should strive for. EXcellent in every aspect.The actors are absolutely in line with their character.Every episode is fresh and refreshing and the approach towards 'SEX' is wonderfully hilarious!My favourite Character is Jeff!His character is the most interesting of the lot!Dumb,naive and obsessed with 'breast and Ass',his adventures are the most exciting and memorable.The episode," The Girl with Two Breasts" where he had the most ridiculous and hilarious fling with an Isreali girl is a classic! Other characters are just as interesting,notably Jane, an easy going,independent, wild woman who reports traffic from a helicopter!Wonder why the BBC just produced 4 seasons.A great loss for us, fans.


                
Two things about this show made my jaw nearly fall off when I watched it for the first time. 1) Jack Davenport, more commonly known to American audiences as Commodore Norrington from the Pirates of the Caribbean films. I must say he's much better looking as a normal human being and he's a fantastic actor. He delivers one long, complicated, hysterical monologue about every episode. I'd love to see David Schwimmer or Matt LeBlanc try that. 2) Steven Moffat. Until I saw the end credits one night, I had no clue Steven Moffat, a writer I was familiar with from watching Doctor Who, was also responsible for Coupling. Gobsmacked would be a good way to describe my reaction. Coupling is quick-witted sexual farce, Moffat's episodes of Doctor Who tend to be horrendously complicated and terribly emotional. That, ladies and gentlemen, is real talent. It also explains references to Daleks and Oliver's "Bring Back Doctor Who" sweater in the fourth series.It is a great misconception that Coupling is like Friends. The two shows have only one thing in common, the structure; three guys and three girls, and that's where the similarity ends. Friends is about six people and occasionally their sex lives; Coupling is about, well...sex, oh, and six people. Currently it's on on BBC America at 10/9 central and it always makes the perfect end to my day.


                
On their first date, the woman flashes her breast (the right one) to her date, her ex, her best friend, his ex and his best friend.Steve Taylor (Jack Davenport) is desperate to break up with the unflushable Jane Christie (Gina Bellman). His best friend is the strange and disturbing Jeff Murdock (Richard Coyle). Jeff works with Susan Walker (Sarah Alexander). Susan breaks up her casual relationship with the womanizing tripod Patrick Maitland (Ben Miles). Her best friend is the bitter, skin-elasticity-obsessed Sally Harper (Kate Isitt).This is Friends with more explicit sex talk and it is hilarious. Jeff is probably the funniest characters. There are some gut busting laughs. The interconnected story telling is used exceptional well. Basically, it has 3 series or 22 good episodes before Richard Coyle didn't return for the fourth series. At its best, this is a hilarious sex romp comedy.


                
