I always knew that British sitcoms were far more risqué and funny than the ones in the U.S., but this takes it to a whole new height. If we were being truthful with ourselves our sitcoms would mirror this. The only thing that disappointed me about this show was the fact that they didn't continue it on. I would love to see how Steve and Sally would handle being parents. And as for Patrick and Susan, wow. How could Patrick ever learn to stay monogamous? As far as getting rid of Jeff, well I never understood that, however it was hilarious when they brought him back as a woman. Still perverted as ever. Oliver was not exactly the greatest edition to the show, but at least he helped with the ratio. And as much as Jane's stupidity annoyed me, I can't imagine the show being as funny without her. She truly turns narcissism into an art.


                
Of the English comedies I've seen, this is my favorite. The name and tag line are perhaps a bit misleading; the shows' humor is often insightful and goes beyond the amusing display of mating rituals, it exposes the differences between men and women and here and there provokes philosophical questions. Of course, at the same time, it's completely hilarious and technically brilliant, to a degree that you can't wait to watch an episode again right when you're still seeing it the first time. Actually, I've watched most episodes at least 5 times and only occasionally got tired of certain scenes. This is largely because many of the jokes derive both from the situation and from the characters, so that you need to get to know the individuals' peculiarities first to "get" certain lines' full hilarity. The show also uses a lot of modern techniques like split screen or anachronical narration which really make the scenes dynamic and effective. The humor comes along incredibly well-timed this way, especially when switching between different perspectives of one situation. Actually, this change between viewpoints (usually male and female) is done so well and with such almost unmatched routine that it seriously restored my faith in the TV series as an art form in general. It's also remarkable that the characters work very well within this concept, and work well together. The original cast was perhaps some kind of once-in-a-lifetime chance, especially the chemistry between Kate Isitt and Ben Miles is amazing. Many viewers may say that Richard Coyle as Jeff steals the show, but I don't feel like he's even the most amusing character, Gina Bellman impresses as the naively mad Jane, and Ben Miles as Patrick, the (on the surface) self-assured macho, those two pretty much naturally utter one incredible line after another. The roles however also lead me to the negative points. Steve and Susan, although performed well, don't have the built-in hilarity Jeff or Jane have, perhaps because they're based on real-life figures and therefore the most "normal" characters. Sally Harper's role gets repetitive as she continuously rants about her fear of getting old and the impact of that process on her body. And obviously, it was completely impossible for Oliver Morris to "replace" Jeff. Even with all prejudice aside, Richard Coyle just doesn't convince, which may not only be his fault. The Oliver character is just flat and is doomed to annoy rather than amuse, because his clumsiness is pretty much the only feat he has. Also, here and there the characters seem to get sold for a plot twist, and certain joke formulas are repeated too often, prime example the cases when one of the male characters refers to a woman's looks and gets in a muddle by making absurd comparisons. Still, those are rarely occurring faults of an almost perfect series that, even in dramatic or romantic moments, always manages to come up with a laugh, and which may stun you with its well-pointed plots.


                
Sexy without being raunchy, frank without being overly explicit, I appreciate how difficult it is to write and perform a good comedy series, and I can say that Coupling is the most consistently humorous I have seen in recent years. Comparisons between this show and Friends are unfounded. It is easy to reduce sitcom down to its formula, since most mediocre and downright terrible sitcoms can be grouped together without question, but does having 6 people talking about sex and hanging out in a bar/coffee shop make it the same? I ask you...Coupling is a character-oriented farce, and unfortunate since 'farce' is often used as a derogatory term. I know I may be looking at it much too deeply being a FTV student, but several episodes are noteworthy for being incredibly complicated and, somehow, resolved in a mere 30 minutes. "The End of the Line" is one of them, the other being "9 1/2 Minutes", and both in a way break the mundane sitcom format telling a story from three different points of view. Most episodes have flashbacks and flashforwards, even in the middle of conversations, that keep the story fresh and interesting.Some sitcom episodes you can describe in one sentence. With Coupling, it may take you ten minutes to tell your friends all about this great new, well new to me, series you found on DVD. That's saying a lot for the incredible writing, though significantly weaker in the 4th series but still enjoyable. Highly recommended on both sides of the Atlantic.


                
This show is not only full of well prepared situations, but also incredibly well interpreted by (most) the actors! Jeff, and his incredible weirdness, which is not weird at all if you think about it, is by far the most funny of them all.I think the show seceded because it shows us another side of ourselves that we might have not seen before.Coupling US fails mainly in the acting, because the characters are plain, and boring (in short, too normal!).Some say it's a copy of Friends. Maybe, but in this case the copy gives so much new from itself that has far enough credit by itself.With a more 'grown up' (or just acid?) humor made in UK, this is my favourite show of all times.M.


                
Six Brits, three men and three women are in a kind of circular, sex fueled relationship. Some have slept with each other, some have slept with several of the others. This leads to some very funny and interesting scenarios. This series plays off of the sexual tensions and mores of the single, sexual obsessions and insecurities of both sexes. Women thinking one way about the men and the men thinking not the same way but hoping for a happy ending. Jeff is the odd man out in more ways than one. He is generally a loser with women and he has some very strange ideas about the interactions between men and women, very strange indeed. Jeff is absent for some reason for the last six episodes and I miss his character. He is replaced by a man named Oliver and he is not a good replacement for Jeff. All six actors do admirable jobs in portraying their characters. This is an extremely well written and acted series and I love it.
This is a marvelous British comedy, written beautifully with a plot whose twists and turns can't possibly be predicted. The interplay between the characters -- none of whom is much like any other -- is priceless. Even the music is nice. The first series is better than the others, and the Oliver (a late addition) isn't quite as funny as Jeff, whom he in effect replaces. But it's ALL worth watching.I'll wager any male who watches 'Coupling' prays he's never been perceived as similar to either Jeff or Oliver, neither of whom has any common sense or confidence with women. Susan is the most intelligent and steady of the seven regulars -- 'apparently'. Jane is the most self-centred of the women; Patrick is an unashamed sex addict; while Steve is also nervous but has very definite and funny opinions. But Sally seems the funniest of all, constantly worrying about her looks, particularly her bottom, which she's sure 'flirts with men behind her back'.And nothing seems off-limits -- the discussion features talk of the sizes of male AND female genitalia. The length of Patrick's manhood seems to be a topic in every episode. Women's bottoms are also a recurring theme, particularly among the women, who discuss not only Sally's but Susan's and those of other women as well.Due to the constant stream of sex talk, 'Coupling' is not for children. But it's certainly for anyone who wants a steady stream of laughs!
On first glance, the British sitcom Coupling is strikingly similar to a certain American show whose name shall not be mentioned. Six characters, three male and three female, all adults falling in and out of love in an inner city setting...yep, you can practically smell the New York socialites lurching forth from their stylish Manhattan Coffee Bars with "rip off" on their lips and a studio audience cheering them on. But stick with it and take a closer look, because once you get past the initial impression, you'll find that Coupling not only is a far funnier show than the overrated, overseas counterpart, but also possesses an identity that is well and truly its own.The principle advantage it has can be found in the scripts. Writer Stephen Moffat has a flair for witty dialogue packed full of one liners, insights and downright hilarious verbal exchanges and it is his contributions which elevate Coupling above average into "clutch your sides and howl with laughter" status. True, most of it revolves around sex and relationships and while it does occasionally venture into gross out territory, there is an ample amount of witticisms to keep things fresh.The best example of this of course can be found in the celebrated first season episode "Inferno" where a chain of whispered half truths, pub ruminations and unspoken awkwardness lands Steve (Jack Davenport) in the unenviable position of having to justify his ownership of a lesbian porn film at a dinner party.. What follows is a painfully embarrassing but also very funny scene where the man ends up ranting a frustrated monologue to an audience of his immediate friends and associates that includes the line "When Man invented fire, he didn't say "Hey, let's cook!" He said: "Great! Now we can see naked bottoms in the dark!" If Coupling is remembered for one thing and one thing only however, it'd be a solitary character and the best comic creation they ever achieved: Richard Coyle's Jeff Murdock. A highly intelligent but woefully inept Welsh man, Jeff is nothing less than the physical manifestation of every single doubt man has ever had about his abilities since the dawn of time. He is normally the one to provide the observations on the relationships he sees all round him and his clever insights are matched only by his boundless ability to get into trouble. It was a real shame he was written out by the fourth series as watching him doing a blind fold striptease to his family and co-workers, turning up at a bar in a bondage mask and (best of all), inadvertently telling his crush that he is an amputee makes him one of the most endearing comic heroes in the history of television.All of which of course might lead you to think that this is rather straightforward stuff, but they have a few stylistic tricks and gimmicks in the presentation up their sleeves as well. One episode features Jeff trying to chat up an Israeli woman who speaks no English and the same scene is replayed twice, once with Jeff speaking English and the other with the woman speaking English, Jeff's language replaced by an improvised string of gibberish. Another episode has the screen divided in two in order to show the actions of two different characters at the same time and there is even a bizarre one where a blue lens filter is placed over the camera and we are treated to the truth behind the dialogue, courtesy of 'Captain Subtext.' This toying with the stylistics may seem flashy, but it demonstrates not only a willingness to experiment with genre norms but the sharpness of the scripts as well.Sadly though, Coupling does have a downside, one that is clearly visible should you ever sit down with the DVDs and watch all four series in one go: occasionally the jokes are recycled. Steve's aforementioned dinner table monologue is priceless but was deemed so successful by the staff that the scene seems to be repeated in every series that follows, but with the subject switched around a bit. Furthermore, with each half hour show featuring at least one madcap moment of inspired lunacy, Moffat's writing seems determined in the later series to eclipse what has come before. Events become even more outrageous and the joke involving all six principle characters turning up at the same event is massively overdone.These few complaints should not detract from the overall experience however as ultimately, Coupling is both well-written and incredibly funny. Now that British TV comedy is divided between catchphrase-led barrel scraping and clever-clever observational humour, Coupling is a nice reminder of the days when all you needed to make people laugh was a decent script, good actors and three studio mock ups designed to look like bars, work places and living rooms. And for all the emphasis on Jeff, season four is still packed to the rafters with highlights. Anyone whos ever had an argument with their other half over something totally trivial will find plenty to chew on here. Recommended.


                
And honestly I say that because this show is on its own.  It is hilarious, all the cast members combined make this an excellent show.  I recently purchased the DVD of all six episodes because watching it over and over again is a treat.  It is hilarious.  Rent it or buy it, you will love it. I have to say that my favorite is Richard Coyle as Jeff, he is an absolutely fabulous actor.  The show is worth watching just for him.


                
