Not many directors have the clout of Christopher Nolan. Most of them receive notes from their fretting studios: suggestions (or demands) to change plot points or highlight certain characters/actors, which must be adhered to for contractual or financial reasons. With huge, intelligent blockbuster successes like the Dark Knight franchise and Inception, Nolan has deservedly won carte blanche from Warner Bros. for Interstellar - he gets garguantan sums of money and complete autonomy to realise his artistic vision. In effect, he's making an indie movie on a blockbuster scale. Ironically, this lack of oversight might be just what keeps Interstellar - a very good, occasionally brilliant foray into the furthest reaches of our galaxy and beyond - from greatness.Cooper (Matthew McConaughey), a former pilot and engineer, is now reluctantly scraping together a living as a farmer on a starving Earth. With sandstorms swirling and food supplies dwindling by the day, it doesn't seem likely that Cooper's children, stoic Tom and inquisitive Murphy, will have much of a world left to inherit when they grow up. While investigating a "ghost" in Murphy's bedroom, Cooper deciphers a message that brings him to a top-secret NASA base. Once there, Cooper learns from his former mentor, Dr Brand (Michael Caine), that NASA is looking for solutions to Earth's crisis in other galaxies. A recently-opened wormhole has given NASA and its scientists access to a whole new galaxy of planets. Brand appeals to Cooper to pilot the final and most important mission: to determine whether any of three identified planets can truly host human life. But it's a journey from which Cooper might never return - one that will take him away from his kids and everything he has ever known and loved.That's not even the half of it – Nolan's narrative is a sprawling, ambitious one that asks heavy metaphysical questions about the position and role of humanity in the universe, filtered through the prism of a father and daughter whose bond transcends time and space. It's shot through with complex scientific theories about wormholes and time travel courtesy of theoretical physicist Kip Thorne (who served as a consultant on the film). Indeed, much of Interstellar plays with such philosophical gravity that one can't help wondering if it's simply too deep a subject to be effectively communicated in a movie that must also create emotional stakes and real characters.Clocking in at almost three hours, Interstellar pulses with intelligence and occasional bursts of brilliance. The science and emotion of its story works best on each planet they manage to visit, with Nolan crafting some chillingly smart sci-fi moments amidst the human drama experienced by Cooper's crew. As badly as Cooper wants to save enough fuel to make the return trip home, Amelia Brand (Anne Hathaway) has both professional and personal stakes in visiting the planet that's furthest away from the wormhole. They trade hope for time, the minutes they use to hunt for salvation translating into the loss of decades with their loved ones. The film is at its best when the members of the Endurance - including David Gyasi's Romilly and Wes Bentley's Doyle - confront one another, and establish contact (or fail to do so) with the scouting teams that preceded them through the wormhole.But Interstellar also suffers from a bloated and faintly silly final act. The science of it may be well-founded (who knows, after all, what miraculous answers really do lie within a black hole?) and the concept very cool, but it doesn't quite translate as such. Instead, the film hyper-blasts itself into a oddly cheerful (and confusing) ending that feels purely fictional and not at all scientific. There's no denying, either, that Nolan could have carved half an hour or more out of Interstellar without losing any of its narrative or emotional density. Instead, many scenes unfold in an almost obstinately languid fashion, including a moment when Cooper is left gasping for oxygen on the icy terrain of an alien planet. It's pretty evident, too, that Nolan really wanted to make sure his audiences knew how little greenscreen he used to make the film; for no other discernible reason, his camera lingers in extreme close-up - and far too often - on the exterior shells of the various spacecrafts designed for the film.Nolan can afford the best when it comes to his cast as well, and it shows. McConaughey anchors the film with a gravitas and tenderness quite unknown before his career McConnaissance, and he's ably supported by a steely Hathaway, whose character, just like the film she's in, blends cold, pragmatic science with a churning wealth of emotion. Jessica Chastain and Matt Damon, in roles perhaps best left unspecified to avoid any explicit spoilers, are excellent too - the former radiates quite enough warmth and intelligence to make us believe that she can save the world, and the latter admirably treads in morally grey areas to good effect.For months before its release, Nolan kept Interstellar firmly under wraps. Everyone speculated that it would be a game-changer - a sci- fi blockbuster as thrilling and thought-provoking as it is entertaining. In some ways, that's true of the final product: Nolan's film is brave, brainy film-making, and it looks absolutely spectacular. But, on closer examination, Interstellar loses some of its gloss and varnish - and beneath it all lies an unwieldy script that meanders a little too long and wastes a little too much of the big, breathtaking ideas that underpin its story.
As directed by Christopher Nolan, he of the pretentious, derivative, mind-bending crap-fest that was Inception and the vastly over-rated Dark Knight trilogy, I fully expected Interstellar to have plot holes you could pilot a space station through—and, with a whopping running time of 169 minutes, I figured staying awake would be a task almost as gargantuan as the film's black hole (which is actually called Gargantua—that's just how gargantuan it is!!!).Sure enough, the preposterous pseudo-scientific plot can be picked apart with ease, but the film itself is something of an anomaly: although it is a grossly indulgent pile of pretentious hooey that stretches plausibility to breaking point, I found myself entertained throughout. Interstellar is so far up itself that it actually transcends all the laws of cinema and proves to be a rather enjoyable piece of big-budget baloney as a result.For starters, we get Matthew McConaughey's farmer Cooper, who is chosen to pilot NASA's only spacecraft, despite having spent the last decade or so growing corn. Then we get two of science-fiction's most aesthetically awkward robots in the form of A.I. units TARS and CASE. After flying through a worm-hole, Cooper lands his spacecraft in several inches of water and then surfs a massive tidal wave. We see a planet so cold that its clouds are solid ice. We have a mad scientist who rants about the human instinct for survival while head butting Cooper with his space helmet. Although Michael Caine's character spans 23 years, he doesn't look a day older than when we first see him (his voice just gets a bit hoarse, but not Batman hoarse). And Cooper enters a black hole where he ends up behind a 5-dimensional bookcase that allows him to manipulate gravity to send a message to his daughter via wristwatch!!!And that's just the stuff I can recall right now (it's waaay past my bed-time and I'm very tired).If only there had been a few ninjas, some gratuitous female nudity (perhaps a race of insatiable, sexy alien maidens with over-sized breasts), a planet of space zombies, and a laser battle, this would have been the perfect so-bad-it's-good movie.7/10: it's too wonderfully silly for me too hate on it as much as I really should.
9.1 at IMDb? Seriously?? 4 of my 5 stars are for the visual effects. 1 star is for McConaugh and Hathaway. The Nolan brothers, however, get zilch for their bullshit cosmology mixed with banal sentimentality and quasi-philosophy. It is a mystery to me, why some filmmakers love to mix so much "science" into their movies, when most of it is so horrendously unrealistic, misleading, incomprehensible and incorrect. Kubrick avoided most of the science talk, and created an artistic expression of the space-and-time mystery. That's why "2001" will remain a masterpiece and why "Interstellar" will be soon forgotten. And the movie is also painfully slow, 168 mins, most of which are spent on closeups of McConaugh and Hathaway, with or without space helmet as well as worn and rusty space equipment, as if that would make it look more real...


                
Was this movie terrible? No, but for as much praise as it got, I'm astounded. The plot was ridiculous and unbelievable. That isn't what killed the movie however, it was the acting! Maybe the director wanted the actors to act that way, but every time they did something amazing, they barely acted surprised. It was as if it was all in a days work. This is the sole reason why I can't get myself to re- watch this movie. The visuals were amazing, but I'm more interested in plot lines and character development than pretty effects (call me old school, even though I'm in my 20's). The movie tries to be like 2001: A Space Odyssey, but falls short. 2 months after watching Interstellar, not much is retained in my memory (I had to re-read the ridiculous plot and re-watch a trailer to bring my memory back). Whereas 2001 I watched 6 or so months ago and remember most of it. It may seem like I'm calling this movie terrible, it's not. It's just highly overrated and I need to point out the flaws that keep this from being a masterpiece. Maybe I've seen too many programs about space (Cosmos, The Universe, 2001, etc) that keep this movie from stunning me with the visuals, but if you're a person that has not seen too many space programs, you'd probably like it. And just an FYI, this is coming from a guy that hated Gravity and Inception. If you like those, you may like this movie.


                
It's a pretty good movie. You'll be immersed in the visuals, the graphics, some mystery, and a review on quantum physics in space, and you will enjoy the mysteries contained in it. However, the acting and casting are almost embarrassing at times and poor. The narrative and script suffers greatly from a lack of focus and pointless plot tricks. There's a sequence toward the end that while engaging, is some of the most over the top dramatic, just-for-effects senseless filmmaking you will ever see. It worked in Inception, but not in Interstellar. Overall, it is a "pretty good" film, but it falls short in so many categories. The visuals are worth the ride, and the best part is the presentation of the new planets. If only they would have spent more time on the water planet (that was the best part of the movie), but then if they did, every hour was worth 7 years on earth, so the story had to go elsewhere. The other graphics were good too. But there are some senseless plot turns that will frustrate you and it will lose points immediately from its' current 8.7 rating. For example, was Matt Damon's space crazy Dr. Mann even necessary? The answer when you think about it is no. It had no point in the overall story except to add more drama and intensity to an audience who already had plenty to begin with. What a waste of top level talent.


                
This is a movie with plenty of things going for it. Great performances, incredible visual effects, an interesting story, and tons of really cool concepts, which make for a few genuinely powerful scenes, However, that doesn't make it the flawless masterpiece of cinematic genius everybody is labeling it as. There are tons of people giving this movie 10/10 ratings, leading to a user rating of 8.7, and it is now #29 on the IMDb top 250. WOW! That is a lot of praise! On the top 250, "Interstellar" is above "Casablanca", "Raiders of the Lost Ark", "Psycho", "Apocalypse Now", and "CITIZEN KANE"! According to the users on IMDb, this movie's better than "Citizen Kane", which has been known as possibly the greatest film of all time!Is is better than "Citizen Kane"? No, not even close. The film is full of flaws, the biggest being the runtime. I may never see this movie again because of how long it felt! It feels like a lot of scenes are unneeded, and were made just so the movie could be longer, because Christopher Nolan wanted to make it seem really epic. I'm sure if Nolan cut a huge chunk of the movie out, it would've been better. A film by Nolan that is better than this one is "The Dark Knight", which has a somewhat long runtime, but it feels way shorter than it's runtime, and is extremely entertaining throughout. "Interstellar" is so long that it starts to really drag on and, at times, I began to just zone out.The film is also a bit too dramatic. The dialogue about how "love conquers all" seemed very unnecessarily corny, as well as a few other select scenes in the movie. However, some sequences were quite powerful, especially the ending, which, actually, was kind of creepy. The concept of time was very prominent throughout the film, and it lead to some pretty creative and powerful sequences.Overall, the film is recommended, but you should be warned that this movie was LOOOOOOOONG!!!!!!


                
"Interstellar" pretends to be more intelligent than Alfonso Cuarón's audio-visual roller coaster, "Gravity", but ironically its best moments are those which, like Gravity, rely purely on thrill and spectacle.For the rest of the film we are crammed into a tiny shuttle with McConaughey and his crew, or back on earth with the desperate remnants of human civilization as they attempt to solve the problem of starvation. Most of the dialogue consists of reams and reams of contrived quantum-physics babble, which, if you're like me, will whoosh straight over your head like those exposition sequences in CSI, with brief moments of levity provided by the two -weirdly cubic looking- robots TARS and CASE.Their journey to find another habitable planet is marred by a sequence of seemingly insurmountable problems that become progressively so ludicrous, it ends up impossible to take them seriously, albeit exciting to watch.We already have to stretch our disbelief past the opening premise that the world is dying because of crop blight, yet they've managed to build robots that have human intelligence and can adapt a variety of shapes to achieve a wide range of tasks. One wonders why humans at this level of technological advancement couldn't have found a solution to curbing this unexplained blight other than blasting off into a foreign galaxy to try and populate a mysterious planet neighboring a black hole.Glaring plot issues aside (and there are many), the film is at its best when in full space simulator mode and the audience is being catapulted into the roaring white light of a black hole, accompanied by Hans Zimmer's electrifying score (props to Zimmer for once NOT composing something that sounded exactly like Pirates of The Caribbean), making full use of the IMAX experience.Performances are fairly solid, in particular Jessica Chastain as the grown up Murph, and there is enough raw emotion on show to push some of the more logically questionable moments past your cynic meter and give a sense of weight and importance to what is happening, even if you can't quite understand it.Definitely worth watching on the big screen, but would I give it a 9/10? No way. This is a film that you will enjoy on face value, but once you leave the cinema you will start picking it to shreds. There are just too many inconsistencies, contrivances and blatant stupidity in the plot to call this a masterpiece, but I'd give it a solid 7 for blockbuster entertainment value.


                
Just watched this in New Zealand. The IMDb rating is still above 9 at the time. Not sure it will stay there though. It's not a bad movie but it's not a great one either (which a 9 should be). It's creative in terms of story but it is drawn out. It goes for the Gravity look and feel, being slow, filmed in space and with dialog often replaced with music, but it does not have the suspense of Gravity. It's doesn't draw you in. It just doesn't have enough substance to carry it off. It has plenty of promise but lets you down in the end, especially once you pull all the pieces together to formulate what's going on. It's still worth watching, at 7/10, just don't expect a 9/10.


                
The vast amount of space is always been intriguing and waiting to be discovered. This movie dives deep into these ideas and gives a complex and adventurous route through time and space. Open your mind sit back and enjoy a good movie.


                
Well, it did go on too long, but I enjoyed the relationships of the fathers and daughters displayed and the black hole he was experiencing that showed various time lines of his past in a sort of rubix cube overhead shot. It dragged on the one ice planet that makes them age by 7 years every hour. I also didn't think it had an ending. It kind of stopped.


                
When I first saw previews of the movie, I thought it looked really sappy and unappealing. But then I saw it was a Christopher Nolan movie and I thought it had to be good. I love all his movies: Batman, The Prestige, INCEPTION. He's made so many great movies, I thought there was no way it could be that bad... well it was.The movie starts out and the premise just makes no sense. I don't understand what humanity's problem is in this movie. Humans survived for literally 100s of thousands of years before farming was invented, but all of sudden we're all going to die just because we can't grow wheat and okra anymore. It isn't explained satisfactorily at all. People have cars and electricity, but they can't have an MRI machine? MRI machines are not that hard to build. The world of Interstellar makes no sense and they don't even try to explain it.But the biggest problem is that the movie is boring, so very boring. We start out on this boring farm. I couldn't wait for the main characters to leave this boring planet, but they just dragged it out with the sappiness and the "please don't go!" There are so many scenes that just seem to pointlessly drag on and make you wonder why the editor dropped the ball so much.Then when go off into space it gets a lot more exciting... some of the time. Thinking about grativity, and relativistic time effects is pretty cool, but this is puncuated with some odd interpersonal conflicts that don't really play out in a compelling or sensical way.For some reason Hollywood has decided that romantic relationships aren't compelling anymore. That sort-of makes sense, it's kind of silly when movies are about two people who just met and then all of sudden they fall in love and are willing to kill and die for each other. But they have replaced romantic relationships in movies with something less compelling: boring, undeveloped relationships. The main character has a son and a daughter, but for some reason the father doesn't seem to care that much about his son, and instead the movie revolves around his relationship with the daughter. But honestly, I did not care about them. None of the characters were particularly interesting or likable. You could replace the actors with any other big name actors it would not have made much of a difference.There was so much in the movie that I just plain old didn't understand. A lot of scenes in the movie that were supposed to be exciting and suspenseful just fell flat, because I had no idea what was I was supposed to be rooting for or afraid of happening. Much of it isn't exciting because of the fundamental nature of what is going on on screen... like watching someone trying to figure out the answer to an equation, while some dramatic music plays. That's just not exciting.The worst parts of the movie, besides the nonsense and plot holes, was the weak philosophizing on the nature of love and its relationship to science, and that kind of thing. Blah blah blah evolution, survival instincts. The movie does has depth, but when the characters go off on some philosophical exposition it just comes off as pretentious and shallow. They never make a single point about love that is even slightly original or though-provoking.But the movie isn't all bad. I like the Robot AI character. The movie had some unique visuals and situations that are memorable, they should have been used in a better movie...And so in conclusion, this movie is okay. I'd recommend it if you have nothing better to watch.


                
To explain my daring title - I'd like this review to be a counterbalance to many over-enthusiast appraisals.Yes, it is a good action/drama. Yes, it is a spectacular science-fiction film. Every genre fan's dream: travelling among different worlds (though, try to watch Europa report!), bending the laws of "common sense" newtonian physics and playing with blackholes and wormholes (the space-bending explanation is just a shameless "borrowing" from much older Event Horizon).Though, this movie betrays the "common sense" in yet another way. its plot. "We have destroyed this Earth, let's find another one." Irresponsibility, anyone? while we may argue - if this is not a premise of every beloved pot-apocalyptic distopia, if "space travel" is not what we want from science-fiction at the end of the day ... this movie dared to start with really hot topic, so boldly that it should be judged by its own "higher standards".So we have an ecosystem collapse in the beginning - It is quite obvious that the reason of it are monocultures stretching towards the horizon - a direct consequence of machist, industrial, technocratic approach to science, progress, planet, life, agriculture, thinking... The root cause is so clearly visible in every picture frame of the down-on-Earth part of the movie - but the only "solution" offered by the writer(s) is again the technocratic one: "Let's build super complex machines to transport us zillion light years away" ... instead of simple (!) cheap (!!) responsible (!!!) fixing of the darned monoculture issue down on our original planet.While many claim that this movie is sophisticated if not even intellectual - it is not - it is actually offensive to the intellect. There might be many of the-good-old space travel operas, whom I would forgive this and spare them the "common sense" critique. But not Interstellar - because it pretends that it is "aware", "eco-conscious", it pretends that it urges us to think about our relationship towards the planet, but it fails exactly in this point. Thinking.Watch Avatar and Home instead.


                
Christopher Nolen rides again with this massive scale sci-if journey story that braids cutting edge special effects, amazing performances and a supremely inventive story together to make what is sure to be one of the year's landmark films. The movie stars Matthew McConaughey as Cooper, a NASA astronaut forced to become a farmer in a world where earth's natural resources have dwindled down to nearly nil. As Cooper struggles to raise his children during what seems to be humanity's final throws, a team of scientists, headed by Nolen favorites Michael Caine, Anne Hathaway and David Gyasi, put together a daring plan to save humanity by searching for new inhabitable world's beyond our galaxy and require Cooper's skill to get them there.I really dug the hell out of this movie. As a fan of space travel myself, I really have to say that they did a great job at capturing a lot of the real math and science theory behind space travel, relativity theory and even some of the more edgy ideas about the characteristics of black holes. It's clear that the Nolen brothers Christopher and Jonathen did their homework while writing this script. The performances are also quite good here and Jessica Chastaine, who plays Cooper's grownup daughter, is especially impressive. These things married with the IMAX scope and the bigger than life special effects make this movie an absolute joy to watch. Everything is not all aces here as the film is not without its faults. Perhaps the thing I had the most problem with was the film's third act. The movie spends a long time setting up a very real and for the most part, a scientifically sound universe that is on par with 2001: A Space Odyssey and even to some degree it makes fun of a tropish, nonsensical and dumb way that the story could end as if to say, "we're smarter than that, c'mon, what do you take us for?" only to give in and end it that way anyway. At first I was OK with it but the more that I look at the film, the less the ending makes sense and the more the film starts to eat itself which was needless to say, really disappointing.Overall, I still liked the movie and despite my issues with the third act, I recommend it, and if you can, spring for the IMAX because the scope and scale of the visuals are ridiculous! No television could ever do it justice. This film is for sure to be in talks to win an award of some kind for special effects in the coming months and it's well deserved. If you love liked Gravity or 2001: A Space Odyssey or Apollo 13, you are sure to like this too. Interstellar gets a 3.5...out of 5.


                
Even though I'm a big fan of Christofer Nolan, I find this movie pretty boring. Respect for tackling such a complex subject and for making generally smart blockbusters. Unfortunately, movie is a big mess. Wrong pace, melodramatic acting, terrible music and mumbling i'm-a-badass-cowboy Matthew McConaughey speech just didn't work for me. One of the most miscast movies I have ever seen. I'm familiar with Solaris and 2001 Odyssey, but this one just didn't work for me. I gave it 7 after all, since I don't think movie is terrible, I just think it's not great, and people got brainwashed by marketing tools into loving this film and giving it such high grade.


                
If you are one of those people that thought Inception was a really good movie and it made a whole lot of sense, then stop reading this review; you will not agree with it.Interstellar is a movie that I have been waiting for a long time, ever since they released teasers and trailers and a lot of science blogs started talking about it. I held myself away from such discussions, though, because I wanted to have an open mind when I watched it. My verdict: really well done movie that made absolutely no sense, in any number of dimensions. People said that it was inspiring; if it inspires anyone, that's good, but don't come crying to me when they come back disappointed that they cannot hear the symphonic music and the BWAAAAANG in space, like they expected it.I really don't want to spoil anything, so I will stop here. It took a mere 15 minutes for me to start gritting my teeth and it only became worse as time went by for the entire three hour length of this space sham. Prepare yourselves for Nolan's attempt at a Space Odyssey 2001, only with more special effects and no understanding of science whatsoever. It hits all the right emotional buttons and, indeed, if you have the intelligence of a dog, you will love this film at the level that they are so loving towards their masters.Matthew McConaughey is brilliant in his role, all the supporting actors are great, visual effects are good, even if unnecessarily over the top, all the little details are well taken care of... all except a script that makes any sense beyond "Oh, love, boo hoo!".Bottom line: my head hurts with angry disappointment. I am at fault for expecting so much from this movie. Another eye candy ego trip from a director that thinks too highly of himself.


                
Greetings again from the darkness. There are probably three distinct groups that view this as a "must see" movie. First, there are the hardcore science lovers – especially those dedicated to space and time. Next would be the core group of Sci-Fi aficionados (those who quote and debate the specifics of 2001: A Space Odyssey, Blade Runner, The Matrix, etc). And finally, those cinephiles who anxiously await the next ground-breaking film of director Christopher Nolan, whose experimental and pioneering methods are quite unique in today's Hollywood.Given that I would be laughed out of the first two groups – exposed as less than a neophyte, you may assume that my discussion of this film will not be steeped in scientific or astrophysical theorem. Instead, this will provide my reaction to what has been one of my two most anticipated films of the year (Birdman being the other).Simply stated, the look of this film is stunning and breath-taking. Its theatrical release comes in many formats, and I chose 70mm. This made for an incredibly rich look with probably the best sound mix I have ever heard. The physical sets were remarkable and as varied as the scene settings: a farm house, a NASA bunker, multiple spacecrafts, and numerous planets. Beyond that, we experienced the effects of blackholes, wormholes and the tesseract. Mr. Nolan's long time cinematographer and collaborator Wally Pfister was off directing his own film (Transcendence), so the very talented Hoyt Van Hoytema joined the team and contributed sterling camera work, including the first ever hand-held IMAX shots. Top this off with Hans Zimmer's complimentary (though sometimes manipulative) score, and Mr. Nolan has produced a technical marvel of which known adjectives lack justice.Take note of the exceptional cast led by the reigning Oscar winner Matthew McConaughey (Dallas Buyer's Club), and other Oscar winners and nominees Michael Caine, Anne Hathaway, Jessica Chastain, Matt Damon, John Lithgow, Casey Affleck, and Ellen Burstyn. Beyond these, we also have David Oyelowo, Wes Bentley, William Devane, Topher Grace, David Gyasi, Collette Wolfe, Timothy Chalamet, and an exceptionally fine performance from Mackenzie Foy (who will forever be remembered as the Twilight child of Kristen Stewart and Robert Pattinson).On the downside, I found myself shocked at some of the dubious and distracting dialogue. At times, the conversations were contradictory and even seemed out of place for the situation, character and movie. In particular, the entire Matt Damon sequence and the Anne Hathaway monologue on "love" both struck me as disjointed and awkward. These and other minor annoyances can't be discussed here without noting key plot points, so that's where we will leave it. However, it must be mentioned that the words of Dylan Thomas are so oft repeated, that the phrase "Do not go gently into that good night" can now be officially considered fighting words.The works of noted Theoretical Physicist Kip Thorne were the inspiration for the story, and even Astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson has come out in support of much of the science in the film. Be prepared for brain strain on topics such as space-time continuum (Einstein's Relative Study of Time), gravity, and the aforementioned wormholes, blackholes and tesseracts. The blight depicted in the first hour draws its look and even some closed circuit interviews directly from Ken Burns' documentary The Dust Bowl (2012). Beyond all of the science and lessons of human arrogance and survival, I found the story to be focused on loss <U+0085> loss of home, loss of loved ones, loss of hope <U+0085> and balanced by the remarkable human survival instinct. Christopher Nolan deserves much respect for addressing these human emotions and desires with the overwhelming vastness of space, and doing so in a time when Hollywood producers would much rather financially back the next superhero or even a sequel to a 20 year old comedy.


                
In short; whatever your thoughts and feelings about Christopher Nolan's Inception will likely be the same for Interstellar. It relied on big ideas, very impressive CGI. A cast full of the best actors. A bit awkward in places and the plot had to be forced out of characters. Really, it was pleasant to watch a well made film. The story begins as the world is ending, blight is taking over the world's crops. Those that don't starve will later suffocate, as the film describes. The biggest selling point for me was the science behind the movie. Kip Thorne wrote the treatment to this film.He previously worked with Carl Sagan on Contact and is the Feynman professor of theoretical physicist at Caltech. If those names don't mean anything to you then know that that means the films is going to be featuring a lot of talk about General Relativity. Time dilation is going to be involved and as far as I am aware it hasn't been done very well in films before. It still hasn't, but it makes the awkward and forced plot fun to watch plot. I was sceptical about Matthew McConnaughey, he usually annoys me. He is accepting his maturity and has become a decent actor. I was very impressed with his work. The rest of the cast is full of talent but the weak script gave them no room for development, as is typical n a Nolan film. A few times they did get to go on a rant, they try to go deep and heavy, the meaning of love, survival, what time means. This never worked in he film. They are only human, maybe their musings were meant to be imperfect. When SCi-fi is at its best is when it debates these issues (hopefully in space). We only saw one side to each of them, a little monologue to stop the conversation and dramatically move on to the next scene. The CGI was beautiful, but all CGI reliant films end up looking out of date after a few years. The acting was perfect, but the script was weak. The science was exciting, but it was over exaggerated and had those awkward moments where one supposed expert has to oversimplify a concept while explaining to another supposed expert so the audience can understand what is going on. Best of all, there were no sounds in space!
Interstallar (2014)This is a Christopher Nolan movie. So when it does what he does best—shake you out of your seat with cinematic brilliance—it's terrific. I mean terrific. There are effects, like the black hole, or the various spacecraft maneuvers, and even a few wild dashes through cornfields, that work so well you don't need to think about why they are happening. You are immersed, and impressed, and wowed.But Nolan is more clever than deep it seems. A movie like "Memento" takes the slimmest of terrific ideas (a reordering of time in the brain) and make it amazing to watch. Movies like his Batman trilogy avoid even cleverness and work with pure energy and mythology. But in all of these there is no sense of what you would call "meaning." They are entertainments. "Interstellar" is purely horrible science—it's the butt of endless jokes on the web. But behind all the liberties and mistakes there, the movie is trying to say something "deep" about being human in an inhuman universe. About the special qualities humans have to be innovative, to procreate, and most of all to love. This is a bowing down to the power of love. Love conquers all, that kind of thing.Maybe it's the brother, Jonathan Nolan, who is responsible here as the co-writer. The grandiose ideas the two of them present in "Batman Rises" are wonderfully impossible and almost laughable if you take them out of context. (In context they're part of the whole great success of the movie.) But "Interstallar" takes itself seriously. Way too seriously for this kind of material and with no grip on the science, not even a hint of it. As a fantasy, it could have gone so much farther, as a piece of art based on reality, well, go see "Gravity" for an alternative that makes a better (imperfect) attempt to follow the rules of nature.There is of course the plot here, saving the world, saving the species, saving your family. You have to just go with the flow here, as well, since it's all a bit romanticized in a Spielberg/Cameron kind of plasticky gloss. It frankly made me sick—and yet it was so well filmed I liked it. That's the kicker—Nolan is terrific with the camera, and with the vision of making things vivid and big.See this movie for all of those best things. I saw it on a celluloid (non-digital) IMAX screen and in those portions of the movie shot in full 70mm large format, the effects were memorable. (The movie alternates between standard widescreen 35mm film and full, academy ratio 70mm, which is taller and has far more detail. The normal theater presentations approximate the effects, but in a more normal scale and resolution.) Obviously this movie has won a lot of people over. I'm not sure who they are, but it's reasonable to be blown away. Nolan has openly defended himself against all the complaints—as if everyone is wrong and we just don't get it. Fine. If you want a hilarious rundown of some of the many logical problems of the movie, see http://popwatch.ew.com/2014/11/08/interstellar-plot-holes/ or type interstallar plot holes entertainment weekly in google.But what until you see it first and just enjoy it on its own terms.


                
The epic feel of 'Interstellar' comes from its sheer length and scope of events, but the actual impact of the plot line was lacking, leaving me STILL unsure as to whether or not I even liked the movie. It feels like this is a film that the Nolan brothers wanted to make without creative input from the evil movie executives who usually demand edits based on pacing or story/character complexity. In short, it's a director's cut, through and through. Some scenes or plot points were light or jumbled that I stopped trying to figure out what was going on and just let the movie take me for a ride, in which I became more of a spectator than a moviegoer. The development of the movie itself felt a little like ADHD Netflix; first it's Shyamalan's Signs, then 2001: A Space Odyssey, suddenly Event Horizon (softened by the deadpan humor of Dr. Who-esque robots), ending with Luke Skywalker hopping in a small spacecraft with his trusty droid off to find Leia in the Degoba System or whatever. Though 'Interstellar' brings some new story mechanisms into play, like Einstein's relativity and what it would be like to exist outside of time, these devices have been explored thoroughly outside of film - unlike the 'dream within a dream' concept. At the end of the day, the spectacular feel of 'Interstellar' is handicapped by it's lack of solid delivery and plot disconnectivity. It's worth the price of a normal movie ticket, but don't be surprised if you leave the theater scratching your head.
***THIS REVIEW CONTAINS MAJOR SPOILERS***Christopher Nolan - the man behind one of the greatest sci-fi movies IMO, Inception - wrote this movie.I really like this movie, and the 3 hours went very fast. However, the movie leaves me with some frustrations on some plot holes and unexplained things. On the big water planet our crew went to, it is explained, that the gravity is so powerful, that an hour on that planet is about 7 Earth-years. With so heavy a gravity, the crew should be crushed by the gravity. However, the planets gravity is only 1.4 of the Earths gravity. And furthermore, when the crew return to the base after 15 minutes, the remaining crew-member have waiting 26 years. And how can the main person enter a black hole(!) without being crushed or anything?If this nonsense not where present in the movie, it would easily get 9 or 10 stars from me.
There's a lot to like in this film. The way it uses real and theoretical science, the way it doesn't pander to the Star Wars fans by showing space as it is, a soundless void. There's a great deal of thought surrounding communication across time. Ultimately though the film is flawed in many ways. Let me list them: 1/ The idea that food crops are failing across the world and yet people are shown still eating wholesome meals...there is still gas for the cars and power stations still work is somewhat incongruous to me.2/ Matthew McConaughey is just not the right person to have played the lead role. He seems too laconic and the way he mumbled his dialogue at times was downright annoying.3/ I don't think the US would allow school books to be printed saying that the moon landings were a hoax designed to bankrupt Russia. Political correctness, I suppose, will probably become more intrusive in the future...but THAT intrusive? 4/ The "incident" with Matt Damon ("Dr. Mann") is just ridiculous and muddies the storyline and the pace of the film.5/ The robot design is so impractical as to be laughable. Even the B9 robot from the old TV show "Lost in Space" would have worked better.6/ Will Hollywood PLEASE pension off Mr. Zimmer and his theme-less exercises in going up and down the music scales to generate tension. Much of the "music" was loud and not appropriate to scene and there really was no memorable theme at all. Goldsmith would be turning in his grave! I congratulate the Nolans for trying to make an intelligent SciFi film in these times of dross. They have succeeded in many ways but the film is not the masterpiece 2001 is.
Great music. An extremely talented cast. Amazing special effects. Captivating issues to contemplate. So why do I think I will not ponder this film long after I have viewed it? The story is convoluted, though interesting. All the drama and mystery and intrigue leads to a finale that tells us what? Well, not really much. But it's a fun trip getting there.I liked many of the characters. And I was invested in their problems and tragedies. But the final "explanation" of the film's phenomena has a "Sixth Sense" feeling to it. I say see this film for its good points, but don't expect the groundbreaking impact of Kubrick's "2001" or the atmospherics of "Blade Runner" or the thrilling ride of "Close Encounters of the Third Kind".


                
Weather stuff is messing up crops on Earth, and we're all going to suffocate from too much nitrogen. Secret NASA is exploring potentially habitable worlds via a wormhole provided by 5 dimensional aliens, and ace pilot Cooper goes on one such exploratory mission despite the pleas of his daughter for him not to. The mission does not go according to plan.This film, directed by Christopher Nolan and written by him and his brother, is going to make Nolan fans cream their jeans They are, after all, a vociferous bunch, and they tend to think of him as a cinematic deity. Me – not so much. I have enjoyed his films, but I also think they are very flawed, and Interstellar is no exception.It is a very derivative film, with so much borrowed from 2001 and 2010 that you are constantly expecting robot TARS to turn against the crew members. The main story is OK (if somewhat familiar) but the resolution, even though decked out with pseudo-science gobbledegook, still reeks of plot expediency rather than scientific verisimilitude. And it is far, far too long – there is an entire sequence featuring an unexpected well-known face which could have been replaced with a 30-second alternative, and nothing of any narrative significance would have been lost. This is not a well-paced film although, on a single viewing, it does hold the interest. However, at nearly 3 hours, it could usefully lose an hour of running time.It contains good performances, visuals which are interesting if somewhat less spectacular than I would have hoped for, silence in space (hooray!), a character played by child and adult performers who actually look like each other and – surprisingly for Nolan – some genuine emotion.This isn't a bad film, but it has far too high an opinion of itself.
I was really looking forward to watching some decent sci-fi and when I was this was on at the local regal cinemas I decided to check it out. Jumped on IMDb quick and was shocked to see it had a 9.3 rating at that time...maybe it was a mistake to look at the rating, it may have pushed my expectations too high.I was expecting something "over the top" good, and it just wasn't. The movie could have used more technology and more serious thinking and dialog. The revelation at the end I saw coming probably in the first 30 minutes of this nearly 3 hour movie.There are some good and exciting moments, and there are definitely scenes that have the cool factor, but it is not a 9.0+ movie. I give it a solid 7. It seems a lot of people enjoyed the movie a lot more than me and that is great, but this is my opinion of it.
I really hoped this would be a good movie but unfortunately it was not even mediocre. I rated it at 7 but now after some consideration 5 would have been more appropriate. The film is far too long, the plot is even for a sci-fi too silly to be believable. Like some others have pointed out, why place the wormhole next to Saturn if it was supposed to help people on earth? Did they do it out of spite? The properties of the black hole are not even remotely close to scientific knowledge.
