(This is both a review of the film, and an assertion of Christopher Nolan's filmmaking style)There have been many reviewers and critics alike that have high praise for the film (the visual effects, the acting, the music), but say how it's not Christopher Nolan's best directed film. This is where i personally would have to disagree. Before i get into it, though, i'll talk about Interstellar a bit.Interstellar is truly a sci-fi epic like no other. To compare said film to '2001: A Space Odyssey' isn't just a disservice, but unnecessary. The films are almost nothing alike, simply sharing small plot elements. Also, Stanley Kubrick's vision of Arthur C. Clarke's sci-fi epic wasn't to ponder the philosophical questions that accompanied the story, but to make art, and art is was, and is. With Interstellar, Mr. Nolan set out to make his most personal and emotional film to date about love and time (time being a recurring theme throughout all of Nolan's films). But it's so much more than that too. There are no words to express the epic journey Nolan takes us on in the film, but needless to say, it's tear-jerking and emotional throughout. The acting is top-notch, especially McConaughey, who gives (I would say) his most emotional performance yet. But the actor who stole the show in a few scenes (one in particular, when they're on an alien planet) was David Gyasi as Romilly, one of the astronauts aboard the Endurance, their spacecraft. The musical score from Hans Zimmer is, without a doubt, his best and most influential work to date, helping drive the film's bold and breath-taking vision (the church organ helped significantly). The visual effects are easily the best to date as well, and of the year. To see a black hole created through visual effects in such a way, with pages theoretical equations provided by Kip Thorne (theoretical physicist, of whom's work inspired the film's genesis); what you see in the film is the most realistic depiction of a black hole, and even offered new insight to accretion discs surrounding the anomalies. But even everything else, from the alien planets to the Endurance, the visuals always look real. Then, there's the writing. I would definitely have to say this has some of the best dialogue i've ever heard in a sci-fi movie, and the script continually pours or oozes emotion, keeping the audience tethered to the film.Now, about Mr. Nolan. Don't just look at Nolan, but look at his films. Some say Inception would be his masterpiece, while others would say it's The Dark Knight, or Memento. But honestly, every single film Christopher Nolan has directed is a masterpiece not of its genre, but of Nolan. Following is his quiet masterpiece, not the film that put Mr. Nolan on the map as a phenomenal director, but one people visited or revisited after becoming accustomed to Nolan, after seeing Memento, what could be called his breakout masterpiece. Then, right after, he directed the remake of the Norwegian thriller, Insomnia. This, too, could be considered a masterpiece, even if a remake. Then, we were given his take on the Batman universe, starting with Batman Begins, the origin masterpiece. Then, there's The Prestige, adapted from the novel of the same name, which can be called his dark masterpiece. The Dark Knight, his bold masterpiece; Inception, his complex masterpiece, and The Dark Knight Rises, his flawed masterpiece. Now, we have Interstellar, his emotional or personal masterpiece.This is just my looking at Nolan and his films, but whatever your thoughts are, you can't deny Interstellar is one hell of a journey. He certainly is one of the best filmmakers of our time, and of all time. I can't wait to see what he does next, but i'm not sure it will be as emotionally powerful as Interstellar.


                
So last night I got the chance to see the early screening of Christopher Nolan's Interstellar. The film I've been waiting so much from the early days of the shooting. How did it fare? Here's my take:To avoid any tl;dr risk, let me get this straight from the very beginning, Interstellar is one goddamnedly good film, it gets you to the edge of your seat, it soars, it warps, it rips your brain senseless. It's that good.Interstellar is a story about the earth dying, with its soil no longer able to sustain crops other than corn, and of course, it will lead to the extinction of humanity. Our hero is an ex-NASA test pilot named Cooper (Matthew McConaughey), a typical ordinary-guy-in-an-extraordinary- situation everyman who's also a dedicated family man, especially toward his daughter Murphy (named after the Murphy's Law). In an all-too-Armageddon style our hero gets invited by the (publicly) defunct NASA to become humanity's last hope in finding a new home, for they have found a wormhole near Saturn (2001, anyone?) which will warp the astronauts to another galaxy in quest of a habitable planet. Solid and compact premise, although it's been used before.For seasoned filmgoers, there are many similar elements (although it's understandable) with Stanley Kubrick's 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968) and Robert Zemeckis' Contact (1997). In a sense that this is not a bang-bang-shoot-shoot-blow-em-up sci-fi, but more of a slow-burning, metaphysical sci-fi which gets you to think about your place in the universe and your exact place in time.Similarity with 2001 and Contact is never a bad thing, but it becomes a wee bit too predictable, although Nolan is a smart enough director in providing the final (a very sentimental one, I should say) twist in the story. The visuals in this film is majestic, everything is shot to a meticulously calculated level, Nolan-style. The space scenes are serenely suspenseful just like Cuaron's Gravity, but unlike the documentary feel of Gravity, there's a real gusto and pace to these scenes. You should also be prepared for the (for some, maybe) unexpected third act, it is Nolan's most sentimental and humane moment to date. And this is why Interstellar is more than just a science-fiction, it is a human drama intertwined in space and time loop.One thing that Nolan gets a bit wrong is the narrative. Nolan was never a 'warm' director, his films are filled with brilliant ideas and flair but it feels cold, it maybe suits Memento and The Dark Knight but in Interstellar he seems to have been lost in determining which of the interpersonal drama or the sci-fi that will be Interstellar's forte. The result is a rather incongruous script, intermittently cutting off the excitement of the previous scene and so on. But it is a forgivable sin, for the good is a lot more than the bad in this monumental film. At the end of the day, all I can say is that Interstellar is a grand film. It is monolithic, thoughtful, sentimental, sophisticated, visceral but also with its flaws. I wouldn't say it's Nolan's best work to date, but I daresay that this is one of the best science fiction ever released.After watching Interstellar, do yourself a favor and get lost in space and time and go back in time to see Contact (1997) and 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968) to further wonder and wander into the realms of the unknown.Because sometimes it is the unknown that fascinates us, frightens us and brings out the best in us.


                
A lot has been said and heard about this movie but none of it comes even close to the experience of watching it. It has all the elements of a Nolan movie and just like in all of his other movies he decides to go a bit further. This time, he went a little too far. The story behind the movie has it's flaws. There really is no explanation of what happened/is happening. Instead you are given fragments in the first half of the movie hoping one will put all the pieces together. All in all, the first part seems a bit rushed and leaves you wondering if more could have been told. But, since the real story is not why the travel is necessary but the travel itself once the crew is off, the story really kicks in. The main part of the movie gives a great ride, pumps your blood with adrenaline from time to time and gets you emotional pretty often. The problem I personally had was that the story taking place simultaneously on Earth was less shown than I expected. A different approach was expected but that did not stop Chastain from giving the best role in the movie. The last part of the movie is dynamic and filled with problems real people would have if found in a situation like that. But the explanation given at the very end was a bit to much for me. I heard that this was called "the most scientifically accurate movie" and that physicist around the world fought over the fact was that true or not. Nevertheless, way too much theoretical physics in the end. Since I love SF movies I am willing to look past the over- the-top science part, but what really got to me was that it was predictable. From the very moment I saw a black hole in the movie I put two and two together and that kinda ruined it for me a little. Regarding the acting, as I said before, Chastain gave the most powerful performance in the movie. She doesn't have much screen time, but she sure knows how to use it. The two that actually lead the movie - McConaughey and Hathaway were brilliant. McConaughey did a little better job handling the emotions of a father with the responsibilities of a team leader and the savior of mankind. His performance was outstanding. Hathaway was good, decent, without a single word that can be said against her, but for a movie like this, that is almost completely on the shoulders of the actors, she should have done more. The others did a good job, particularly Casey Affleck who's character was a grand comparison to Chastain's. The music given it was done by the mastermind Hans Zimmer was spectacular. Just the right notes, just the right timing, just the right music. His understanding of what movies should sound like is amazing. All in all, Interstellar is a magnificent movie. It is a type of movie Nolan does best. It has all the elements of being a classic like Kubrick's 2001: a space odyssey, it comes really close to being the new space odyssey, and it will not perish with time. Still, this might be a bit too much for the average moviegoer, a lot has to be digested here, it is not a simple or easy movie to watch. But, if your braincells don't shut off and you don't expect another Die Hard movie, you will appreciate this masterpiece.
At over 2100 reviews at the time of this writing, I guess there's nothing left to be said other than my opinion.I'd probably need a PhD in Physics from MIT to understand half of the technological terms in the movie, but I still found it to be rather awesome. After reading some of the reviews here, I think a lot of people are taking this sci-fi fantasy tale way too seriously and literally.Christopher Nolan's latest, which he co-wrote as well with his brother Jonathan, at 2 hrs and 48 min in length, can be ridiculously absurd one moment then quickly turn into riveting action the next.Matthew McConaughy and Anne Hathaway lead a long list of screen notables here, too numerous to mention. I did want to mention that I thought Mackenzie Foy, as Murph, the 10-year-old daughter of McConaughy was terrific in her role.I thought the musical score here was excellent, the wit and humor of the robot TARS (Bill Irwin) was on target. the special effects could be rather hokey at times but then other times were amazing, and the movie did contain a number of twists and turns which I liked.All in all, despite its' drawbacks I found this sci-fi fantasy to be a rather awesome and epic ride.
How hard it is, probably, not to break under the exorbitant weight of threatening ambitions, especially when it comes to "the most anticipated film of the year" - that's how and in no other way did they call the last work of Christopher Nolan in a cinema environment. The benefits of this hysteria are few. Do not wait for "everything, and immediately, and more", because the blockbuster - the last word that comes to mind when trying to somehow characterize the "Interstellar", because the intellect here clearly outweighs even such a smart exterior design. As it went, it did not sound, but we have a truly multifaceted and complex film that can be adequately perceived in several different planes, and the maximum effect will be achieved only if you are able to look deeper.In the not too distant future, humanity is at a stage of regression: high technologies no longer worry us as much as the primary need for food. The farmer's profession becomes one of the most respected, and the craft is not easy, because for certain reasons nature is no longer our friend - one by one the whole vegetable crops are destroyed, refusing to yield crops. Against this background, the former pilot, and now the farmer Cooper (Matthew McConaughey) is invited to join an expedition designed to test potentially life-worthy planets in another Galaxy, the passage into which, in the form of a so-called "wormhole", was recently discovered in our Solar System . While the expedition is busy searching, Dr. Brand (Michael Caine) here on Earth will have to complete his research and development, as a result of which he plans to find an effective way to transport the world's population to a new home. But if suddenly he does not find it - on board the interstellar ship there is a sufficient stock of the terrestrial gene pool to start the population "from scratch" - this is not an iridescent version of the development of events called "plan B". As a form in his latest work, Nolan uses a so-so, relatively speaking, "fantastic" plot, in which, however, modern scientific research is much more than some fantasies of the creators. Without the second, however, it was not done either - but more on that later. At the same stage, it should be said that the script is really very tightly based on modern physics and currently existing theories, and uses a lot of scientific terms - so if you do not know, for example, what the "event horizon" is, and why the measure approaching the black hole, time slows down - it makes sense to prepare yourself a little before watching the movie, so you can understand what the heroes are talking about.For all this physics and mathematics, of course, there are real human fates, feelings and experiences. The film is still at the beginning, before the departure of Cooper devotes a long time demonstrating family interactions - but there, in the "ordinary" terrestrial environment, this looks quite ordinary. However, as the story develops, the emotions and factors that generate them gradually take on a completely different form - here Nolan already tangles this tangle consisting of imperfection of our psyche, instincts and feelings towards others much more densely. In the emotional aspect, the film turns out to be very strong - without any conventionality or falseness. It is here that one of the most memorable scenes that produces such an effect is due to the breadth of the talent of the magnificent McConaughey. After it there is no doubt that the viewer will stay with the hero until the end, at whatever cost. Nolan allegedly opposes the cold soulless cosmos to the warmth of real human feelings, emphasizing their significance. In this regard, I would like to note that the culmination and its justification will probably not be understood by all, since here the plot departs from the science trail, it goes, in the literal sense, to the unknown - without spoilers it is difficult to say more, therefore, I just recommend not to take this allusion literally, and focus on what it means. It is also important to read between the lines and see things in perspective - and then you can see where as more logic than it might seem at first glance. But there will also be an ambiguous finale, leaving behind mixed feelings, and infusing a new subtext to where it would seem that everything has already been laid out on the shelves.
"Interstellar" amazes with its multitasking and coverage of the topics being raised. To some extent, this is also a minus, because the ideas embedded in the script, would be more than enough for three or four films. From this, it is not always perceived exactly, and at some moments even requires some effort and concentration when viewing. But in a decent way to accumulate so much food for thought in one movie, even three hours, by force of units. Not to mention how effective the picture works on the upper outer level, combining visual and sound images. Visually, the film is completely different from modern digital blockbusters: shot on a film and with real scenery, it generates an absolutely unique atmosphere. The same goes for the sound series - Zimmer clearly caught the mood: the sound is old-fashioned, unorganized and bright. This surprisingly deep, beautiful author's cinema is the long-awaited odyssey of Nolan, which remains in memory for a very, very long time.


                
Went to see the film Wednesday evening. Overall it was an enjoyable film from start to finish with the help of humor along the way. Excellent casting, descent visuals, and a good sound score. There were times I felt the music was overkill and would drown out certain scenes but overall well done. Story meshed real well too and threw in a few curve balls.I would have liked to see some better visuals from space. Especially when they arrived in the new solar system. Been cool to have seen unique planets of different colors orbiting each other for instance. Something unique to stamp the distance and uniqueness from our system. Trivial but it's those small things :)


                
The good news that we have the brothers reunited and again working on circular narrative. Again, we have a powerful narrative arc that shifts in unexpected and engages in expected ways.The device is hackneyed: messages from the future, but is handled deftly. Where it is clumsy, we are competently distracted by narrative and visual process. The love story that drives this is novel enough to not fall into one of the three formulas commonly used for 'love,' (despite McConaughey) or two for father-rescues-daughter. We have a chosen child who saves the world by supernatural intervention, but again, this doesn't distract. These accomplishments alone make this worth experiencing because many devices are used to reset our expectations from formulas. Some fail horribly and that keeps this film from my absolute essential viewing list; I'll get to those in a moment. But all that are under the control of the filmmaker are so well considered that they bear mention.Take, for example the visual setting. The story itself is about the folding of time, but in a subtle way. The time of the story is in the future, but the setting is in the past. We refer to the dustbowl. All the cars, buildings, clothes and verbal expressions are vaguely from that era. We never see a brand that would pin down the time.More powerfully, the film itself is made as a science fiction film would be in the 50s-60s, using notions and tropes from that era. The robot is from "Forbidden Planet." The notion that a world-saving enterprise rests on the mathematical attempts of one man alone. That a vast enterprise is actually secret and located in one spot, with no suppliers. That construction of a spaceship requires welding sparks. That a heavy lift launch can occur in a building.Look at the computer screens. Nearly all are commandline interfaces. The switches and control panels are from the DEW line era. They haven't managed to use legacy fonts in the signage, but it looks like they avoided the most obvious: helvetica.Even the drone is a currently obsolete model. Underscoring all this is setting the film in Texas. Malick, and before him Bogdanovich, Hooper, Welles exploited the fact that Texas lives in two eras, sucking riches from the present while defining itself in some fictitious and better past.The film is also clearly in a future, after antiscience politicians have written technology out of the textbooks, denying the moon landing and forcing something named NASA underground. The ambiguity of time is conveyed subconsciously and works. I think they used some recorded interviews from the actual dustbowl era.But the flaw, the underlying decay in this film is in who they relied on for the science. They clearly separated the science of the adopted genre (noted above) from the science used in the actual extraterrestrial events. They chose renown physicist Kip Thorne as their authority.The man is an important scientist and reportedly very engaging. But the world of such scientists is divided between those who believe in the primary eminence of geometry and those who believe instead in ordered mechanics. This is a deep divide, highly polarized when the work gets going. Which is better for the problems at hand is irrelevant here. But which is better for cinematic depictions of encounters with the forces of the world<U+0085> well there is no contest and Noland chose unwisely. I may write about this. A good title may be the Carl Sagan effect.On other unrelated matters, some unresolved minor plot threads remain. The finished film exceeded the time budget for story-before-launch as it is, but we'd like to know what the reason for introducing the drone was and why it was important.A bit worse: In the film, we have a very hard won ability to send messages back in time, describing deep science from inside a black hole. I get that. But 'before' all those events, some other souls sent back messages and the physical artifact of the wormhole. Why not use that mechanism, unless the much-mentioned notion of the urges of love are essential to the bridge?
I am starting to think Christopher Nolan is making movies specifically for his family. "Inception" was a love letter to his wife, and "Interstellar" is a love letter to his children. You have to pay attention to the secret production names and certain scenes to get the clues but the secret production name of this one was "Flora's Letter" I believe - the name of one of his daughters. And of course, the story - a father trying to save his children and also get back to them.I can overlook a lot of contrivances if I buy into the main idea and I bought into it - who would not sacrifice their own life to save their loved ones? But there are hundreds more ideas being presented here to consider:The idea that "time" is not linear, but overlappingThe idea that time is a function of gravity (which is true, actually)The idea that gravity can be used as a technologyAnd most importantly, the idea that the universe will move for loveThis movie has the best movie robots of all time, better than R2D2 even.
INTERSTELLAR (2014) ***1/2 Matthew McConaughey, Anne Hathaway, Jessica Chastain, Michael Caine, John Lithgow, Ellen Burstyn, Mackenzie Foy, Matt Damon, Casey Affleck, Wes Bentley, David Gyasi, William Devane, Leah Cairns, Topher Grace, Timothy Chalamet, Brooke Smith (voice of Bill Irwin) Filmmaker Christopher Nolan's valentine (of sorts) to 2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY (and to his daughter) continues his streak of audacious sense of space (literally) and the inner human spirit : set in the bleak future Earth is on the descent of humanity with continuous food demands and climate change with one Hail Mary of a plan by NASA - send a small crew thru a wormhole (just go with it) to see if 'they' can help us. A grand ensemble of talent assembled but it is truly a shining moment of cool-as-a-cucumber and deeply felt performance by McConaughey as the astronaut/pilot of the journey into the realms of desperation, anchoring the film with a transfixing turn (largely due to his interplay with young talented actress Foy as his daughter - later played with clear-eyed intensity by Chastain), no easy task with all the eye candy visuals that are indeed awe inspiring and a kissing cousin to GRAVITY for sheer amazement (one must see it on a big screen and IMAX would be a start as it was filmed in the medium). Hathaway has a few moments as well particularly with her brainy scientist dad Caine (a Nolan regular). The true stars are the breathtaking cinematography by Hoyte Van Hoytema, a stellar score by frequent collaborator Hans Zimmer and fantastic visual effects by literally dozens of geniuses. The only stumbling block is its slightly heavy handed message getting across but the Twilight Zone-ish final act makes up for it in spades. WOW!
I found Intestellar a beautiful movie to watch and be enthralled by. After countless low grade science fiction movies parading across the screen over the decades, this one will stay with me. The viewer should watch it for story and not for the science - the cinematography is beautiful without being flashy; the acting is brilliant and musical score works perfectly with the story.I was engrossed by the movie from start to finish, held there by the humanity and feeling portrayed by the director and the actors.Why people feel the need to compare Intestellar to Kubrick's 2001 is puzzling - this is a completely different movie and one that, when I think back to watching 2001, is infinitely more watchable.Why people feel the need to pile in rate the movie '1' is beyond me and, at the time of this writing 570,000 people had averaged the rating out to 8.7 - so, don't listen to the hate, just watch it and enjoy.


                
Interstellar is a jaw-dropping, awe-inspiring, beautiful, complex and thrilling adventure.The film is a mix of Spielberg's warmth, Kubrick's brain and Malick's beauty.Visually it is one of the best film ever made if not the best. Totally, is it the best film ever made? i don't know. A film of this scope and ambition is sure to have some narrative flaws here and there but it is beyond my ability to judge a film like this and find flaws in first viewing. May be i need to see it again to find any flaws, hell why should i find flaws while enjoyed it immensely. Performances were great. Hans Zimmer music was terrific and loud at times. Endurance docking and ghost subplot gave me chills. Some of the stuff is hard to understand like the Gravitational singularity, Relativity and 5 Dimensional space. But Nolan connected the dots between them very efficiently and mixed them with love and humanity. If you are a sucker for these things, the film will transcend you into it or else it feels overly sentimental. Don't miss it. I recommend you to watch it in IMAX if possible.


                
It's my 5th viewing and when did the 169 mins flew I don't know, my eyes were glued to the screen the whole time. Yeah, the score was a repetitive but couldn't agree more with the fact that it was emotionally packed, Hans Zimmer knows what he's doing? Sometimes it feels like the melodrama between Cooper and his daughter ruining the impactful theme of the film but again it was for the emotional connection between those two individuals.Good:- Chris Nolan's Direction, The Nolan brother's tight screenplay, Hoytema's brilliant cinematography, Zimmer's powerful score, Gorgeous visual effects (I like it more than Gravity coz it didn't show us more, it shows less and the rest is left to us to imagine), Great Production Design, somewhat a loud sound effects (due to which some of the dialogue inaudible) but nonetheless it was pretty damn great and The cast's powerful performances specially Mackenzie Foy (as Young Murphy),is a one young talent I don't want to miss.Bad:- The only (and main) reason why the whole concept of the movie didn't suit because of the blight situation. Even with a voracious blight it would take million of years to reduce the Earth's oxygen from it's atmosphere.That's why I give it a 9/10, the only bad reason is also a big enough. So, overall I frickin loved it, hope to see this film again. Just wait for 20 years and it'll be a definite Sci-fi Classic, I mean it'll be a cult classic in those 20 years for sure. (well, it's still a classic though! ;-))


                
It may very well be the most remarkable film I've ever seen. Interstellar is a film which plays on your emotions more than anything else. Many people get caught up in the plot holes and the scientific inaccuracies, and thus, let these factors detract from what would otherwise be an incredible cinematic experience. Interstellar is a film to completely surrender yourself to - and let the sheer grandiosity and emotionality move you. Forget logic, forget science. This is art in its most fantastical and overwhelming form. A father's heart breaks as he realizes he's broken his daughter's heart - He has left her and does not know when he'll return. Nolan pulls every string in our heart with the emotion of the father- daughter relationship set against the backdrop of interstellar travel to save the human race. Interstellar will, I feel, become more appreciated as time passes, and will, I hope, one day be regarded as one of the greatest films ever made.


                
Interstellar marks a critical moment in the career of Christopher Nolan; he has come a long way from being the indie noir director of Memento and Insomnia, to striking gold in the enormously popular Dark Knight franchise. Inception was proof Nolan could successfully tackle a big- budget, original idea outside of the Batman series, but with comic book films behind him, Interstellar has to sell on the promise that Nolan is not a one-hit wonder of big-budget original ideas.The movie's plot focuses on Cooper, a Southerner and family man who doesn't quite understand why man is turning away from flight. "We used to look up at the stars and wonder about our place in the stars," he says, "<U+0085>now we just look at the ground and see dirt." Matthew McCoughaney shines in the role of Cooper, delivering one of his career-best. Cooper is an everyman, and nothing in this world (or any other) is more important to him than his kids; in particular, his daughter Murphy, played spectacularly by Mackenzie Foy.Despite great performances from a huge ensemble, beautiful visuals and setting, shot by first- time Nolan cinematographer Hoyte Van Hoytema (Let The Right One In), Interstellar features a typical problem in every Nolan movie: too much expository dialogue. It is very obvious in numerous moments that Nolan is trying to feed us information and backstory. My other issue with the opening of the film is pacing. Thought the movie establishes the world and doesn't rush to do so, the movie rushes off into space the moment the idea of interstellar travel is introduced. From the first act, it is unclear whether Interstellar can deliver. It's in the second act where the movie really begins to blossom. Much of the film from this point on is set in space, and boasts mind-bending special effects as timeless as 2001: A Space Odyssey. The movie features some strikingly similar shots, clearly paying homage to the classic space opera. A lot of the shots are wonderful, and Interstellar features the best cinematography in any of his films (sorry Wally Pfister), but a few times, I found myself wondering the purpose of some of these shots of the ship "Endurance". Interstellar reaches for the stars, but in act two still seems unsure of where it may land.In addition to great visuals, the sound design and score are top-notch. Hans Zimmer does some of his best work, bringing in a score that is both celestial and organic; it perfectly balances tones we normally associate with outer space, while hitting all the right emotional notes. And the movie knows when to be quiet in space; not just outside the ship, but inside. I loved the moments where things were so silent you could hear the background whirring of computers, the slight creaking of the ship, the breath of the characters. The attention to detail in both sight and sound made the movie feel real.When the plot does finally introduce a "villain" in it's second act, the movie starts to feel it may have overstayed it's welcome. Interstellar runs at 169 minutes, and it's a long one admittedly. Cooper and Amelia, played by a well-cast Anne Hathaway, are finally forced into unforeseeable circumstances, and Christopher Nolan does not hold back. This makes for some heartstring- tugging sequences, and Interstellar may have benefited from stepping on the brakes with some of the emotionally heavy content, but the acting is so good, that it doesn't matter if it's slightly overdone, and it all builds it to a marvelous climax.Interstellar's third act is as stunning as anything I've ever seen in film. For critics who thought Inception was proof that Christopher Nolan was not very imaginative visually with free reign, Interstellar proves them wrong. Thematically and scientifically, the movie dares to challenge, it dares its audience to follow into the unknown, beyond the horizon. I am still trying to wrap my head around it all.Nolan's blockbuster epic is not perfect, and it's not for the common audience. If you're looking for big action sequences, or looking to turn your brain off for awhile, you're in the wrong movie. It's got some bumps along the way, but Interstellar is visionary for our time, and so bold in its execution, that it is not bogged down by its few flaws. I was thrilled to take the ride. Interstellar is thought-provoking, emotional, cinematic, and a wonder to behold, which in time, should earn its title in the league of great science fiction.Grade: A+


                
Yup Nolan did it again and this time he has taken his movie to another dimension.!!'Interstellar' is the story of a man trying to save his family and then saving humanity from extinction. Its full of space adventure and breath-taking actions on some of the most beautiful and unrealistic locations around the UNIVERSE. To realize Nolan's master-piece it Is better if polish our ideas about space-time theory. We know space is defined in 3 dimensions and Einstein in his theory of relativity uses Time as the 4th dimension. But Scientists in the movie realize that Gravity has the tendency to flow across all these 4 dimensions and thus Gravity is designated to be the Fifth Dimension. It is believed that whoever holds to understand and master the knowledge of this 5 dimensions will be able to move anywhere in Time and Space. In this movie a certain species referred as "THEY" has the knowledge of this five dimensions and it is THEM who wants Humans to save themselves.In the film various Scientific and Astronomical theories are used, and it will help if viewers have a brief idea about them too.Murphy's law- It is an adage or epigram that is typically stated as: Anything that can go wrong will go wrong. A statement relating possibilities with Certainty.Worm hole- It is a bridge, a hypothetical topological feature of space-time that would fundamentally be a shortcut through space-time. A wormhole is much like a tunnel with two ends, each in separate points in space-time. Though undiscovered, Some believe that wormhole could be used to travel through galaxies.Black hole- It is a region of space-time from which gravity prevents anything, including light, from escaping. The boundary of the region from which no escape is possible is called the event horizon. Inside the hole what happens is still a mystery, and that's where Nolan's creativity brings about.The movie is filled with unproved theories and unrealistic scenarios. But the way Nolan has directed it, you wont want to blink you eyes even for a moment. The graphics are, no doubt, marvelous. The cast did a stupendous job and . Though laws has been broken to keep the ending sweet, it is well deserved as LOVE has no rules and no dimensions.Conclusion: Watch it again and again.. and it gets better and better.!


                
This movie is not 1 out of 10, but i have to give this rating so that we can balance its position. Interstellar tries too much to make you belief it is all about science, but the truth is that it is not ! I can can say until Matt Damon appears in the movie, everything goes well. From that point, absurdity and nonsense begin. What the hell is a space ship hanging out into a black hole like taking a walk on the street. Every 3 dimensional object turns into light or energy with black hole's incredible and unmeasurable gravity. However, our full of science movie demonstrates that you can get rid off a black hole with a jet engine !!! After that scene, i realized that this film is way too much more fiction than science. What about, our hero walks into a black hole at one piece ! oops, i forget he is into a space outfit, it explains everything ! This film acts like the Gravity movie, but in fact its more like star trek.
A great science fiction movie, with an amazing plot and of course a very talented director. No one can deny Nolan's talent, all his movies are well made and Interstellar is one of his best works. Some people say that the plot of Interstellar is confusing but I don't think so (maybe because I've watched this movie more than 20 times). Still we can say that it's a bit confusing if you're watching it for the first time but don't worry it won't be confusing after the second or the third watch.Something that really impressed me in the movie is that when something explodes in space, there is no sound, simply because of the vacuum. In many science fiction movies the audience can hear the sound of explosion, gun fire,etc in space, which makes it look less realistic. But in Interstellar every single thing is physically correct, because Nolan had many consultations with physicists to make the movie realistic.Interstellar has many emotional and dramatic scenes too which makes it different from the other science fiction movies. It shows us the pain of a father who left his kids and went to space to search for a new home for the mankind.Interstellar is an amazing movie and it's definitely worth watching.
I know that Interstellar is a sci-fi movie, not just that, but it's also based on theories made by scientist Kip Thorne, actually that's what makes this movie special to many people. Also, the movie shows the most accurate simulation of wormholes and black holes.But the real reason why people feel touched by this movie is the emotions represented by the Cooper-Murph relationship, Brand-Edmunds relationship and Dr.Mann's courage turned into cowardliness. All of these complicated emotions are the foundation of this movie. People may forget all about relativity, wormholes and black holes, but they will never forget the touchy moments through the movie when their tears silently came out.When I compare Interstellar with Inception, I find that the idea of Inception is more original and more creative, while the emotions in Interstellar are far more effective. Both are masterpieces from the great filmmaker, Christopher Nolan, whom I thank for all of his original and unforgettable movies.
Nolan does it again. He gives us a thought-provoking adventure with basis on the past, present, and possible future of humankind. It makes us ponder about how we came about, where and why we are experiencing the current state of affairs, and the possible outcome. Who is responsible for humankind's future? Who do we relate to and why? Are there any "they" out there to guide, help, protect us, or send us to our ultimate fate."Interstellar" follows the journey of a man who is selected to find a possible solution to our dying environment. He stumbles upon a secret, scientific project that might take him to another galaxy where he can find a suitable answer to our problems. What he is told, what happens, and what the others do is what makes the tale so interesting and exciting. However, this is not "Star Wars" or "Close Encounters". It is a original idea that goes beyond what others have hinted at before. What if we dared crossed that border? What if we pushed ourselves a little more? Where does the spiritual and the scientific intersect? Of course, there will be questions about theology, though we hardly hear the characters make any direct references to such entities, but we have a wonderful score that certainly reminds us of what is not being said.In order to get our interests, the outline is laid out, and Cooper (Matthew) is soon on his way to Saturn and the wormhole that will serve as a conduit to the other galaxy where there will be more choices and answers to our questions. Unfortunately, there might not be enough time to deal with the possibilities, and that is where the problem lies. On top of that, there are always surprises along the way, and both nature itself and human nature have a way of coming up with more variables than we care to deal with.Soon the pilot and scientists see themselves in worlds where both gravity, time, and energy take on different manifestations from what we are used to. Some storms are just much bigger and powerful than what we are accustomed to, and there is always hidden agendas, unexpected twists to the story, and our ability to try our hardest when things become really complicated.I truly enjoyed the way some natural events and emotions are explained in very detailed scientific lingo, which might prove fresh to some and too challenging to other members of the audience. What strikes me, too is that though the film appears to slow down for some of these exchanges, it never becomes boring. There is always the lure of mystery, of knowledge, and how the mind is thirsty for some sort of stimulation, and in this film, knowledge is power and salvation, and I found it invigorating and hopeful that books are prominently displayed here.We can see how technology allows Nolan to create a new series of visual and sound effects, which play an important part here, and it is very satisfying to see that space looks "real", and by the time we are taken through the wildest moments of the ride, we are not disappointed. In fact, the climax of the film is even more complex than expected because here is where technology, faith, and the will to survive blend quite nicely. Nolan keeps his characters real, even when it becomes more challenging to believe there is the possibility of another level to the way we understand the word "dimension".All of the performers do excellent work here, with Jessica and Matthew leading the pack. Caine, Burstyn, Hathaway and Damon do very good supporting work, and each one does his/her best to make the story's difficult parts believable and relatable. There is not going to be anyone in the audience who will not believe the way the laws of physics and biology are pushed to the limit because the structure of the film is very intelligent, never going beyond what we understand, and if still a bit incomprehensible, at least it lays the foundations for what might be a more concrete possibility in the future."Interstellar" will have you thinking, believing, and loving every minute those people are on the screen. We have a little bit of everything, and the balances are just right because even a power emotion like love is somehow explained in a logical way that will have skeptics believing that it is as real anything that scientists can fabricate in a lab. "Interstellar" shows another side of Science Fiction, making it more tangible, more real, more heartfelt, and way different from what we have seen before.
I was very interested in this movie, my expectations were very high, luckily I have been satisfied! I can't say it's a masterpiece because I found something that could have been better ( there's an apparent hole plot and some characters could have been realized better) The plot is very difficult and articulated, science is really complicated! Besides movie is very long, but it can not bore, rhythm grows up to the end. The photography is breakthaking, scenes are spectacular and do you not fell the long-duration! screenplay is fantastic, music is fundamental for the movie ( Hans Zimmer composed a fabulous soundtrack ). The special effects are perfect, worthy of an Oscar! Unfortunately, in my opinion, Interstellar has not had the attentions it deserves it's a film you have to see! 9/10 absolutely! not to be missed!


                
Christopher Nolan directs an enthralling space odyssey, co-written with his brother Jonathan. This movie lives up to the hype and is one not to be missed. The earth is chocking as it is a starving Dirt Bowl. The future is dim as farmers are producing less and less to feed the population. Cooper(Matthew McConaughey)is a former test pilot and widower raising two children, fifteen year old Tom(Timothee Chalamet) and ten year old Murph(Mackenzie Foy), who is suspended from school for fighting. She refuses to believe the school books being right, saying the Apollo missions were faked in order to bankrupt Russia's space program.Cooper and daughter stumble across the remnants of the believed to be defunct NASA, where Professor Brand(Michael Caine) convinces Cooper he is the only one to command a mission to be launched into space in search of a new planet that can sustain life. The flight must enter a wormhole that will warp time, but allow a crew to rescue data from explorers, who preceded them. A member of Cooper's mission is Brand's daughter(Anne Hathaway). Deep on the mind of Cooper's daughter is the fact that if and when her father makes it back to earth, he will be the same age or older than her due to the time warp.No little green men, no aliens in sight. There are a couple of highly intelligent computerized robots, so to speak. Visually awesome and enhanced by Hans Zimmer's score. McConaughey seems driven and invested. Young Miss Foy is very watchable. And Jessica Chastain is excellent in the role of the adult Murph. Also in the cast: John Lithgow, Wes Bently, Matt Damon, William Devane, Casey Affleck and Ellen Burstyn. Plus the voices of Bill Irwin and Josh Stewart. INTERSTELLAR is stellar!
(Note: The spoiler is read as a movie trailer as it has snippets of the film that does not affect the main crisis in the film.)To start off, I would like to explain my rating of 9/10. I truly believe that no work of art, be it a literary, theatrical, visual or cinematic work of art whatsoever can be entirely perfect. Thus, as much as I really feel that this movie is the best I have seen in my entire life and deserves 10 stars, I have to hold true to the principle that no form of art can ever be 10/10 because there is always space for improvement. Just like no human being can ever be perfect.Christopher Nolan's Interstellar is really his most complex and most beautiful masterpiece to date. After filming all 3 parts of Batman he has transferred all his knowledge gained from past filming experiences into Interstellar and takes the art of filmmaking to a whole new level. Filming about outer space is especially challenging as Anne Hathaway said that there were no green screens involved in the filming, hence it is a movie that is worth your buck. Even though till date, the gross earnings for Interstellar are about $559 million (and still counting) which is a far cry from Inception with $825.5 million, Interstellar is very underrated as it deserves much more than Inception for this elaborate 2 hr 49 mins movie which is truly well researched, and thoroughly written with a lot of learning lessons to take home.Overall, Interstellar provided viewers with a healthy balance of scientific theories as well as artistic ideas. I truly applaud and respect Christopher Nolan for his keen eye for detail and for his relentless pursuit for perfection. From a scientific perspective, the script was well researched, with many accurate scientific terminologies and theories applied to craft the tense situations that arose in space between the spacecraft and complex machinations of the outer universe. The artistic perspective was, in my opinion, one of the best portrayals of human emotions and human nature that I had ever seen. For the record, this movie was not all about the grandiose task of rescuing the fate of humankind, and of all the scientific equations that need to be solved, the film is so much more than that. It shows us the true power of connections between humans, the many memories we have with our loved ones is powerful enough to overcome anything. It teaches, and exposes us to the endless power of love and it's possibilities. In the end, when Cooper enters the 5th dimensional world, he realizes that love was the key, it was more important than anything else in the world. Not even science was enough to solve Professor Brand's complex gravity equation. All along, he spent his life mercilessly sending hopeful astronauts into space, then cruelly left them stranded there, knowing that there was "something" that was needed to solve the equation but couldn't figure it out. The answer was fairly simple, and he didn't realize it because he did not feel love. It was Cooper whose overwhelmingly powerful mutual love between his daughter enabled him to crack the code and solve the mystery, saving humanity. He was also the only astronaut who had significant family commitments.I feel very compelled to mention evident foreshadowing in the movie, when Dr Brand (Anne Hathaway) said she preferred to go to Edmund's planet instead of Mann's because she felt drawn to it by a powerful force of love for him, (and so goes her long speech about love) Cooper dismissed the idea because he knew it was not going to be productive if they act based on emotions for they needed to consider that Mann's has more viable research material etc. Surprisingly, when Cooper went to Mann's he got himself nearly killed, showing how disastrous it is to not follow the call of love.Combined with the stunning visual effects of space, that were previously reported to be extremely accurate, if not, entirely accurate, it provided viewers with a good educational insight into outer space. For the first time, I actually felt I was watching something that was "real" and "truly existed", not some science fiction movie that consists of nonsensical characters and plots invented that didn't exist. Take "Aliens vs. Predator" or "Star Wars", did they make you feel kind of disappointed that those monsters didn't exist at all after a 2 hour long movie that got you so embroiled in the show? Well, this time, I was certainly not disappointed that black holes existed and there was really such a thing as a 5th dimensional world. There is one central theme that the movie was trying to express, that is " Love has the ability to transcend all boundaries, space and even time."This is a familiar phrase often heard among us and it is no surprise that Christopher Nolan was actually "spacing" his movie based on this.I hope that my review has been useful and that it has been enjoyable reading my innermost thoughts about the movie. Interstellar is certainly a movie that would ignite love in all of our souls.
A team of explorers travel through a wormhole in an attempt to ensure humanity's survival.Going into this I had mixed feelings because some have praised it, others have panned it, and some say it is good with reservations. There were allegedly issues with he sound in theaters, and any number of other issues. Then, when we get to the Oscars, the film gets nominations in the technical fields but not in the top honors.This was wrong. Maybe this is not the best role from Matthew McConaughey or Anne Hathaway. Though, the fact that a "Hathaway hater" like myself enjoyed it should say something. And I think Jessica Chastain should have received a Best Supporting nomination. She easily outshines Laura Dern in "Wild".This may be the greatest ever film about physics.


                
I gave this movie a 9 out of 10 because while it is not perfect because nothing is, I at least thought it was perfect for the genre. I also would like to not that a vote of 9.5 is impossible for some reason and I think that is insane. People say all the time sci-fi is a hard genre and I disagree. The truth of the matter is space is a hard subject to make an interesting movie about.In this movie the only problem is if you have seen Gravity you at least got to look at a beautiful woman on the screen for quite some time. This movie (I have to be honest) Anne Hathaway does not look her best. Which makes sense because how can someone expect to look like a top model while spending so much time in space? Any who I had the pleasure in seeing this movie in 70mmm IMAX film and let me say I highly recommend it. I wish all theaters or at least all of the people wanting to see this film could see it in 70mm. I felt like it was the way the movie was intended on being viewed. Overall great movie for the fans of space. This movie is the dream of any kid that has ever dreamed of space. My second and last tip for those who have not seen the movie yet, is pay attention from the first minute to the last. You have to pay attention or you will miss something. Which we should all know by now since the Director is Christopher Nolan.


                
Before I begin my review, I'd like to say that while I admire Nolan's talent, do I believe his excellence is somewhat over-hyped. Inception, while good in its own right, was extremely overrated and had some flaws. The Dark Knight Rises, being his worst movie, seriously dragged down the Dark Knight trilogy. Coming into this movie, however, I came in expecting a good experience. I had heard all the reviews, good and bad, and came in clean. I came out utterly blown away, and mesmerized by what should be considered Nolan's best work.Now to start: I've seen some good sci-fi out there, whether 2001 or Star Trek, and I had enjoyed them for very different reasons. Interstellar takes the best of both and molds them into a truly beautiful movie.It starts off in what seems to be a second Dust Bowl, where crops are slowly dying and folks are barely scrapping a living. Cooper, a pilot and engineer who had never gotten the chance to go to space, is now living a shadow of his life as a farmer, taking care of his kids in a world where food is scarce and governments have all but collapsed due to global starvation. The setting alone brought me in, and kept me throughout the entirety of the movie.I won't reveal anything after this point, but I will say the movie truly delivers in all aspects, aesthetically and emotionally. Nolan, who is known for being a "cold" and distant director, creates a movie that would make a lot of people cry at the end.One of the biggest hypes for this movie was that it was to be the most scientifically accurate sci fi out there. And for being a movie, it sure didn't disappoint. Though it does exaggerate some instances of time dilation and gravity somewhat, it can be forgiven since the realistic counterparts might not have been as dramatic as Nolan wanted it to be. The design of the ship, the endurance, resembles what NASA expects their Mars vessel to appear like, and becomes an Ark for which the travelers explore the universe.Soundwise, it was overall good. Hans Zimmer delivers his finest piece yet in some truly haunting yet glorious music that captures the feeling of the movie. And though I enjoyed how the music blasted out the dialogue, the parts where it didn't is what needed work. This is arguably the movie's only flaw, as some lines were garbled and were hard to make out. Regardless, the dialogue flaws were overshadowed. Hopefully the close captions on blu-ray will fix these issues.The true star of the movie, though, is not the science, it's the storytelling and plot. Rarely has sci-fi ever given me as many chills as Interstellar has, but boy does it do that and more. There are scenes where you will be on the edge of your seat, totally immersed in an intense and vibrating moment. Plotwise, it's arguably the most human story I've ever encountered, one about family and parental love that Spielberg could only aspire to. The actors and characters complement this well, as Matthew McConaughey once again wows the crowd alongside both is his daughter Murphy Cooper played by Mackenzie Foy and her adult counterpart portrayed by Jessica Chastain. Another pleasant surprise is another actor whom delivers his finest performance yet and steals the show for the 20 minutes he is on. Though it may not win Oscars for acting since Hollywood generally doesn't like sci fi, all four of these actors are worthy.Overall: This movie surpassed my expectations and more, cracking my list for the top 5 movies ever made. Is it perfect? No, but then really is any movie perfect? What I don't get is all the hate that's been generated across the Internet, and makes me think a lot of people need to watch this movie again. If you didn't like it, that's you right, but I for one thoroughly enjoyed this movie. Nolan is an excellent director, and before this his best movie was the Dark Knight. Now he has this movie, which is the crowning jewel of his directing career.Another great part is the fact that this movie inspires me to do more, and contradicts all the dark and gloomy sci fi that's we've seen recently. Instead of focusing on the faults of humanity, it focuses on the best of us, and that's what solidifies this movie's wonder.Go watch this movie folks, watch with an open mind. Be aware that you will not catch everything the first time, and that's OK. Because great movies provide reason to watch it again, and finding new things about a movie you didn't know is just as awesome.Final score: 10/10; right up there with the best of them
