This is one of the blandest and most simplistic depictions of racism I've ever seen in a movie since 2006's trash film Crash.The only part of this movie that passes as okay is some of the acting. But even then I never bought Viggo Mortensen or Mashallah Ali's characters. They tried with what they had, but they had poor direction.There's a distinct lack of grit and cursing in this film about traveling through the south with a black man and that really bugged me.Also for some reason this film is shot like a comedy while tackling a very serious subject, it's a very odd clash... oh my god the worst thing about this movie (besides the simplified story/cartoonishly simplistic view of racism) is the "comedy". I never laughed once at any of the jokes, but I did laugh at Viggo's hilariously stereotypical Italian accent, It's like watching Mario audition for Glory.Also the musical score.for the film is pretty bad and bland, it's mostly violin music played to "enhance emotion" moments. It all feels so manipulative.Anyhoo, I feel old white people will like this movie, but younger audiences will see through this phoney film and be mostly bored.


                
White-washed view of what this would've really been like with two stereotypes as the primary roles.


                
The whole point of this "woke" waste of time is to somehow put together a story where the white guy is an uneducated, racist thug, whereas the black guy is a cultivated, intelligent musician... Take those legos and make a space shuttle out of that.
It's bad, all around. Badly acted, badly scripted, full of cliches and veeery slow. Scenes are set up over and over again to make us understand how racist this one is, and how cultivated the other is. Oooook, thanks ! We get it !
Mortensen would probably give a better performanse as an amoeba than an Italian tough guy. And by the way, Italians are represented here as a Saturday Night Live version of the Sopranos... but really not funny. For a "woke" movie, they'll certainly offend the Italians.
Do not watch this movie.


                
It's so racist towards white people i can't belive no one talks about it. If it was other way around would be all over media . America is degrading and people afraid to say something not to come out racist.


                
It wone an oscar...hell no...to boring,to pretentious,expecting a master piece,getting a shallow script,acting,directing,lack of drama,lack of fire within
and so on..Typical hollywood these days (for past 20 years),giving 'fast food junk' and political mainstream issues is a guaranteed recipe for an Oscar..
What an illusion...


                
I knew this would win the awards. People these days seem to want to produce and watch movies that help us to focus on the division in this country. I'm not sure what showing movies like this hopes to accomplish. I feel that everything is trying to get us to hate each other. I think it would be like showing the native Americans movies about the thing we did to them, the atrocities we committed. I know we need to keep from making mistakes again in the future, maybe that's what this is about. I would love to challenge Hollywood to make some movies that try to accomplish a sense of unity in this nation. I would love to see that. Somehow stop trying to divide us by race, religion or sexuality. Maybe stop us from focusing on what we don't have in common, and focus on what we do have in common. Just my thoughts.
I thought the movie was slow, and not realistic in it's portrayal of the south. Not inaccurate, just didn't seem realistic. I don't feel the writers and directors have lived in the south for any amount of time.


                
A cozy movie about racism. How lovely. What's next? A cozy holocaust movie?


                
Too , long , too boring , , with no dramatism at all,


                
It is not as I expected! It dosen't deserve all the high praise. I would not recommend it. I don't think it will win any awards.


                
