We loved Green Book along with the sold-out crowd who applauded loudly at the end. Based on true story of piano virtuoso, Don Shirley's road trip through the south during the 60's, the film pays tribute to his genius and courage as a black man who tries hard to soar above the ugliness of the times. The elegant trappings of his home and his success as a concert pianist leave him arrogantly cold and lonely, but his life begins to change when he hires Tony as his road trip driver. With a history as nightclub bouncer with Mafia connections in New York, Tony is the antithesis of Don's perfection and their evolving relationship on the road makes the movie soar above the ordinary and become magical. Viggo and Ali in the main roles are remarkable, and it's funny and endearing to watch them discard stereotypes and discover their mutual humanity. What we liked best is the
movie teaches without preaching, it all unfolds through a myriad of natural moments between two great actors and a strong supporting cast. Top all this off with a really good soundtrack, excellent direction and production values, and an audience that laughed out loud and vigorously applauded at the end...this one is a true 10!


                
I saw Don Shirley perform in college in 1966. At the time I simply thought he was a hell of a pianist, using that bass and cello to come up with a unique sound. So when this movie came along, I thought "I saw that guy!" I know the critics are being hard on this film, but I sat for two hours, totally captivated. I know there are stereotypes. Could that be because the repeated actions against minorities and the actions of racists have become so commonplace they seem like stereotypes. I believe the performances of these two fine actor made the show. There is a subtlety to this movie that transcends many others of its type. Yes, there are Southern cops; yes, there are men's rooms that are off limits; yes, there are simplistic views of racism by white New Yorkers. But what I got was a realistic presentation of an evolving friendship. Shirley is abrasive and self-centered; Lip is clueless most of the time. And I believed in them. See this film.


                
Green Book is a wonderful story of overcoming self-condemnation, and the resulting freedom it provides. As the film begins, Tony is locked in a prison of judgment and rejection, not from any conscious effort on his own but rather his circumstances and environment. As the self-assured and self-aware character of Dr. Shirley is introduced into Tony's life, Tony embarks on a journey of self-discovery in which he is forced to confront his own preconceived notions which ultimately stem from his skewed view of himself. As Dr. Shirley helps Tony to see himself as a man beyond his own limiting thoughts, Tony is finally able to step into his true nature as friend to Dr. Shirley.
Everywhere in this film we are reminded that people are complicated, but beyond these complications we are also reminded that everyone is the same, just looking for love and acceptance. The scene where Dolores reads Tony's letter to her cousins is spectacular in this regard. It's interesting that none of the other reviews mention the YMCA scene and aftermath, which for me was the pinnacle moment that the power shifted for these two characters confronting their own strengths and weaknesses.
This film is simply wonderful in its portrayal of humanity, and the people we need in our lives. While it comes to light that Tony's wife Dolores is completely aware of her husband's imperfections and shortcomings, she loves him just the same. But it is confrontation, not love, that is necessary to bring about Tony's redemption, demonstrating that the people who spur us to deep, personal growth are never who or what we expect.


                
This picture should be up for BEST PICTURE. It has everything: great acting, solid script-writing (something that Hollywood really needs), and lots of humor. I wish that Hollywood would make more pictures like this.


                
I saw this at TIFF and loved it from beginning to end. It's a moving true story about two people who forge an unlikely friendship. Thought-provoking but never preachy.


                
Who could've ever greenlit "Green Book"? A (mostly) true story of two men of completely different backgrounds overcoming their own prejudices and the stifling racism of the Deep South of the early 1960s. We'll hire a Danish guy to play an Italian guy, and a guy best known for playing a political fixer and a dope dealer (in "House of Cards" and "Moonlight", respectively) to play a Jamaican-American musical genius. And we'll have one of the Farrelly brothers direct it. How could that possibly become a great movie? Well, it does- primarily through the great performances of Viggo Jorgensen and Mahershala Ali, and the nuanced directing of Peter Farrelly. It confronts the racism prevalent at the time without becoming preachy, and shows its main characters growing through contact with each other, without a complete reversal of their characters (which would've seemed phony). Oh, and the movie looks great, too- the period cars, sets, and costumes really take you back to that time period. A film festival favorite, "Green Book" will hopefully be appreciated by Oscar voters, too.


                
I saw this film in a preview here in Calgary.I've seen Mortensen in films before and thought he was an okay film actor. His embodiment of Tony Lip is totally immersive. I not only believe his Bronx character, but depiction of Tony's growth as a human being is remarkable to watch. I can't say enough about Ali's performance as Don Shirley. It is nuanced and impressive.Watching these two characters interact and change each other is fascinating. This isn't just another road-trip buddy movie. It is funny, it is poignant and it is a brilliantly written and crafted film.The only drawback is, you will have to wait until US Thanksgiving to see it.


                
One of the reasons why I love this movie is simply because we are soooo much more. We as "Black" people have rich, intriguing, moving, and funny stories-I hate that we are sitting around waiting for the Next Great Director make movies in which the narratives do more than entertain. I hope Tyler Perry would be one of those innovative directors, but now I don't care who tells it-as long as it gets told. Thank you to the writer and director for such a moving movie that touches more than my funny bone.


                
This movie has it all......it's a true story done just right. The audience clapped and clapped when the movie ended and no one got up until the last credit rolled. It's hard to believe that this was 1962 and even more frightening to think that some of the behaviors in the movie are being duplicated today in this country. It's a movie that is worth seeing again and again, it's that good and realistic.


                
This film's core thought and social issues are obviously embodied by the African American pianist Don Shirley (Mahershala Ali) who educated at USSR and hires a Italian-American bouncer Tony Vallelonga (Viggo Mortensen) as his driver/ assistant for musical performance tour across the continent of US from the north (N.Y.City) to the south (Birmingham, Alabama) in post war era.
Two social issues are concerned here rather than the lack of literacy of the working class protagonist Tony. One is class relationship of the capitalist class and the working class; the other one is that the African origin and the Caucasian.
The family relationship (loneliness caused by Tony's tour assistant job which has an emotional effect between both Tony and his wife) is something additional to this core social issues concerned in this film.
Among all the locations they traveled, I personally familiar with Louisville, KY where the famous Muhammad Ali (1942-2016) lived as a hometown, KFC also headquartered in that town.
When Toni enjoys KFC fried chickens and throws its born and a coke away from the car window during driving on the town road, we can clearly know his disgusting bad behaviour that makes working class look like a bit unenlightened. It also makes us uncomfortable while seeing the film.
However, the fight scene in the bar at that town is a resemblance to what had happened to Muhammad Ali during his earlier age in Louisville that he was refused from entering a restaurant in that way.
Besides this, the abusive Caucasian police officers falsely flag and arrest Don and Tony at sundown town during car driving on the rainy day. This kind of racist tendency is also a typical everyday scene in the American society.
A capitalist/African American pianist Don teaches illiterate Tony during his job on the tour to help him sending far better written letters to his wife as a sign of Tony's personal development and improvement of his disgusting behaves.
The most tensioned moment of this film is when Don refuses to do the final performance after he gets discriminated by the conservative racist restaurant manager from entering the place for a dinner.
His brave decision to break the deal under such awkward business occasion is nether for the business profit nor reputation but it is for protecting his human dignity.
Remember making a decision is an essence of plotting and the entire story telling to express something important and identifiable for audiences and society in general.Of course, the film is not a far left class war stuff, it is ordinarily intended to harmonise both racial difference and class conflict with such happy ending. The entire framework of film construction is a typical capitalist one.


                
This movie is not only smart and funny, it is incredibly watchable and enjoyable. The cars, the food, the clothes, the background music, the piano playing, the faces and voices of the character actors -- not a dull frame.To story, writing, directing --
This movie avoided the traps that road-trip buddy movies faceplant into. Scenes that easily could have been trite and corny were fresh and sharp. No punches pulled, people ground into the dirt and resurrected by sheer strength of will. Some of the events were so painful and unsparing that I had no idea how the movie would end.Another big thing, the movie wasn't cynical despite some of the ugliness it reveals. Faith, family, honor, are all part of the movie without being in your face. You'll fall in love with the characters.


                
The film, from which at first did not expect delight. The film, behind the ease of irony which hides a deep meaning. A film that you watch without stopping, although this is far from a blockbuster that you have been waiting for for years. It's all about Peter Farinelli's Green Book.The plot tells of a journey through the southern states of a talented black pianist (Mahershala Ali) and his bouncer driver, hired solely for this tour (Viggo Mortenessen). Minor at first sight and a little bydlovaty hero Mortensen during this uncomplicated journey becomes for an esthete pianist a true friend, support and even a treasure of useful knowledge about life and society, and he draws from the boss useful skills in aesthetics, love of art and good parenting.
The plot is very simple, the film looks incredibly easy. Dialogues are written ironically, absolutely not boring, but at the same time they remain filled with meaning for the viewer. The relationship between the characters is the main motive of the film. And how could so different people in all respects be able to become each other friends for life in a few weeks?It should be noted that the leitmotif of 'racism', which at that time was still extremely common in America, especially in the south, was incredibly subtly written. All these hotels are for 'colored', individual cafes, pools and even latrines .. the nuances of that time in the film are shown perfectly, and so that you yourself feel ashamed that this existed. I literally wanted to stand up and give the characters in the face in several scenes.Surprisingly, the director Peter Farinelli had previously shot mostly comedies (and mostly with his brother), and this is his first film in the comedy drama genre. From my point of view, he handled it perfectly and I would love to see what else he would film later, although I can't say before that I set him apart as an interesting director. Perhaps it was the fact that the film was made only by Peter Farenelli very strongly contributed to the 'nobility' of the picture in terms of humor.The funny fact is that one of the screenwriters of the film is Nick Vallelonga, his father was the prototype of the main character Frank (Tony Chatterun) Vallelonga. The script was written on the basis of dictation records made by Nick Vallelonga. Later on these records, Viggo Mortensen learns to speak Italian, because his hero is Italian.The film was shot in the spirit of the 60s, beautiful cars of that time are very well shown, the art of the costume, the receptions in the large houses of the rich public (some 'Gone with the Wind' is immediately remembered)This film is simple, kind, sincere. Without any strain, without life horrors, you know, where someone dies, someone is killed or someone is in prison. The atmosphere of the film is "soft" and light. You literally find yourself in this time, with terrific cars of all colors of the rainbow, men in flawless day costumes of all colors, gentlemen with whiskey at the bar in hotels listening to the brilliant pianist.The Green Book is not a picture of slavery, racism and humiliation, although it touches on these topics. The Green Book is a film about honesty, human dignity, true friendship and mutual support between people. The film is about the fact that it is very difficult to change the ingrained thinking of society alone, even if you are brilliant and famous.By viewing required.


                
I was fortunate enough to see this at a Directors Guild Screening last night. Wow!! Characters, dialogue, sets, costumes, cars..... really transported me to an era I had not experienced. I was sad when the movie ended... the mark of a great film. The scene with the fried chicken in the car was priceless. I could watch it 1000 times.I sense oscar nods for Mahershala Ali, Viggo Mortensen, art department, costumes, writer(s) and director. Absolutely amazing..... Do not hesisitate to see this!!!


                
This film is about the real-life friendship formed between an African American n an Italian bouncer during a road trip thru the Jim Crow South n the Sundown towns during the racial segregation period.
Mortensen was convincing as the family-devoted, street-smart bouncer with a fat belly. By the way his appetite was awesome.
Ali convincingly portrayed the loneliness n his eyes subtly channelized emotions of sadness.
The film dealt with many issues without being preachy.
Apart from the film's important message, the acting by the leads r top notch.
Mortensen n Ali shud be given Oscars for their performances.
One of the best part is the ending which takes place on a Christmas meal.


                
Watched this at a cineworld unlimited screening and was so glad they picked this film! I'm not sure it's something I'd have gone to see had I seen the trailer but honestly it's a film for everyone. The screen was full and was one of the huge screens and only 2 people walked out just to give you a general picture of how the film went down. Definitely will be recommending this to friends and family.


                
This film has a wonderful message. Regarding racism, and the way some individuals in a modern society treat others by simply being colored. I believe that this film did an excellent way of portraying such a miserable, and painful topic. In order to comprehend this film it is crucial to ANALYZE. There was not one weak scene for me. It had a little bit of everything. I laughed.. I Cried. I enjoyed.Amazing! =10/10 stars! :-)


                
I honestly don't understand why so many critics don't like this film as much as the audience. Green Book has a great artistic story, a good script, great acting, it has some great humor, some great drama and poigniance. It's well directed. It has both characters learn from one another and need one another despite often not being able to stand one another. It doesn't show such developments in a preachy kind of way. It doesn't seem to present any silly inconceivable blunders. I felt it was well worth spending 2 hours watching in a theater, and I found it one of the best films I've seen this year. If not the very best.The rest of my review is for the purpose of responding to stupid reviews of people who find a way to hate this movie because of what it isn't as opposed to what it is.Does Green Book have everything perfectly documented about life as a black person in Ali's character, or life as a white person for Mortenseon's character? No. Does it perfectly encapsulate every person's time and experience traveling and living in the south or the north of America at that time and in those places? No. Does it property portray all friendships of white and black people? No. Does the film perfectly show how the police treat people in every instance in the north and in the south? No. Does it feature sad people living their sad lives and learning nothing to effectively encapsulate how terrible and hopelessly serious some issues can be? No. Does the movie strike me as having a groundbreaking quality that puts it as the first or definitively best at doing whatever new ambitious thing it's trying to do? NoFrom my standpoint, these kinds of shortcoming could be said about every single good movie. Even if a movie is groundbreaking, it isn't an excellent film because it was groundbreaking or record shattering. Green Book's purpose is to show the experience of two specific characters along with their friends and family as the main two characters get to know each other. The story as it is told is believable, entertaining, interesting and likeable. And that is exactly what it was trying to be and, in my opinion, that angel serves the film very well. I don't know how perfectly the film was at showing exactly what really happened. But If anyone expects to be able to take a film based on true events as the perfect infallible account, they are the with the issue as opposed to the film.As for what the film didn't cover: If you want all the facts or potential ramifications or heartbreaks of other people in this time going about their lives, you're better off reading some books, looking up some facts, or watching some documentaries about the topics. Nothing can tell every avenue of every conceivable story with perfect detail and accuracy. And a 2 hour movie is far from the ideal way of even try such a task.Movies like Green Book are meant to exist as entertaining peices of art. And that is exactly what I thought Green Book was, and what made it good. I highly recommend this film is that's the sort of thing you like.


                
If you enjoy reading my Spoiler-Free reviews, please follow my blog :)Living in Portugal has a ton of pros, but regarding movies, it lacks serious advantages. The price of admission is expensive, there is only one film theater in my city (every time I want to watch a movie on IMAX or Dolby Atmos, it's a financial effort and time-consuming) and the worst of all, a whole bunch of films aren't released in their original date, especially November/December Oscar-bait movies. Only now I had the opportunity to see Green Book, and I am so mad I wasn't able to write its review in 2018 because this is undoubtedly the best comedy-drama of last year and one of the best overall!With the help of a terrific cast, Peter Farrelly and his writing crew (which counts with Vallelonga's son, Nick) deliver what I think is the best screenplay of 2018. I can't remember the last time I cried of so much laughter in a film. I can't remember the last time I did the latter and still got emotional with the dramatic arc. This comedy-drama sent me through a roller coaster of emotions I wasn't expecting, at all. I went in anticipating outstanding performances (check) and solely that. Since 2019 has already begun, I'm watching the Oscar-bait movies with no real hopes of being utterly amazed.However, Green Book completely took me by surprise. I genuinely don't know why everyone was so shocked when it won Best Screenplay at the Golden Globe Awards. It possesses such a well-written story, filled with brilliant narratives about the most sensitive subjects. It takes the two main characters and elevates their individual arcs into subplots where you begin and end with two completely different personas. It's an extremely relevant film that shows how our world evolved and fought back racism and discrimination, without ever becoming too dark or even dull. It's not more of the same, it's not another movie produced exclusively to send a social message and catch some Oscar nominations. It's a truly captivating story of how two men can change their perspective of another race or even the entire world, by actually spending time with another culture and ignoring preconceived notions.Nevertheless, this well-structured, beautifully-directed and cleverly-written film would be just "good" if not for the two incredible actors, who take this movie to a whole other level. Viggo Mortensen and Mahershala Ali have such compelling chemistry that I wouldn't mind watching them interact for two hours on a car trip. Every single car sequence either produces hilarious moments, filled with tearful laughter, or it drastically changes into a more dramatic and emotional tone, subtly touching delicate topics. I knew Mortensen had a humorous side to him, but I never saw this coming! His timing, his expressions, his Italian accent, his body movements, everything about his performance is perfect. He absolutely nailed his part, by giving me the best time I had at a film theater in a long time, and his Oscar nomination is more than fair. He made a 130-min feature movie feel like a short flick.Ali doesn't come far behind. Obviously, since Viggo has a funnier role to portray, the audience members might feel that he's just there to help his co-star shine, but he does much more than that. Since he brings the drama element to the story, he has a more restrained performance during the first half of the film. However, once Shirley starts getting along with Tony Lip, Ali gradually offers more and more splendid acting moments. He's definitely a supporting actor, but God is he a phenomenal one! Linda Cardellini (Dolores Vallelonga), even though she's only on-screen for a few minutes spread throughout the runtime, also delivers a great performance.Tony Lip and Dr. Don Shirley have quite distinct personalities, besides being from different races. Each character's arc is brilliantly illustrated by Peter Farrelly, who gradually shows how Tony and Don are changing their view of the world and of each other's culture. Either through the witty car sequences or through unfortunate and horrible experiences, these two characters carry the audience on a journey of growth. Change in behavior, mindset and preconceived ideas, by sharing their own culture with another. Even though they were born in different countries and lived through distinguished lifestyles, with contrasting quality of life, they eventually start realizing that what they think of the world and everything else might not be entirely right.Technically, Farrelly controls the movie's pacing exceptionally well, by making a two-hour-ish film feel like half of it. Remarkably-balanced tone and some great cinematography is showed in a couple of scenes. Consistently-filmed and well-edited, even though the latter has small hiccups here and there. Nevertheless, this isn't a film with extraordinary technical attributes, nor it needs them. Farrelly only needed to do "ok" with the producing and filming of a standout screenplay to achieve a fantastic result, and that's exactly what he did.Finally, regarding the controversy surrounding this movie ... See how easy it is to watch a film without being affected by outside matters which don't have a single thing to do with the movie itself? I don't care if someone who worked in the film tweeted something wrong today, let alone years ago. I don't care if someone misinterprets Viggo Mortensen's speech about racism. I don't care if the family of Don Shirley doesn't like how the movie approaches his way of being or his way of life. I don't care if the story isn't 100% true, as long as it succeeds in transmitting the vital message it wants to deliver, while actually being a good film. So, please, stop trying to listen to everything everyone says about a movie or the people working on it, especially nowadays, where chaos is easy to create.Green Book surprised the hell out of me and left me speechless in the end. One of the best comedy-dramas I've seen in a long time, one of the best films of 2017 and, by far, the best original screenplay of the last year. Peter Farrelly and his fellow co-writers delivered a seamlessly-written story, filled with wonderful character arcs and with a quite important message to the audiences around the world. Viggo Mortensen and Mahershala Ali deliver award-worthy performances, especially the former who shows his incredible comedic timing and dramatic range. Still, the most compelling and emotional scenes come from Ali, and he does not deserve to be forgotten. I thought 2018 was going to be the first year without me giving an A+, but guess what ...


                
I really can't add to the superlatives given by others here. This is simply the best movie that I've seen this year. I've given it a ten star review but would really like to have reduced that by half a star because of the inclusion of one scene (YMCA), the subject of that wasn't hinted at before, and wasn't expounded on after. Was Don gay? Who cares and what purpose in the movie was served by the suggestion that he was?I will add the half star back by giving a shout out to David Tinsley who supplied the movie's cars. Period correct, with minor exceptions, and lending an air of authenticity to the film.One minor point that was not explained was what happened to the rest of the trio after their final gig? Did they stay in the south or did they make it home (wherever that was) by Christmas. They did play a minor roll in the story but still, I hate loose ends.
I absolutely loved this movie. Such a heart warming story about true friendships, overcoming prejudices, and battling racism in the 60s. The performances were beyond stellar. I laughed, cried, and even cringed several times at the racial slurs and horrible treatment of Doc. Watching their friendship develop gave me hope, which is something we need more of today. The story is a perfect reminder of how we can overcome things when we come together. I wish everyone would watch this film.


                
Green Book is the greatest film to hit theaters in 2018, period. From the excellent performances of Mahershala Ali and Viggo Morrison to the witty and hilarious dialogue of Nick Vallelonga and Peter Farrely, Green Book will not disappoint. At it's core is an archetypal journey about friendship, love, and understanding. Instead of just a surface level story, Green Book has the rare ability to go below the surface with a cleverly hidden hero's journey and a role reversal that sets it apart from most movies on the subject of race. Rather than a typical "white hero" storyline, Green Book surpasses race altogether, putting forth a narrative of understanding and an exceptional comment on the human condition.


                
I watched the movie and it was a really good experience. I came to know how people were discriminated based on colour. Comedy was like really good. I would really like to watch it sometimes again. Really every single individual must stop discriminating people based on colour,as it is really a biggest sin you have ever commited and there is no forgiveness for that. Respect every human being as they are uniquely designed by the creator as he created you.


                
For today, simply good! If you are looking for a movie with a plot and good story line this is the one you want to see. Real life conversations between classes, races and humanity!


                
Viggo makes a character good at heart. Even in his violent scenes, the anger is understandable. As a history lesson for the way it was, it took men like this to push the envelope. Like when Howard Zinn went down south to teach at an all black girls school. Viggo sees the bigotry in his fellow whites and crushes it where he can, he's a good example for anyone that cares, IMHO. Great movie. Lawson di Ransom Canyon


                
I got tickets to see an advanced 'secret' showing of this movie, a movie I would most likely missed if I had known what it was in advance, but I'm glad I saw it. It's a funny feelgood heartwarming story. Well worth a look!


                
