Where are the good movies these days? Do we really need another "woke" film? Driving Miss Daisy already covered this topic in reverse.Viggo Mortensen, an Italian American? Really? I like the guy, but he was totally miscast and he overdid everything. It was like a bunch of Italian caricatures from Italians in movies, but not real life. Did Peter Farrelly watch the Sopranos and then copied the behavior from that? If you wanna see authentic Italian-American movies there are plenty to choose from like the obvious, Godfather, Mean Streets, Goodfellas just to name a few.Although this isn't a gangster movie, it had those elements in there, but they all felt totally phony. Then an "Africa King" living on top of Carnegie Hall. Really? Is this Black Panther?Let's ignore all the totally unbelievable scenes like the fight in the Copa and everyone just pretends nothing is going on like the band keeps playing etc. That he throws away glasses BECAUSE two black guys drank from them, but then 2 minutes later he has no problem working intimately with a black man. Really? He went from irate racist to civil rights advocate in a few minutes after turning down a gig for the Italian guys, because after showing total contempt for black people, he would just turn down working with his own group of people. Turning down gigs while selling his property to stay alive. Then his mingling with other black drivers and having fun, totally ignoring the original set up of him a staunch racist. Really? On top of being a staunch racist, he constantly listened to black music and knew all about it. Really?Sorry, no genuine racist would drive for a black guy in the south. Not buying that part of it. And no black guy that was that "proper" and insisting on classy behavior would ever hire a low-class guy like. None of it rang true.It was written like it all took place today using language like "traveling while black." Really?Mahershala Ali is just an overrated actor. No one speaks like that and he totally missed the REAL Don Shirley's gay/flamboyant high and fast-talking large personality.The whole time I'm waiting for the obligatory "pulled over by racist cops" scene. Of course, it came. That always has to be part of every woke movie.The movie was idiotic. I didn't buy for one second anything that happened. Amazing how a lot of people are fooled by bad writing, bad casting, bad acting and bad directing.


                
It is almost as stereotypical of a film as Crash. This was made for one reason, to appease. Film and TV are extremely competitive nowadays so we have relentless pandering to every little discrepancy and art has suffered in lieu of profit.Music is dead and so is film now. At least in America


                
I feel bad for the movies and film critics. Oscar for Green Book?! correct me if I am wrong.The whole movie seems arty (Tony's family member will use word "arty" at some point). Mahershala Ali was great in Moonlight (imho), he's awkward in this one. kind of fake. The camera work is mostly shot-reverse shot and very poor on contributing to the whole story/characters. The characters are somewhat left unexplored (psychology). flat. If Don was a lonely man, than why he shines throughout the movie. If Tony is cunning (the whole hat scene), then why all of a sudden he is not. If he is a racist then where is the passage from being one to not? The whole Russian talk. Unnecessary. The whole movie is polished. Kinda cotton candy. Especially the car. Most of the characters are caricatural - New York Italians, black peasants in the field. Some of the characters are blatantly fake - like piano guy or younger police officer. Add to all this the last cheesy song and that's the feel.Maybe for someone unfamiliar with U.S history, people, music and cinema this movie can seem fine, but it is miles away from any reasonable critic award.
I watched this movie on a flight, the airline was quick to update the movie selection with the latest Oscar hits. I started watching with low expectations after reading poor reviews about it after the Oscar win. But it was worse than what low expectations I had. It was dull drab and boring, not remotely funny, couldn't get past the first 15 minutes to get to the message if there was one. Highly missable.


                
What would happen if Oprah Winfrey made Intouchables.


                
Slow ponderous cliche of a film..I thought mortesen who is one of my favorite actors of all time, totally miscast.. His accent was from no Italian Bronx nieghbourhood..He looked like he trying to act Italian not be Italian..The family was again a cliche of actors from central castingUltimately for such an important message in a passage of history it was boring and utterly predictable


                
In real life, I especially hate those opportunistic things - just like the production intention of this movie.
So no matter how much (in some respects) it is praised, I will not give it - and such things - any good evaluation.


                
Not only boring and cliche but also poorly acted. And apparently the family of pianist condemned movie for "hurtful mistruths".A movie about the actual Green Book used by African American motorists in the south is what I was expecting because that's the title of the film! Instead we get a sugar coated, formulaic piece of Hollywood garbage full of inaccuracies. But the IMDB review bots and paid off critics fulled me once again. At least it was free on my flight, the only way to watch this time waster


                
What is perhaps the most telling exchange in this ode to some mystical, post-racial looking back, boy to man story is that of the Kentucky fried chicken dialogue. When Tony consternates that he is "more black" than Don Shirley simply because he eats fried chicken and listens to Aretha Franklin, one can only pause at the absurdity of such an utterance from a presumed first generation Italian American to a African American man presumedly steeped in the 1950s Black Liberation movement. One would have expected Mr. Shirley to take a bat to the back of Tony's head with such a disparaged and, most certainly, historically inaccurate, depiction of American society pre-Civil Rights legislation, Pre-Voting Rights legislation, and at the cusp of a radical consciousness of Black identity still forming its sensibilities for the late-20th C. Placed in the context of American Southern apartheid, with a heap of hand waving by their Northern white countrymen, to suggest a white man of any ethnicity would gladly identify as more black than a African American man in the midst of one of the violent and consequential turning points in American history is not only ludicrous but offensive. The very script contradicts itself when later Tony assaults a police man in Alabama who assailed him with an epithet that for Mr. Shirley was par for the course. If this film is allegory of where we were a half century ago and all we have to look forward to now that we have freed ourselves from America's original sin, one can only contemplate how poorly we understand our own history and our inability to reckon with the utter failure of spirit that is American racism.


                
