I had high expectations based on the positive reviews but was quite disappointed.The story had a good potential to explore a relationship between a sophisticated black pianist who employs a white working class driver as they travel through the US south in the sixties. They have seemingly nothing in common, from the way they were brought up, the way they speak and eat, their family backgrounds and financial situations, their way of treating other people. As they spend time together on the road trip, they start to appreciate each other and learn from each other.What bothered me was that the characters ended up being caricatures instead of being believable. The film tries to depict their differences to the point that it did not make sense. For example, we are supposed to believe that a black musical genius pianist never heard of Aretha Franklin or Little Richard? Or that he never tried fried chicken? I also thought that Viggo Mortensen was slightly over-acting.... The racial problems were not depicted in an authentic way.The movie just received an Oscar nomination for Best Picture, likely because of the social commentary and not because of great film-making.


                
How did this film even get considered for an Oscar? This is low grade pap, unchallenging, unbeleivable, dull and so cliched its difficult to believe a fine actor like Mortensen would get involved. And why cast a Scandinavian as a Bronx Italian? Mahershala Ali has done himself no favours either creating a cartoonish 'sophisticate', though the hand doubling during his piano playing was impressive. This is heavy handed populism, shallow and self-righteously preaching, reducing a complex social struggle to simple stereotypes. The cinema landscape of 2018 must be very lacking for this to be lauded as it is. But then in reality it is not, with Masterpieces like Roma on display, its just that the Oscars is not really as important as it would like to be.


                
Couldn't watch this beyond the 50 minute mark. No chemistry between the leads and their dialogue felt scripted and forced.


                
Is it me, or is Viggo REALLY over-acting in this film? I found his portrayal of Tony to be a one-note caricature of a numb nutted Itailian slob. Not only that, but the whole movie was like a bad TV movie. And that description no longer holds up because it's Television (specifically cable television) where all the truly great storytelling takes place now. The writing in this film was trite at best, and overly dramatic at worst. This is the second movie starring Viggo I couldn't stand. The other film was, The History Of Violence. Not sure I will pay to see another one of his films.


                
The whole time I was watching this I kept thinking of Driving Miss Daisy. I think the Academy will honor the movie because they feel guilty about all the racism that is going on in the country right now. They aren't honoring the best film of the year , just a film that makes them feel less guilty about what is going on right now.
Cant believe this cliched, regressive movie that caricaturized Don Shirley got Best Picture


                
So superficial. Without conflicts. It's impossible to believe in Mortensen's character: noboby can't change its highly racist behavior so easily.


                
They keep trying to redempt the white guy the whole movie. Also funny how a Nick Vallelonga's tweet came up supporting Trump and Muslims banishment, even though the star of his movie is Mahershala, a Muslim. By the way, Mahershala is one of the few good things about the movie.


                
White guy acts racist to black guy. Black guy's white driver steps in to save the day. Repeat.White driver acts ignorant about everything. Black guy corrects white guy or acts offended by him. Repeat.White driver and black guy get closer. Repeat.These are the three types of scenes in the movie. What's the point of the movie? It's not a feel good movie. It's depressing.Dr. Shirley puts up with Tony. I didn't see them as friends at all. So, I didn't get that criticism of the movie in terms of historical accuracy.However, making Tony the main character was not very good. He is not a very redeemable character. Nor does Tony ever seek redemption.
I get the point. American guilt about its attitude to race. It has a message but too what end? The USA is still deeply divided.
What is the story trying to say? It was bad then but now things are SO much better? Nope.
2 guys, a cultured lonely black gay guy driven by the cartoon character Italian dumbo on a long 'journey' to enlightenment, with an 'in time for Christmas' ending.
Nothing adequately explored, nothing new to say. It is a lovely story based on true events, lovely photography, good acting.
I'm just left not feeling much about either character.
It's all been done before only better.
Nothing special. I didn't like it at all. Very boring movie.


                
Just.....no."Green Book" is the kind of movie my mom likes, and trust me, that's not a compliment. It's for people who are willing to watch a movie about racism as long as the black character who's the victim of it is whiter than any of the white characters. It's for people who want to pat themselves on the back for being open to a "serious" movie that doesn't challenge a single belief or make them the slightest bit uncomfortable. It's for people who like music cues that tell them exactly what they're supposed to be feeling at every single moment. It's for people who think the answer to racial problems is for whites and blacks to compromise and find some middle ground where they can agree to overcome their differences, as if black people have any responsibility in the fact that they have been marginalized ever since the very first one set foot on American soil. No one who is the slightest bit tuned in to racial problems in contemporary America could possibly stomach this movie.Personally, I found it to be patronizing and damn near insulting. It consists of scene after scene of our black protagonist getting himself in trouble, only to be saved from the situation by the white guy. By the end, the white guy has taught him how to be more black and embrace his own culture, which in this movie is defined by liking fried chicken, listening to Little Richard and Aretha Franklin, and playing some funky piano. Oh but wait, defenders will say. The white guy learns something too, like how to be less racist and how to write really good love letters to his wife. In fact, the entire guys' racist family learns to not be racist by the end and welcomes the black guy to their Christmas dinner. They're just casually racist, you see, but not racist in ways that really matter. Barf.Seriously, this is the Sesame Street version of racism. In a year that gave us "BlackkKlansman," "Blindspotting," "The Hate U Give," and "Sorry to Bother You," all movies made by minorities about the black experience in America, it's pretty telling of where we are as culture right now that the race movie mainstream America glommed on to was this piece of feel-good hoo-hah. Mainstream America doesn't want to have its beliefs challenged, and it certainly doesn't want to be told it's part of the problem. Instead, it wants a hallmark movie that makes it feel good about itself.One thing saves "Green Book" from being an utter waste of time, and that is the performance of Viggo Mortensen.Grade: D


                
The green book tells a story about an upper-class black male who never eats KFC and wears fancy cloth all the time and a typical working-class Italian-American(usually if not always tall, brave, humorous, have a pretty wife and two lovely kids though a little bit racism) become to appreciate each other during the trip. Althougth i didn't see the movie through my guess is the Italian-American become a perfect man(tall, brave, humorous, have a pretty wife and two lovely kids and now unprejudiced).


                
I Have To Say Green Book is Truly One Of The Most And Best Comedy/Drama Movies Of 2018. Based On a True Story Of An Working-Classic italian- American Bouncer Name Frank "Tony Lip" Vallerlonga Who One Day Gets The Opportunity Of a Lifetime Simple is Job is To Be a Driver To Drive An Classical Painist Name Dr. Donald Shirley On a Tour Throughout The Deep South And Along The Way Both Men Descover And Witnesses All Of The Racist And Racism That Still Was Going On Back in 1962 Where Black Africa Americans Were Not Allowed To Use The Bathrooms in The White Color Folk Houses Only They Use a Outside Bathrooms While They Cannot Come into Bars Or Even Share a The Shame Bathroom Or Showers With An White Guy And Some Slavery Was Still Going On During That Time in Some Parts in Medwest Deep South Also These Two Different Guys Share a Common Bonding Relationship As They Share Their Feelings With Each Other And Learn To Respect Each Other As Well And Along The Way Tony Lip And Donald Shirley Get Themselves into Trouble By The Mean Racist Cops As They Pull Over The Car On The Side Of The Road For Driving in The Wrong Part Road Of The State Thar They Are Coming From And Also Running into Loco Racist Gangs including Bar Owners And Restaurant Waiters. This Film Green Book is Directed By Peter Farrelly One Of The Brother Duos Who Done The 90s Comedy Cult Classic "Dumb And Dumber" With Jim Carrey And Jeff Daniels And "There's Something About Mary" With Cameron Diaz, Matt Dillon And Ben Stiller. Viggo Mortensen Delivers One Of His Best Performance Roles Of His Career And Mahershla Ali Also Delivers One Of His Truly And Finest Performance in Excellent Comedy/Dramatic Film From Excutive Producer Octvia Spencer "Green Book" is One Terrific Film About Two Guys That Share incedible Journey And The Adventure Of a Lifetime That They Embark On.


                
