There is nothing new in Green Book. The same story has been told many times by the Hollywood propaganda machine - improbable interracial friendships where the black man has to do all the emotional heavylifting in order to make our white protagonist slightly less racist. This "friendship" is ultimately portrayed as a mutual exchange of perspectives, where both sides manage to find common grounds with each other and come to understand their shared humanity.This is the archetype of the liberal humanist narrative, where power structures are conveniently ignored, and where political oppression and economic exploitation is reframed as nothing more than differences in culture and perspectives. As a result, according to this ideological narrative, the purpose of (liberal democratic) politics is reconciliation and compromise, as opposed to struggling for emancipation. The problems of structural violence and economic exploitation is reframed as individual prejudice and actions, which can be changed by respectability politics ("they go low, we go high") and this bland humanist appeal to the oppressor's conscience.This is the deeply ideological narrative of Green Book and countless other stories, from Driving Miss Daisy (1989) to The Green Mile (1999) to Gran Torino (2008) to The Help (2011), where the real problem - the irreducibly structural problem - is always erased in favor of a feel-good humanist drama that appeals primarily to middle-class white guilt. Year after year, middle-class white audience can walk out of these Hollywood films with a smug face, complacently declaring that they're glad that "racism is finally over."Many people defend this film by saying that there's nothing inherently wrong with a comedic and light-hearted approach to serious social and historical problems. What they're saying is not wrong. In fact, some of the greatest works of cinema (and art in general) is about people finding humor and spirit in extreme positions of subjugation and poverty. Yet these artworks depict poverty and oppression with acute social awareness and compassion, instead of flattening them into bland archetypes or straight-up ignoring them, which is what Green Book is guilty of.Here we have two characters - an educated upper-class black man who is completely isolated from the culture and social conditions of his people, and a racist working-class white man who is portrayed as a misguided good-hearted person. The class dimension is never explicitly challenged or fully confronted, especially Don's bourgeois sensibility. Instead, the film focuses on how the two can learn from each other and become better persons - Don becoming more down-to-earth and in touch with black popular music, and Tony becoming less racist. Yet the film never backs down from its pedagogy of respectability politics and never challenges its narrative of black exceptionalism. What does the film ultimately show about Don and Tony's friendship? It shows that only an exceptional, upper-class, respectable, talented black man can change the racist attitude of a white working-class man, and the film invites the audience to participate in its complacency, its classism, and its outrageous reductionism.The problem is not the humorous approach, but the absolutely reactionary myths about racism and racists that are perpetuated in this film, and the bourgeois complacency that this film engenders, which does nothing but reinforce the continued whitewashing and cooptation of the civil rights strategy, and the perpetuation of assimilationism, respectability politics, and reconciliationism.


                
Ernest but flat. Inter-racial friendships have been a topic in American films for over 50 years. The emotions between the two main characters here came across as forced and inauthentic. Why choose the Danish-American Viggo Mortensen to play an Italian-American from the Bronx? His portrait was an amateurish embarrassment. Almost grotesque, but supposed to get laughs. And Ali's character, Don Shirley, does things down South that would most likely get him killed---I doubt the incidents in the movie truthfully matched the real-life happenings. It looked like a movie about Americans that was made by Canadians. Full of false notes, with no real flavor.
This movie wasn't even a crowd-pleaser where I saw it (NYC). Don't expect Tony to beat-up every racist we see, Buford Pusser style. Just lame confrontations that didn't satisfy or really address the racial problems in a believable way. So here's one lone knock on a movie that got a mystifying amount of good reviews.


                
Good film when you ignore the blinding historical discrepancies and the overarching white saviour trope.
Ali was the strongest actor of the bunch and sometimes you couldn't tell if he was in character or just fed up with the film itself and honestly, mood.
The soundtrack outside of the actual music was generic at best and outright annoying at worst, mainly towards the end of the film.
When their road trip is ending it kinda takes a weird tonal shift and starts to feel like a hallmark Christmas movie, I understand that it is Christmas within the timeline and they wanted a nice heartwarming ending but it felt forced.
The film tries hard to be a feel good movie but ends up leaving a bad taste in your mouth, Had potential and would be better if it were in the hands of a black director and writers who actually consulted dr Shirley's family instead of just Tony's son.


                
This a way to shallow buddy movie. It's just not offensive enough to make this relationship work. Instead, you have two almost cartoonesque characters who just don't bring the magic. The main promise of this film is to stay political correct towards everyone. Playing it save is not always good I guess. So is bad writing. Unbelievable scenes make it a worthy contender for the Golden Raspberry Award. But I guess me not living in the USA, is the reason why I don't get the Oscars. And yes I do like both actors, especially Viggo Mortensen. They were just cast in to a perfectly boring/shallow film.


                
An OK film, but has been overhyped and not sure why it got the oscar. It has a few nice moments, but there's not much beyond the usual cliches. Finding it out it was based on a true story was the only real surprise and was heartwarming enough.


                
History shows that what makes people better is their education and not their skin color. While spend it on monotonous trips. Obviously, this film took relevance due to the current political agenda that is handled in the USA.


                
Driving Ms Daisy role reversal. Even won best picture for some ungodly reason, in a year with Roma The Favourite and Blackkklansman. A revolutionary picture where a white man has to teach a black man how to be black. Vigo Mortenson is just a goomba, a ridiculous Italian stereotype. Mahershala elevates the bones of the script to something slightly better. Over all, Oscar bait of the highest order, the fact that any one of the old white academy voters were tricked into voting for this forgettable movie is beyond me.


                
Is no one giving to mention the shameless product placement? Not satisfied by simply showing the KFC bucket, lines were written extolling the virtues of this 'artery clogging' foodstuff.How did this confection warrant the Golden Globe award when it appeared to be devised to sell fried chicken? Enough is enough!


                
After "Driving Miss Daisy" (1989), "Dances with Wolves" (1990), "Forrest Gump" (1994), "Crash" (2004) and, now, "Green Book," I guess Hollywood is just going to continue patting themselves on the back for not being racists because they honor pictures where stupid white protagonists are taught to respect racial others as human beings. As opposed to the infamous failure to nominate a racially more challenging and sophisticated picture such as "Do the Right Thing" (1989) for Best Picture the year "Driving Miss Daisy" won it, this time, they gave Spike Lee an Oscar, too, for "BlacKkKlansman" (2018), a film that I think has its own faults, but, at least, it's not simply a message picture of "racism is bad, but look how far we've come" for the dumb and dumber. And, at least, there's some cinematic flair to Lee's film, as opposed to this modest improvement upon a filmed play such as "Driving Miss Daisy."In quite a few ways, "Green Book" is a modest improvement upon "Driving Miss Daisy" in that it largely tells a similar story in a similar way without itself coming off as quite hypocritically racist. It's about the least one should expect after 30 years of cinematic and social changes--or lack thereof. In it, another white person who also faces some prejudices against them (in this case, for being an Italian American; in Miss Daisy's case, for being Jewish), and again from that white person's perspective, travels by car with an African American through the Jim Crow South. (Both movies even privilege their "home" turf, as it were, as not as racist as other places. In "Driving Miss Daisy," Atlanta somehow came off as not nearly as segregated as Alabama, and in "Green Book," the two are welcomed home to New York by a friendly police officer in contrast with the backwater cops they meet on the way to Birmingham.) They bond, and through their experiences with their black friend, the white protagonists stop being racist. But, this time, the white person is driving, and the black man sits in the backseat!To be fair, Mahershala Ali's Don Shirley is not entirely, or at least not atrociously as much so, the Magical Negro trope that Morgan Freeman's Hoke is in "Driving Miss Daisy." The historically-based character of Shirley has a life outside of helping the white protagonist with their character arc, which the movie addresses, if only almost entirely through the lens of the white protagonist and ultimately how it affects him. In a way, it's a traditional sidelong-glance biopic, where the life of the more interesting figure (Shirley) is seen through the point of view of a more common folk (Viggo Mortensen's Tony), as a surrogate for the spectator, for one assumes because that's how the storytellers see us spectators. Additionally, Shirley is not the white writer's fantasy of a subservient African American that is Hoke. Moreover, Miss Daisy's conversion is rather unconvincing, but "Green Book" leaves little doubt that Tony has transformed. Ali and Mortensen are good actors, too, which helps. Clearly, they were dedicated to their characters (most conspicuously by Mortensen gaining 45 pounds for the role).Nevertheless, a movie that's written and directed by and mostly made by white people, through the perspective of a white character, as a surrogate for an intended white audience, to feel good that they, too, have overcome historical racism doesn't really cut it as authentically anti-racist. This comforting, hand-holding seminar from a narrow view of a vast and historical problem, another whitewashed picture about prejudices against racial others won't transform anyone.


                
I watch movies to simulate my mind to think and to be entertained. First of all, I don't want to hear about politics in movies so leave it out. This is full of it and in turn made it to be a shallow film. It's in the past get over it and maybe you could make a movie with watching. Secondly, this is not a new plot. In fact, stop kicking the horse. Acting was good, but please be creative and will your in stories if you're capable. If not, go bad groceries at the Piggly Wiggly. The plot was incredibly weak and boring. I do give props to the actors, however. In closing, you can polish a turd all you want, but it's still a turd.


                
Yes, we know black people was discriminated against. Unless you want you want to pay to be educated about race issues skip this one.


                
After reading brief biography of main character I was expecting a jazz filled fest adresing contemporary problems. What I got is boring road movie, completely predictable with all cheese Hollywood schemes and even more predictable ending. If it wouldn't be for Viggo's performance and fantastic job of scenographers I would give a single star to this otherwise lengthy and boring mediocre spectacle.


                
Terrible acting, TERRIBLE. No chemistry between the two main chracters. Cliché all the way through. What was the Academy thinking?!


                
