... just that it's so inoffensive, safe, and cliche that I feel like I've seen it a million times before. Mortensen and Ali are terrific actors, and I am thankful for them. Without their charisma (and Viggo's willingness to shove insane amounts of food down his throat), I fear Green Book would be dead on arrival.Mostly, I think this is a movie that's desperately afraid of 'offending' anyone. For instance: if there's a scene with racist cops, there will also be a scene with a good cop down the road, just to make clear that the movie is not stating or suggesting that 'all cops are/were racist'. It's also funny that the good-cop scene happens in the snow, to let us know the characters are back in a blue state, where supposedly life wasn't so bad for a black man after all! This is one of the many simplistic moves that indicate to me that the filmmakers were willing to sacrifice the complexities of their themes for a feel-good entertainment.The script wants both characters to 'learn' from each other and eventually change and grow, but to make this happen, it turns them into unrealistic caricatures. It's a bit frightening how Shirley is portrayed as a complete ignorant of black culture, but it had to be this way so Tony can be the one to 'introduce' him to it. Tony's transformation comes simply from witnessing racism first hand, as if he never experienced such a thing in his life before - maybe another consequence of this being a blue state-red state movie??So besides the performances, that speak for themselves, I think it's a very uninspired effort. At one point the characters leave the car for no reason other than to have a dramatic confrontation in the rain, as if rainy night equals 'dramatic weight'. I saw it in a packed movie theater and people seemed to enjoy it. You can't blame them. The movie has a 'now everything's fine' conclusion that can leave audiences in a good state of mind - but it also
shows how simplistic it really is.


                
Right off the bat I want to say that I thoroughly enjoyed this movie.the cinematography was beautiful with such rich color pallets. The score was wonderful and set the tone very well. Lastly the acting was incredible. Viggo and Ali shined in their roles and did a great job at portraying their characters.That said, in my mind the movie was nothing special. It was all very predictable and had a very similar feel to many other civil rights movies in which a black man and a white man start off the movie with a reluctant relationship and slowly warm up to each other as they begin to appreciate their similarities and eachothers troubles and eventually defy all social norms and become good friends. I'm not saying that they shouldn't have become friends because you can't rewrite history and this movie was based on a true story. I just wish that story telling was a bit more ambitious and delved into some of the ideas deeper rather thank making a well made but otherwise mediocre civil rights movie.
I understad why a lot of critic's don't like this film, but at the same time I feel like they're making up their minds about what they think the movie is - or should - be about. They (who disagree with the film) will say that it diminishes the horrors that the black community faced in America during the 50's - and because of that they think it's a bad film. But I thought it was a good film; in my opinion it's not a movie about Shirley and his struggles facing ruthless racism - it's about Tony Lip's psychologically reforming journey changing his mind about black people through the witnessing of Shirley's experiences. And it's that central story line the critics are disagreeing with and eschews the whole film on the premiss that it should've been about something else (Shirley journey - not Tony's).There are thousands - if not millions - of films about racism towards black people and their culture, and Green Book had a different perspective than the rest of them - by not focusing on the racism but on how the racism changed a man who wasn't a target of it. But that's obviously a big no-no according to these critics.To me Green Book is about a white man thoroughly changing his whole mindset about something that he'd been condition to abide to his whole life.


                
Deals with racism and other sensitive subject matters far better than a lot of other movies I've seen recently. The two leads Mortensen and Ali have great chemistry together and the movie has a warm vibe that movies use to have in years gone by.


                
It's 1962 New York City. "Tony Lip" Vallelonga (Viggo Mortensen) is a nightclub bouncer and a tough guy ingratiating himself with gangsters. When his workplace gets shut down for a two month renovation, he gets a job driving peculiar classical pianist Dr. Don Shirley (Mahershala Ali) to his concerts in the deep south.There are issues but the movie has its heart in the right place. I don't mind the racist Tony Lip finding redemption and friendship in Shirley. Viggo is doing it pretty broadly but the main problem is Shirley. There are scenes where Farrelly is desperate for humor but it only heightens my disbelief. First is the cringeworthy KFC. It's crazy that a man has never had fried chicken despite coming from the south. The point should have been that he prefers not to eat fried chicken (and watermelon and collard greens and grits). It's not that he doesn't like it. He avoids it to avoid his roots. The same goes for the music. He's a musician for heaven's sake. Maybe he's not up to date but he had probably studied aspects of modern music and he's probably met a few of those artists. It's all wrong. His broadly played homosexuality is also a little awkward. I was really scared where Farrelly was taking that until it was saved by Tony who as a nightclub bouncer claims to have seen it all. It's a nice surprising twist to his character and in keeping with his transactional nature. Even the letter writing could be improved if some forethought had occurred. There is no reason why Dolores would go gaga over the letters when she suspects that it's Shirley's writing. She should hold back on the affection with the other girls going gaga. Only when she gets the house letter does she goes head over heels. It would show that she knows him best. These little nagging issues keep the movie from being great although I still enjoyed it.


                
Based on the lives Don Shirley (A Pianist) and and Tony Vallelonga (A Bouncer), 'Green Book' is a surprisingly pleasant effort by Writer-Director Peter Farrelly, who delivers his most sensitive film to date. Farrelly known for madcap comedies, takes a different route this time, and delivers a road-film, that explores friendship and racism, with heart.'Green Book' Synopsis: A working-class Italian-American bouncer (Viggo Mortensen in a showy performance) becomes the driver of an African-American classical pianist (Mahershala Ali, mastering in subtlety) on a tour of venues through the 1960s American South.'Green Book' works because this is a truly heartening story of diversely different people who formed a bond, despite their differences. And Farrelly, along-with Co-Writers Nick Vallelonga (Tony Vallelonga's real-life son) and Brian Hayes Currie, makes sure the ride is memorable. Though the film does get monotonous at times and also feels about 15-minutes longer than should've been, 'Green Book' is a charming road-film, that is, in equal measure, humorous and serious.Tony and Don's relationship is nicely captured, as it begins from awkwardness to true friendship as the story progresses. The entire ark of its characters is well-done, like Tony's racial attitude towards Don initially and how their friendship forms, to Don realizing the power of being himself, deserves credit. Even the entire backdrop of Racism subjected toward Don, offers some hair-rising moments, that definitely leave you angered. The Writing, though imperfect, is well-aware of the times the story is set in (1960's) and presents a story that appears authentic, rather than frothy and artificial.Farrelly's Direction is competent. It's good to see the otherwise zany director, explore his subtler side here. Sean Porter's Cinematography is excellent. Patrick J. Don Vito's Editing is decent, but could've been crisper.Performance-Wise: Viggo Mortensen and Mahershala Ali are in fine form, yet again. Viggo, nailing the Italian accent and gulping down food like a true foodie, has a blast playing Tony, and it shows in every frame. Ali, on the other-hand, portrays the subdued Don, with grace and restraint. And the on-screen camaraderie between the two, is infectious. Of the supporting cast, Linda Cardellini as Tony's Wife, is extraordinary.On the whole, 'Green Book' charms. Make time for it.


                
I like this film but I could see EVERY cliche coming a mile away!
Regardless of its veracity, Green Book offered a tame but warming story of race relations in the 60s. Viggos character felt a bit like an overly wholesome stereotype, but nevertheless like able, while Ali's role seemed very dependent and vulnerable. Nothing is spectacular about the film but still a well done, feel good fick.


                
"Green Book" is a sure fire crowd pleaser, but you probably knew that already.We've all seen this before: two people from totally different worlds meet, clash at first, learn to like each other, and realise they're not that different after all. That's the lesson for us cretins in the audience: it doesn't matter what colour we are or where we're from or blah blah de blah blah. It's a lesson that used to be exclusively sold to preteen kids, but in the world of the new millennium, this stuff is considered acceptable to preach to adults and nobody gets offended at the condescension.But how bad is it, really? Not bad at all, of course. It's the performances: two of the finest actors in the movies up there on screen, and most of the action in the dialogue. There were times when I forgot how trite it was, but the movie had a way of reminding me.


                
A great movie with a thousand facets with an excellent picture that immerses you even more in the story depicted. It makes you smile, makes you think, makes you excite but, for my taste, it is not an Oscar movie ... How they paint Italians is overly caricatural!


                
A feel-good movie before anything else, a sweet story with lots of heart. Really wish this kind of a thing would win the Best Picture this year, but it doesn't seem to be in the stars for it. Great chemistry between Ali and Mortensen. Not for cynics.Rating: 7/10


                
"The Negro Motorist's Green Book", which took its name from its publisher, one Victor Hugo Green, was guidebook published between the 1930s and 1960s. Its purpose was to help black travellers find hotels and restaurants that would accept them at a time when many such establishments, especially but not exclusively in the South, operated a colour bar. (It will probably come as a surprise to younger viewers to realise that, as recently as the sixties and seventies, the words "negro" and "coloured" were still regarded as perfectly respectful ways of referring to black people. Indeed, in some contexts they were regarded as more acceptable than the word "black" itself).The film tells the true story of a tour of the Midwest and Deep South undertaken by Don Shirley, an African-American musician, in 1962. Although he was classically trained, there was a widespread feeling at the time that classical music was "white man's music" and that the public would not accept a black classical pianist. His recording company therefore signed him as part of a jazz trio. The film is told from the perspective of Shirley's driver Tony Vallelonga, an Italian-American New Yorker. Tony takes the job because he is temporarily unemployed from his normal work as a nightclub bouncer while the club is being renovated; the concert promoters anticipate that Don is likely to get into trouble with racist elements in the South and that Tony's skills as a bouncer will enable him to double up as Don's bodyguard.The plot of "Green Book" is essentially that of "Driving Miss Daisy" in reverse; a working-class white man acts as chauffeur to an educated, well-to-do African-American employer. The relationship is initially a difficult one, although the differences between Don and Tony are dealt with in a largely comic way, reminiscent if the differences between Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau's differences in "The Odd Couple". The refined, fastidious Don takes exception to Tony's crude manners and to his standards of honesty, whereas Tony sees Don as a conceited snob. As the tour progresses, however, their relationship becomes a closer one. Tony comes to appreciate Don's skills as a pianist and his literacy, which comes in useful when Don assists Tony with his letters home to his wife Dolores.Things take a darker turn when the tour enters the South. Don innocently wanders into a whites-only bar in Kentucky and has to be rescued by Tony when he is threatened by a group of angry locals. Tony, whose views on race were previously not particularly liberal, begins to change his mind when he sees the depth of hostility and prejudice displayed by many Southern whites towards blacks. Things come to a head when Tony and Don arrive at their final venue, a country club in Birmingham, Alabama and the management, although happy to allow Don to perform for their guests, refuse to let him eat in their whites-only restaurant.The film has been praised- in my view rightly- for its acting, with Mahershala Ali, who plays Don Shirley, winning a "Best Supporting Actor" Oscar and Viggo Mortensen (Tony) being nominated for Best Actor. Now I have no problem with the quality of Ali's acting, which was certainly deserving of an award, but the fact that Tony was clearly perceived as the main character suggests there was something odd about the focus of the movie. It suggests that this is a film about racism seen through a white man's eyes, even though black people were the main victims of that racism, and that Don has been relegated to the position of a supporting character in what should have been his own story.And Don's, I think, would have been the more interesting story. He is an affluent, educated black man whose lifestyle in the cultural milieu of New York has isolated him from the great majority of black Americans- he admits that he has little idea of how they live or of the problems they have to cope with- and yet who is not accepted as an equal by many white Americans. A complicating factor is that he is either gay or bisexual, thus making him a member of two different minorities at a time when prejudice against homosexuals was even more deeply rooted in American society than racial prejudice and was shared by both white and black Americans. Don's sexuality, however, is only mentioned in one single scene, when Tony has to bail Don out after he has been found in a compromising position with a white man in a YMCA bathhouse. During the rest of the film it is not referred to at all. By not pursuing Don's story further, I think that the film-makers missed an opportunity to make a deeper statement about racism and other types of prejudice than they actually did.This was, of course, the film which won the Academy Award for Best Picture of 2018. I will wait until I have seen more of the possible contenders before I give my opinion as to which film should have won, but my views about this particular award were summed up for me in the words of the BBC's film critic Mark Kermode. He said that there is nothing wrong with "Green Book", that it is alright. They just don't hand out Academy Awards for "Most Alright Picture". 7/10


                
Preface to this review before I get to the art itself: This movie is problematic in more ways than one. Not only does it act as though it solves racism by the end (by simply suggesting that people not be racist), it also uses the concept of the white savior (an ideal that everyone should research), which is definitely a move that should be disposed of. If you're willing to ignore that idealism (although you shouldn't), there's more than a few redeeming qualities to this movie.Writing/Direction: Who would've thought that the guy who brought the world Dumb and Dumber could deliver such a deft touch? Peter Farrely (Farelly?) gives us a mushy feeling throughout the whole picture and lets us know he's got it under control. Given the fact that the two leads are in a car the whole time, I'm impressed. The writing, while claimed inaccurate by Don Shirley's family, is definitely impressive in that it uses humor in a well-timed way. I will admit that at the end, I did have a warm feeling inside.Performances: Mahershala Ali has proven himself to be one of the greatest actors of our time with so few performances; his performance as Don Shirley truly is the heart of the movie and succeeds as such. Viggo Mortensen is the lead actor and can hold his own as well, from eating an entire pizza uncut to going through an impressive body transformation to showing off his ability to once again master an accent. Viggo and Mahershala's chemistry just makes everything better, so thank you for that. Everyone else in the cast was just fine, they clearly knew the callibur of actors they were working alongside and let them do their thing.Other than that, it's a relatively basic movie. Yeah, there's some fancy music and some period-accurate production design, but it's just nothing special. That combined with the issues it has socially makes this an alright piece of filmmaking.Opinion: This did not deserve best picture.Green book is not revolutionary, nor is it entirely bad, but it certainly is funny through and through. (7/10)


                
Green Book tackles the difficult and seldom approached issue of racism in America, something still contentious today; however, the script allows both a serious message whilst not muddling the issue with a message too heavy for the nature of the film.Mahershala Ali and Viggo Mortensen are Oscar-worthy, both turning in performances accurately and with subtle nuances giving an added depth. Artistry and costume design is brilliant, along with the depiction of New York at the beginning and end of the film.Overall, Green Book is a pure film with good intentions - the music backs the excellent casting and well-thought script to create a complete piece, worthy of watching.


                
Protagonist are caricatures of themselves. Performances are overrated and way over the top. Entertaining movie, better on DVD or on demand


                
The good: this movie has got a charm about it that is undeniably very enjoyable and upbeat, which I quite enjoyed watching. It has a soft outlook on racism without any harsh images of violence, therefore it is suited to be watched by young children as well. Great acting performance by Viggo Mortenson, who really stole the show as an Italian-American bouncer, who first used to hate black people, but learns to like them pretty quickly, when his new boss is black and pays him extraordinary well.The bad: I must admit I almost fell asleep midway this movie, because the story was purposely made to be so incredibly politically correct, that I got bored beyond belief. The african-american musician is constantly victorious and superior from the very start. The Italian bouncer is portrayed as being completely stupid and racist and ofcourse he will stay stupid, but he overcomes his racism, when his boss pays him extraoridinary well. Both very one dimensional portraits, which become quite boring after a while.Certainly nothing worthy of a best picture oscar, nor of best supporting actor, but it ofcourse DID win both oscars anyway, because this movie offended nobody and was therefore the perfect example of politically correct thinking, which is what Hollywood really loves, because confirming what everybody else is thinking, (or ought to be thinking), is good for the box office and good for the public image, but it will never produce an intelligent, true to life story about racism. This is a white audiences movie about racism, made FOR white people and made BY white people. Very enjoyable and feelgood nonetheless, but a bit bland and sleep evoking at times.


                
I liked their acting very much. Their chances are very high for oscar. Akdemi members like social problems.


                
Of course, it is a good movie embracing beautiful music, good imagery, good acting, etc. But it is still a slow-running road movie whose storyline can be expected well from the beginning.Can Green Book be a bit overrated?


                
Finally saw the Green Book and I understand why there are some dissenting opinions about its merits. My take is it is a solidly good picture, but it also doesn't quite hit the brilliant mark for me as well. Still, what tips the scale beyond being just solidly good is not on the artistry of the making but in the new angle of looking at racial inequality. It seems to suggest for some people, their prejudices based on skin color are more innately grounded and thus, creating almost absurd contradictions in social acceptancy. In short, a person is not quite the totality of his sum, but a collection of fragmented personas which are then treated differently and accordingly depending on the context of what he should be. This is what makes the film so uniquely interesting, this point of view. Viggo Mortensen whom I hardly recognized as the same actor who did Lord of the Rings, or The Road, or Captain Fantastic did a fantastic and transformative job with his character. As for Mahershala Ali, well, he was at least a class or two above in his abilities as an actor in True Detective. Based on this, I must hand it to the director of this show, Peter Farrelly. He is only solidly good, but not quite brilliant yet.


                
The world is full of lonely people, afraid to make the first move.
I'm not black enough, and not white enough, and for my own people I'm not man enough, so who am I?


                
Brilliant performances from both lead actors and the story itself felt like a brilliant message. The more we learn about the people we don't commonly associate with, the less likely we are to be prejudiced to them. My only issue and this on a personal level, the movie felt long, I get it's essentially a road trip but at times felt boring as a result.


                
This was a good film and on an EMOTIONAL LEVEL I did enjoy it. The performances were amazing yet I loved Mortensen's one better (hard to believe he's Danish).The big problem about it though is that it tries to be too safe and kid-friendly. At times it really feels like it was written as a cristmas miracle story for kids to enjoy.It kind of wants be a serious story about the morale and the people of the time, but everyone besides the main duo are too cartoonish to be beliveable. It kind of brings up the issues of racial segregation but it's afraid to show real racist white people and the negatives from the other side. It shows hard working African Americans on the field to give contrast to the Doc (and to show later that he doesn't feel like he belongs to anyone, even his own people) but it falls into some sort of social justice commentary, when the whole point of capitalism was to give equal opportunities, so if the Doc was educated, worked hard and was paid well it doesn't mean he has to feel guilty before those hardworking farmers. The YMCA reveal scene was kind of made to show why Frank is called "Tonly Lip" but the set up was so unnecessary forced I can't really tell why they went for it in the first place. The ending was cartoonish and family friendly, which is ok, but it really goes on big stretches with some stuff, like the Doc wishing a Merry Christmas to his butler Amit, who's clearly far from being a christian, I mean... You see? It's clearly trying to hard not to offend anyone.I loved that movie, mostly for the duo, the dialogue and overall chemistry between them, great stuff. But the social commentary, the simplification, the idea behind making this a "based on a true story" movie... If they were real people - show us what they were, if not - make this a separate story "inspired" by real events.I just wish it was so much more grounded, I'd enjoy it much more.


                
Although Oscar winning, I found this film to not really stand out as a "best picture". It was good yes. Not sure Ali was deserving of best supporting actor either. The pacing of the film was very flat but I appreciated where they were going with how racism towards blacks was dealt with in those times.


                
Green BookThe hardest part of driving through the southern US is convincing folks the internal combustion engine isn't witchcraft.Sadly, the driver in this drama must also persuade southerners that his black passenger is human.When nightclub bouncer Frank Vallelonga (Viggo Mortensen) is laid off, he takes a job driving around jazz pianist Don Shirley (Mahershala Ali) as he plays throughout the lower states. While the lowbrow Vallelonga and the snobbish Shirley struggle to find common ground, they eventually become friends and learn to navigate the racism embedded in the south.Loosely based on a true story, many liberties were taken to make this interracial buddy movie more palatable to modern day audiences. And while the freedom taken can be called into question, the overall message of tolerance is inarguable, along with the strong performances.And while having a white male driver may curtail racial violence, road rage incidents would double. Green Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca


                
This is a tale of a working-class Italian American driver - Tony (played by Viggo Mortensen), hired by a celebrated African-American pianist - Don,played Mahershala Ali. Tony is seen to be prejudiced and politically incorrect while Don seeks to refine his language and behavior, projecting his superiority. But both men have something to teach each other, as Tony tries to chip away Don's quixotic nature, which is a poor and potentially fatal fit for the Apartheid system of the South in the 1960s. Particularly memorable is a brief scene of Don, in his suit, staring out at the plantation filled with African American workers.Tony and Don get through many problems, some of them self-inflicted. They solve the problems in their own ways, although Don keeps emphasising his idealist spirit while Tony prefers to solve his problems in a quick and dirty way.
By Christmas, the pair return back to New York, after their experiences have changed them. Despite all his wealth, Don is often lonely while Tony is willing to welcome him like a brother, overcoming his past prejudices.
