A journey of reawakening in a Country like ours - Gore Vidal called it the United States Of Amnesia - the absurdity of the behavior in the Southern communities even the kindest ones have a jarring effect. Viggo Mortensen is sheer perfection as the all American Italian. The opening of his heart and of his mind is a total joy and Mahershala Ali provides another magnetic character to his already rich list of magnetic characters but what makes this film fly so high is the humanity that Mortensen and Ali infuse their characters with. I loved them and Green Book provided me with one of the most satisfying endings of 2018. It leaves you with the hopeful thought that perhaps we're not there yet but that we are on our way. Happy New Year!


                
Outstanding true story film showing that color doesn't define us, but how we act ourselves and towards others, does.Great performances from the entire cast, especially Viggo Mortensen and Mahershala Ali who were perfectly cast and convincing in their roles. It was also great to see comedian Sebastian Maniscalco in this film as well.Writer, director and producer Peter Farrelly nailed every aspect of this biography.The score, cinematography, sets and visuals were all on point.I'm not a fan of slow paced long films, but this was was close to an exception. I feel if the pace was picked up a bit and/or the 130 min run-time edited down to around 110 mins, this would have been a perfect 10 from me.Excellent drama and comedy perfectly positioned throughout the film.A well deserved 8/10 from me.


                
This is not a typical road movie, funny in parts, hard to accept in others.Green Book has so many layers - family, culture, honesty, dignity, genius, respect, acceptance, stereotypes, racism, music, class, friendship, and fried chicken. Viggo Mortensen brilliant performance.


                
Well its hard to ignore that this looked like Driving Miss Daisy with the races of the characters reversed. It was also hard to ignore that Peter Farrelly along with his brother, is normally known for bringing often crude comedy films. While Green Book does have a ton of humor it was definitely a step in a different direction and a true story to adapt at that. I'm amazed at how much I liked this film. Every minute of this film is thoroughly enjoyable and it touches on every emotion.The film is about a loud mouth Italian American named Tony Lip who gets a job driving and being protection for a jazz pianist named Don Shirley. Initially, it is seen that the two come from different worlds and are at odds with each other but as time goes on and the two realize how different race relations are in the south, they begin to bond and become closer than they expected they would. Starring Viggo Mortensen and Mahershala Ali in the title roles.The film has a lot of laugh out loud moments. Especially through the eccentric nature of both leads. Whether its Tony's hard headed but uncultured nature or Don's particularities , the chemistry between the two is really off the charts. The film touches on many important concepts that still reverberate today, mainly in race relations and acceptance of sexuality. Farrelly and the real life son of Tony Lip do such a fine job writing a film that knows when to be funny and when to be serious.I think the performances from both leads is also fantastic. We are about done with the year and I don't really care what other people say this should be getting nominations is a few categories at the Academy Awards. Was really surprised at how good this film was, as the trailers don't really show off the true excellence that this film was capable of. Urge everyone to go see it, about as good as a buddy road film will be.8/10


                
Tony Vallelonga aka Lip (Viggo Mortensen) is the bouncer at the Copacabana. When it is shut down for renovations, Tony hustles to feed his family. He is offered a lucrative job to be the driver and gofer for Don Shirley (Mahershala Ali) a trained classical pianist. His tour will take him through the racially divided south in 1962. This is a story about an odd couple who both managed to change and find common ground.Based on a true story, although I doubt the initial scene of the baseball game as the film gave the impression it was later in the year. Predictable Hollywood script. The title comes from the title of a travel book used by African-Americans to learn about safe places to eat and stay.Guide: F-word. No sex or nudity.
Green Book told a story that is simple and easy to understand, but in a larger scope it deals with serious issue. You don't always need to have a complicated or complex storyline to enjoy a good movie. While I'm not one that likes to see politics in movies much less talk about politics, however, this film approached the topic of race in a respectful and less obnoxious way. Many have said this remark before about the film, so I will continue it by saying it was well acted, well written, well told, overall great movie! Performances from both Viggo and Mahershala were profoundly enjoyable, envisioning real people that you almost wish you were able to meet in real life. The screenplay or writing for it was told once again with a lot of heart, but also found itself being a good personal, conversational script where you as an audience member can find yourself feeling like you could have a similar conversation with someone you know. One of the biggest aspects of this film that I found impactful was the key ethnic demographic as being an Italian-American myself, this all felt very familiar to me. On one side of my family, they experienced much of the same situations as portrayed in the film being an Italian-American family living in the 50's and 60's America where people were divided. Understanding that we are all the same, which are people trying to live their lives to the fullest regardless of the color of their skin. This film's story hit me really close to home, which made it feel like I had a personal attachment to it. In the end, I'm pleased with the film and that a story like this one can be for everyone to enjoy.


                
Watching the friendship build between an uneducated racist white Italian and a well educated master black musician was entertaining and heart warming. And all the more poignant knowing it is based on a true story. At one point there is a discussion between the two about the wisdom of peaceful versus violent reaction to racism, a timely lesson or reminder for us all to hear in a time when an entire political party is being hijacked with extremist views (the press are our enemy, the Honduran caravan is an invasion, and "there were good people on both sides").


                
A fair number of film critics have argued that Peter Farrelly's Green Book, his new dramedy set in the early civil rights era of the 60s, is designed to make its chiefly white audience, "feel better about racism." Such a specious argument has it that the film promulgates the false notion that the racial tensions of today can be ignored (or even denied) primarily by white liberals by watching this optimistic tale of bonding between a gay black musician and Italian salt of the earth bouncer.
Some of these critics go further when they insist that the deck is stacked in favor of the protagonist Tony Lip (Viggo Mortensen), the gruff driver whom Dr. Don Shirley (Mahershala Ali) hires to ensure that his concert tour of the deep South goes smoothly. Tony does so much more for Dr. Shirley, that some critics maintain that primary screenwriter Nick Vallelonga (Tony's real-life son) has turned his father into a "white savior."
Nothing actually can be further from the truth. Tony benefits from Dr. Shirley's influence just as much as Dr. Shirley from his. Their relationship is symbiotic. Both represent a fish out of water-Tony is exposed to Dr. Shirley's rarefied, world of culture while the sophisticated musician is forced by Tony to become more spontaneous, dealing with all the attendant street characters that challenge his ordered vision of the world.
What rankles many of these critics is that Dr. Shirley doesn't conform to their stereotyped image of what a black man should be. He's the opposite of "street culture," having grown up in a white world and trained as a classical musician. What's more he's gay and looks down on other blacks whom he regards as uncultured and uncouth. Indeed his decision to travel through the deep south as a goodwill ambassador marks this unusual man as courageous as he's forced to endure constant humiliation by a coterie of racists at every turn.
It's Dr. Shirley who forces Tony to re-evaluate his deep-set beliefs about race. When we first meet Tony, he looks down on black people so much that he places two drinking glasses in the garbage after he spies the two African-American plumbers at his house, drinking out of them. Tony eventually comes to realize that his employer doesn't fit his stereotyped view of blacks; how can it be that Dr. Shirley never eats fried chicken?
The comic scene where Tony persuades Dr. Shirley to eat the chicken is the beginning of Tony's reevaluation of his racism. Meanwhile, Dr. Shirley must effect an attitude re-adjustment of his own, eating the chicken with his fingers, manners which he initially regards as beneath him.
Other critics also feel that the screenwriters are much harder on Dr. Shirley than Tony. Where Dr. Shirley plays Cyrano, teaching Tony better manners on how to write proper love letters to his wife, Dr. Shirley is depicted with much more self-destructive traits-he has one too many drinks and finds himself surrounded by racists at a bar, finally rescued by Tony in the nick of time.
Both Tony and Dr. Shirley are social outcasts however; both have trouble controlling their temper and in this respect they're very similar. Tony ends up punching a police officer in the face over an ethnic insult and Dr. Shirley has to be stopped by Tony from attacking the maître d who won't allow him to eat dinner with whites.
Perhaps the greatest scene in the film is when Tony and Dr. Shirley stop their car on the way to North Carolina and spy a group of black sharecroppers toiling away in the fields. This is where they both realize they have much more in common than the sharecroppers, who live a life of virtual indentured servitude.
At that moment Tony and Dr. Shirley can appreciate their freedom. It's a moment of epiphany for all characters concerned-the expression of wonderment on the faces of the sharecroppers whom have never seen an independent, "free" black man before; Dr. Shirley's realization of the true nature of the oppression of his people and Tony's appreciation of Dr. Shirley's sensitivity toward other blacks, whom perhaps in the past he would never have payed attention to.
The liberation of both Tony and Dr. Shirley is illustrated in the denouement. Dr. Shirley is able to "let loose," playing blues music at an African-American bar and Tony admonishes his relatives for speaking poorly of black people at the dinner table.
Ali shows his versatility as Dr. Shirley, playing the upper crust musician (in contrast to his street tough role in Moonlight) and Viggo Mortensen (gaining about 40 lbs. for the role), shows off his acting chops as the gruff Italian. Kudos also to director Peter Farrelly, usually known for low light comedies, but in this case venturing forward into much more rewarding territory.
Green Book is nothing more than a feel-good story about race relations based on a true story. For those who can't stomach such a note of optimism in the face of a disappointing historical legacy, shame on them!
The story is very good, the film is very smooth and entertaining, but Viggo Mortensen absolutely skyrockets the whole film with his performance. He sounds true, his acts true and original and after this movie, i am trule convinced that he is one of the most underrated actors in his generation.


                
When I skimmed through the plot, I was expecting some stereotypical interracial film but it turned out to be quite funny and delightful. This film depicts the beautiful journey of tony in discovering his true self and learning to accept his shortcomings. Also, we see the musical brilliance of don shirley and his sheer strength in fighting the discrimination. Truly a beautiful film with a beautiful ending. 8/10


                
This films carries you through a road trip with lots of humor and also you are learning how we can change our view about something. This story is quite good and performed by these great actors makes it even better. Brilliant movie.


                
The stories about unexpected friendships are recognized for which are inspired by real events, to see the main characters would initially meet each other for the job. Until they would travel together in a journey, which a friendship between them would come out. Some of these stories would end that the main characters would remain connected by keeping seeing each other, others would end that the main characters would separate each of their roads but without forgetting what an incredible bond they have. The filmmaker Peter Farrelly was intrigued to release a movie about friendships, inspired by a real event but without his brother Bobby Farrelly's collaboration. In 2018 came out Green Book by Peter Farrelly, with Viggo Mortensen and Mahershala Ali. The movie's plot: in 1960s, an Italian-American bouncer Tony Vallelonga or also known as Tony "Lip" (Viggo Mortensen), would get a job as driver and bodyguard for the talented jazz pianist Don Shirley (Mahershala Ali). For the long venues tour through South America, since they would travel in this journey a friendship between them would come out. The movie is a comedy-drama which mixes both elements to be workable, by using the humor in a natural way without forcing it and the drama can be emotional to be touching. The movie's narration tells the story to catch the audience attention, as the screenplay was elaborated to maintain the rhythm without ruing it. Viggo Mortensen did an excellent performance as Tony Lip, who would act in a rude way when he would take some actions. But since he would travel in the venues tour, he would take care Don Shirley to make sure Don would not get in trouble. In the course of the story Tony would write love letters to his wife, until he would get helped by Don to express better Tony's emotions. Mahershala Ali was extraordinary as Don Shirley who even is a talented jazz pianist, he would be seen with bad eyes because of the racism at the time set on the movie. Don Shirley and Tony Vallelonga would find out through the tour, they have many things in common to be then close to each other. They both would also help each other to find solutions, to be surprisingly smart as they would move forward on their journey. Green Book is one of the best 2018's movies, Viggo Mortensen and Mahershala Ali were both surprisingly extraordinary in the movie.


                
Went into this film not knowing anything about the storyline - Brilliant performances by the 2 leads - Strong storyline about a road trip to Deep South USA and the racial tensions at the time - Great film which develops along the trip - Worth a view


                
Good review of the many types of racism of the 50's and 60's. Cleverly done by wrapping it together with a great story line. No wasted scenes. Moves along and makes many points.


                
This film tells the story of two men, who are polar opposites of each other in every single way, going on a trip together.I find the story really incredible. It's touching, funny, disturbing and heartwarming all at the same time. It's a thought provoking film, yet entertaining at the same time.


                
While I enjoyed this film. It was just a reminder how primitive backwards US was just 50 years ago and still an ongoing progression. From ignorance to racism and bad people. I'm surprised it didn't turn out to be a nightmare when people who lived the harshness in life can break a person. I felt mad at some points but the movie was rather entertaining. It was more of a feel good movie and friendship when reality is different than what people endured.


                
Green Book is a road story, telling the relationship between a racist Italian-American bodyguard and his boss who is a famous black piano player.
Viggo Mortensen who is playing Tony Lip, the Italian bodyguard, shines as a leading actor. Tony Lip is an uneducated but a practical person. He can even eat 26 hot dogs for money or steal the gangster's precious hat and sell back to the gangster again. We see his racism in the scene he puts the glasses which black workers drank lemonade, to the garbage. He became unemployed when Copa, the nightclub he works, closed for renovation.
At that time the famous piano player Dr. Shirley (played by Academy Award winner Mahershala Ali) was looking for a driver for his tour to the southern cities of USA. He needed not only a driver, but a practical man getting things done in the tour program. He was well educated, can speak at least 3 languages, but his social skills is not well developed. He hires Tony Lip and the the tour begins.
We know the director Peter Farrelly and his brother from absurd comedies like The Dumb and The Dumber or There's Something About Mary. Even though there are many scenes that we have laughed in Green Book, we cannot say that is a comedy. Peter Farrelly made a good job with blending comedy, dram, road movie and even romance.
As a summary Green Book is a very good film with solid performances. You will enjoy every minute of this 130 minutes film. One more note, the film was based on a true story. After watching the film, find some Don Shirley music from Spotify or whatever, and listen him and his trio with a glass of whiskey.


                
A beautiful and well-written movie, with strong messages.
It gets you to think, and that is the best cause one film should have.
You will treat your loved ones much better after this one, especially because you will surround yourself with people who are basiclly kind to others and that's all that matters.


                
So despite my reservations about watching another racially driven movie, I checked out green book. First, let me say that the Italian rhetoric made the film genuinely enjoyable to watch from beginning to end. The 1960s based film is about Tony Lip who is a rough around the edges back streets Italian who is hired to drive slightly eccentric Dr. Don Shirley who is a classically trained black pianist on tour with his trio through the Deep South. Despite being socially accepted in the north, Dr. Shirley takes on this tour where he knows he will encounter issues along the way. Without spoiling the movie, the film explores an unfamiliar narrative of a white person hired to do a job of somewhat servitude for a black person, which I don't remember seeing on this caliber since the body guard. What's interesting to note are two things, the development of the relationship between the two characters from the time they first met to the end of the film and why Dr. Shirley even made the decision to perform in the south which I will leave you to figure out. Both Mahershala ali Viggo Mortensen put on a great performance and the movie definitely has a well-developed storyline.


                
The first thing that struck me on watching the movie unfold is how much it follows the structure of France's 2011 buddy flick, The Intouchables. It has all the exact beats: two people from different backgrounds bonding with each over the course of a few months as they learn to mutually change each other's perspective for the better. However, the filmmakers were able to add several other touches to make it stand out as its own unique thing.The movie takes place in 1960s America, still a bit rife with racial tensions. However, the film intends primarily to entertain and delight the audience, so while they do touch upon very significantly on the plight of minorities , the message is conveyed in a way so as to not shock the viewers but rather as a gentle reminder of our torrid history. So overall, this movie is pretty safe to watch and enjoy for any demographic and age. Every member of the family will have a hearty time in the theater.


                
The best work of Peter Farrelly's career as a solo project after 24 years of sharing the director chair with his brother. And a reminder that Viggo Mortensen has never won an Oscar.
I mean... how on earth you people say that Green Book is a feel-good movie?! This is so dark and infuriating!Seriously though, despite its heavy themes, this movie is, surprisingly, supremely delightful to watch. Partly, thanks to the electrifying chemistry between Mahershala Ali and Viggo Mortensen, whose equally phenomenal performances prove that they are two of the most talented actors working today. But largely, thanks to Peter Farrelly's nifty direction. Not only has he shown maturity as a director, but Farrelly also completely understood how to blend his sense of humour with a dramatic movie, and hence more earnest tone and more serious subject matter, way more serious! If he sticks with this refreshing style of filmmaking, and collaborate with excellent screenwriters, such as the writers of the screenplay of this movie, I bet that he will be one of the most popular directors in the coming years. The way he handles his performers, or shots a comedic scene here were really out of the ordinary.The relatively deliberate pace couldn't have been more challenging for Peter Farrelly to stick with a particular tone, and find balance for this movie, but besides his palpable capability of doing so, the script, which he also co-wrote, offered sincere and genuine smart dialogues, and extremely likable reasonably fleshed-out characters, made this task way much more easier. Let alone the astonishing performances from the entire cast.The screenplay is what to blame, however, for these two points I took away from my rating for this movie.First, there is an action Mortensen's character, Tony Lip, take at the beginning of the movie that didn't add anything to the movie. This action also had some consequences that took some time. Adding insult to injury, this action, along with its consequences, was nothing but a cheap trick to make the viewers make a wrong judgment about the character.Secondly, there was an abrupt change of mind made by the same character that, however understandable it might be, I still found it hard to swallow.Thirdly, and most importantly, the illogically symmetric pattern of the storytelling; the plot keeps moving forward in a very unrealistic by making every phase in the movie seemingly predictable. It's safe to say that a movie with a fairly familiar themes like this one can easily suffer from such problem.That said, Green Book is undoubtedly one of the most 2018 movies that I've enjoyed watching. Peter Farrelly miraculously managed to make a movie that tackles such sore themes, a breezy crowd-pleaser.(8/10)


                
The chemistry between our two protagonists was a joy to behold, as both are very different men from first glance but they soon learn a lot about each other and discover they are much similar than they ever imagined. This is due in part to the excellent performances of the actors, the script, a compelling true-life story that is handled very well by the filmmaker.Overall a heart-warming film that hits the right note.


                
I went into the cinema for 10 minutes and saw a lot of people leaving. I thought the movie was definitely not good, but to my surprise, the film was not bad. Maybe the film was opened for more than 10 minutes. Character has been laying the ground for too long.
The Green Book is a distinctive road movie. I never imagined that a black people affirmative film would be conceived from the perspective of road movies. The road movies have a strong characteristic as narrating a story.
The emotional relationship between characters becomes strong with the increase of mileage, and the personality of the characters is clearly revealed with the increase of mileage. Dr.Don Shirley and Tony Lip are gradually becoming friends on their road of tour.
Some people think that road movies are very simple, because the clues are clear and the narrative is simple. Just make clear what is happening on the road. In fact, road movies are the easiest to become a self-speaking film without any focus. In fact, this movie has not completely escaped this threat. It is true that there is a constant episode in the film on the road, showing the relationship between the two, and then Tony understands Don's practice for him to come forward. But after all, there is no major outbreak, and the whole story lacks a core chapter. Several equally important chapters have made the film without any major ups and downs.


                
Ever wondered if Viggo Mortensen could act? I know I did. Somehow he always looked like he could, but I was yet to find a movie to prove it.And now I've got it. His performance is the jewel of this movie. Just go and see for yourself.However, Green Book is good all over: every other actor, big parts, small parts, everything is just right.
To be honest it is so rare nowadays to see a high quality movie - at least my last movie theater experience ended up after about 20 minutes of sitting there literally boiling with anger (that was my attempt on BR) - that Green Book is something I'm quite thankful for.


                
This movie is a feelgood masterpiece. The message it sends is powerful and it sends it in such a cheerful way. Acting in this movie is briliant. Viggo's portrayal of an Italian-American tough guy is so natural and well done. Not He is deservedly nominated for the Oscars. Not to diminish the importance of Mahershala Ali's character of a classical black pianist who also did a great job. Although this movie deals with quite a serious topic of racism in the 60's, it brings a smile to our faces seeing Viggo's character opposing these rough stereotypes. Also, the chemistry between Mahershala and Viggo is through the roof. They start out as such different types of people, and they manage to change each other in the best possible way. As they develop their friendship, they change their beliefs and become this pair of unbreakable partners. The movie is kinda slow, but not in the boring way. Every now and then, Viggo will say something funny or the pair will find themselves in an interesting situation to break the monotony of a roadtrip. Basically, this movie is for everyone who want to enjoy well written and well acted piece of art. Also, the ending will bring a huge smile on your face :)


                
