I saw this at the premier at TIFF and was thrilled to learn the story is about a real friendship. This is not a typical road movie, or buddy film. Given the lead actors, I knew it would be something special, and it is. 
 Entertaining, funny in parts, hard to accept in others - as a white american who wasn't around in the 1960's, the racism was mind boggling and I couldn't help but feel shame. 
 Green Book has so many layers - family, culture, honesty, dignity, genius, respect, acceptance, stereotypes, racism, music, class, friendship, and fried chicken.
Whatever your views, race, or age - this film is not 'preachy', but you should appreciate an honest portrayal of a difficult time & place in history. 
I'll use the term an "unlikely friendship", but knowing the two men were real makes it fantastic. I'm so grateful to have learned about them and their lives.
I only wish there had been a Q&A afterward.


                
Some of my movie friends were stunned when I mentioned in a thread that this was my "People's Choice Award" vote for TIFF 2018 (it won, btw). I generally go for weightier fare, so my being won over by a PG-13 road film with the familiar "they-couldn't-have-been-more-different" premise directed by the auteur co-responsible for such recent classics as "Dumb and Dumber To" and "The Three Stooges" elicited a virtual double-take.But I couldn't help it ... it really WAS the best film I saw (out of 17), and far and away the most entertaining. I think this is largely because it's based on a real-life story about the beginning of a lifelong friendship - a story that has writing participation by the son of one of the real-life characters. There's definitely an air of authenticity to the events as they unfold that could never occur with a purely contrived plot. Consider: A college-educated concert pianist of Jamaican descent hires a temporarily-unemployed Italian-American nightclub bouncer who's streetwise but academically dim to drive him to venues in the Deep South back in 1962. That's not a setup that a Hollywood script written from scratch would ever have come up with.The two lead actors really click. Mahershala Ali makes a nice Oscar follow-up playing the aloof pianist passenger to Viggo Mortensen's "b.s. artist" driver. Ali is certain to get another nomination; Mortensen's performance may be a little too broad to garner one, but he delivers exactly what's called for. And he makes a believable Italian-American, which is impressive considering that he's Danish.I'm allergic to preaching and heavy-handedness in movies no matter what the message, and with the exception of one borderline scene, I'd say that the movie nicely sidesteps these proclivities that surface so often in socially-conscious films.The music and FX are excellent. When an actor plays a piano player, there's always the challenge of making the playing look believable. It doesn't get any better than it gets here - Ali's piano playing is every bit as convincing as Margot Robbie's ice skating in I, TONYA. You never see a disconnect between hands and body as he's filmed against a variety of backgrounds. And if I could bet on an Oscar win right now, it would be Kris Bowers for Best Original Score. (He also supplies Ali's hands, which should clinch it.)Top everything off with a Capra-esque Christmas Eve finale and a closing line that sends everyone home smiling, and it all adds up to a monster hit. Its commercial payoff could be huge - the movie practically begs for a TV series spinoff, and the real-life characters remained friends until they both died in 2013.So congratulations to Peter Farrelly on his graduation from co-directing lowbrow fare to solo-directing middlebrow (i.e. mass-appeal) fare. You can't deny the talent and craftsmanship it takes to make a mainstream movie that works as well as this one does.


                
A very inspiring film. I walked out of the cinema feeling like there is good even in the unlikeliest of people.
The dialogue was well written, and the main characters were equally as loveable. Viggo Mortensens acting was only overshadowed by that of Mahershala Ali, whose portrayal of an educated african-american man living in 1960's america was both heartwrenching and absolutely hilarious.
While Mortensen stood for most of the comic relief, I found myself laughing the hardest from Ali's deadpan deliveries through the character of Dr. Shirley.The story of a black man who struggles to gain the respect of his fellow african-americans, while simultaneously resisting and pulling at the roots of the racism and oppression which keeps him from being as successful as the americans and europeans who should be his equals by all measures musical and educational.While the story and plot left little to be desired. I felt one or two jokes were shoe-horned in and would have been better discarded.
The visual tone was fitting to the film, but the camerawork was nothing out of the ordinary. Not all films call for out-of-this-world originality in all marks however. And this film allows the audience to focus on what is really important.


                
Just caught this as the surprise film of the London Film Festival. Such a well written drama with heart, soul and comedic touches, brilliantly performed by the two main actors, and given such an authentic 1962 shiny look to the film by the production designer and cinematographer.
A truly great true story with themes that all audiences can connect with - namely, music, family, race, sexuality, friendship and love - and Viggo Mortensen probably gives the performance of a lifetime. Will surely rival A Star is Born at the Oscars in many of the same categories.


                
Just seen Green Book at a Secret Unlimited screening at my local Cineworld.
Wow...what a beautifully shot and performed movie. The two leading actors, Viggo Mortenson and Mahershala Ali were brilliant.
I had no idea what to expect. I was more than pleasantly surprised.
Highly recommended viewing


                
It's frightening to think how far we came (past tense) and how far we've regressed when it comes to something like social equality. Many people would agree that Western, perhaps even Global culture has been regressing when it comes to acceptance and racial relations.To say that Green Book, a story about racial relations and acceptance (or lack thereof) is strangely topical, is also an oversimplification. What might be more strange however, isn't the timing of the film's release, or the fact that a story taking place in early 1960's America is contemporary, is the fact that the latest cinematic voice, the newest artist to reintroduce concepts like love and acceptance (concepts Mortensen said are "lost track of a lot these days" in the Q & A session after my TIFF screening of the film) ...is Peter Farrelly. Yes, that Peter Farrelly; the one who countless times teamed up with his brother to bring us trendy comedy classics like Dumb & Dumber, Me Myself & Irene, and There's Something About Mary.Green Book follows the story of a working class Italian-American, Tony Lip (Viggo Moretensen) who, after losing work as a bouncer, finds himself working for Dr. Don Shirley (Mahershala Ali), an African-American classical pianist on tour through the deep South of 1960's America. The two are the archetypal odd-couple, with Dr. Shirley being scholarly, fastidious and composed and Tony being what would seem to be an Italian-American cinematic stereotype; tough, loud, and brash.While we may not associate either of the Farrelly brothers with drama, audiences lately haven't associated them with comedy either. Recent releases such as Dumb & Dumber To, The Three Stooges, Hall Pass, even as far back as Fever Pitch had neither audiences nor critics waiting for the next Farrelly project. That changed for me personally when I discovered Green Book, and discovered that not only is Peter turning to more dramatic subject matter, but that his brother isn't a part of the project at all. "My answer was always 'when it happens'. I never planned what was going to be next, it was just a thing the universe brought you, dropped in your lap, it would be like planning when you're going to fall in love, you never know when it's going to happen" Farrelly told the audience at TIFF that he didn't actively seek out this project, it came up very organically, and that when he heard co-writer Brian Hayes Currie talk about the film, he knew it was a 'home-run' idea.He might be right. About everything. The fact that this idea came his way and just felt, the timing, his background; this film would not be the same without Farrelly's approach. That may seem self-explanatory, but what I'm addressing is the fact that this film needed the touch of a comedic filmmaker, or at least this specific comedic filmmaker. Within he and his brothers' specific niche of comedy, there was something that was always enjoyable about it, even if the comedy itself, was not. They knew about human connection. The Farrelly brothers always, without fail, had a shmaltzy moment of love, one way or another. Even when dealing with Lloyd and Harry in Dumb & Dumber, when dealing with caricatures of human beings, there is a bond there, there is a love. So imagine if suddenly Peter Farrelly starting taking things seriously? When a filmmaker understands sentiment and human connection, then it's not such a stretch to make the jump to drama.Farrelly's influence on the mood of the film is fairly obvious. He's never been a subtle filmmaker, and the film does lack significant drama. After my viewing of the film I wouldn't even categorize it as a drama, because, while there may be hurdles the characters have to overcome, it seems to be a very light-hearted story. Arguably, the most lighthearted version of an extremely heavy subject matter. I was always waiting for the other shoe to drop, dramatically speaking, but nothing too heavy ever came. Every time there is something even remotely dramatic, the two characters get out of it with relative ease. There's nothing necessarily wrong with that, but some might see this as too lighthearted, and not truly dealing with the reality of racial segregation and prejudice. There's nothing necessarily wrong with that, as it's the tone of the film all three writers and Farrelly were going for, but considering the subject matter, this may actually anger audience members. The title Green Book refers to a 'travel guide' of sorts for African-Americans of that time. Realistically though, it was more of a 'survival-guide', as it informed those families where it was safe to travel, what restaurants they were permitted to eat in, and the 'colored only' locations to lodge. For many families, the Green Book has significant personal meaning.What I am suggesting, is that is merely subtext, despite what they chose to be the title. The story is really about our shared humanity despite differences, and while these characters do reinforce some stereotypes, it shatters others. Mahershala and Mortensen create characters that are part caricature, part inspiration, but regardless of how you view them, it works. The two are so well-balanced, it's difficult to say if either of them is truly the lead. That's of the utmost importance, as this unlikely friendship is what inspired the film and drives the story.I never feel like I am watching Mahershala Ali acting, as... to be honest... I don't really know who Mahershala Ali is. (That is a testament to his acting, not a comment on the fact he and I don't hang out in the same social circles). However, his role as Dr. Shirley is drastically different than anything I've seen him do before. His sense of who the character is, his mannerisms, his diction, even his inner thought process become clear through Ali's performance. Since this is a more comedic film in tone, I have to also compliment Ali's sense of timing. The character is reserved for the majority of the film, and being a straight man in a comedic duo is not easy, but Ali finds a brilliant balance of drama and comedy. It's another performance, that while perhaps not award worthy, he will assuredly be remembered for. Green Book will also be remembered. The balance it finds within small sub-genres of cinema is carefully crafted; part road-trip buddy movie, part period piece, part social commentary, but all enjoyable. It may not spark serious conversation between audience members. It certainly won't solve the social inequality and hatred that plagues many parts of the world still to this day. It does, however, serve as a reminder of the core concepts it successfully portrays. Mortensen when addressing the crowd put it best: "There's something very profound there that we lose track of. These days, we lose track of it a lot. And that is anybody has the right to understand or appreciate other people... you can respect each other ...you can listen to each other."So if you'll indulge Mortensen's teachings, listen to me... go see Green Book.


                
I'll be honesty I only watched this movie cause I wanted to watch something and couldn't pick anything, but this movie was not at all a let down! The performances given were above exceptional, the story was well paced and there some moments that made me laugh. It's a wonderfully done movie and deserves more attention than it has right now. And seeing them grow and develope on screen is just incredible, this is a loveable movie and a must watch.


                
If "Green Book" does win the Oscar for Best Picture, as some people think it might, then I for one won't complain. There are, of course, better pictures, ("Roma" and "The Favourite" to name two), but this extremely well-made, nicely directed, intelligently scripted, (if at times a little too obvious in its heart-tugging sentimentality), and very well acted movie ticks all the boxes. It's a feelgood film of the old-fashioned kind that can look back at the bad old days of segregation rather smugly from its 21st Century perspective without feeling particularly smug.It's a movie about how two mismatched people, (a chain-smoking, rough speaking Italian-American and an African-American you might even call 'uppity'), who, on a long road trip in the Deep South in the early sixties, bestow on each other the gifts of friendship and humanity. Even if you knew nothing of the 'true' story of the musician Don Shirley and his driver you can predict the outcome from the get-go. Of course, it also helps that it's also very funny despite the seriousness of the material and that leads Viggo Mortensen and Mahershala Ali are so damn good, (Ali's second Oscar in three years looks like it's already in the bag). It is, then, something of a treat and might even convince you to seek out the music of Don Shirley.


                
In 1962, the Italian-American Tony "Lip" Vallelonga (Viggo Mortensen) is as family man happily married with children with his beloved wife Dolores (Linda Cardellini). When the night-club Copacabana where he works as a bouncer closes for two months to be refurbished, Tony needs to find a two-month job to support his family. He accepts to become the driver of the classical Afro-American pianist Dr. Don Shirley (Mahershala Ali) in a tour with two other Caucasian musicians through the racist South of America. He receives a Green Book, a travel guide with references of safe locations to black people and along their journey, they develop friendship and respect for each other.The Oscar winner "Green Book" is a great film that discloses the racial segregation in the early 60´s in America. The touching story of friendship and injustice has magnificent performances of Viggo Mortensen and Mahershala Ali. The screenplay blends drama, music and comedy and is based on a true story. "Green Book" is a film that really deserves the Oscar. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil): "Green Book: O Guia" ("Green Book: The Guide")


                
If you get the chance to see this movie you will not be disappointed. Both leads fantastic. Script superb. A breath of fresh air and a welcome relief from the borefest Hollywood has become. I doubt I will see a better movie in 2019.


                
Green Book is simply the year 2018 movie saviour... since it was a year suffering from a big lack of oscar material movies, dealing with serious issues and showing perfect dialogues and performances. So no worries Green Book got it all, a feel good, music themed, drama comedy road trip movie, that will surely stand as a futur cult classic. Hands down!


                
Best movie I've seen in s long time. Didn't even get up to go to the bathroom. I'm pleased that storytelling still exist. Amazing.


                
Martin Luther King's message that people should be judged not on the color of their skin but on the content of their character came one year too late to reach the folks encountered by black Jamaican jazz pianist Dr. Don Shirley (Mahershala Ali, "Hidden Figures"), in his 1962 concert tour of the segregated Deep South. In Peter Farrelly's ("Dumb and Dumber To") warm and human comedy/drama Green Book, Shirley undertakes the journey together with Tony Vallelonga (Viggo Moretnsen, "Captain Fantastic"), a night club bouncer who is known to his Italian mob pals in the Bronx as Tony "Lip." While Tony was hired to do the driving, his main job, unacknowledged though it may be, was to provide physical protection for Shirley from any unwanted encounters with the locals south of the Mason-Dixon Line.Inspired by a true story (isn't everything?) and co-written by Nick Vallelonga, the film's title refers to the "Negro Motorist Green Book," a guide used for many years by black travelers looking for hotels and restaurants in the Deep South where they could feel safe from discrimination and physical harm. Needless to say, neither the hotels nor the restaurants have many stars in the latest Michelin guide. We are first introduced to Tony who is working at the legendary Copacabana, a mob-connected New York nightclub known for its ability to attract name entertainers such as Frank Sinatra, and Sammy Davis Jr. When the Copa closes for renovations, Tony is open to an offer to become a driver for Doctor Shirley whose ostentatious living quarters above Carnegie Hall, to quote former U.N. Ambassador Adlai Stevenson, "staggers the imagination and converts vanity to prayer."Racism is not foreign to Tony's outlook on life as shown when he throws the glasses used to serve water to black workmen in the garbage. Even though the tour will take him away from his wife Dolores (Linda Cardellini, "A Simple Favor") and his two small children for eight weeks, Tony promises to write often but will need some assistance from his cultured employer. As two Cadillac's make their way along the highway, one containing The Don Shirley Trio's cellist Oleg (Dimiter D. Marinov, "A Picture with Yuki") and bassist George (Mike Hatton, "Vigilante Diaries"), and the other the reserved and tightly-wound Shirley in the back seat and the chatty, uninhibited driver in the front.Though the two have little in common, their witty interplay on the road expands Don's horizons as Tony provides samples of Little Richard, Chubby Checker and Aretha Franklin and, after much resistance, introduces him to the gourmet pleasures of Kentucky Fried Chicken (heaving their bones out of the window). Meanwhile, Don offers Tony some assistance with his grammar and teaches him about Orpheus and his demons, neither of which he needs to know to do his job. When they leave Pennsylvania and Ohio and head for Raleigh, Macon, Memphis, Little Rock, Baton Rouge, and Birmingham, however, things are no longer a laughing matter.The pair get their first dose of reality when they hit their first Green Book" stop, the run-down Carver Courts Motel to which Tony offers the relevant comment that "it looks like my ass." While Don maintains his haughty above-the-battle demeanor, it soon becomes obvious that much of his persona hides a gnawing loneliness that becomes more evident as the two make progress on their journey. Encounters with the police and a confrontation with unfriendlies in a bar are just the tip of the iceberg and Don is forced to rely on Tony's considerable skills as a Bronx tough to get him through some physically threatening moments.The irony for Shirley is that he is a much sought-after artist who performs for wealthy white audiences but is prohibited from eating in the same restaurants, using the same bathrooms, or sleeping in the same hotel with those who pay good money to hear him play. Though the film suggests that these abominations are things of the past, we know better. During the performances, however, there is no black and white, no rich and poor, no coons or queers, only the exquisite power of the music which transcends hate and, at least for those few moments, reminds us of our common humanity and the fields of gold we all play in together. They are moments that can help us, as American poet Langston Hughes puts it, "to shatter this darkness, to smash this night, to break this shadow into a thousand lights of sun, into a thousand whirling dreams of sun!"


                
Such a great movie with fantastic actors Viggo Mortensen and Marhershala Ali who brought so much to this true story about two men from totally opposite sides of the cultural spectrum take a two month road trip together to the south where they both were out of their perspective culture zones. Although they didn't "walk in each other's shoes," they walked close enough and through enough for each to change their perspectives of the other and to learn something from one another; ultimately becoming life long friends. Although there were exaggerations in personality portrayal of both main characters as well as others, they were good for a laugh and emphasized, within the length of a movie, the transitions made in two months.
We both loved this movie! It is a crowd pleaser, winning many people's choice awards at film festivals. It wins ours!
This film was constructed very well, and the plot moves along beautifully. The chemistry of Viggo and Mahershala shines through. Highly recommend this film, and would not be surprised to see it win a few Oscars in February.


                
Great acting, amazing story. It's one of those movies you know that is amazing before you watch it, and after watching it your expectations are fulfilled.


                
Occasionally a film comes along where the acting is so extraordinary that I can overlook its flaws. Much like Malek's brilliant portrayal of Freddy Mercury in Bohemian Rhapsody -which I'd say is an average film overall- Mortensen and Ali are transcendent as Tony Lip and Dr. Don Shirley. I'm admittedly a fan of both actors' work, but Green Book is in my opinion their crowning achievement and they both deserve Oscars.


                
I didn't have high expectations for this movie, when i saw a trailer. But i changed my mind after 10 min of it. Brilliant piece of art, love it.


                
We found the green book a nice watch. You really see the characters changing during the movie.


                
Green Book is directed by Peter Farrelly and is an Oscar contender for sure. That sentence is one that is still hard to fathom. That is because Peter Farrelly's previous credits as writer and director are for Dumb and Dumber, There's Something About Mary, Me,Myself & Irene, Shallow Hal and the awful Three Stooges and Dumb & Dumber sequel. He's a comedy writer. He has some great movies in that genre no doubt but this is such a huge leap in a biographical drama that is a commercial and critical success that it is a career turn that nobody seen coming. Yes, there are several laugh out loud moments in this movie and Farrelly will have been able to engineer those scenes to be as funny as they were. Nevertheless, this is still a huge achievement for the producer, director and writer and I hope he is acknowledged on the ultimate stage.It is hard to speak of the plot to this film in such a brief description. That is because throughout the entire movie you really get the feel that everything played out on screen did actually happen. There are several reasons for this but mainly it is because of the involvement of Nick Vallelonga as co-writer, the son of the real life Tony Vallelonga in the movie. You get the sense that his involvement really added an authenticity to the story and he was able to project his vision and history of his late father onto screen.Viggo Mortensen and Mahershala Ali are both excellent in this movie. The characters themselves are very entertaining but Mortensen in particular really brings the Italian-American bouncer to life and he adds a charm and humour to the movie. It is amazing how well he pulls off Tony Lip when you compare it to his other roles in The Lord of the Rings, The Road and his 2 previous Oscar nominations Captain Fantastic and Eastern Promises. It really is a brilliant performance and it's a shame that once again he is likely to fall just short this year in the Leading Actor category. Mahershala Ali just goes from strength to strength. With his Oscar win last year for Moonlight still in the rear view mirror he adds another string to his bow here and I am looking forward to his turn in True Detective Series 3 this year. The pair of them have great on screen chemistry together and you really connect with the journey that they go on as a viewer.I can't speak highly enough of this movie. It is a heartwarming tale of companionship and friendship at a time when circumstances prevented it culturally, socially and professionally. I would highly recommend this film and I think it has a real chance of winning Best Picture at the Oscars 2019. 9/10


                
I haven't seen a film like Green Book in quite some time. A film that doesn't have long-winded exposition followed by a dramatic resolution, but that is still satisfying the entire way through. I liken it to Forrest Gump in the sense that the captivation does not come from a place of waiting to see what comes next, but rather, it comes from being in that moment with the characters. Viggo Mortensen's performance was astonishing as a firmly rooted New Yorker. It certainly helped that Director Peter Farrelly pulled me into the 60s about thirty seconds into the opening scene. Green Book is a character driven film in which the characters are complex enough to remove certain aspects of predictability that we expect from most films. This was one of the best I have seen from 2018 and I recommend anyone give it a try.


                
Can't help but give it a 9/10. So heartwarming, with such talented actors! A masterpiece of new times.


                
This is a very well told tale with life lessons that everyone should experience. The director did a great job making his points w the right balance of emotion without making it overly: preachy, sappy or upsetting. There is also the right amount of comic relief that makes for a quality mix of entertainment. The acting is Oscar caliber all the way.
Here two completely different and somewhat misanthropic individuals, living in a racially unacceptable time period find one another and learn vital life lessons from each other through their experience together.Excellent movie <f0><U+009F><U+0091><U+008D><f0><U+009F><U+008F><U+00BB><f0><U+009F><U+0091><U+008D><f0><U+009F><U+008F><U+00BB>


                
Just watched this movie and it's fantastic. Marsherala Ali and Viggo Mortensen are both fantastic in this great film. It has a great feel good ending. Highly recommended.


                
This movie gives no apologies for being schmaltzy. And I love it for that. It's classical storytelling ala "Driving Miss Daisy" in reverse. And color change.
Mahershala Ali is brilliant as piano prodigy Don Shirley, who needs someone to drive him on a tour through the deep South. Enter jamoke Tony Lipp. A newly unemployed bouncer whose brawn is worst than his bite played by Viggo Mortensen. Let's be honest, NOTHING is unexpected her if you've watched brotherly love movies from the past 30 years, or road movies for that matter like say..."Rain Man" the resolution is exactly what you think. But...so what? It's beautiful and touching and gets you in the right spot. And I love director Peter Farrelly for it. The problem with today's movies is that it believes being mean and criticizing ALL bigots means they have to be bumbling morons. Whilst true, there are also bigots with families who have good hearts or similar ignorance. That is the dynamics of depth. Obviously, the stakes aren't necessarily Civil Rights. It touches on it, but never pushes you into eye roll territory. Though presently criticized as softening the racism with humor, what is telling is that they paint Shirley's character as the world intelligent educated gifted Black man with talent and Viggo as coming to terms with others who are MUCH more bigoted as he. This illustrates the divide of class as much as race.
The tone is of joy and friendship and understanding. And though I think it's too simple to say it's begging for peace in a tumultuous era in America (it really isn't) it still is a fun road movie. More laughs than anything. Well crafted story of grown men finding ways to grow up.
