I literally grew up with Poirot, Sunday nights as a nine and ten year old were all about Poirot, Pistachio nuts, Terry's Pyramint.The productions evolved over time, the early hour long format episodes were much lighter viewing, over time they became more gritty, more daring. One good example is Series 3's Plymouth Express, a much darker presentation they anything that had gone before. By the time you reach Elephants can remember in Series 13 there was something very dark about the production.I would imagine it became more difficult for the producers over time, they were able to cherry pick adaptations during the early years, some books were much more suitable to the screen then others, The ABC murders and Death in the Clouds would have been so much easier to work with then say The Big Four or Cards on the Table.The adaptations remained fairly faithful to the book, there was never a fear of them doing what they did with the Marple series, and transplant Poirot into novels he was never intended to be in, for a good reason each of her works had a certain flavour. A few times changes were made to the books, I can only imagine for good reason, too many characters, budget restraints etc. The Big Four and Appointment with death being altered more then some.So good was David Suchet in the role, that now when you think of Poirot you see David in your mind. I think it will be a while before someone attempts to remake Poirot for the small screen. David had a lot to live up to, Poirot had hit the big screen, Murder on the Orient Express and Death on the Nile had both been huge adaptations, the remakes both compete favourably. Suchet is Poirot.Characters were switched and added quite a lot, Hastings, Japp and Miss Lemon were often drafted in, but in later years that wasn't the case. It's hardly surprising as each is so enjoyable. Watching them all reunite in 'Lord Edgeware dies' was special.Generally the productions were very good to excellent, for me at the top of the pile are The ABC Murders, Curtain and Sad Cypress, each are literally flawless. The Murder of Roger Ackroyd and The Big Four are two of the relatively few lesser offerings, with the only true misfire being Murder in Mesopotamia.For years I hoped for the productions to be completed, at times it seemed like they'd never get through them, I'm so glad they did, but I am missing him.Who knows maybe one day The Monogram Murders will be made, not a Christie story I know, but it would be worth it to see Poirot anew once again. This truly was a fabulous series. 10/0


                
These seventy episodes, these eighty-four hours of film, these thirty- five DVDs are worth a mountain of gold of course. Agatha Christie created this particular character who is probably as famous as Sherlock Holmes, and that is telling a lot. The stories themselves are nearly anecdotal but the character is absolutely fabulous. And the actor composed his character so well that we really think he is the man in the story. Some extras explain that transformation of an actor into his character.First this character is surprisingly original for an English detective story writer. He is Belgian. He is some kind of refugee in England. He kept a delicious French accent, in fact a mixture between the Belgian and the French accents of the French language. This accent is kept constant and unvarying over twenty-one years by the very same actor who is aging of course but since Poirot's adventures stretch from the very end of the First World War to just before the Second World War this aging is natural. The actor ages the same number of years as the character.Second the character has a distinctive physique, walks in a distinctive way, has an astonishing moustache that evolves with age but not that much, though in the last episode he reveals the most astounding secret. He dies in that last episode and the explanation of the last case is post-mortem, in fact four months after his own death. Hercule Poirot can reach beyond his own grave.The character has a final characteristic that is particularly distinctive but also irritating. He is absolutely vain and his vanity makes him consider he is the most intelligent detective, and probably man, in the world and that his little grey cells have no equal. He has no real competitor, not even Sherlock Holmes, of course. That vanity makes him extremely nasty with most people around him and first of all his secretary, Captain Hastings and his valet-butler, not to speak of all the policemen he has to deal with. This vanity becomes a feature without which Poirot would not be Poirot. Agatha Christie made him like that and he has to be like that. She even includes in many episodes a female detective story writer who is her own impersonation as a fictional doppelganger of herself. And of course that doppelganger is not that swift and she often lets herself go into the traps of false logic, I mean false criminal logic. The logic of a criminal has little to do with that of a story teller.But the whole series has another quality that makes it nearly real. It is rooted in real life. Poirot is rooted in England in 1918 as a veteran from the front on a convalescing period. Then the cars, the trains, the radio, and every single fixture in society move up with time little by little, year after year. All the characters, policemen and others age and go up in society, are promoted or just go away, disappear or die. The treatment of this environment, settings, buildings, people, theaters, etc, makes the series believable and true to the core. Of course I would advise you not to watch the thirty-five DVDs in one go. Take your time and alternate four or five DVDs with something else for a few days. It may become slightly tiresome in heavy doses. But then you will find out that the various episodes are always a tremendous description of all kinds of social or cultural situations, in London and out of London, and quite a few on the continent. Of course Agatha Christie's stories are quite realistic, but the TV production was very careful to look for and find the proper elements that makes the whole thing rich and entertaining but with enough variation for the series not to become tiring. We will also note how the political situation is clearly alluded to and evoked particularly the rise of Hitler and some Nazi party or groups in Great Britain. This political and historical realism was typical of Agatha Christie and it is perfectly kept in this series, and you will enjoy it.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU
Agatha Christie's Poirot is a wonderful and brilliant show that lasted for many years, based on the ingenious tales of murder and mystery by the queen of crime herself, Dame Agatha Christie. David Suchet dissolves into the role of the great eccentric genius, Hercule Poirot, a character previously played on film by Albert Finney and Peter Ustinov. But none were as perfect for this part as David Suchet. And where would a detective be without his loyal companions, Captain Hastings, Chief Inspector Japp and Miss Lemon, all of them delightful and lovable, played by Hugh Fraser, Philip Jackson and Pauline Moran respectively. This is definitely British television at its best, and seeing these wonderful and ingenious novels and short stories come to life is really a treat. Different episodes also feature different stellar casts, Death on the Nile and Murder on the Orient Express come to mind. I also have to acknowledge the wonderful score composed by Christopher Gunning, that is really a wonderful tune and sets the tone for a fun time. Even after this show sadly had to end, it will always be re-watched and discovered by new people, and Suchet's performance as Poirot will be cherished and remembered forever.


                
When I first read the Poirot novels, I tried to imagine this meticulous, egg-shaped headed, impeccably dressed, oiled mustached person who would never exist in real life. It was kind of hard to believe that someone could be so eccentric in nature and yet a person of first class intellect and understanding of the human mind. David Suchet has brought to life what many of the readers would not have been able to portray in their imaginations.This is an amazing portrayal of a series of novels into a TV series. I still believe that reading a novel beats the television in building the tension and creating the excitement. The cases are still very much interesting!Watch this series if you like old time mysteries. If the simple country people and their scandals appeal to you. Watch this to see the dedication of a team of people who worked 24 hard years to bring EVERY Poirot case written by Agatha Christie on TV! And finally, watch this to see an amazing actor adroitly performing as arguably one of the most difficult characters created in this genre of fiction.


                
Oh i love this series and David Suchet is a genius.i'm so addicted to it that i can't stop watching it,when i put one episode i always have to watch at least one more.I bought the DVD Box Set for my partner as a Christams present cos i know he appreciate this kind of series but i knew nothing about it till i watch it once and now i'm hook up on it.I live in London and i find fascinating how they really get the period right with all the deco building and the costumes. The acting of course is fantastic with Suchet as the best Poirot ever and fabulous supporting cast from Hastins,Japp and miss Lemon. Overall the best British TV series in a long time.


                
It is the end of 2013 and on TV, "Poirot" has bid farewell to Hastings with words reflecting on the validity of the criminal methods that he spent his life investigating and of course, the usual chiding of his friend for "lacking the little gray cells". It is a sad moment in the history of television because "Curtain" has closed on one of the most beloved characters and one of the most brilliant series ever made for television. David Suchet's Poirot has gone down in history as one of the most brilliant and convincing portrayals of any character on screen. His performance supported by convincing performances from Hugh Fraser, Philip Jackson, Pauline Moran and a long list of guest actors factored along with the largely faithful depiction of Christie's novels that never failed to maintain the true spirit of her plots, gave this paradoxically unassuming and self-effacing series (in contrast to its self- congratulatory and arrogant protagonist) a long successful air-life of a quarter century, surviving successfully, based solely on the quality of its programming, for 24 years from 1989 to 2013.I am reminded of Lord Tennyson's words - "men may come and men may go, but I go on forever." Several series have come and gone since "Poirot" started airing and several with continue to come and go, while Poirot continues to entertain us through repeat airings and DVD sets.


                
Reading Christie's Poirot was a great experience for me. But the shear plot and the style of the books written aren't the only reason why I like the Poirot series. It's the atmosphere of the era which was brought to us in a splendid manor. Watching Poirot makes me want to move back 80 years a go, live in Art Deco and ride the famous steam lines from coast to coast.The cleanliness of the frames, perfection of scenery and the scholar English dialogs really made me enjoy Sunday afternoons. Yes, I know it's an ideogram of times long passed but it still is one of the best portrayed history based motion picture contents.Also, Poirot shows one particular thing that really was authentic for the time when novels were written - concern for crime and it's impact in society. Today's vision of murder is widely accepted as something normal and common. Watching all sorts of CSI programs made today's environment accept murder as an acceptable category, no matter how sinister, bizarre and pointless it is. Poirot represents a completely different point, showing that a crime was a scarce and socially unacceptable unlike today. By enlightening all the aspects of the crime Poirot makes not only good entertainment, but a conclusion with meaning and a clear message.Concerning Poirot, I'm sorry about two things - that the world has degraded so much in the last 80 years, and the fact we don't have more good series like Poirot.10/10


                
I am a huge Agatha Christie fan, at 17, and I absolutely love Agatha Christie:Poirot. What I love most about Agatha Christie's books are their clever final solutions and well developed characters. My favourite Poirot book is Death on the Nile, Sleeping Murder for Miss Marple, but my favourite of all the books is And Then There Were None. Back to Agatha Christie:Poirot, the period detail is splendid, with wonderful costumes and sets, and matched with great music. David Suchet is impeccable as Poirot, in my opinion he doesn't just play Poirot, he IS Poirot, just like John Thaw WAS Morse. Don't get me wrong, Peter Ustinov and Albert Finney both gave enjoyable portrayals of the character, but Suchet has something that makes him the best of the Poirots, he not only looks the part, but he brings this sense of humour to the role, and his co-stars were always saying how he was always in character when he put his moustache on. Hugh Fraser is very entertaining as the rather naive Hastings, as is Phillip Jackson as Japp and Pauline Moran as Miss Lemon. The scripts are always well written, the stories are intriguing, and the characters fairly complex. Out of all the episodes, which range from good to outstanding, one of my personal favourites has to Five Little Pigs, very haunting and tragic at the same time. It is true that very few of the episodes are completely faithful to the books, but the fact that all the episodes are so well-made and acted, that is forgiven. 10/10 for a wonderful series, one of my favourites along with Inspector Morse and Touch of Frost. Bethany Cox.


                
By the end of the series the character was as perfect as the original stories. Justifiably lauded by the Christie family and critics alike, Mr S delivers a tour de force performance throughout.Some Americans miss the point of AC. She didn't write cuddly thatched, half timbered crime novels like the New England 'Murder She Wrote' stuff. Her's were a dark, chilling reflection on what lurks just below the surface of the English reserve particularly and humanity generally. At the end of each episode you should feel a sense of brilliance mixed with fear & distrust of the person next to you. AND SO YOU SHOULD! TV brilliance at it's best. Watch once a year.


                
This unforgettable television series, which has spanned almost twenty years, is one of my favorites and one of the best TV series ever, in my opinion. It meticulously adapted all the tales and novels in which Agatha Christie included her most famous character: the infallible Belgian detective Hercule Poirot. There is certainly merit in this character, which undoubtedly contributed to the success and recognition of its creator, one of the most celebrated, read and translated authors of police fiction. And there is certainly merit in this author. Therefore, this series ends up being a well-deserved and just homage to both creator and creation.We have to stand up and applaud David Suchet's talent. I think its unanimous, he has been the actor who best managed to give life to the Belgian detective, famous for the manias in regard to cleanliness, order, arrangement and refinement. He was Poirot, he became the character. I think for an actor is probably the greatest achievable achievement, redundancies aside. I also enjoyed the appearances of Hugh Fraser (as Captain Hastings), Pauline Moran (as Miss Lemon) and Phillip Jackson (as Chief Inspector Jap). Each contributed in the best way to the success of the series. Each episode adapts a long story or novel by the British author. The screenplays are great, the mood of mystery is very pleasant. The attention to detail, almost perfect costumes and season settings and the surrounding soundtrack help make the series memorable.


                
This legendary series needs no introduction."Agatha Christie's Poirot" shall stand the test of time as one of the leading detective television shows in the history of British TV.David Suchet shall probably remain the definitive Hercule Poirot - although Peter Ustinov ranks a very close second! It is best to watch this series from near the beginning, so as to witness the evolution of the series.


                
Those who would like to judge whether Agatha Christie is really the greatest of mystery writers should not rely on these television adaptations. They are indeed great. The problem is that many of the stories have been heavily reworked and thereby improved. Just a few examples are "The Million Dollar Bond Robbery," "The Kidnapped Prime Minister," "The Adventure of the Western Star," and "The Adventure of the Cheap Flat." In that last, the London dive and its delightfully degenerate manager are among several elements created out of whole cloth for the television audience. What is more important, Christie's plots often need work before they can be plausibly presented on the screen in a real-world setting.Also, please bear in mind that even the most two-dimensional characters in fiction gain a definite materiality when embodied by actors. Christie's characters are notoriously flat. Hercule Poirot is a bundle of quirks without a trace of personality -- a far cry from the Poirot we love to watch in the person of David Suchet. The other characters, too, are brilliantly created by the cast, not by Christie.On the TV screen, these stories and the Granada productions of Sherlock Holmes with Jeremy Brett are about equally satisfying. Some people find the Poirot series more enjoyable. Please remember, though, that most of the Holmes entries (not all) are very faithful to the original stories. To be as good as they are, they did not need to be "punched up" by the TV people. Nor do those actors who have played Holmes and Watson over the years need to inspire them with a semblance of reality; they need to interpret characters so real that many people have mistaken them for historical personages.Finally, one of the great pleasures of watching the Poirot productions is the enjoyment of period style -- the furnishings, the clothes, the architecture. Unfortunately, Christie gives us neither style nor mood in the original stories. She sets forth her puzzle in prose that is usually unappealing and sometimes downright clumsy. She deploys a large number of hypothetical people like the tokens in a board game and sprinkles clues, motives, secrets of birth, feats of impersonation, and irrelevant crimes more thickly than they could ever exist outside of a comic-book world. At last she decrees the solution to the puzzle and collects her pay as the Queen of Crime. Looking back over what we've read, we realize that storytelling was not part of the bargain. It was left to this TV cast and production staff to give us a richly satisfying experience, and they have succeeded wonderfully.


                
The show focuses more on the psychological part of murder rather than the forensic. David Suchet plays Poirot perfectly and gets the accent and mannerisms just right. The plots come from the best mystery writer all time, apart from maybe Conan Doyle so all one has to do is follow the plots closely and you get a good series. The series does follow the books reasonably closely apart from a few episodes which usually have good reason to change things. The directing and cinematography are decent and the lighting is very well done especially in the later episodes. The tone gets progressively darker as the series goes on and the colour pallet gets greyer. Overall an excellent series.


                
I can't imagine another actor playing Hercule Poirot ! David Suchet is just the perfect man to be this 'funny little man' ! HE IS POIROT ! The whole TV series is amazing, I never get tired of watching again and again all the episodes ! Whether it be the adaptations of the novels or the adaptations of the short stories, I love this series because it is mostly faithful to the original work of Agatha Christie. I also really got attached to the secondary characters such as Hasting or Miss Lemon, perfectly interpreted by Hugh Fraser and Pauline Moran who bring their personal touch to the show. To finish, I'm really looking forward discovering the next and last season, number 13, to put an end and say goodbye to the incredible David Suchet's Poirot !


                
I have been an Agatha Christie fan since I began reading her mysteries in the early 1960s while serving in the Army. I thoroughly enjoy great movie mysteries, and saw her early Poirot films that starred Peter Ustinov (Death on the Nile, 1978; Evil Under the Sun, 1982; and four TV films in the 1980s). I don't know if it was the direction or the actor's interpretation of the role, or a combination, but Ustinov's Poirot comes across as flat and ho-hum. Enter British television and accomplished English actor David Suchet in 1989. I think the TV series and full-length movies about Dame Agatha Christie's Hercule Poirot are the best mysteries ever put on film. Suchet's interpretation and portrayal of the character is outstanding. His meticulous study of Christie's sleuth, and the producers' attention to detail and authenticity of settings give viewers a sense that we are living in the time and place and in the company of the "real" sleuth as he solves mysteries that baffle all others. In its long tenure, the Poirot mysteries have entertained hundreds of millions of people. And, they are likely to do so well into the future. Suchet had a supporting cast of fine actors and characters in many of his Poirot films. Hugh Fraser was his frequent sidekick, Captain Hastings. Philip Jackson was an early skeptic who soon turned friend as Chief Inspector Japp. And Pauline Moran played Hercule's secretary, Miss Lemon. Everything about the short Belgian "Frenchie" is to like. His appearance and never-changing clothing. His short steps and stiff upright carriage. His fussiness over his appearance. His waxing poetic over a situation. His vanity and ego. His sincere proper manners and comportment. His comfort and reassurance of someone in trouble or hurting. His touch of humor at times with friends, and his failure to see humor when Hastings or Japp think something is funny. His accent and looks of bewilderment when stumped. The determined look when he puzzles through a scheme to trap or uncover the culprit. And his knowing smile when his "little grey cells" begin to unravel the mystery. I've enjoyed good mysteries all my life, and no doubt I'll continue to enjoy new mysteries in the time ahead. And, of all the mystery writers to date, Agatha Christie remains the best. Of all of her stories, I have only once been able to accurately guess the culprit right up to the end. Her stories don't have gore. They usually are quite simple, albeit with many red herrings. But the solutions require use of the brain and attentiveness. The settings are wonderful. Her's is great entertaining mystery. Hercule Poirot is her most captivating and entertaining sleuth. And, British actor David Suchet brings Poirot to life as the most interesting, intelligent, and beloved sleuth of all time. For all of his years solving crimes in England, he learned and lived English customs. He would have afternoon tea with people he visited. And, I noted in some of his last films, that he had a taste for a tisane. In the middle of the afternoon, he would remind Miss Lemon that it was time for his tisane. Not tea, but a tisane (aka, herbal tea).Agatha Christie and David Suchet have given us a most memorable character for all time. If ever one needed help with a great mystery, there was one person to seek – Hercule Poirot. He could be found at 568 Whitehaven Mansions, Sandhurst Square, London, W1. Or, one could reach him by telephone at TRA-8137.


                
Few shows have been crafted with as much integrity. A heartfelt journey from start to finish. David Suchet is absolutely brilliant and has the ability to make us laugh legitimately (as opposed to socially) and make us cry legitimately (as opposed to selfishly). In season 8 the show takes on a much darker tone and musical theme. (Eventho season 7 cuts the intro music short and slows it down a tad, I'm not counting that as an official change of theme.) Some really touching moments and some great star performances from the gorgeous Emily Blunt and the hysterical Tim Curry among other talented lesser-known actors. Hercule Poirot's faith has helped me through some really tough times, and reminded me of it's importance. But at any rate watch the show from beginning to end, it's great. Thank you Agatha!


                
Love Poirot! Hated for the seasons to end. 
Agatha Christie is the best. And David Suchet is the best Poirot.


                
Let me start by saying that I've no familiarity whatsoever with Agatha Christie novels so whether or not the character is true to the source material I can't say.What I can say is that the sets, acting and props are all very well done & that I thoroughly enjoyed watching most every single episode.It's a simple formula; much like Columbo you have the frumpy little detective man who must solve the crime using the most faint of clues as his guide. Not exactly "True Crime" but entertaining nonetheless. What's more is that, unlike many other shows, the solution is a "whodunit" until the very end.If you like English television or detective shows give this a try.


                
Not just David Suchet as an individual is awesome, but the whole ensemble is on the highest level. The episodes are very close to Agatha Christie's books and manage took keep all of its original spirit. I'm sure she would have loved it!


                
