The Poirot series (both iterations) is formulaic. There's so little time left after setting up the phony culprit, that anything which suggests otherwise must be considered relevant and will always point to the real explanation. You usually aren't allowed to see some of the evidence that Poirot sees. He will hold off some knowledge until the end, then to solve it, the episodes require the piece of information to be disclosed at the precise moment the solution is proffered.While you might guess generalities (more than one culprit, gender of culprit, means) you'll never guess the full solution because of this with-holding, which is unfair and makes for unengaged viewing. Once you notice this, you realize how unsatisfying further episodes will be, because there's no point in being an active viewer. The characters could skip the whole ruse of a plot, spend half an hour farting or making duck-calls, then cut to the solution, for all the middle portion matters. I guess you're supposed to sit there saying "That Poirot sure is smart..." at the end of each episode. Other episodes are utterly obvious (Egyptian Tomb, Hickory Dickory Dock).I expect this is due to Christies disinterest in the art of writing. I read about 2/3rds of her works twenty years ago, until detecting that she really didn't care about writing at all. She just knew which side her bread was buttered on. The major titles all have smart solutions (Ten little ______, Oreient Express, Aykroyd) but the path there is always disinterested and artless.The scripts here are likewise perfunctory. The roles simply a matter of going through the motions. The production design is nice, and you often get to see early modern homes, but it's just empty T.V. calories. Any "humor" is strangled out of the British obsession with food and foreigners. I don't understand why these inspire passion in viewers. I rent them as a package deal for a diversion while falling asleep.
I am afraid that I have never been able to work up much enthusiasm for this series.And when I saw the production of "Murder on the Orient Express", it was appalling how bad it was.Of course seeing the 1974 movie to some extent spoiled it for me. But, even allowing for the fact that the movie had far more time and money to lavish on the production, I found this incredibly inferior and dull.I have seen modest productions that were better than ones on which far more money was thrown,because they had other redeeming qualities, better acting, etc. But not this.I found Suchet dull, compared to the witty Finney.And worse, the actors in this version didn't act like people in the 1930's, but like people of 2010 suddenly dropped into 1930.One glaring example.In a hotel lobby in Istanbul a man is walking around in vest and shirtsleeves.He sees Poirot, yells to him, and walks over to him with his hand stuck out saying that he has always wanted to meet him.He turns out to be a director of the Compagne International Des Wagons-Lit which operates the Orient Express.Not in a million years back then would this have happened.Not even with Americans, who had an exaggerated reputation for being brash and forward.A man in his position, particularly a European, would never have been walking around in public without his coat on.He NEVER would have yelled to a stranger and walked over like that.If he had been in the lobby, recognized Poirot, and badly wanted to meet him, and there was no one to introduce them, he would have handed his card to a bellboy and directed him to hand it to Poirot, with a request to have a word with him.The attitudes of everyone in the movie were far more authentic for the period.And that is a matter of acting, not money.
