The Bicycle Thief is without a doubt De Sica's masterpiece of Italian neorealism filmmaking. It is a true landmark in cinema history.A man who has been unemployed for months is finally given a chance at a job putting up posters. He and his family have been living in poverty for months, and are very exited to hear the news. The only requirement for the job is a bicycle. His wife pawns the sheets off of their own bed in order to buy the bicycle. And, as you can tell from the title, it is stolen on his first day of work. Now, without it, he and his son search the crowded streets of Rome for the only thing that can give him back his dignity as a man.This is a simple, but very powerful film and I found the relationship between Bruno and his father especially touching. The final scene is a true captivating moment as Bruno witnesses the true nature of man and the world we have created for ourselves.Don't miss this film, to call it a classic would be an understatement.


                
Don't get me wrong, I have nothing against Lord of the Rings and I respect people's right to obsess over whatever they wish. Nonetheless, it does often irritate the cynic in me that we're teaching a generation of kids that there is a distinct borderline between 'good' and 'evil', between 'justice' and 'injustice', that there exists such a thing as a 'hero', when in reality there is actually nothing of the sort.Ladri di Biciclette is a shining example of a film that demonstrates this fact. There is no distinction between the 'good guys' and the 'bad guys'. At times we support one character, or the others. But there is never a line drawn between one side or the other because in reality, the only people we see here are simply human - flawed, corruptible and in this case, all suffering the same tragic fate. Our central character Antonio is obviously the protagonist, and he is obviously portrayed in such a way that our sympathies lie with him, but he is far from being a hero. He is simply used as the representation of the tragic misfortune that can befall mankind. This misfortune, also, is not depicted in any black-and-white sense. Antonio and his family's plight is not the only, or even necessarily the most desperate, in this film. In fact, with the exception of the family in the restaurant scene, practically every single character, major or minor, is portrayed as suffering in some way at the hands of capitalism.Therefore, as obviously tragic as Antonio's story is, the only real reason we side with him is because his particular tragedy is centrally focused. But, as has been discussed so often previously, he is an Everyman character. The bicycle in the film is simply used as an analogy for the loss, or lack of any essential element of life that leads to poverty and suffering. In very simple terms, the film's message is essentially that at some stage in life, we are all shouting "Give me back my bicycle!" But I digress. This simplistic and amateurish film is far more real and far more true-to-life than practically anything that Hollywood has churned out in the past fifty years. For that reason, the realist in me believes that all those dreamers, people who believe in a happy ending or ideal status quo, could do with the sort of down-to-earth lesson that this film represents.Yes, it's a distressing and bleak vision. But nevertheless, an utterly profound one.
A film of real life, real emotions, real people. Bicycle Thieves was a  film like no other because it was made like no other. With non actors,  natural light, filmed on locations, the film captured the truth of  Neorealism. The film is made up of a series of "small moments." The  fact is, the entire movie is made up of pureness. It tackles issues of  class, politics, and post war activities. Overall, the film is about  life and hope. The unhappy ending only makes the film more real. If you  are a son who loved his father and understood who he was and why he was  the way he was........watch this movie.
Possible Spoilers One of the simplest movies ever made, yet one of the most poignant. Of particular note is the title of the film, which serves, in retrospect, to illustrate deSicca's main point. In English, the singular title "The Bicylce Thief" causes the viewer to question who really is the bicycle thief in the movie? It is logical to conclude that the title refers to the main character, whom the film closely chronicles. But to call the hopeless, dejected character, with whom the viewer has empathized for the entire movie, a thief would be ludicrous, unless- by calling such a man a "thief"- deSicca is making a more powerful commentary on an inability to define a person or his actions as absolutely good or absolutely evil- the two terms are not mutually exclusive, as there is a blurring between the two that occurs when other factors are considered. The title serves as a reminder that not all criminals are evil- some have been motivated out of good intentions and desperation. In the end, the viewer is forced to make a jarring comparison between the "thief" who stole the main char's bicycle and the main char, himself. The irony of the situation causes the viewer to realize his own hypocrisy. Though we formerly considered the first thief to be petty and evil for ruining the main char's life, we can no longer hold such a judgment of him after witnessing the main char do the same- an act which the viewer considers sympathetically. The change in judgment toward the first "thief" which the viewer is forced to make at the film's conclusion is a reminder to the viewer that one's awareness of the circumstances governing a situation can dramatically change one's assessment of the situation. The Italian, plural title "Ladri di Biciclette" serves to generalize the crime, desperation, degradation, to everyman in post-war Italy. I also loved this movie for the portrayed father-son relationship. The little boy did an excellent job in portraying a boy who attempts to act like a grown up in order to help, and therefore gain the approval of, his father.However, by the end of the movie we are reminded that the boy is just a boy (which the father seems to forget at intervals, but realizes when he offers to take him for pizza, etc.). The father also has a dilemma- and not just that he bears the burden of providing for his family monetarily, but that he must provide moral teaching and an example as well. Moreover, the filial relationship serves to better illustrate the theme of blurred definitions of good and evil. The boy's black-and-white ideas on good and evil is juxtaposed with the reality of post-war Italy, in which there can not be such a clear distinction between the two terms-"good" people are forced to do "bad" acts in order to survive. The two different moral characterizations are forced to converge in the young boy, himself, when he witnesses his own father commit a crime. The boy is forced to grow up too soon- i.e., to abandon his absolute views on good and evil in favor of the grey reality in order to grant his father forgiveness. The ending of the film illustrates that though a child may constantly seek approval and confirmation from his father, the approval which a father must seek from his son, though far more subtle and less obvious, plays an equally important and intrinsic role in filial relationships.
This is one of the best films made in Italy. While not "the best movie ever", it is one of the all-time greats.'Ladri di biciclette' is more than just a movie, it's a way of life and what it contains is forever significant. I'm taking about its solid, tragic and realistic story. Yes, it's a fairly basic plot which could never be described as "exciting" or "feel-good" but that isn't (and it never was) a priority. No, its priority is the heart and soul that was put into it.What we got here is a strongly sentimental movie and one that is very pessimistic and brings back the intense feeling of bad luck and failure.Cinematography is generally pleasant, capturing a decent amount of Rome's streets and areas. To me, the scenario is one of the most important things in a movie.Amazingly, the cast consists in unprofessional actors but you can never tell that in the movie. If I didn't know, I could easily think they were real actors. They are so authentic and dedicated that it's fairly natural to see them as normal/professional artists.Lamberto Maggiorani's performance as Antonio Ricci is superb, a prodigy non-professional actor.Enzo Staiola is just as splendid as Ricci's cute son Bruno. He is so expressive and genuine. The character Bruno is a loving kid who follows his "daddy" wherever he goes and does whatever "daddy" says without saying a word but that doesn't prevent him from looking tenderly at his father.The guy in the film is literally out of luck. After having been (predictably) unemployed for a long time, he finally gets himself a job only to have his bicycle robbed in his new job's 1st day. When his bike is robbed, nobody helps him or gives a damn about him aside a friend of his and Bruno. But when he is the one robbing a bike, he is not only chased but caught, slapped, threatened and humiliated in public by an angry crowd. His one and only saving-grace in this situation is the fact that the bike's owner feels compassion on poor Bruno when he sobs.That ending is easily one of the most memorable in a film ever, it's just so heartwrenching and profound.Title in Portugal: 'Ladrões de Bicicletas'.


                
The Bicycle Thief is classic piece of mid-20th century Italian film-making by veteran workhorse director Vittorio De Sica. Using his experience to good advantage, De Sica cast a mix of fellow veteran performers and unknowns - with no stars - to give the film a feeling of universality which would have been missing had well-known actors been cast.The story is simple. It is post-war Italy and the bread lines are long. People are desperate for work and money and many are close to starvation. Antonio, Maria and their son Bruno see a glimpse of hope when Antonio gets a job hanging posters. The job is dependent on his bicycle, however, which is almost immediately stolen after he gets the job. Antonio and Bruno take to the streets to find the bicycle thief.Ostensibly. the film is about poverty, desperation, and the extremes these conditions push people into. And the film is certainly stark, open, and economical in both story-telling and pacing. However, there are also some moral points which are not to be overlooked. The bond between Antonio, Bruno and Maria is certainly touching and all three of the central characters are very believable, very well acted, and very sympathetic. The Bicycle Thief was a first film for all three principal cast members, and all three went on to achieve modest success in European film. Enzo Staiola, who later became a teacher, was particularly impressive in the role of Bruno at the age of 7.As I mentioned above, the film is economically directed. The cinematography is excellent, and it is clear that the director was intimately familiar with his sets - using locations perfectly. The script is also lean and believable, giving the film a realism rarely found in modern cinema, but not uncommon in mid-20th century European cinema. And some of the scenes are so memorable that it is possible to pick out homages paid to the film in major films made a good 50 years later.To discuss the thematic content of this film, and the reasons I can't recommend it for family viewing, any further would require a spoiler, so I will leave off here. My highest recommendation goes to The Bicycle Thief - a well deserved classic which can be enjoyed by most audiences.


                
It's extremely difficult to write a review of Bicycle Thieves without mentioning the influence it had on world cinema, but had it not been for Bicycle Thieves directors like Kurosawa, Ozu, or Satyajit Ray (who in turn went on to inspire the vast bulk of the Hollywood renaissance, ie. Coppola, Lucas, Scorcese, etc) would have been deprived of one of their biggest influences. In other words, no Bicycle Thieves means no Pather Panchali, no Ikiru, no Tokyo Story, and therefore no Godfather, Taxi Driver or The Conversation. It might sound like an exaggeration, but without Bicycle Thieves, at least one quarter of the last half-century's greatest movies might have never been made.Many reviews here have already commented on the superb level of acting (which is remarkable given that virtually everyone is a non-professional) and the moving storyline, so it's difficult to add anything of substance. That said, I still can't decide whether the outlook of Bicycle Thieves is pessimistic, subversive, or neither. Andre Bazin famously called Bicycle Thieves the only true communist film of the 1940s, but I'm not entirely sure if that applies. There are allusions to the class struggle (particularly during the scene in the restaurant), but the film falls short of directly calling for a radical social change, instead portraying the working class of Italy as hopelessly divided by its own poverty, unemployment and greed. While that in itself may suggest De Sica's desire for a proletariat united against injustices posed by the system (an old Marxist chestnut), it's still a comment the film never makes in a literal form - if it's there, it's hidden away somewhere in the narrative for the audience to decipher themselves. In that respect Bicycle Thieves quite clearly differs from many other Italian neo-realist movies like Ossessione, because it does not directly criticise the capitalist system, instead preferring to remain ambiguous and leaving the audience to arrive at their own conclusions about the fate of Antonio and Bruno (the most lovable and sympathetic father-and-son pairing I've ever seen on film, I hasten to add) and of Italian society in general. In a way it's probably for the best that De Sica has chosen to portray the message of the film in an ambiguous light instead of patronising his audience with lectures and slogans (a la Ken Loach), since it enables him to portray social injustice without running the risk of alienating his audience, something which many politically motivated film makers inadvertently tend to do.Its ideological implications aside, Bicycle Thieves is a cinematic milestone as well as one of the most emotionally moving films you'll ever see. Highly recommended.


                
With the recent Life is Beautiful as the only popular example of recent Italian cinema, De Sica's The Bicycle Thief is a startling surprise, with its brutal realism and strong undertones of desperation. While Roberto Benigni's masterwork is a family-friendly celebration of life, The Bicycle Thief is a striking departure, even from other movies that depict the life of the lower class. Shot in the Italian neorealism style, the film plays almost like a gritty documentary, with a cast of unknown actors and a minimal script. The simple story is as sincere and humble as the characters themselves, without complex plot twists or numerous characters. De Sica is also a master of cinematography and editing, as seen in his stunning shots of the Italy, and his quick editing cuts near the climax of the film, which establish anticipation on part of the spectator. But the most powerful facet of The Bicycle Thief is the plight of Ricci, who cannot work without his missing bicycle. The audience is shown a world where a man's honor and his family's wellbeing is dependent on a bicycle, yet despite the desperation and poverty, hope is established with the bond the man and his son form while searching for the bicycle. In The Bicycle Thief, where people are so destitute that they would pawn off their bed sheets in hopes of employment, the most poignant aspect of the film, as seen in the final harrowing scene, shows how humanity triumphs over any material shortcomings.


                
This Italian neorealist film is known in 3 titles: the original ('Ladri di biciclette'), the English ('Bicycle Thieves') and the American ('The Bicycle Thief'). The Italian title literally translates into English as 'Bicycle Thieves', because "ladri" is in plural. As such, the English title makes more sense than the American one, because the desperate protagonist becomes a bicycle thief himself.The story is set in Rome and the camera does a good job in showing the streets of that city and capturing the rest. And the fact that it is in black and white makes it deeper and gives it a more nostalgic feeling. Call it good cinematography.Something very curious (which would be impossible today) is that, instead of professional actors, they used people without experience in acting. Yet, they are brilliant in their roles, particularly Lamberto Maggiorani (the leading actor, who portrays Antonio Ricci) and Enzo Staiola (as his cute little son Bruno). They are so convincing and realistic in their performances. It's as if, more than portraying the characters, they BECAME them.It's an extremely simple movie in all ways: cinematography, plot, etc. Not that there is anything wrong or bad about that, quite the contrary! It's a good movie.The film tells the story of Antonio Ricci, a poor man who needs a job urgently and actually finds one (hanging up posters), but with one condition: he's gotta own a bicycle - which is necessary for the work. No bicycle, no job. Get it? So he buys one, but in order to buy it his wife is forced to pawn the sheets of their bed.The good news don't last. Just as he is starting his 1st day in the new job, his bicycle is robbed. He's forced to search for the bicycle with the help of Bruno and other people he knows, as the police doesn't help him at all. Of course that such task will be very difficult and, in fact, they spend hours trying to find it in Rome's streets.During the search, Ricci and Bruno spend time together and they even go to a restaurant where they eat a nice meal: mozzarella bread. During the whole film, the connection between Bruno and his father is notorious, as Bruno often looks at him and helps him in the various circumstances.When Ricci finally encounters the thief and angrily demands him to give back what belongs to him, it's no use. No one but Bruno helps him in this situation. The bike doesn't appear, the thief's neighbors fiercely defend him, there ain't any witnesses and even the policeman isn't much of a help. He loses in the most humiliating and unfair way and the thief simply gets away with it.The climax of the story comes when, in a moment of despair (although not without some hesitation), Antonio steals one bicycle but is seen taking it and caught by angry men who mistreat him. Luckily, he is set free. The movie ends with father and son depressed, holding hands and crying. That is the most emotional part of the film. And that is undeniably one of the most poignant and dramatic endings in film history.The guy was simply out of luck. When his bicycle was taken, nobody saw and nobody even tried to stop the thief. When he was the one stealing one, he was ferociously chased and caught. Life is so ungrateful. Plus, it's not just some bicycle. His life and his family's too depend on that bicycle, as without it he can't have the job.In fact, this movie is a take on the situation of many italians who, after the World War II, were poor, unemployed, going through great difficulties to get a job and without perspectives of future. Just how many of us feel now. Only today the situation seems far more critical and it just keeps getting worse every year.As a movie, it can be somewhat difficult to judge, although it is one of the most regarded Italian films and appears in many lists of the all time's finest films.
I saw this movie many years ago and went back to view it again. It touched me in the same way. This movie is a work that speaks to the human condition in a way that Vittorio De Sica's movies often succeed in achieving. In that sense, it is timeless and a great work. This movie has something to say. The story is about a family man whose bicycle is stolen. This deprives him of a job, something very hard for him to come by in post-war Italy. He is devastated but the man and his young son set out to find it. During the movie, I was struck by the loss of self-respect that comes from grinding poverty, the raising and dashing of hopes, the disappointments seen in the eyes of a spouse, the hurt that is felt in the heart of a child. For me, this movie conveys these emotions.Vittorio De Sica was a master of the neo-realist school of cinema in the 1940's and 50's. He uses on-location shooting and in this movie, amateur actors, to tell his story. Our heart goes out to the father in the movie. We are on his side and yet everywhere he goes, he is rejected. This movie takes into a world that is all-too-real for some people. If we have personally experienced such hardship, we can forget what it's like to be up against a wall. This movie reminds us as it draws us into the lives of the characters. There are many entertaining movies; there are some that represent technical achievement or great acting; others make us laugh or cry. This movie made me feel real heartache and pain. It takes great talent for a director and actors to achieve that reaction. This may not be to everyone's liking. After all, we don't go to a movie to leave feeling depressed. Be we should never turn our backs on those who are down on their luck, if only because they could be us.


                
Director Vittorio De Sica paints a grimly compelling picture in this account of post-war Italy. The difficulties and despair faced by a father and son in searching for a stolen bicycle are a profound embodiment of the challenges faced by so many others in a time of great poverty.An incredibly expressive lead performance by Lamberto Maggiorani, a non-professional actor, lends a voice to the hope and frustration of a generation. His joyous countenance on the morning of his first day at work makes the desperate and disheartening search for the bicycle all the more moving and conveys the tragedy of small hopes being crushed by everyday adversities and misdemeanours.The search through the city of Rome brings the viewer into contact with great crowds of people, from a busy marketplace to a church service and onwards to a football game. As well as portraying masses of people the film shows the sad and often ramshackle streets in great detail; in some scenes the mere panning of the camera through these streets captures the desolation of post-war Italy.The haunting score by composer Alessandro Cicognini lends itself superbly to both the story and the imagery and completes an utterly enthralling film, fully deserving of its status as a classic.


                
This is a simple story that furthers our understanding of what it was like in Rome in the depression years after WWII. We come to this understanding by considering the life of Antonio Ricci and his wife and young boy. As the film opens Ricci has no job and is among about a hundred men crowding around an official who has a few jobs to assign. Ricci is thrilled to get the job of pasting posters around the city, but the catch is that he needs a bicycle for the job and he has pawned his bike in order to get by. He takes the job anyway and promises to have a bike. He retrieves the bike by pawning all the sheets in the household. Things look good for Ricci at that time until he gets his bicycle stolen the first day on the job. The remainder of the movie has Ricci and his young son trying to find the stolen bike.The power of the movie derives from seeing how Ricci's desperate situation eats at his soul. Consider the arc of his degradation. At first he is happy to have been offered a job and is affectionate with his son. The fist small blow to his self-esteem is to stand by while his wife takes the initiative to pawn the household sheets to retrieve his bike. Once the bike is stolen he and his son attend a bike flea market with the idea that they might recover the stolen bike, but after some pretense he has to admit that it's hopeless. In trying to follow a lead to the thief he disrupts a church service and is escorted out. In pursuit of the thief he rushes into a brothel causing a ruckus. From scorning the prognostications of a psychic he later turns to her for advice. He confronts the thief and, even in the presence of a policeman, he is tossed out of the thieve's neighborhood and is forced to slink away. At one point he hits his son without apologizing and then is irritated with his son's falling and scraping his knees. There is the final humiliation of his thieving a bicycle himself, only to be caught. And all of this is witnessed by his son.The final scene leaves us wondering how many insults a man can take to his pride and still press on.
I've just been reading some of the comments on the Message Board for this movie in particular the frustration of those who love it and castigate those who don't and I relish the irony that there was a healthy audience for John Guillermin's 1960 entry Never Let Go in which a cosmetics salesman (Richard Todd) is fully dependent upon his small family car to visit potential clients and transport his samples; when the car is stolen Todd is distraught; the police offer little help and Todd undertakes a one-man crusade to recover the missing car. Sound familiar? Of course it does because it is Bicycle Thieves with an English accent but Richard Todd was still a major star who had recently portrayed Douglas Bader in The Dambusters, his screen wife, Elizabeth Sellers was also popular on both stage and screen and the 'heavy' used-car dealer Lional Meadows, was played by Peter Sellers who by then was well on the way to superstardom. By contrast Lamberto Maggiorani (Antonio), Enzo Staiola (Bruno) and Lianella Carell (Maria) who comprised the Ricci family were not only complete unknowns but they weren't even actors. On the other hand this was the chief strength of the film which unfolded in a Rome light years away from the one in Three Coins In The Fountain or Roman Holiday, a Rome, in fact, that could just as well have been downtown Tallin or Riga. Keep it simple is a fine philosophy and it would be difficult to keep it simpler than this: Stage One: Despair - no work, no prospects; Stage Two: Hope - a job offer, all it takes is a bike; Stage Three: Determination: Hock the family bedsheets and unhock bike; Stage Four: Elation - new job means new prospects, better life, etc. Stage Five: Despair: - the bike is stolen and we're back to square one.Sometimes simple equals Simply Great.
Sometimes the most beautiful stories ever told are also the simplest. Unburdened by sudden plot twists or multiple character arcs, these stories are able to take the time to truly focus on their characters, allowing us to absorb every minute detail, each moment presented to us with stark realism. Vittorio De Sica's 'The Bicycle Thief' (or, if you take the literal translation from the Italian title, 'Bicycle Thieves') is such a story. The plot itself is surprisingly simple: a poor family man, Antonio Ricci (Lamberto Maggiorani) manages to acquire a well-paying job, in an era when well-paying jobs are almost impossible to find. To keep the job, however, he needs to have his bicycle, and when it is stolen from him when his back in momentarily turned, Antonio fears that his job <U+0096> and his family <U+0096> is doomed to suffer. Accompanied by his bright-eyed, intelligent young son, Bruno (Enzo Staiola), Antonio travels across Rome in search of his bicycle.'The Bicycle Thief' is often cited as one of the most accomplished examples of neorealism, and rightly so. Though I was initially unfamiliar with the term, neorealism is a cultural movement that brings elements of true life in the stories it describes, and the movement was primarily developed in Europe after World War Two. In this film, we are not treated to an happy endings, of always-loving characters with broad smiles departing into the glorious sunset. Antonio and Bruno, having not recovered the bike, disappear soundlessly into a crowd of disheartened poor men, their meagre problems amounting to nothing amidst the widespread poverty in post-war Rome. We may not necessarily enjoy this bleak, somewhat pessimistic conclusion, but the film is all the more poignant and emotionally moving for it.Cary Grant and Henry Fonda were originally considered for the main role in the film, before director Vittorio De Sica opted to use nonprofessional actors. The two main stars, Maggiorani and Staiola, were, in fact, chosen for their respective roles based solely on the styles of their walks. Lamberto Maggiorani does a remarkable job in his film debut as the hopeless and anguished poor man battling to provide for his family, whilst Enzo Staiola's wide-eyed curiosity <U+0096> always looking upwards towards his father for guidance <U+0096> is perfect for the role of the young son. Together, Antonio and Bruno display a fascinating father-son intimacy. And, even over just a few days, we are able to witness the ever-so-subtle highs and lows of their relationship. Also notable is Lianella Carell, likewise in her film debut, as Antonio's ever-worrying wife, Maria.
SPOILER: When the father and son disappear into the crowd at the end, sans resolution, I find it hard not to conclude that every single person in that shot - a very crowded sidewalk in Rome - had a serious problem they were also trying to deal with. A depressing thought, but this is post war Italy. What makes it so much better than that is that the father had just been let go by the mob that caught him, which makes the viewer think, wow, isn't he lucky, even though we know he's going to lose his new job because he doesn't have a bike. But he does have a wonderful son who loves him, and a wife at home who loves him, and there's a kind of sense that that makes it OK that he's got to go back to the nothingness he started the movie with. The whole relativeness of the situation is astounding.Perhaps even more fun is comparing the two mobs he deals with in the movie, the one run by a neighborhood mob boss protecting the thief (remember the tires in the apartment, and the mamma's comment "we used to have a car" - yeah, right) that is going to kick his butt for accusing one of their own of thievery, and the other mob, about to kick his butt for being a thief. Great contrast within the father's character, from good guy to bad...Great movie.
The 21st century viewer might wonder what Ladri Di Biciclette, a movie made in 1948, might have to offer in the year 2005. The answer is simple: Ladri Di Biciclette is about post-war life in Italy and post-war misery does not change. One who is interested in the cinema and the motion picture as an art will find a lot in this movie; brevity, attention to detail and honest expression. The movie is so brief in story telling that it reminds us of the bitterly strong albeit brief short stories of Anton Chekhov and those of Edgar Allan Poe. This brevity is owed mostly to the attention to detail the production had; every scene's detail is arranged in such a way that the viewer would see what he or she would need to see to understand life there and then. The movie tells us about the misery of life as it was for the people of the post-war Italy in such an honest language that it is hard for the viewer to find a glimpse of exaggeration or overt dramatization. Those features probably will be subject to scholarly work in the movie industry for many years to come; however, and more importantly, the movie's study of post-war misery remains noteworthy after more than half a century. We are witnessing many wars in our times, and this movie allows us to close our eyes and imagine what might happen in those countries affected by wars in the years to come. For those who may be interested in how it would be like after a war, Ladri Di Biciclette is a window to the future. Saeed Payvar.


                
It wasn't really a surprise when I watched this movie and enjoyed it a lot - I had heard "Ladri di biciclette" is beautiful and has a enchanting pace. The story may sound dull when you first hear about it, but the direction and the cast turn it into a good film. I don't think it's a masterpiece, but it's typical Italian cinema (at least according to the films I've seen): beautiful photography, good music and a subjective theme hidden behind an apparently simple story.My rate 7/10


                
Well worth seeing this film. The locations are beautiful and really give character to each scene. I was impressed by the simplicity and realism of this film. It is simply a must see for any foreign film fan or serious film student.


                
I was shown this in film school amongst dozens of other movies.This one stood out from the crowd by a mile.I mean, wow... Everything about this film is excellent, judging from either a formal/technical standpoint or purely as a spectator. The humanity is so authentic and so tangible, with the relationship between a father and his son expressed in the finest example of the Italian Neo-Realist cinema.It's a real treat, running at about an hour if I recall correctly - but a must watch for any lover of great filmmaking.Watch it in best quality you can get your hands on, totally worth the effort!


                
Bicycle Thieves captures, in elemental strokes, the crushing of the human spirit at the hands of poverty, indifference and despair. Yes, it's a titan in the chronicles of cinematic history, but more importantly this is an overwhelmingly moving parable that balances the grimness of its characters' plight against some of the period's most elegant visual poetry.Armed with a story (from a novel by Luigi Bartolini) incredible in its simplicity, it tells the tale of an unemployed worker in postwar Rome who finds a job putting up movie posters after his wife pawns the family sheets to get his bicycle out of hock. But right after he starts work, the bike is stolen. This feels like an apocalyptic turn of events, thanks to the way director Vittorio De Sica and screenwriter Cesare Zavattini have crucially conveyed all that this one bicycle means; the one thing keeping this family from falling into an impoverished abyss. And so the rest of the film, during which the father races all over Rome in search of the bike with his son tagging along, has a riveting intensity. You completely identify with Antonio's desperation, even managing to understand why this proud, dignified man makes an uncharacteristic climactic decision.The picture is a pure exercise in directorial virtuosity. As our man searches for the stolen bicycle, De Sica explores the terrible dehumanization of postwar life and finds that loneliness is its unifying theme. He carefully balances a generally tragic sensibility with a quiet undercurrent of hope, all the while sucking us into the story with the sheer urgency of the search for a stolen bicycle. Bicycle Thieves has a certain simplicity, quietness, and even naiveté that are more than welcome as a change from the deafening noise, ingenuity, and hollow sophistication of Hollywood. As the son Bruno, Enzo Staiola is a revelation. His funny face and urchin-like mannerisms make him the star of the film as he plays witness to the joyous and heartbreaking events — the film's silent narrator. Likewise a greenhorn who turns in a touching performance is Lamberto Maggiorani as Antonio.Playwright Arthur Miller once described this masterpiece as "It is as though the soul of man had been filmed." He couldn't have put it in better words! Bicycle Thieves is a brilliant, tactlessly heartfelt work of art.


                
Looking through his career, I note I've seen about ten of De Sica's directorial efforts, mostly Italian. Surprisingly also, I found he was directing movies even during World War 2, all through the Fascist period in Italy. At the end of the war, of course, the world had been changed – and unhappily for many, they were left destitute, poverty-stricken and with little hope for a better life.And that's the thematic core of this movie: a man's desperate search for the means to escape from the enervating poverty which pervades Italian society soon after the guns become silent. Most viewers would sympathize with any person on such a quest. De Sica, however, subverts viewers expectations with a fundamentally flawed character, Antonio (played by Lamberto Maggiorani) – Mr Everyday Ordinary Italian Citizen – who, after having his bike stolen, desperately searches his neighborhood over a weekend to find it – and dragging his young son Bruno (Enzi Staiola) along with him as helper... but also as an emotional crutch for himself. Did I say flawed? Antonio is so inept, so much a klutz, he can't wake up to find a job; he can't even perform a simple task; and he can't even keep his eye on his highly prized and expensive bike to prevent it being stolen.Some would regard such a story as bland; and it is when regarded as just one man's inability to succeed against the odds. However, Antonio's quest could be viewed through another lens: as a symbol for a whole country struggling to regain its wealth after twenty long years of Fascism and war. Sure, it's a story about two bicycle thieves and what happens to them. Clearly, however, as the plot proceeds, De Sica shows there could be and probably are a great many bicycle thieves throughout the society – but all posing as upright, honest citizens. Why else would De Sica make such a movie, bring such an apparently ordinary story to a full-length, feature film?In doing so, though, the story crystallizes and reinforces the bullying, strong-arm tactics of the Fascists with scenes of mobs; of caricatured actors practicing a musical score amidst grinding poverty; of a compliant church and priests wringing their hands (one being a young Sergio Leone); of police fatalism about crime; and of a victim – Antonio – squeezed into an invisible, intolerable vice. To that extent, this movie is an implicit attack on the whole Fascist era and the destruction it wrought upon the entire country. Fortunately, it was Pier Paulo Pasolini who finally executed the polemical, cinematic coup-de-grace to Fascism with his release of Salo (1975) – an horrific satire that is definitely NOT for the easily-offended or the faint-hearted.Do see Bicycle Thieves, however. It's a flawless production and made better with the use of real places in Rome, using real, inexperienced people as actors. It's also still the stuff of real life for hundreds of millions, even today, in many parts of the world.Give this nine out of ten. Highly recommended.February 4, 2014


                
Greetings again from the darkness. To understand why this is considered a masterpiece of cinema and one of the best films ever made, one must put the era of its release into perspective. It's 1948 - post war Italy and poverty is everywhere. Humanity is difficult to come by. Hollywood is in a glitz and glamor mode, while Italian cinema has been dominated with light-hearted and simple films. Vittorio De Sica is a matinée idol as an actor and also, as a director, one of the driving forces of Neo-realism ... a genre that focused on the struggles of real people.There is nothing fancy or complicated about this story. Ricci is one of the masses looking for work at a time when jobs are beyond scarce. One day he is extremely fortunate to be offered a job posting signs around town. He is elated at the opportunity to again provide for his wife and young son. The only catch ... he must have a bicycle for the job. His wife pawns their bedsheets to retrieve the bicycle and we join in with their pride and happiness brought on by this job.We see Ricci on a ladder posting a Rita Hayworth movie advertisement ... an example of Hollywood's polar opposite approach to movies as compared to the Italian neo-realism. While on the ladder, Ricci witnesses the theft of his precious bicycle. His frantic reaction demonstrates the loss means so much more than the loss of two-wheeled transportation. It's actually the loss of hope.Soon enough Ricci and his young son Bruno are searching the streets of Rome trying to find the bicycle. It plays like a road trip movie as they experience many interactions on the streets and back alleys. Their search is painful to watch and father and son endure many emotions, none more powerful than the last few minutes and a touching final shot that is a tribute to the great Charlie Chaplin.All three lead actors are first timers which adds to the realistic look and feel of the characters and stories. Lamberto Maggiorani (Ricci) was a factory worker who showed up for auditions. He is a very striking man with a Daniel Day-Lewis appearance. Enzo Staiola (Bruno) was a 7 year old boy just watching the whole movie process when he was picked out of the crowd and cast. Lianella Carell (Maria) was a journalist on set to interview De Sica when he cast her as the wife/mother. Additionally, most of this was filmed on the streets and on location in Rome (very few sets).The actual Italian title is "Ladri di biciclette" which translates into Bicycle Thieves, but it has been best known in the U.S. as The Bicycle Thief. It's based on a novel by Luigi Bartolini and the screenplay comes from the incredibly prolific screenwriter Cesare Zavattini, who worked with most of the great filmmakers from the 1940's through the 1970's. Also of note, Sergio Leone was an assistant to director Vittorio De Sica during production. De Sica directed many wonderful films including Sunshine (1947), which looked at juvenile corruption, and Umberto D. (1952) which examined old age.Many question the status of this film as a masterpiece all these years later, but I certainly still experience it's powerful and sensitive message, and would recommend to anyone who admires world cinema and the classics.


                
The 1948 film Ladri di Biciclette (The Bicycle Thieves) has generated enough acclaim in its life so there is hardly a necessity for another review, but as an aspiring screenwriter, after I came across a 1950 NY Times article by Arthur Miller that praised the film for its simplicity, I though I'd be worth examining for the purposes of learning about simple filmmaking. How to make a great film based on a simple story with very few characters. Arthur Miller calls this one-track conflict of a film "to be very close to a lyrical masterpiece."The plot is simple: Jobs are scarce in Rome yet the protagonist Man fortuitously procures one. This job requires a bicycle which the Man also fortuitously procures. During the the Man's first day on the job his bicycle is stolen. The rest of the film focuses on his crusade to find the stolen bicycle and thereby remain employed.There is a real aesthetic beauty as the Man and his Son tramp the streets, the camera follows, and the city dominates. Rome is so influential that characters lives, their interactions, and their relationships are molded and shaped by her. As the man follows clues to track down his bicycle he transverses what seems like the whole city. Moving from one Roman neighborhood to another, new scenes mean new characters, and new characters mean new conflicts.There are many touching scenes between Man and his Son, but one especially where we think the Son has hurt. This scene reaffirms that the Man's true priorities are first and foremost with his family, but within seconds the Man is pulled right back into the chaos of the hunt for the bicycle. Throughout the entire film injustice reigns, paired with the utter simplicity of the film's production, Ladri di Biciclette is a truly remarkable achievement. An example of unadorned, simple cinema.


                
Talk about timely. This story of Post War Italy is eerily similar to things in the United States right now.Antonio (Lamberto Maggiorani) finally gets a job from the employment office after a years wait. His wife has to hock the sheets so he can get his bicycle out of hock to take the job.The whole household is happy and Antonio is so proud to be working again.But, life's a bitch, and his bicycle is stolen the first day on the job. He and his son spend all Sunday in the markets looking for the bicycle - even in the pouring rain. He is even so desperate that he steals one himself.An outstanding film of desperation and loss.


                
Examining the film through the lens of what was happening socially and politically in Italy during the years of Neo-Realism gives one many insights into what the film was trying to convey to audiences of the time, as well as today. There are many timeless issues and emotions, people being people at all times and places, that occur in this film. Therefor it's important to keep in mind four currents of thought, that have previously been identified, in post-war Italian intellectual life: Marxism, existentialism, sociology and psychoanalysis. The Marxism, as seen as a socialist societal commentary, is evident in the very nature of the story: class differences, poverty and unemployment. Existentialism is seemingly rife in the film, every scene commands the viewer to witness the deep meaning in everything that the characters undergo. Sociologically, this film is an interesting look into the social structures of the times and place in which it was made. Finally, the psychoanalysis rampant throughout. The turmoil, inducing neuroses, almost psychoses, in the lead character as he hunts frantically for the restoration of his dignity, his bicycle.


                
