THIS is the best fking tv show I've seen since true detective's first season. I can't believe how good it is. Beautiful photography, scenarios, costumes, thrilling atmospheric music (gives the chills!!), amazing performances and above everything: perfect beautifully (wunderbar!) storyline. This is the freaking example, Hollywood. You don't need lots of money and Fx to do a decent story (or in this case, a poetic masterpiece). You just have to portray it, with every resource you have: visually, musically, with dialogue (but not the only one, don't abuse it!).Every separate plot it's intrincally intertwined. It happens so smoothly it's never forced. Anything. As long as I can remember I never had a "cringe" moment like most shows has. In every episode i was at the edge of my seat. This is how you make a thriller, please, PLEAAAASE take a note, storywriters. I'm so sad we probably have to wait a year or more to see the possible season 2. I don't have the proper words, it's been an amazing delightful surprise to have the pleasures to see this. Also, German it's one of the most beautiful languages, I love hearing it! We have such dense Nitzschean philosophy everywhere, I could totally smell the darkness. I love this kind of stories, with time travel and meaning of life as a central subject of the story. Determinism? Free will?. Maybe this is why I loved it so much. This show never treats its public with disrespect. They tell you what you need to know when it's appropriate. I love it.Never an American production could make this dark nihilist hell. I'm glad Netflix is giving us a new cinematic adventure, never could been better. I think it's netflix' best show ever made. Yeah, not even your super loved- big fan base- stranger things does justice to this beautiful masterpiece. Not. even. close. Leave it for the children.In a word: Perfection!! I hope keep seeing this quality Netflix!


                
I don't know why a lot of people say this the German answer of stranger things. I can say it isn't! This series is absolutely great and has your own mysterious history. I hope Netflix approve a second season. I can say very very good stuff! Also many questions about all this time travels are not be answered.
This is a Netflix series, and like most users who liked it, I binge watched it. Usually, I don't like slow pacing series (hated last Twin Peaks series), but this one kept me on the edge of my seat. Slowly unfolding, there is a feel of recent Scandi noir series about it. If at all possible, watch it with German audio and subtitles. I feel dubbing made acting seem bad. This is a mystery, sci-fi, drama and many other things with incredible characters that seem incredibly real - writing is superb. Casting is unbelievable - we are seeing characters when they were children and later when they grow up. There is an uncanny resemblance.If you liked The Killing, Bridge and similar, you will enjoy this very much! It really bears no resemblance to Stranger things (which I also liked and binge watched).


                
Start to end the opening-credits, BGM, soundtracks, environment- setting, story, characters, sci-fi elements everything is f*ing great especially the cinematography.Baran bo Odar and Nikolaus Summerer deserve all the appreciation for another great visual experience after Who Am I and The Silence.I think I can call it "a MASTERPIECE". If you like dark shows, this one is even DARKER.


                
This is fresh, innovative and just damn cool. The acting is effortless, the characters gather depth with each episode. The complexity of the story is like peeling the proverbial onion, layer upon layer. This is a story worth telling. Am looking forward to seeing what the world looks like in the series two, am sure it will bring further surprises.


                
THIS IS GREATI'm not really a fan of German movies and TV shows but this really blew my mind ! great cinematography, great acting , great story and it's NOT A STRANGER THING COPY! if you want something mind bending and a bit more stranger than stranger things WATCH THIS ! Netflix is doing really great stuff and i'm looking forward to see more German or maybe austrian Netflix TV-Shows or movies :)But one bad thing in my opinion is, that the English voice over is really bad, it sounds kinda like Netflix didn't really care what it would sound like with the voice over. so for other German Netflix productions PLEAS DO ABETTER JOB WITH THE English VOICE OVER


                
When i started watching first episode late at night, i wasnt prepared that i would be tempted to watch 4 more episodes until probably 3 AM. I was completely hooked and wanted to watch more. The series is so enjoyable, smart, thought provoking, beautiful, artistic. The soundtracks, the actors, the details are fascinating. I can see how much work was put into this. In my opinion, this series is on the level of big high budget series, yet i feel like it is less known, which is pity but i believe the word will spread in no time.I am writing this review after watching season 1 for the 2nd time, because i felt i didnt grasp the whole thing or missed important reference. The crew behind this series did a fascinating job. Really, job well done. Can't wait for season 2


                
I felt like I needed to clarify that this series is nothing like "Stranger Things". It is a series about time travel and it is very similar to the movie "Predestination", so if you liked that movie and you like dark and twisted family drama, you will really enjoy this series. It is a bit hard to follow at first because there are so many characters connected through space and time. I saw it in German and in English and I have to say, watching it in English really took a lot away from the experience, so watch it in German if you can!
As a fan of genre shows (Mystery/SF) I was excited to finally see this coming from Germany.This is not much like "Stranger Things", as often has been claimed, (which is based more in style on the works of Stephen King and John Carpenter, rooted firmly in the US). It is more like a mixture of Twin Peaks & Donnie Darko. It is almost 'experimental' to German TV standards, this would never have been made by the traditional networks. By now Netflix should have themselves established as a major player in international genre shows. The way of successively adding layer after layer of information about the characters and their history also supersedes the traditional closed episode narrative. (We only learn about the past as soon as someone actually visits it.)There also are a lot of eighties references only some Germans might recognize:The mood after the Chernobyl disasterRaider bars, which have been re-branded to "Twix" in 1991 Captain Future comic books published by Bastei Nena's "Irgendwie, Irgendwo, Irgendwann" (Somehow, somewhere, sometime)
Rant/review for German show Dark - 10/10 Wow. Where do I even start? It's downright perfect. First of all, it's nothing like Stranger Things. Kids went missing and lights flickered way before ST. Dark is way darker, complex, coherent, cohesive and thought provoking than ST could ever be (I enjoy ST but almost nothing is original in it. It's fun but nothing groundbreaking. Not for me anyway). Dark kinda reminds me of movies like Donnie Darko (there's a very obvious tribute to it), Enemy, Arrival, Prisoners, etc. It's not thematically similar to Prisoners but proceeds like it, giving puzzle pieces to viewers as time passes. The cinematography, direction, acting is pretty bang on. It has gorgeous dark ambiance and the music score is perfect. The opening theme is mind blowing. It makes no sense when you see it for the first time and makes perfect sense when you're watching the last episode. It's a puzzle on it's own. Entire thing is, you're been given different pieces of it as the plot progresses. There are no shock twists, if you're paying attention you'll see them coming. It isn't scary but is very dark and not for everyone. Can't think of a single happy moment. It lives up to it's name. It was a bit tricky to keep up with, multiple characters in 3 stages of life. It will take patience. Anyway, hands down the most complex, thought provoking, intricately written show I've ever seen. Makes everything else look basic and simple. Has you contemplating life and pretty much everything. Go watch it.


                
The first season delivered to us is great. to the guy before me that only cares about how much he spent on his TV you should really write the manufacture and never ever in you're life write a review on any type of media displayed on your self proclaimed special snowflake screen.your entire review was you complaining about your buyers remorse.


                
Reading reviews here, people don't seem to know they often can switch the audio they are hearing: to the original language or the dubbed version. You don't have to watch it in the English language, you can change it to the original German language.Dark has also been dubbed in English.... But let the actors speak their own language and watch it with subtitles...Wonderful series about time travel ...
I've seen a lot of these types of shows but this one in particular held my attention through and through. I personally love the aspect of time travel in this show (not many modern shows have gone through that route). Also, the character development (especially with Ulrich) is superb.Even though I'm usually not into reading subtitles but this show really made me try to watch more German mystery shows/dramas.
One of the best things i've ever watched.
Everything is perfect, cinematography, music, acting, pacing. In a nutshell this show is perfect blend of Lost, Stranger Things and Twin Peaks. It's that an so much more. Unlike Lost you get rewarded for watching, you get the answers to your question, althought constantly new questions arise. Unlike stranger things it's prepared to tackle darker subjects like death. And unlike Twin Peaks it's a bit more serious it doesn't have that signature Twin Peaks goofiness.Overall in my opinion this show is a must watch for anyone who enjoys mystery.


                
In a few words :
amazing
attractive
Ability to progress in storytelling
And
Hidden secrets
True beauty of this show lies in the characthers. They are not perfect, far from it. Each characther has deep flaws and they are simply not likeable. But that's exactly what makes this show so good, they are flawed and they are humans. Combined with great story, cinematography, music and acting.


                
Excelente serie! Su final te dejas con mas dudas que aclaraciones! Urge segunda temporada!!!


                
Not often is there a TV show you know you will watch again but this is most definitely one of those. It is hard to find anything wrong with the story, the beautiful cinematography & atmospheric soundtrack & the depth of character of nearly all the cast. The only thing you could find fault with is some of the paradoxes but they explain them all so well. This is like a much better version of Twelve Monkeys mixed with Twin Peaks and maybe the X-Files too. Because of the 80's feel in part of the series you could say there is a feel of Stranger Things which by the way I think was highly overrated and unoriginal. I did not listen to the dubbed English version as I wanted to hear the real actors and I would imagine it sounds better in German anyway as it adds to the atmosphere since its set in Germany. Best Foreign language TV series I've ever watched and one of the best TV shows I've ever seen too which really took me by surprise just how good this is. Hopefully Season 2 will not get too far fetched as with Twelve Monkeys Season 2/3. This show makes you think and looks amazing without needing to use much special effects just great clever storytelling. Watch it you won't regret it!
Wow, just better in everything.good direction, picture, cast, story .tempo slow but consistent.watch it in original German wt subtitles.do not read about it or have spoilers.really try to watch the show in German. dub if you cannot endure the reading, but you will miss on voice intonation of actors.So good! trippy story.possibly stranger thing influenced the making of this series, but its very different and much much much better execution and acting.


                
This show combines two of my favorite Netflix Originals; Stranger Things and The OA. I wouldn't say that Dark is a rip-off in any way of those two shows, though. It feels very original and well thought out. I love the overall feel of the show, and it's very pleasing to look at. I'm completely hooked on this and I really hope it'll be renewed for a second season.


                
This is easily one of the best shows I've ever watched. It starts slow and builds up kinda slow in the first four or five episodes, but it's needed in order to build up the characters and the setting. It's grim and gritty and gripping. It really makes you think; be it about the plot and the twists you can't help but try to figure out, or about the issues it raises about determinism and the interconnectedness of things. I can't wait for the next season!


                
. My husband and I loved this series. Such a good mystery. Brilliant story, wonderful acting, perfect music and setting watch the German speaking version and not dubbed. The story is all the more intense that way. Can't wait for season 2! Give this a chance and you'll be very happy you did. I would put this up against the imagination of mr. Robot it will literally having you begging for more. We watched it in 3 days.


                
Highly recommended. This is one of the top tv series i have seen... Best acting and it is too good..worth watching..


                
One of the best shows I have ever seen. Literally the only thing I didn't like about it was the horrific English dubbed voices. If there was anyway to watch this in German with English subtitles I would give it an 11/10.


                
Very complicated and filled with twists. A little scary, very intense


                
