The beginning is thrilling and mysterious: Winden, a small town in Germany with small town people whose life is predefined by the surrounding nuclear power station. Everybody knows each other, nothing really dramatic have happened here since 33 years, when several young peoples got lost. And now a young boy is missing again. We get in touch with a lot of upset people - too many people for a beginning, unfortunately. We are confused. A man hangs himself up and leaves a letter, that should not be opened... ja, well, second confusion, when? I have to spool the film back. Okay, he committed suicide at the 21st of June 2019 and left the letter, that should not be opened before the 4th of November (without a year) and now we have the 4th of November 2019. It seems the series takes place around this day in the here-time.By the evening a second boy (Mikkel) disappeared, the son of the police- officer in charge. The next day a dead boy is found in the woods. It is not Mikkel but - spoiler alert - seemed to be the brother of the police officer who had disappeared 33 years ago. But he is still a child and wears the clothes of the 80tees. So far so good but meanwhile we have to emphasize with a lot of characters, which we don't and than we awake with Mikkel in the 80tees, 1986, to be precise. A time travel. And now we a really confused, because we switch times and we just don't now who is who here and what is is function and we won't know it in the end. Because, instead of clearing up things in the third act, we switch to another time backwards to 1953. A lot of people who lived there still lives now. So we just can't come close to characters, we just can't. A mysterious bad guy named Noah, is trying to develop a time machine, why? I will never know. The nuclear power station has produced a time-whole through which one can crawl into the past. How, we will not know. A Stranger (character) who will come out as one of our main characters but from the future tries to develop a time-machine too, to heal things in the present. That is understandable. But than a third person tries to develop a time-machine, the former CEO of the nuclear power station, why? we will never know... So, a lot of puzzling plotting, a lot of mysterious plotting to keep the audience thrilled, but no really character developments, a lot of unsolved problems in relationships. Fortunately the actors are great! And it still is a German series to be watched!
If you liked stranger things,you probably wont like this.Stranger things was simple pop corn fun,i didnt like it,and this is all but not simple an pop corn.this is pretntious mess.it has lots of loose ends,and it is burning very,very slow.buliding up to nothing.
nothing is resolved,noting is said,nothing is explained.i gave it 7 cos its is shoot great,and it has good photography,and actors are not so bad,music is sometimes overexposed but not bad.
watch it if u like slow burning,and ovecomplicated things with no resolving.
it is higly overrated.


                
It starts great! I couldn't believe what I was watching during the first episodes( out of excitement), I started to believe it in the middle of the season and at the end I couldn't believe how it turned out to be:P There is a bit too much going on, a bit too many insignificant details and no actual evolving of the story. I m getting too many Lost vibes in this. I m not sure they are going to be able to explain all this. The end of the season was also a bit disappointing since it did not give the necessary explanations nor did it end with an impressive cliffhanger.
Don't get me wrong, I still liked the series but I guess I had too high expectations because of the first episodes. 
P.S. I: Most of the cast is exceptionally good!
P.S. II: Why does it rain every day? :XD
The series almost satisfies everthing to be a dark sci-fi - gloomy environment, most of the scenes set in dark, grippy (tending to be) background score and depressing sub-plots. But there is one that is missing - a strong base storyline.
Basically, it can be a sci-fi driven plot where the events tend to unfold, or a depressing plot where sci-fi elements intertwine between them. But, unfortunately, it doesn't happen.Though I am immensely impressed by the whole setting, some incredible performances by the lead characters and the background score, there are these kind-of repetitive sci-fi elements where one helds on to a 'special' number, with a 'predestination' kind of narrative. It may have produced jitters in the viewer's mind but certainly doesn't strengthen the main plot.Appreciating the fact that it is German, the series still makes us to hold on to our seats and crave for what is out there in the dark.Overall, its one of the better TV series out there with good technical excellence.


                
The writing it excellent in this series (although there are many time-travel elements and paradoxes which don't quite seem to link up), the acting is great at times (and overkill at others) and the cinematography is appropriately 'dark'. However, I found the music generally quite irritating and over-dramatic. As I was watching it in German with English subtitles I kept reaching for the mute button. The score was repetitive and dull. That aside it is a very good series.


                
DARK- 70%
I am not quite sure how I feel about "Dark"
Before I Talk about the show itself, i must confess that this show has amazing camera work, and a very impressive sound engineer.
The story is enriched with flavor, and mystery... but for some reason, It took me around two weeks to finish season 1. 
That is quite uncanny for me to take so long, as shows like The OA and stranger things was a binge for me. This show does lie in the same category as them regarding creativity. 
I can't tell whether it was the German Language that made it difficult for me to see, or was it the horrible story structure the show portrayed, or was it a little bit of both?
I was hoping for a much more mind bending end as the show had the content to blow our minds at the end. 
I got bored throughout and just wanted to finish so I could know the ending. Shows like these need to have a very strong force to keep the audience interested, and I am not sure "Dark" did it absolute justice. 
I must give it 33 for originality, creativity, and professionalism. 
Story wise and execution: 17.8/35
Acting: 12.6/25
Camera work: 19.5/20
Sound: 20/20


                
The last week I watched the entire series, and I have to say that I'm quite impressed.First of all, the setting. The place and look of "Dark" is just amazing. You're going to see great pictures and very carefully chosen sets if you decide to watch it.
Overall the setting is very dark and slightly disturbing, however beautiful in its composition.The story that is told, is interesting. It deals with questions we've all asked ourselves at least once and portrays them in a good manner. However, the story sometimes feels a little bit to superficial and now and then to profound. Nevertheless, if you liked e. g. "Stranger Things" (and similar series) you're good to go.The acting was mostly on point. Many performances where really good, some performances disappointed me or were simply unsatisfying. An aspect, that bothers me is the music. The sounds and the music is very fitting and thrilling. However, the music and sounds are constant. Almost no scene goes without them. Emotion and suspense doesn't need music and sounds all the time and after a few episodes it really was annoying me.I was able to predict many turns but sometimes "Dark" caught me with a good twist. 
Some of the 10 Episodes where very good, others less, and I think that is the best way to describe "Dark":I enjoyed watching this series but to me it didn't felt like a constant 'great show'. Sometimes it was very good and sometimes it was not- therefore I can't give this series more than 7 points.
Nevertheless, I recommend watching it because in its key elements and in an overall picture it is still good (German) series.


                
Right of the bat, the most engaging thing about this show has to be the cinematography. Visually, it looks very picturesque and the perfect setting for a small town whodunit style of psychological thriller. You get the impression of a close knit community where everyone seems to know one another and yet there are cracks emerging on the surface of these relationships.In fact, the soap opera element of the show ,involving deceit and betrayal, may seem a tad unnecessary, given that the show clearly establishes early on that primarily serves as a supernatural thriller. However, the drama actually helps to cement the characters' personalities in the minds of the audiences and also helps justify their on screen decisions in trying to understand the macabre atmosphere.Now, onto the main plot . Although majority of reviewers are drawing comparisons to Stranger Things and Twin Peaks , I felt the primary influence on the show was the 2001 cult movie Donnie Darko. I won't explain how Dark mirrors Darko .However, they still kept room to insert some additional tropes within to try to make the somewhat familiar plot engaging.Regarding criticism, firstly I felt they tried to force feed the audience on how the supernatural universe in the show works, throwing around very cliched sci fi words. Personally, I think the show would have been more immersive if they followed the David Lynch route of keeping mum about exactly what is going on onscreen and leave it to interpretation while throwing about enough clues. In not doing so, it might feel like a Rick and Morty episode ,but very dark and gritty.Secondly, the season 1 finale was too much of a letdown for me. It felt as if Dark had been slowly increasing the tension with each episode, forcing the audience to binge watch to quench their curiosity . Then suddenly , the final episode diverts from the whodunit setting ( we are told who is the culprit but the motivations leave more to be answered) and completely adopts the dominant theme of another very famous sci fi franchise . Ofcourse, season 2 might justify this turn but it still felt a very unsatisfying ending to an otherwise very good season 1.Overall, I would definitely recommend this show if you were to look for an engaging show to enjoy and binge watch.


                
Something is missing...
There's a comedic element that is completely lacking and gives the entire show an unbelievable and offputting vibe.Only in the first episode, when we see the children horsing around while traveling to the cave to look for the missing child's stash of drugs, do the characters appear to have distinct and interesting personalities.From then on, a 'dark', weighty, heaviness pervades every conversation and slowly corrodes the very nature of the show itself.
Everything gets progressively worse for every character, and the show itself is a steady slip into the madness of the mind of the suicidal father in the first episode.Contrast that with Stranger Things' constantly lighthearted vibe while confronting very dangerous alien demons and it's clear, BOTH shows are doing it wrong.There is a lot to love here.
It is not Twin Peaks (there are no cryptic artistic random Lynchian unexplainable loose ends).
It is, in my opinion, the antithesis of Stranger Things, and / or Futureman.
It leaves you feeling drained and more depressed with each episode, but strangely craving more.My only true complaint is that the story progresses so slowly. They try to make it very clear who each character is in each timeline, and how they interrelate, almost to a fault.
I much prefer when time travel movies and shows don't spell everything out immediately to the audience.
I like having to rewatch to catch Things I missed, or reading and deconstructing what I witnessed online.
Primer, and Donnie Darko come to mind.This, however is not one of those, but it's great in it's own way. The best comparison I can make is to the phenomenal movie Timecrime, with a dozen more characters.


                
Before I start let me say that the series is indeed good in terms of its storyline, cinematography and soundtrack. But here are a few things that drive me crazy:
1. It's very rainy in Winden. I mean VERY wet - it seems like everyone in the series MUST have at least one dialogue or scene in the pouring rain to make their part seem relevant. Guys, this isn't necessary, ever heard of umbrellas?
2. This is one of those series where un-necessary drama is written into the storyline just because, well, because its good TV. For example, there are several situations where there are many people around but the protagonist of the scene wanders off alone to explore some passageway, cave or hallway. Honestly?
3. To think that part of this scene was set in 2019, you'd think the producers would make more use of cellphone communications. Instead what we have is people turning up unnannounced at homes, stations etc.
4. Frustration continues when conversations go like this -
Person A: "Honey, I have something really important to tell you..."
Person B interrupts: " Hey sorry, I've got to run, can we talk later?"All in all, I'd say give it a try but it ain't the 10/10 that others are raving about. A passable 7. For me, the best aspects of this series are the cinematography (really dark and foreboding), and the soundtrack/audio effects. If you're a fan of the late Johann Johannsson, he of Sicario fame, you'll love the overlay soundtrack and effects.


                
Spoiler for episode 3I'm not sure how this show got such a high rating. It is good, but not great. The main flaw is the stupidity that happened in episode three. If you are in a cave and you hear someone yelling, WHY WON'T YOU YELL BACK! Rather than keep yelling (or banging) so you can walk towards the noise, speak softer, or not at all and walk away! Ughhhhh!It is frustrating to see so much bad writing. And it happens a lot in shows today. I honestly believe the general population is getting dumber. Recent elections are also evidence of this. I used to think that movie Idiocracy was just a dumb movie. Now it seems like a documentary.
Well is well written, Amazing Cinematography and Cast but it's not as smart as People say. First t If you ever see Back to future or twin peaks you will find this show extremely predictable and confusing.


                
