I hung on every episode, I loved everything about Midge. Then at the end the writers just decide she's going to be a no good cheater just like her husband?One of her best quality was her independence, strength and ability to make it without Joel. I hope the third season begins with her waking up and this was just a dream, because this was a terrible ending in my opinion. In the end, I feel that she deserved to be cheated on because she apparently don't deserve a good guy after all.
I have loved Mrs. Maisel, but the second season may have been my last. It was bad enough that you had her first go back and sleep with the cheater that abandoned her, but a second time? Really? What's wrong with portraying strong, independent women pursuing healthy relationships? Or surviving turmoil and stress without a man? Why would she go back to that weasel Joel when she had a stronger, better looking man who adored and respected her? I'm glad that a third season was already bought and paid for. You've got about thirty seconds on Season 3 Episode 1 to save this sinking series and have Midge change her mind and slap Joel's face. It would be heartbreaking to see such amazing characters and dialogue wasted on a misogynistic fall back scenerio.
I enjoyed the light comedy and the characters. But after half season 2; it comes to show that she doesn't care about her offspring. Is that written on purpose? Like trying to make a point that children do not define her.It's an annoyance that it's starting to bother. Why not make her a young childless wife? Show would have worked just as fine.


                
Everything about this show is amazing.I didn't laugh at Mrs. Maisel's act except for a few times but maybe there's something wrong with me; there are so many reviews raving about how hilarious this show is.I don't think the comedy routines were meant to be funny. I saw them as indicative of the time period, and a showcase for Maisel/Broshanan's talent. Maisel uses about 10(?) aliases as a comic and every name is an actual female comic (I recognized 'Fanny Bryce' so assumed all the other names were real life comedians too.)Whatever the intention, it worked for me.


                
Season 1 awesome. Characters well established- story interesting- a period piece but season 2 has episodes and events that drag on for too long. Season 2 doesn't do anything new and interesting at all. Costumes and sets are what kept me paying attention more than anything. After episode 7 of season 2 I can easily leave this show without any curiosity for what's to come.


                
This show has a lot going for it. The production values are great. The show looks fantastic. The cast are all superb. The family dynamics are a lot of fun. But things just grind to a halt for me whenever Midge gets on stage. This is a story about a comedian, but her act is the least funny thing about the show. And I'm absolutely not one of those guys who think women can't be funny. Rachel Brosnahan is a talented comic actress. But that's not the same thing as being a good stand up comic. I made it through the first season, and might give the second a look. But the stand up sequences just ring very false for me.


                
If there was an open mic night for a new t.v. series this one was awkward, a little funny, jokes that didn't work but that's why you're performing for an empty room. Stereotypical supporting characters offset against portrayals of known comics of the time worked for me as added comedy value and as did capturing the bookmarks between established comedians and Ms. Maisel's growth into professionalism. I've been to most of the Village locations in the story and were very well depicted. Lots of story lines working with venues such as the Catskills and cruise ships, the Dating Game, dinner theaters of the times, Minsky's, gigs she might have worked as she improved and needed exposure. Belzer's Groove Tube, the Rat Fink Room, Dangerfields were also comedy ventures pre SNL., pre Catch.


                
As much as I loved the first season, second one is a big disappointment, from bad screenplay to even worse directing, everything seems rushed


                
The show is really good and the comedy is well done. A few of the characters however not so much. Half of the outfits are very period appropriate the other half are completely out of the park. Her manager is a joke and also the langauge used was not unheard of, but the context it is used in and the amount of it is unbelievable. I had a group of 13 people all who lived and worked in NY in the 50's all of whom said Mad Men was the way the 50's were.


                
Anyone with half a brain can tell the series is based on Joan Rivers' life. Born into an upper middle class Larchmont, NY home, her father was a doctor and her a mom an intense religious jewish woman who had Joan's life planned out for her. Find a rich guy, get married, have kids and live a long jewish life. Joan abided by her parents - got married for a short while. When the marriage ended (annulled after 1 yr in 1956) she got into comedy by accident. Originally wanting to be an actress she fell into comedy by watching a few gigs. Worked in various east end clubs like the actual Gaslight Cafe and others. The jokes on cards, couture fashion, the stool, the pearls, mic playing, etc were all part of the Rivers act and she talked extensively about all this in her biography Enter Talking and the subsequent Still Talking. Even the age of Maisel at 26 in the series is the exact same age Ms Rivers was in 1958. Joan RiversHowever, in The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel, the comedy isnt even funny. Only forced a couple of giggles out of me in the entire 8 episode series. By contrast, Joan was sharp, witty, sarcastic, acerbic, and sense of self deprecating humor was direct and laugh out loud from the get go. The wannabe Joan Rivers caricature in the series is far from it. If Joan were still alive she would be an excellent consultant writer for the show. I could see her spicing up all the lame comedy stand up bits with her real life jokes from that time period. The series is more a drama than anything comedy. Comedy-drama wouldnt fit either since the show seems to touch that barometer then gets cold quickly sinking below that threshold time and again. Is the series subject about Joan Rivers life... but not Joan Rivers life?? One thing for sure, Ms. Amy Sherman-Palladino is horrible at writing stand up comedy bits. Leave that to the real comedians. *welp*


                
I loved season 1, so funny! Season 2 was funny, but got weird. Her baby daughter never seems to age - on top of the fact she is a horrible mother to her children. I loved her new love interest and totally didn't get the ending - yuck! That came out of no where and was horrible writing IMO. Have I mentioned how much I hated the last scene?


                
Didn't know that Mr. Maisel is from Palladino when I started it to watch.
When I saw her name in the intro, everything suddenly made sense...
The dialogs are a ripper, same as they where years ago in another serie placed in Stars Hollow.What I liked most:Sophisticated funny Dialogs
Cast with Borstein (She's just awesome and my favorite in the serie) Brosnahan, Marin Hinkle, Shalhoub
The costumes by Donna Zakowska
The Production design


                
A rampagingly unsubtle comedy that feels like it should be a biopic. Its well realised and solidly acted but lacks depth.


                
Alex Borstein is by far the most interesting character in the show for me. I can't get enough. Midge is OK but the thing that makes this show borderline unwatchable are the "musical interludes". they are produced with such inexperience it's embarrassing to watch. if those dancers in paris on the banks of the Seine across from the cathedral at Notre Dame were professional dancers then they were woefully misdirected. SLOPPY! but i'm pretty sure they were not dancers at all. i also felt the same when i watched the opening of season 2, episode 1. i wish they'd stop that.


                
I think among the many complements paid to the series, the one that enticed me most to watch was that, it was Funny. More than funny though, right off episode one, you find it to be certainly interesting with its premise; a stand up female comedian in the 50's. Quite unheard of really. There sure weren't many well known of them, I'd imagine so. And so for it to work she would have to be quite funny. And she does well with the material. But I find by far, the show is at its funniest when she's not on stage but, interacting with the rest of the cast. Her parents for example and of course her manager. But there's a clever progression also on her material as the season progresses, which leads me to believe maybe she wasn't supposed to be as funny at first simply to make it more authentic and that she'll be illuminatingly funny through season 2. I don't know if it's "Marvelous" but well worth watching and following.


                
If it would have dropped the story of a Revlon Sales Girl and Phone Operator aspiring to be a lame comic talent. It also begs to ask the question why stand-up artists need to use foul language and the f-word in every second sentence in order to be funny. How "funny" is it really to talk about whether the Pope has a "hard on"? Would the producer have dared to connect any other religion (Buddhists, Hindu or Muslim) with such disparaging sexual innuendos ? Highly objectionable all this. Anyhow the "jokes" of the marvelous Mrs. Maisel are mostly not funny at all and full of cliches and platitudes. She would have deserved a better script for her performances. And her obnoxious sidekick Susie seems to have more of a bad than a positive influence on her. But, the rest of the story - that IS FUNNY and great entertainment.


                
Those of us who remember the 1950's in downtown Manhattan and as well the Borscht Belt summervacation circuit in the Catskills marvel at the authenticity of the visual. Those not in the know can picture how we lived in these times. The problem to me is the sound track so annoying I cannot watch a segment without turning it off. Take your picka and choose accordingly
