This sitcom has definite potential. I wasn't sure at the start, though I'm a sucker for vintage pieces, and I haven't seen many period comedies earlier than the seventies (which always make me shudder, hitting too close to my childhood home!). It slowed me up even more with some of the college backstory, as I went to Bryn Mawr, and albeit in a different era, the girls in this little clip were unlike any I met there. However, once the writer got into her groove with the main plot: girl's husband wants to be a comic, but she's ten times as funny as he is, it left me wanting to binge the next few episodes to find out where it goes. Hurry up and produce them! Anassa Kata, Midge Maisel!


                
I really liked this show and I want to see more. It has an authenticity that most other shows rarely strive for (in favor of just story). 1950's New York. 1950's marriage. You can't help but love many of the characters, even the ones you are supposed to not like (yah, even the schmuck). The acting is first rate, but no wonder. Many A-list television stars grace even the supporting characters.I really hope Amazon picks this one up (and if you watch the pilot, please take some time to fill out the survey).


                
This has always been a great show. The way it makes you feel like 1958-59 New York, Paris, and the Catskills are amazing. In S2 5 and 6, it crossed into the realm of greatness. Alex Borstein is the Marvel in the show.


                
This TV show has almost everything to be one of the greatest, except good characterization.
Absolutely love the setting, music, acting, cinematography, editing, but the characters have no motivation. Because of that the show's charms work for a while and then they don't.
Hope for the next season to fix some of the writing issues, but looking at some interviews of the writers, it doesn't seem that's gonna happen. They're just too in love with how these characters are at the moment. It would make the show a lot better if they would put why they love them so much in the show.
It looks like this is going to be one of those shows I'm watching just because I like how it looks, but I won't appreciate it fully.


                
I love this show. I love the humor. I love the storyline. I love the costuming. The end of season 2 surprised me a bit and I wish season 3 starts tomorrow!!


                
It started off string ending was a bit meh. Lets see what happens in season 3!!!


                
Best episode! The set is incredible, wardrobe impeccable and dialogues on fire as always. Do enjoyable!


                
This one reminds me of "GLOW" on Netflix, insofar as (1) it's a period piece about a woman who tries her luck in a male pop-culture preserve, and (2) the pilot really pulls you in, but the regular season's kind of a dog's breakfast. We couldn't stick with "GLOW" for long, however, but "Mrs M," despite a few dud or semidud eps, still manages to build to a triumphant closer.Rachel Brosnahan (a shiksa, by all accounts!), in the title role, can certainly talk the talk: Miriam "Midge" Maisel is just one of several motormouth characters, a trademark of showrunner Amy Sherman-Palladino since the old "Gilmore Girls" days. Alex Borstein (a GG alumna as well as the immortal Nurse Forchette on "Getting On") steals every scene she's in as Midge's no-less-fast-talking, cross-dressing manager, and Luke Kirkby makes a convincing Lenny Bruce. The old pros who play Midge's parents and inlaws tend to lay on the Yiddishkeit a little thick--though I was delighted to hear the Mel Brooksian phrase "poopoo undies" again--and the scenes set in Midge's father-in-law's garment factory could have come straight out of a mid-century musical like "I Can Get It for You Wholesale." A minor disappointment: Tony Shalhoub (another non-traditional casting choice), as Midge's fussy-professor father, doesn't quite seem comfortable with this Monkish role. The storyline keeps up the momentum, for the most part, though at times Midge's self-destructive antics--admittedly, she does her standup act in a kind of fugue state and sometimes drunk--seem designed to create plot complications at the expense of plausibility, and a 50s Method actress playing the part might well have asked, "So what's my motivation here?" I don't like to name names (another popular 50s pastime) but it looks like the weaker episodes were scripted by AS-P's co-producers., including husband Jay Palladino.Otherwise it's all good. The candy-colored 50s decor and sanitized Downtown streets make an enjoyable backdrop. (In terms of Green-witch Village realness, the scenes set at the Gaslight compare favorably with Don and a different Midge's visit to a folk club on "Mad Men.") The soundtrack of pre-R&R standards seemed a bit intrusive to this non-fan; one character even complains when somebody plays the Drifters ("Kids' music!") on the jukebox. What a putz!


                
I am giving it an eight because the pacing was a little slow at the beginning. The musical score was delicious.Other than that , it was really quirky edgy and funny.Rachel was great as a funny early 1960's (?)housewife with an edge.It would be awesome if they would make a whole series about this,but they probably won't because they never listen to us. It was totally worth watching.


                
This is a refreshing series since the end of Mad Men and other vintage television series. Not quite up to the production values of Mad Men, but still a refreshing entry into the bland land of television today. The "Jewish" angle is a bit sketchy; depending on your particular (I can't think of the word right now, but it's similar to dedication, observation, belief in, etc) relationship to that religion; non-withstanding it is an entertaining show. The production values are high, and the acting is of good quality. The only part that I think could be done better is the time-shifting, it would be helpful to those of us whom are older (and use sub-titles) understand through a simple tag (November, 1960) as an example - to show what we are seeing is the past or the present. I would not think this would distract from the overall presentation of the scene. Such as with early on the diner scene with her in her wedding dress in the diner. After re-winding and re-watching we of course realize it's a flashback but actually that scene seemed completely meaningless in the scope of that episode. Also the relationships between the in-laws is just as vague without a clear idea why this is necessary. It seems that there is a great deal of unnecessary "fill in" which doesn't truly add to the plot. From the get-go we know she will be a fantastic stand-up comic so it's assumed that everyone will misunderstand and will question this, but I don't see why once Joel left why she would really deal with his family, being such a strong woman as she is. Obviously I don't understand the "family values" of the 1950s because if my husband did this today, in 2017 - it would be so long, Stan, and sue me if you want to see the kids ever again. But evidently womenfolk of that era were chattel and they could just do whatever they wanted. Wow have things changed. Interesting premise, and a show that I believe that once in the future having watched the entire series will bring it all together. This alone is the sign of the times, because I don't like waiting a week for the next part. TV in the sixties and seventies sucked because if, for instance (In my case it was a Disney two-parter) you parents took you on vacation, you were totally screwed because there were no ability to record or re-view, and I recall asking my cousin "Well -what happened?" So I believe a series should be completed before ever being released at all. In my humble opinion, the concept of TV is dead, along with all forms of advertising, and that the major corporations are completely missing the boat when it comes to a revenue stream. If they would like to learn a method to earn real money in today's climate, well just send me an e-mail and I'd certainly consult with them, because I know how. Dump the ads, provide the content for free, and the money will roll in like you've never expected. I can prove it. But the series is definitely entertaining, but fast-forward through the goofy parts. My seven-cents. Ciao!


                
In Season Two/Episode Ten Lenny Bruce asks Midge to be his moral support for a show he's in on a Sunday evening. On that same Sunday Midge gets the call to tour. On that phone call she says her mother is at the hairdressers. She then rushes out to get Susie and go clothes shopping. She returns home with many packages. Her mother comes home and says she saw someone at the shoe repair shop. Midge then rushes out to go to see Lenny perform. All this happens on a Sunday in 1959. Most businesses were closed on Sunday due to Blue Laws. Shouldn't someone writing this show have known that? It's the details like that which bother me. Also why go back to Joel when she should have gone to Benjamin. Lose Joel please. He and his parents are just annoying.
What if a female did become president? what would be the outcome?
The story develops beatufilly by each episode. Some of the minor characters are nicely introduced for a later purpose. Good acting. Especially Tony Shalhoub's performance is good.


                
This is an excellent show, but I'm worn out with the use of profanity.


                
This is from the same creators of Gilmore Girls (GGs) and it shows. It has the witty "charming" protagonist, a butch woman (not the same, but reminiscent of the mechanic chick in GGs) and it needs you to believe in them if you want to find them charming. As GGs the show is based in a lot of dialog and somewhat surreal events and interactions between the protagonists. This is my only beef with it and the reason for the 8/10 grade. At the second season I found myself liking less the protagonist as it is a little too "free spirited" to be likable, as in GGs the protagonist does not seem to have enough empathy with others to avoid being always brutally honest ignoring social conventions just for the sake of being cute.I totally buy the romance that appears on many occassions: Paris, Summer Vacations, very stereotypical Italian-Americans, etc. The main plot is very likable if you don't care about the stand-up as it would be perceived today, but as it would had been perceived in the 50's. I like the struggles the protagonist suffer because of her naivete and I understand that part of being a comedian requires her apparent lack of mental filter, so I still enjoy the "free-spirited" way of the protagonist (I just find it a little bit over the top sometimes).Tony Shaloub's character and his character's wife are too adorable and in some way I feel very representative of old school traditional marriages. They evolve into another "free-spirited" cute couple that may put off some people. I just love Tony too much to dislike the character. It is adorable.All the other characters end up being cute and adorable too. In a GGs way all of them are sweet people and they do not represent reality. You have to have an infatuation with all of them to tolerate them. For this, I understand all the very low ratings.  I find it a little bit too musical sometimes, but again I find the music very likable if you buy into the fantasy of the show. This is not exactly the same thing, but as in GGs you need to fall in love with the quirkyness. In GGs is Stars-Hollows' quirks and weirness.


                
I really enjoyed this tv series. The story was simple, but really interesting and entertaining. The leading lady is a delight as well. Actually, she was the one supporting the whole drama. A one woman show really. Can't wait for the second season.


                
I binge watched this series on a plane, and really loved it. It's obviously inspired by Joan Rivers, whose pioneer efforts in an all male stand up comedy world in the 1960s were amazing, and probably under-recognised. The set design and costumes are awesome. The acting is excellent - it's a dialogue-heavy show but mostly it comes across as realistic. Rachel Brosnahan as Midge, whose husband abruptly leaves her, is great - full of spirit and intelligence. The perfect contrast for Midge's naivety about the comedy world is her new friend Susie, the Gaslight Cafe manager - a tough cookie played beautifully by Alex Borstein. Sometimes scenes go on too long or are too insignificant. There needs to be more action. Sometimes the rapidfire conversations get a bit long and clunky.
But overall it's a series made with love, and it really jumps off the screen at you.
Great series and excited for more. A little
of this a little of that. A speak easy comedy club done right


                
This show works great with some really engaging performances by Tony Shaloub, Alex Bornstein, Marin Hinkle. Occasional overly Patty Duke-like mugging by Rachel Brosnahan is the only downside of this show -


                
This is a thoroughly halarious series that is wonderfully written and beautifully performed. I truly hope Amazon Prime brings more seasons of this show. This is comedy at its finest; refreshing, fast paced, witty and authentic. Rachel Brosnahan delivers an outstanding performance. Her comedic timing is impeccable. The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel is one of the best comedies I've seen in quite some time.


                
