12 Years a Slave tells the true story of Solomon Northup, an educated and free black man living in New York during the 1840's who gets abducted, shipped to the south, and sold into slavery. It is a film that stimulates at both an emotional level and an intellectual one. Chiwetel Ejiofor plays Solomon Northup. He's been a "that guy" actor for sometime – film-goers may know his face but not his name. After this film his name will be known. He gives, quite simply, the best performance from a leading actor since Daniel Day Lewis in There Will Be Blood. Because of his character's position as a slave he is usually unable to speak his mind unless he is prepared to be beaten. As a result Ejiofor is forced to utilize body language and his eyes, which become enormous pools of emotion to express himself to the audience. He's forced to endure terrible things, but he always maintains a certain dignity and nobility that makes his plight even more affecting. It's a performance of incredible subtlety that may leave you speechless and in complete awe.Micheal Fassbender gives the best performance of his already extremely impressive career, even besting his previous high marks from the films Shame and Hunger (both directed by Steve McQueen, who also directed 12 Years a Slave). He plays Edwynn Epps, a vicious and demonic slaver and perhaps the most loathsome and disgusting character ever put on screen. If alive today, he'd likely be a drunk with severe anger management issues. By turns pathetic and terrifying, he embodies the ultimate nightmare of a deeply flawed man given absolute power over other human beings, and through that absolute power finds only madness, which drives him to deeper cruelty. He's always a menacing and malignant presence even when not on screen, as his slaves must always be aware and prepared for his seemingly random bouts of sadism. Other actors give excellent performances as well. Paul Giamatti, Paul Dano, Benedict Cumberbatch, Sarah Paulson, Alfre Woodard are all great in relatively small roles. But in this film of titans it's the one you've probably never heard of who perhaps stands above them all. In her first role in a feature film, Lupita Nyong'o, playing the pretty young slave Patsey - the object of Edwynn Epps demented and horrifying affections and the emotional epicenter of the entire picture, gives one of the most devastating performances I have ever seen. A portrait of unbearable sadness, her character is a mirror image of Solomon. While Solomon is a man who refuses to break and give up the dignity which he's known since birth, she is one who has long since been broken, and who never knew dignity in the first place. Her life is a living hell, forced to endure the "love" of Edwyn Epps and the brutal jealousy of his wife, she's trapped in a terrible triangle that she can't escape. Despite that, she retains a level of innocence that only heightens the tragedy of her character. It actually gets to the point where simply looking at this character might be enough to bring you to tears. It's a shattering performance.Starting his career as a video artist before making full length films, Steve McQueen has an uncanny eye for imagery and contrast. He's also a very patient film maker, utilizing long, steady single shots to emphasize various things. In his prior films this has felt like a purely stylistic choice, here, it's a choice aimed directly at our heart. When the events on screen become their most horrifying and ugly is when his camera becomes the most unflinching. At times feeling perhaps like we're seeing out of the solemn eyes of the ghost of some murdered slave, watching in sorrow and rage. This is both McQueen's most accessible and artistically searing film yet. There are also moments of stunning natural beauty that would make Terrence Malick proud. Alone, these shots would inspire wonder, but in the context of this film they make us feel more forlorn, as if the ugliness of man is encroaching on the natural beauty of the world.Perhaps the most noteworthy thing about 12 Years a Slave is the way that it portrays slavery itself. Instead of taking the easy way out and limiting his exploration of the topic solely to the slaves, Steve McQueen increases the scope and we see how it affects those who profited by it. Take Benedict Cumberbatch's character. A seemingly decent and caring man who treats his slaves with some semblance of respect and kindness. He comes off as a relatively good man who is trapped within the powerful confines of the institution of slavery. In 12 Years a Slave, slavery is shown as a horrifying and destructive social construct that drains the humanity from everyone it touches, turning good men into moral quandaries, turning flawed men into monsters, and turning an entire race of people into livestock and tools. To watch 12 Years a Slave is to be confronted with the grim reality of slavery in a way that's never been done before. To say this is the best film ever made about slavery feels trivial, as slavery is a subject in film that has been shown with naive romanticism from films like Gone With the Wind or silly exploitation from something like Django Unchained. Both of which serve to make the topic digestible. To watch 12 Years a Slave is to experience a level of despair and misery that can become overwhelming. It's a film of such ugliness, such blunt emotional trauma, that it may haunt you for hours if not days after seeing it. So why should you watch a film that could leave you reeling and devastated? Because, it's also one of the greatest cinematic achievements of our time.


                
chitchens fan <U+0095> 2 hours ago <U+25B3> <U+25BD> - Well, to begin, I cannot remember the last time I could not get up at the end of a movie. I literally could not rise up from my seat. My body felt as though it were being weighed down by something considerably larger and heavier than myself... History had it's way with me( I am an African American woman). Thank you Mr. McQueen, Mr. Ejiofor, Ms. Nyong'o, Ms. Paulson and others, and yes, even Mr. Fassbender. I am not a film critic nor a movie hobbyist, although I try to stay current, but what I am is a human being trying to understand the various problems and issues within our country. This movie is a potent reminder of why we are where we are as a society today. How man can be so unflinchingly cruel to his fellow man, especially if he looks, speaks or behaves differently, I will never understand.


                
I attended the premiere of 12 Years a Slave at the Toronto International Film Festival. Having no tickets, we had to wait close to 4 hours hoping they might let us in. I have to say it was definitely worth the wait and it is hands down the best film I've seen at the festival. The film is based on the real story of Solomon Northup (played by Chiwetel Ejiofor), a free black man living in New York, who is abducted and sold into slavery in Louisiana. As the film begins, we are exposed to his talent as a musician (he plays the violin) and get a glimpse of the life he leads with his wife and two children. All is well until he meets two men who seem taken by his music and want to bring him along with them so he can play at various events. When Solomon wakes up in chains, his dark journey starts and the film never lets you take a break.If you've seen McQueen's other works then you more or less know what kind of movie to expect (if you haven't then please stop reading and watch Hunger and Shame). 12 Years a Slave is dark and raw, it exposes everything, without sugarcoating it. It is definitely hard to watch; Several people walked out of the the theatre but in my opinion, it is not only worth watching but necessary. Films exploring themes of slavery are few and far in between and never has one been quite as exhaustive and effective as this one. Beautifully shot and edited, the film features moments of tension, heartbreak and a few laughs here and there. Steve McQueen has created another masterpiece.Most actors get very little screen time. Paul Giamatti and Sarah Paulson are seen for a few minutes but both are great as usual. Benedict Cumberbatch plays a plantation owner, who recognizes Solomon's talent and tries to help him to a certain extent. Despite being a slaver, he is presented in the film as being a good man. Cumberbatch was very good, though outshined by far by Michael Fassbender. He goes through every emotion and gives it his everything. In my opinion, this is his best performance to date. Paul Dano gets a few minutes of screen time as well but makes incredible use of it. As Benedict's worker, he despises slaves and the songs he sings to Solomon makes an incredibly powerful scene, one of the most disturbing in the film. Lupita Nyong'o's first appearance in a feature film is stunning, as she plays a heart breaking young slave. I hope she has a long career ahead of her, she certainly has the talent for it. The true star is definitely Chiwetel Ejiofor. His performance as Solomon is stunning and unforgettable, I truly hope he wins the Oscar for it this year.All in all, if you get a chance to see 12 Years a Slave, don't miss it. Not everyone will be able to stomach it but it's an outstanding film that deserves and needs to be seen.
Read More @ The Awards Circuit (http://www.awardscircuit.com)One of the things that have been thrown around for months now is the notion that awards season voting bodies won't respond to it because it's too "difficult" to sit through. Let's define difficult, shall we? Is it difficult to see the first openly gay politician gunned down by his closeted colleague? Is it difficult to see a reformed convict put to death by our country for his crimes? Is it difficult to see a mother choose which one of her children dies during the Holocaust? I'd argue that these answers add up to a resounding yes. Yet, no one threw those phrases of "too difficult" around.I've watched hundreds of films throughout my short 29-year history and I've seen some difficult cinema. Steven Spielberg's "Schindler's List" can make anyone quiver in shame as it shows the despicable reality of the Holocaust. Paul Greengrass' "United 93", which is almost an emotional biopic of America's darkest hour, makes me want to crawl up into a ball and cry. And finally, Mel Gibson's "The Passion of the Christ", one of the highest grossing films of all-time, shows the labor of our sins fleshed out into the beaten skin of an honest man. And still, no one threw these hyperbolic terms out saying, "it's too hard watch." Is it because this is an American tragedy, done by Americans? Is it the guilt of someone's ancestors manifesting it in your tear ducts? I can't answer that. Only the person who says it can. The structure of this country is built on the backs and blood of slaves. But slavery didn't just exist in America, it was everywhere. It was horrifying what occurred for over 200 years and believe it or not, still exists in some parts of the world TODAY.Now when approaching the powerful film by McQueen and distributed by Fox Searchlight Pictures, there is a resounding honesty that McQueen and screenwriter John Ridley inhabit. There are no tricks or gimmicks, no cheap takes on a side story or character that is put there for time filling or a life-lesson for Solomon to learn. Everything is genuine. Is the film heartbreaking? Oh my God yes. Did I cry for several minutes after the screening? Embarrassingly so. I was enamored the entire time, head to toe, moment to moment.I have long admired the talent that's been evident in the works of Chiwetel Ejiofor. I've known he was capable of what he has accomplished as Solomon Northup and he hits it out of the park. He has the urgency, worry, and drive to get home to his family and executes every emotion flawlessly even when all hope seems to be lost. Where he shines incredibly are the small nuances that he takes as the story slows down, you notice aspects of Solomon that make him even more believable.As Edwin Epps, Solomon's last owner, Michael Fassbender digs down deep into some evil territory. Acts as the "Amon Goeth" of our tale, he is exactly what you'd expect a person who believes this should be a way of life to behave. He's vile and strikes fear into not only the people he interacts with but with the viewers who watch. As Mrs. Epps, Sarah Paulson is just as wretched. Abusive, conniving, entitled, and I loved every second of her.Mark my words; Lupita Nyong'o is the emotional epicenter of the entire film. The heartache, tears, and anger that will grow inside during the feature will have our beautiful "Patsey" at the core. She is the great find of our film year and will surely go on to more dynamic and passionate projects in the future. You're watching the birth of a star.Hans Zimmer puts forth a very pronounced score, enriched with all the subtle ticks that strike the chords of tone. One thing that cannot be denied is the exquisite camera work of Sean Bobbit. Weaving through the parts of boat and then through the grassroots of a cotton field, he puts himself in the leagues of Roger Deakins and Seamus McGarvey as one of the most innovative and exciting DP's in the business. Especially following his work in "The Place Beyond the Pines" earlier this year. Simply marvelous.Oscar chances, since I know many of you are wondering. Put the Oscar's in my hands, you have a dozen nominations reap for the taking. Best Picture, Director, Lead Actor, Supporting Actor, dual Supporting Actresses, Adapted Screenplay, Production Design, Cinematography, Costume Design, Film Editing, Makeup and Hairstyling, Original Score. There's also a strong and rich sound scope that is present. The sounds of nature as the slaves walk or as Solomon approaches his master's house is noticed. The big question is, can it win? I haven't seen everything yet so I cannot yet if it deserves it or not. I can say, if critics and audiences can get off this "difficult" watch nonsense and accept the cinematic endeavor as a look into our own history as told from a great auteur, there's no reason it can't top the night. I'm very aware that seeing this film along with Steve McQueen crowned by Oscar is nearly erasing 85 years of history in the Academy. Are they willing and ready to begin looking into new realms and allowing someone not necessarily in their inner circles to make a bold statement as McQueen and Ridley take in "12 Years a Slave?" I remain hopeful.


                
I just saw this at LFF. It is a brilliant piece of cinema. Clearly it's central theme is slavery, and the depravity human nature can so easily reach; but it has many other small moments that trigger thoughts about wider issues - the role of religion being one for example. It is violent, and in some respects awful to watch, but this is the story of Solomon Northup told truthfully. There is nothing saccharine about the way Steve McQueen presents this and that is what makes it so astonishing. You cry because what you witness is truly terrible, not because the violins are out and the director's tugging on your heart strings. All the acting is first rate, as is the score by Hans Zimmer. This really should be essential viewing for everyone old enough to understand it.


                
It's rare that a movie lives up to its hype, even rarer that the hype is transcended by the actual achievement. 12 YEARS A SLAVE does both. Aided by powerful performances and cinematography, director McQueen exposes the barbarity of dehumanisation, of treating people as property. Reviews focus on the brutality on display, and it's true that the film is not easy to watch, with its powerful juxtaposition of sublime scenery and human degradation. But to me the final scene is the most powerful of all: we are party to the kind of raw emotion that in the hands of lesser artists could easily descend into tawdriness or sentimentality. Here, as in the rest of the film, it is raised up high, as high as cinematic art can go.


                
so incredible.... the trailers don't do any justice to the film. it's so powerful lingering unconventional it presents so many variables to that system one might not consider. the situations they show linger and you get the full effect of them too. you really get the sense that it is based on an account. characters will appear and vanish. they will not have little arcs and get give the audience satisfaction. it just is what it is. nothing is edited to bits either. this film is the work of a genius!and about the musical selection, good lord. there are long bouts of silence and parts where it just freaks you out. it was really effective and hypnotizing. I was surprised to see Hans Zimmerman did the music. this is far beyond anything I've heard from him. Not the usual inception foghorns or military hum drum. also a great deal of real folksongs incorporated into it. I love when films incorporate the actually used folksongs. period pieces should be filled with music. when there were no modern devices people would sing!people can't say that this is unrealistic either as it's an actual account. glad McQueen brought it to the public eye and in such an untethered fashion. I'll probably watch this on repeat when it comes out. I'll have to check out McQueen's other films. haven't seen them yet for some reason


                
This film is a beautifully crafted and harrowing tale. It is, to me, an important film for all white people to see (I am a white person myself). The emotions portrayed in this film are those that all white people should absorb, and then reflect on the fact that oppression is still a strong, ugly force in our lives. I have seen Solomon's expressions in the faces of the young, black men I have known. We do not live in a "post-racial" society. I strongly encourage people to watch this film and reflect on your white privilege. I cannot imagine what it would be like to see this as a black person, and my only dissatisfaction with this film is that our society requires the pain and distress of people of color to educate white people.


                
Do tell, how can one hate a film if one does not see it to the end? It's not like this was Legally Blonde 2, you needed to get a bit involved. Like actually watch, soak up, ask questions and interpret, not be force fed the filmmakers intentions. This was not a kids movie, so why be simple?Furthermore, how can one not see how this film was structured around fear and not hatred? It so clear how it was showcasing fear, but I guess some need narration. Even more - why do white people today take slavery so personal? I'm white and not once did I familiarise myself with anybody but Solomon, because he was the main character, the one i was suppose to be involved with. Does his skin really mean we won't feel the same in similar situations? This movie is impeccable to say the least. So after viewing I thought "If a reviewer hated this film, what were the reasons?" Needless to say I was disappointed in the response. There are many, non-personal, reasons to hate a film. The lack of thought in terms of film leads me to believe that the haters are actually just racist. Not because they would do similar stuff to a black person but because they needed to see white people not be SO evil. Their logic for hating it was not based on film, it just was not. There is one long shot, where he hangs in the tree. He hangs for a while holding himself up with his neck and toes. The other workers slowly come out and carry on. This is because the film is about fear. His peers did not help him because of fear. Mistress Eps only beat Patsy, why? Fear. Fear that Patsy meant more to her husband than she. Ford was too scared to help a man he knew should be helped. Edwin Eps was scared of loosing his power. And all the slaves are scared on the most basic principle - they could die. The beating was relentless - but I believe it to be. If a person is going to strip a woman and lash her then why would he suddenly develop a moral compass and say "Only three lashes?" Im sure that compass was broken to begin with. "It was difficult to sit through" well I am sure it was even more difficult to live through... my goodness, at least we only had to experience it for two hours, not twelve years - with a drink and snack no less."It was one sided, depicting black as good and white as evil" it did? I am pretty sure I witnessed Solomon loose it a few times although confined to his circumstances. When Solomon refused to take his shirt off for a beating and stood up for himself, he could have just taken the whip away instead he beat him. Inflicting that kind of pain is not being the better person.And, from one reviewer's opinion to another - I believe this film is leaps and bounds better than "Citizen Kane", "Paths of Glory", "M", "Lawrence of Arabia", "Amadeus", "2001-A Space Odyssey", or "The Bridge on the River Kwai" but, an opinion of how great a film is can usually be explained by how old the viewer is when they first saw it. And all mentioned were screened before my birth, so excuse the lacklustre feeling towards the oldies.It deserves accolade in the history books of film."12 Years a Slave" was relentless in making me feel, and I adore the film for taking me to such emotional depths - even if I probably won't sit through it again.
Just watched this true story of slavery with my movie theatre-working friend. It depicts the abduction of Soloman Northup (Chiwetel Ejiofor) from his family in New York State to the bayous of Louisiana (my home state) where he is made a slave. Director Steve McQueen does a fine job depicting how harrowing the experience is and provides catharsis when the ending comes. He also does a nice job of providing some background of other fellow slaves like that of the doomed Patsy. If anyone who paid to see this expected to watch Brad Pitt in a big role, they must have been disappointed to see him in only a couple of scenes but he does well in those and I have to assume most of the public was enthralled by the story to not even care by that point. Anyway, I highly recommend 12 Years a Slave if you want to be challenged as a viewer by the way someone is depicted as the main character is here. Oh, and nice shots of the Louisiana locations.


                
This movie provides a candid and dramatically powerful depiction of the institution of slavery in the United States. This movie touches on and in some ways dives into the many different themes associated with the institution. First, the movie shows how it corrupted everyone involved in it. No matter what their involvement, the institution brought everyone down. Second, the movie dramatizes the political consequences of slavery, how slavery exacerbated sectional conflicts and distorted political discourse. Third, the movie dramatizes the deleterious psychological effects of slavery. Unwilling to come to honestly come to terms with the nature of the institution, the movie shows how slave owner rationalized their own conduct toward the slaves, with devastatingly tragic consequences. Fourth, the movie dramatizes the failure of the United States to follow its own creed of liberty and justice by showing how free blacks were denied the full protection of the law. Fifth, this movie dramatizes the essential barbarism and degeneracy of slavery in the way it brought out and validated the worst in people. Sixth, the movie shows how slavery was a form of state-sponsored vigilantism in the way an entire class of people were subject to the full weight of the state with absolutely no protection. Seventh, the movie pulls no punches in showing the brutality of the institution, e.g., graphic depictions of beatings, whippings, fighting, psychological torture, humiliation, dehumanization, inadequate food, clothing, shelter, and terrorism - all happening under the color of law. Eighth, movie dramatized how by 1841 there was those who already realized that the United States was heading toward a civil war. Ninth, the movie shows how economic self-interest drove slavery, that slavery was profitable. Tenth, the movie dramatizes the failure of the religious community to take action to end slavery and instead used scripture to justify slavery's existence. This movie features many excellent performances, most notably by Michael Fassbinder and Brad Pitt, the latter giving one of his better performances. As for Fassbinder, his performance warrants an Academy Award nomination for Best Actor. His portrayal of the angry, troubled, vicious slave owner who is deteriorating physically, mentally and spiritually carries this movie. This movie is worth watching. Don't expect an upbeat story, because it isn't. But do expect a powerful dramatic treatment of an unpleasant yet historically important subject.


                
"I will keep myself hearty until freedom is opportunity"  For her crime of fetching a bar of soap in order to rid herself of her  own unbearable stench, a young slave girl by the name of Patsey (Lupita  Nyong'o) is secured to a wooden post and relentlessly whipped by a  ruthless plantation owner, Edwin Epps (Michael Fassbender). Combine  this with an earlier scene in where the camera lingers in a torturous  long take over Solomon Northup (Chiwetel Ejiofor), as his back is  brutally savaged by assorted instruments, we know that Steve McQueen's  12 Years A Slave will not be an easy watch. As Patsey receives her  unjust punishment, Sean Bobbitt's unflinching camera captures the act  of cruelty and all its agony. The girl's skin peels of her back as the  whip tears through her flesh, exposing the blood and bone beneath. With  every anger-filled lash, you cringe deeper into your seat, sheltered in  an auditorium that has suddenly become rather chilly.  The year is 1841. Based on a true story, this historical period-drama  sees Solomon's life as a free family man stolen from under him when he  is kidnapped and sold as a slave, first to the benevolent Ford  (Benedict Cumberbatch) and then to the less-humane Epps. Throughout his  journey from Saratoga, New York to a plantation in Louisiana, Solomon  (slave name Platt) must keep his true identity and talents a secret if  he hopes to survive; "I don't want to survive. I want to live", says  Solomon and with every day that goes past, his chances of freedom grow  increasingly unlikely.  In response to the inevitable comparisons to Quentin Tarrantino's  Django Unchained, McQueen's masterpiece proudly tackles the  long-untouchable subject of slavery in its own way; "Either we were  going to make a film about slavery or we weren't <U+0096> and we chose to make  a film about slavery" says McQueen during the London Film Festival,  "making a slavery movie without violence would be like making a World  War II movie without shooting anyone." If the pulpster's cartoonish  Django Unchained were to be considered little more than an appetiser to  slavery, then the raw and difficult 12 Years A Slave is very much the  main course<U+0085> and what a taste it leaves.  As Michael Fassbender's illustrious career screams for an Academy  Award, up steps McQueen <U+0096> given that this is their third collaboration,  with Hunger and Shame both drawing Oscar blanks, 12 Years A Slave puts  the duo on track for third time lucky. The Fass's rendition of slaver  Epps A.K.A the "nigger-breaker", whose mood is lightened whenever he  delivers punishment to his "property", is truly remarkable and matches,  if not surpasses DiCaprio's exceptional turn as Django's Calvin Candie.  Ejiofor, our lead, graces us with a powerhouse performance as a broken  man whose eyes know nothing but pain. His formidable rendition of a  wrongfully enslaved man (not to say that any form is slavery is right)  claws at our heartstrings with as much mercy as the winter shows its  wildlife.  Where the cinematography could be described as beautiful in the  inspired way it allows the action to unfold, it feels very wrong to  attach such an adjective to a film with visuals that are actually quite  detrimental to one's peace of mind. Nonetheless, the creative  camera-work encourages Slave's cinematic scope and as it lingers in  close-up over the many lost faces, on some level this helps to restore  their identities; we're given time to remember who they are.  The title hints towards an inevitable conclusion, but nevertheless,  this is a fantastic feature that confirms McQueen's directorial  prowess<U+0085> See you at the Oscars. As the credits role and the auditorium  falls into darkness, nobody moves. Silent. Mesmerised.
12 YEARS A SLAVE (2013) **** Chiwetel Ejiofor, Michael Fassbender, Benedict Cumberbatch, Lupita Nyong'o, Sarah Paulson, Paul Dano, Paul Giamatti, Alfre Woodard, Brad Pitt, Garrett Dillahunt, Michael K. Williams,  Kelsey Scott, Quvenzhane Wallis, Cameron Zeigler, Scoot McNairy, Christopher Berry, Bill Camp, Devyn A. Tyler, Willo Jean-Baptiste. Remarkable true- life account of slavery in America based on the biography of freeman African-American Solomon Northup (Ejiofor in an incredible performance that is truly Oscar-worthy), who is tricked and abducted while on a trip from New York to Washington and sold into slavery against his will where he burdens many hardships in his long journey into hell. John Ridley's powerful adaptation of Northup's book is a surprisingly clear-eyed, warts-and-all blinding depiction of how history can be a personal gauntlet in spite of the tremendous odds against surviving. Filmmaker Steve McQueen uses all the archetypes of the Southern 'hospitality' usually seen in the genre of a Civil War treatise but doesn't flinch at all in the underpinnings of what is a true blight of humanity. Equally powerful in their acting (and award noticing) are Fassbender as Solomon's cruelest master with nothing but pure hatred broiling at the surface and a heartbreaking stoic turn by newcomer Nyong'o as the 'personal' slave he terrorizes to no end. One of the year's very best films.
"12 Years A Slave" (15) Director: Steve McQueen. Starring: Chiwetel Ejiofor, Paul Giamatti, Benedict Cumberbatch, Paul Dano, Michael Fassbender and Lupita Nyong'o. Rated: 15 for containing, strong violence, injury detail, sex, nudity and racist terms. Running time: 134 minutes. Out now in UK cinemas."12 Years a Slave" reveals the disconsolate tale of Solomon Northup (Chiwetel Ejiofor), a free man from the year 1841, who was deceived, kidnapped and sold into slavery. Steve McQueen is particularly well known for creating works of fragility, including his last two pieces "Shame" and "Hunger", which are both of an extremely high standard. Now having completed his third feature length film, Steve McQueen has decided to tackle a delicate subject, which requires the utmost respect; and received it. The film is at times extremely brutal, but delivers a completely honest insight into slavery and the effects it had on our society.Placed in development for quite some time, it wasn't until 2011 that Steve McQueen finally announced his next film would be "12 Years a Slave", after the success of "Shame". Originally, the screenwriter John Ridley was reluctant to join the film until his wife recommended that he read Solomon Northup's book. Soon afterword, John began to collaborate with McQueen and the rest (as they say), is history. Dealing with something so disturbing, needs a cast which can become the characters they are meant to be portraying, no matter how cruel. Chiwetel Ejiofor is a revelation in the role of Solomon, previously only portraying supporting characters in many of his roles including his performance in the stunning film, "Children of Men" (a film by Alfonso Cuaron) alongside Clive Owen. Finally receiving the lead role he was born to play, Chiwetel is not only convincing, but unbelievable as he physically degrades himself, by acting in many uncomfortable scenes; including a scenario where Solomon is strung up by his neck for a large amount of time. The film's supporting cast also includes Michael Fassbender, who plays a barbarous slave owner named Edwin Epps, whose uncontrollable hate leads to many vivid scenes of violence upon his slaves. Perhaps the actress given the most amount of attention during the current awards season is Lupita Nyong'o (Lupita only formerly acted in a short film named "East River"), with her interesting interpretation of Patsy (an abused slave) which is exemplary. It is only fair to also mention that Paul Dano and Benedict Cumberbatch both act vigorously in their roles. Other details of the film are designed to perfection, including the costumes, sets and the aspects of slavery. Composed by Hanz Zimmer (and including work from John Legend and Alicia Keys) the "12 Years a Slave" soundtrack is powerful, but unfortunately not Zimmer's best work. VerdictA genuine classic that may appal some viewers, or teach others of a time when it was perfectly acceptable to exploit ethnic minorities. A requisite piece of cinema. 10 stars out of 10.Written by Scott Gentry.
'12 Years a Slave' is a hard film to assess and watch. I think I like what it represents as a piece about Hollywood almost more than the film it's self (don't take me the wrong way. The film is excellent). I recall seeing 'Django Unchained' last year and sadly thinking that Tarantino's cartoony spaghetti western with all it's eccentricities still probably portrayed slavery more accurately than any Hollywood film had up until that point. Along comes '12 Years a Slave' less than a year later and as I watched the film I couldn't stop thinking that this was what was needed. I've come to find that the Academy Award for Best Picture has nothing to do with a film's worth but I will say that this film deserved a Best Picture award to find an even broader audience. Steve McQueen and Chiwetel Ejiofor in one feel swoop have made a film together that so brutally destroys the myth of American exceptionalism. '12 Years a Slave' is much like the much heralded 'Schindler's List' in it's blunt depiction of historical evil but McQueen has no time or respect for Spielbergian catharsis. '12 Years a Slave' is a brutal and honest.This is not a film for the faint of heart. It is above everything else a passion play about psychical and mental torture. Our star Chiwetel Eijofor is asked to give the bravest and deepest of performances. His ability to suffer so realistically on the camera is hard to watch. We empathize with Solomon because Eijofor instills within him a great deal of intelligence and dignity. I think this is why the character and performance resonate so well with the theme of the film. Eijofor 's body takes punishment in horrendously violent scenes but it is the scenes of mental torture which are almost more angering. To see Northup being talked down to and berated as a stupid animal is horrible. McQueen and Eijofor take time to show Northup before he comes to his tragic fate. There's a great scene in the middle of the film that delves into the idea of being a slave and being a free black man. Northup is horrified to see his fellow slaves being restricted in their mental growth. Northup wants to regain the dignity a slave can never have. Eijofor's intelligence and audacity are perfect for this characterization.McQueen is a brave storyteller. I love the fact that against this horrible backdrop is the constant use of the bible and Christianity as a justification for slavery. Michael Fassbender's Epps and even Benedict Cumberbatch's Ford both preach to their slaves as if to justify everything they do. I love this theme because it is completely against any depiction of slavery we have ever seen in a mainstream film. I don't think I've seen a film as anti-religious as '12 Years a Slave'. McQueen actually has the nerve to have a character hope that the Egyptian plaques pale in comparison to whatever happens to the plantation owners upon their judgement. This is brave. I think it's telling that this movie was made by a British director and a cast of English actors. I don't think '12 Years a Slave' could have been made in America by a major studio. The film believes mankind is inherently evil despite facades of being Christian or American. There is no justification for slavery other than a complete moral bankruptcy. If this film were made in America by a Spielberg I imagine there would be some sort of catharsis or hope for a better tomorrow by having Soloman survive. McQueen ends the film with Soloman broken and carrying scars that will never heal. This is the only way to honestly portray slavery everything else is a romantic view of this nation's Holocaust.
What can I say about this film that has not been said already? Yes, it is hard-hitting, heartbreaking, and devastatingly real. If you come out of the theater with a dry eye or a gut that has not been punched, may I suggest therapy? "12 Years a Slave" is an unflinching look at one man's struggle with the semi-life given to him unfairly.Based on the book of the same name, Solomon Northup (Chiwetel Ejiofor) is a free man of color in Upstate New York, which means he was not born a slave. Although, he is mildly aware of the slave economy system, freedom is what he knows. He has a loving family of a wife and two children, and he has a mastery of the violin, which he is admired for locally. He is respected, and in turn, he respects. However, under the guise of working in a circus with two charlatans, he is kidnapped into a world that he only knew for afar.Landing in Washington, D.C., Northup is thrust into slavery preparation. He is stripped of his clothing and his liberties via severe beatings, paltry food, and tattered clothing. He meets individuals aware of their situation; yet, he refuses to assuage the naive possibility of regaining his freedom immediately.Once in Louisiana, his name is changed to Platt - just Platt. He is told that he is a runaway slave from Georgia. His personally narrative has been erased illegally. From the slave marketplace, as though humans were cars or horses, he is purchased by William Ford (Benedict Cumberbatch), a man deemed as "good". In truth, everyone involved in the slave trade had murky characters. However, to call slavers good, is a big stretch. Ford is called a "good" man because he does not believe in whipping or torturing his slaves; although, he employs unknowingly those that do believe in such mistreatment. Master Ford is wounded morally by his participation (including his agreement in separating a mother from her children) as it takes its toll on him.After a major event on Ford's plantation, "Platt" finds himself sold to Edwin Epps (Michael Fassbender), a man of evil fortitude. Epps is a morally corrupt man that enjoys "nigger breaking" and other means of cruelty. He is renown for his character. Out of the frying pan and into the fire goes "Platt". It doesn't take long to see why Epps has earned his infamy. In his corner is his wife, Mary (Sarah Paulson). She is close to matching the cruelty of her husband, fueled by the jealousy of her husband's obsession with Patsy, a young slave woman, on the plantation. Unlike "Platt", Patsy's resilience is next to nothing. She is raped, overworked, and, in a fateful scene, whipped to an inch of her life.Throughout his years at Epps plantation, he sees continuously the various means of survival in this cruel system. He meets Mrs. Shaw (Alfre Woodard), a former slave turned companion for Mr. Shaw, a slaver. Their arrangement is a rare one. She ignores his amorous advances toward slave women, and in turn, she never feels the hard work of the plantation again.Through a chance meeting with a Canadian carpenter, Bass (Brad Pitt), "Platt" becomes Solomon Northup and regains his freedom, while returning to his life and a new path into abolition.As a viewer, I was gut punched. I shed tears. I could not turn away without feeling an inch of the devastation that the slave economy brought to the United States. It's one of America's unforgiven sins, and to see it on scene without the sugarcoating and far easier portrayals of past movies exploring slavery, is one that should be experienced.There are some detractors that do not want to see the film succeeded because they prefer the past left alone. However, director Steve McQueen and writer John Ridley takes us on an uncomfortable journey that is required to see how the past has not been forgotten, but continues to shape our present and, hopefully, not our future.Go see it.
12 Years A Slave is about a free black man named Solomon Northup, from upstate New York, who gets kidnapped and sold into slavery. The film follows the mans journey to survive and get back his freedom.I haven't seen a film quite like this before. It's one that doesn't let back on the cruelty and torture that was brought upon slaves in the 1800's. It's wasn't comfortable to watch at times, but that was the point. You aren't supposed to think slavery is a light topic. 12 Years A Slave is a film that will bring tears to your eyes. They aren't treated this way, but most of these slaves are innocent. Families torn apart to serve others and who get tortured when something wasn't done right or they look at their superiors the wrong way..The performances were breathtaking. Chiwetel Ejiofor was just brilliant as Solomon Northup, a man who is fighting to survive and get back to his family. You can feel the mans heartbreak and fear just by his facial expressions. That's what makes a fantastic actor. Michael Fassbender, who plays a cruel plantation owner, was also very good. There wasn't a moment where you didn't hate him. Newcomer Lupita Nyong'o was also fantastic and Brad Pitt made his 5 minutes of screen time as powerful and meaningful as he could. He played a Canadian Carpenter who felt strongly about the topic of slavery, and who gives a great speech about his feelings late in the film. Pitt plays the more sensible type in the film, and his performance will bring you to tears when you feel a sense of relief knowing there's a character with a heart like his.Hans Zimmer has to be one of my favourite composers. His music can break your heart, get your adrenaline pumping or keep you smiling. His music added to the heartbreak of the film. When tears are rolling down your eyes, it's hard to stop from crying out loud when his score comes on. I don't usually comment on a soundtrack, but Hans Zimmer was a fantastic choice for this film.The film length is perfect. I understand people can't sit through a 2 hour and 20 minute film, but with a film like this, it's great because of the impact the runtime has. You get to feel and see the pain that the slaves have. Needless to say, this film has taught me a lot about history, and how to treat people. To people who are looking for a light fun film, than 12 Years A Slave is not for you. Don't walk on thinking this is going to be all light and fluffy, because I can assure you, it's not for the light hearted. Slaves are being tortured and mistreated in the most brutal ways and you sometimes have to turn away or cover your eyes, but as I said, that's the impact the film is supposed to have on you.Needless to say, I loved 12 Years A Slave. It was a film that is great for a History class to go and watch. It's a great topic of conversation and will make us think twice about the way we treat people. 12 Years A Slave is the film of the year, but I know, with a year ending soon and still a lot of Oscar films to come, there's still a lot to look forward to. You get a rare type of film every few years. A film that will win a deserving amount of Oscars or will make you want to scream when they don't. This film is that film.Grade: A+


                
Solomon Northup lives as a free man in New York with his wife and two children, earning a living as a violinist. On what he believes will be an out of town music shoe, he is drugged and sold into slavery under the name Platt. He decides that co-operation is the best way to survive. He sees few others in the same situation as him, but slowly he is separated from those with who he has built support. This process continues over his life as a slave, as he is at the mercy of whoever his master at the time and his master's associates who work on their own priorities. But he finds that co-operation generally gets one nowhere and sometimes can get one into further trouble due to jealousy.....Its a hat trick for McQueen as he has crafted another near perfect film, and has gotten some career best performances from many involved, especially Ejiofor, who is wonderful as Soloman. The film follows the three act rule of thumb, but when watching this, you cannot help but think that its a film of two halves. The first part the incarceration, and coming to terms, but having a fair owner, played brilliantly by Cumberbatch.The second part is almost the desperation part of the story, with Soloman becoming desperate, and coming face to face with pure evil, turning his life as a slave into something else. Fassbender is wonderful here, oozing pure menace i to every act he does, whether its dancing, or just sitting there relaxing.Cinematography is wonderful, and some drawn out scenes, like Soloman hanging, are beautifully sinister.If there is a better film released this year, film-goers are in for a treat.A masterpiece on every level.
I have been a huge fan of Steve McQueen ever since I saw 'Hunger'. And I was even more impressed with 'Shame'. And because of those two films I was really excited to see '12 Years A Slave'. And the film did more than fulfill my expectations.McQueen, in an interview, stated that the film was about "love", which might be hard to see in a film about slavery. But within the first series of shots this concept is evident and is a credit to McQueen's artistry. The first time I recognized this was when Solomon was sleeping and another female slave grabs him and forces him to touch her. The camera is still and shows them facing horizontally, surrounded by other slaves and in the darkness, showing us that this is off. Something is wrong. But then it cuts to Solomon and his wife, in bed, sleeping vertically with the sun, showing us that this is right. Another shot that the previous shot, with Solomon and the slave, correspond to is the shot of Master Epps raping Patsy further instilling in the audience that what Master Epps is doing is wrong. I mean, it's obvious that what Master Epps is doing is wrong, but I love the connections that this film makes.Now, the long takes. The first long take is when Solomon is beaten in the jail. Which was so agonizing. I was eating popcorn watching it and I was about to eat one piece of popcorn I had to stop during that scene, because I was so in the moment. Two other long takes, that I liked was when Solomon was hanging from the tree and was struggling to stay on his toes as the other slaves feared approaching him, and your watching his struggle. And the other long take was during the end when Master Epps whips Patsy and forces Solomon to whip Patsy, and you feel her pain. And as a filmmaker, more like an up-and-coming filmmaker, I love the long take, because to me cuts take away from the reality of the scene. And the reason why I say this is when we look at the world our vision of the world doesn't cut. And the long take, to me, captures the entire picture of the scene as you would in the real world.The last thing I want to touch on is McQueen's small personal techniques. And he has done this in previous films. In 'Hunger' it was the bee and the floating feather. In 'Shame' it was when Brandon cries during Sissy's 'New York New York'. These little gems simply create the human connections in the film, without very little effort. And in '12 Years A Slave', this is very evident. And two instances stand out, just like in 'Hunger' and in 'Shame'. The first instance is when Solomon is forced to burn a letter that he wishes to send to his family, so he can be saved and you watch the letter slowly burn in the darkness, it cuts to Solomon in pain, and then back to the letter as you see the flames, lighting up the darkness, slowly vanish. The other gem was when Solomon had given up, or it felt like he had given up and the slaves are singing 'Roll Jordan Roll', and the camera is locked on Solomon's face and we slowly see him come to singing with the group and getting his faith back.'12 Years A Slave' is a masterpiece. Plain and simple. And a film for everyone to see and for filmmakers to learn from. Thank you Steve McQueen.
12 Years a Slave is the third and most important of three major films this year about the history of the African American experience. First came 42, a warm, smooth, and compelling story of the great Jackie Robinson's integration of baseball. Next came The Butler, a history of two sides of post-WW2 the civil rights movement wrapped up in about two hours. I also found this movie quite good.But nothing can compare to the stark, clear-eyed, difficult-to-watch but extremely rewarding film that Steve McQueen has put before us in 12 Years a Slave. And it took 3 Brits - McQueen, Michael Fassbender and the extraordinary Chiwetel Ejiofer - to do it.12 Years a Slave is not fun to watch. Unlike other movies, even great ones like Schindler's List, it pulls no punches along the way. All the violence done to slaves is here, in graphic form. It's not on screen for just an instant, but lingers as we are forced to watch. It is so well-done that it feels like the truth.Ejiofer ("Chewy," my wife and I call him) has been one of my favorite actors since Dirty Pretty Things a decade ago. But other than a great star turn as drag queen Lola in Kinky Boots, he hadn't gotten the roles he deserves, playing cops on TV, sidekicks, and the like. No more.Ejiofer is in virtually every scene. Closeups of his face seem to last minutes at a time. Solomon is a role destined for Oscar consideration, but "Chewy" goes as deep in his performance as McQueen has in his realization. Great performances, and a great movie. Just make sure you're ready before you see it.


                
Steve McQueen's first two features Hunger and Shame are both riveting and shocking films. Shame is my favorite Michael Fassbender performance and now his role as the deranged plantation owner Edwin Epps, in McQueen's brave and daring new film 12 Years A Slave, comes into a close second, but maybe upon multiple viewings, may slide into first. Solomon Northup (Chiwetel Ejiofor) was born a free man. While residing in Saratoga, New York with his wife and two kids, Solomon is drugged. When he awakes, Solomon finds himself chained to the floor, and from then on must fight to survive as he gets moved from plantation to plantation. Chiwetel Ejiofor gives one of the most honest, intense, heart-wrenching performances of the year. Ejiofor is in damn near every frame and he is nothing short of miraculous. Then for a few scenes we get the always eclectic Paul Giamatti, who handles his role so delicately, and respectively, you can tell that he approached it like a true master. Giamatti's performance is so menacing and hateful, that his character has become the most hated character on film in recent years for me. Benedict Cumberbatch is also on top of his game as William Ford, a baptist preacher who buys Solomon off of Giamatti's Theophilus Freeman. Paul Dano is fearless as the hot-headed John Tibeats. Dano has always been an interesting actor to watch, but his past two roles, Prisoners and now 12 Years A Slave are some of his finest work.Michael Fassbender's performance will have the hair on the back of your neck stand tall. It may be hard to watch a few scenes of his. If there ever was devil, it would be the character that Fassbender has embodied. Extremely strong work. Sarah Paulson gives an equally cruel, yet brilliant performance as Fassbender's demented wife.The startling beautiful Lupita Nyong'o shines in her first feature film. Nyong'o plays Patsey, a slave Solomon has befriended. Every scene of hers is a stab to the heart with the ignorant, immoral brutality that is thrust upon her. Brad Pitt and Alfre Woodard both give limited, but strong on screen presences and both have memorable scenes.Steve McQueen's directing has become almost flawless. 12 Years A Slave features some breath taking plantation imagery, while still showing the harsh conditions, hardships, and the blatant racism that these African-Americans faced. The pacing of the film is perfect, there is one lashing scene that is extremely detailed and will be hard to watch for most. There is one thing that my girlfriend pointed out to me, it was that they didn't show what Solomon's family went through, did they try and search for him? Did they presume he was dead? Those questions would have been nice, but ultimately thats just nit-picking and not what the story was about.McQueen will most certainly receive award nominations, along with Chiwetel Ejiofor and Michael Fassbender. 12 Years A Slave will not be a film for everyone, but I assure you if you give the film a chance, you will not be disappointed. This film has one of the best ensemble cast all year and all of its actors deliver masterful performances. I give 12 Years A Slave a 10 out of 10.
Solomon Northup (Chiwetel Ejiofor) is a free black man living in upstate New York with his wife and two kids in 1841. Solomon is tricked by two slave catchers, named Brown (Scoot McNairy) and Hamilton, (Teran Killam) who tell Solomon they are with the circus, but really ply him with liquor and sell him into slavery to the plantation of Ford, (Benedict Cumberbatch) who also buys a slave woman named Eliza (Adepero Oduye), but Ford cannot buy Eliza's kids. Ford is a relatively good hearted person, but that does not spare Solomon from cruel treatment from one of the field bosses named Tibeats (Paul Dano) who tries to hang Solomon and leaves him hanging there until Ford cuts him down. If things are not bad enough with Ford, Solomon, now given the name Platt, is sent to the cruel and sadistic slave owner Edwin Epps. (Michael Fassbender) Epps thinks of his slaves as his property, and will do anything to bend their actions to his will; Epps literally wants them to dance when he plays a tune. Epps does not like Platt, and makes it his job to break him. Epps does have a fondness for Patsey (Lupita Nyong'o) and Mrs. Epps (Sarah Paulson) sees how much attention Patsey is getting from her husband, she shows her displeasure by throwing a whiskey decanter at her head. When Mr. Epps sees Solomon talking to Patsey, he whips Solomon and tells Patsey to stay away from him. When Patsey goes to another plantation for a bar of soap, Epps orders Solomon to whip her, and then viciously whips Patsey himself. Patsey is also repeatedly raped by Mr. Epps, and she can take no more.Patsey begs Solomon to kill her, he steadfastly refuses. Instead Solomon a man named Armsby (Garrett Dillhunt) a man on Epps plantation, who seems to be sympathetic to Solomon's plight, to deliver a letter to some abolitionists up North, who know that Solomon is a free man. Instead Armsby tells Epps of Solomon's plan, and Epps burns the letter. Later, a Canadian named Samuel Bass (Brad Pitt) shows up to Epps' plantation and Solomon asks Bass to deliver a similar letter to the one that he asked Armsby to deliver. Does Bass do it? Or does he doublecross Solomon, as Armsby had done? This is a brutally violent movie, but it is also brutally honest. I usually don't care for historical dramas about slavery or segregation from Hollywood, because they tend to change the history to fit whatever end they're trying to put forth, or they try to sugarcoat the experience of slavery or segregation in some kind of revisionist feel- good way. If you don't know what I mean, please see The Help. I know the character of Solomon Northup existed because he published a biography contemporaneously to his kidnapping, and this movie does not sugarcoat his life.The writing by John Ridley is poignant and heartbreaking. Even when Solomon is not being whipped or beaten, the fear of slavery and its attendant pain follows him around like a constant shadow. He bears the pain of Eliza, who weeps constantly at the loss of her children, he is asked by Patsey to kill her, she prefers death to being even a favored slave. Solomon sees hangings of runaway slaves all too routinely. The stories of Solomon, Eliza and Patsey are intertwined and so the viewer,not only cares about Solomon, but the ladies as well.The direction by Steve McQueen is truly noteworthy. Almost from the first scene the film envelops the viewer. In that first scene the camera is at eye level and wading through the sugar cane fields of Louisiana. To illustrate the voyage down South McQueen focuses on the paddle wheel of the riverboat, and when the wheel fills the whole screen, the scene is over. That is captivating camera work. There is one scene that stood out in the movie, however. When Solomon is hanging on the tree, put there by Tibbeats, the other slaves go on with their business, seemingly oblivious to the man literally hanging in their midst, until one slave woman gives him a glass of water and meekly scurries away. They are so afraid of the master's retribution that they dare not cut Solomon down. And McQueen lets that scene play out for an excruciatingly long time. That is great filmmaking. If you don't know this Steve McQueen, watch Hunger, about the hunger strike initiated by Bobby Sands in Northern Ireland.The acting is top notch. Fassbender is a raving dog one minute, and calmly ordering everyone to dance the next, he knows he can make these slaves do anything, they are toys to him, puppets. It is that controlled rage that makes his performance so interesting to watch, he will be nominated for Best Actor, Chiwetel Egiofor gives a stunning performance as Solomon, he can hardly believe what happened to him, and now he's got to outwit his masters and stay alive, at a time when his life was worth nothing more than the amount of cotton he can pick. He should be nominated for Best Actor as well. The women in this film are phenomenal as well Adepero Oduye is outstanding as Eliza, she conveys the pain of separation from her two children about as well as anyone I've seen. Lupita Nyong'o gives a heart-stopping performance as Patsey, this is her debut film. And Sarah Paulson is also outstanding as the stern, domineering Mistress Epps. All three of them deserve nominations. Paul Dano and Paul Giamatti are also very good, the only laggard in the bunch is Brad Pitt, who plays a boring character in a predictable way. Mr. Pitt, I appreciate the money you put forth and the skill you used to get this movie made, but please resist the temptation of casting yourself in the movies you produce.For more epic reviews, visit my blog: reviewswithatude.wordpress.com
I don't think i have ever seen a slave movie that just makes you want to cry and be thankful for your ancestors as this movie did. Roots maybe one of those type of things that will hit you soulfully but i think this movie takes the cake. Nothing in this movie is sugar coded everything is raw and brutal from the marvelous score from Hans Zimmer one of my favorite composers to a great performance by every person in this movie. Chiwetel plays Solomon Northrup is a free man who is kidnapped by these Con Artist and sold as a slave, thats the premise now if you read that wouldn't that make you upset and thats what a good movie does to make you feel all the emotion in the character like Solomon this is a guy who is very smart and intelligent and has to live as a slave for 12 years taken away from his own free family. I mean i can go on and on about this movie i loved it in every way and I want it to win if not best picture at the Oscars then at the golden globes. And one more thing Michael Fassbender as a slave owner is phenomenal if you thought Calvin Candy was despicable in Django Unchained then wait till you see him i would recommend everyone to see this movie for black history month so you can appreciate life and the struggles you face now are no where even close to what your ancestors had to face.


                
From "acclaimed director of challenging films<U+0099>" Steve McQueen comes the tale of Solomon Northup, a free man kidnapped and sold into slavery, and the titular 12 years of torment he subsequently endured. The story survived in the form of a sometimes chillingly proper and polite autobiography that leaves a lot to the imagination. A perfect a fit as McQueen could hope for, given his short but powerful track-record of conveying a lot through an almost minimalist approach to filmmaking. His is an unflinching, yet often graceful eye (rather than the perversely voyeuristic poking of, say, Von Trier), so you'd be forgiven for at first staying clear of this film with the apprehension that it might be unbearable to endure. Slavery-film fatigue would be an understandable first reaction. And yet<U+0085>It's probably safe to say that few things can prepare you for this film, but not in the ways you'd fear. Being the product of a mostly non-American cast and a black, non-American director frees it of any handicapping guilt, and allows 12 Years A Slave to use slavery not as an end in itself, but mere legal context to the tolerance of cruelty. The very nature of the plot helps in this regard too, and in retrospect one of the most chilling aspects of the story is that so many characters are outraged by protagonist Solomon's plight not because he is a human being entitled to dignity, but because he is "illegally acquired". With the exception of Brad Pitt's slightly distracting cameo, the same noble whites who would save Solomon do not spare a second glance at his fellow slaves, the latter born into their condition. On the intellectual plane, the film gives us something new. That is not to say that it isn't brutal, it is. Often viscerally so.While it's fair to say that on paper at least, the film presents one of the most genuine meditations on the subject of abusive servitude ever passed off as entertainment. That leaves us with execution, and this is where things arguably become even more impressive.Steve McQueen was reportedly cheered at the Director's Guild Awards when, in response to a question, he said he shot the whole film in little over a month, with only one camera. Take it how you will, there is no denying the man's virtuoso levels of economy, each of the many extended shots stretched to unnerving lengths: for all the technical prowess of some of the choreography, in a year where Alfonso Cuaron's Gravity threw us through space in 3D for 14 minutes with no cut in sight, the most memorable shot of 2013 was an unbearable wide shot of Solomon hanged to a tree, gasping for air, toes barely touching the ground, for what feels like an eternity.And if his technical mastery of his craft is at this point beyond question, his coaching of his cast more than rises to the occasion. It's a career-landmark role for Chiwetel Ejiofor, for obvious reasons, but as a mostly reactive protagonist he is at the mercy of his co-stars. Thank God for Lupita Nyong'o and Michael Fassbender. The former earns the golden statuette the hard way, while the later throws everything he has into one of the vilest creatures ever to grace the screen. There are other, dependable known faces in the mix: Benedict Cumberbatch<U+0099> (a ubiquitous institution these days it seems), Paul Giamatti and Alfre Woodard. Of the supporting cast Paul Dano and Sarah Paulson provide an extra edge. The only bum note is Brad Pitt's too-progressive-to-be-true foreign contractor, robbing the film of perfection by a narrow margin. The role might be pure investor gratitude, but then one must face the fact that without Pitt's initial backing the film as a whole might never have seen the light of day. Looking through the message boards, there's a lot of dialogue about the film from many who have not seen it, and are either hesitant or downright hostile to it. To the latter category, who often ask "why do we need to see this", I would say the following: beyond the fresh elements it brings to an old issue, it remains a film, and as such, it is a masterclass in direction, in storytelling economy, and in pure tension. Damn right you need to see this.


                
Great pacing, and amazingly deep performances help to elevate this movie through some of the hardest scenes you will, and should ever have to watch. Once again the time we live in has proved it's benefits, with fearless acting, direction, and story telling. No dancing on tiptoes, except in the literal sense, nothing is taboo, and all (or more than in years past)of the sins of man are faced. Chiwetel Ejiofor gave such a great performance, and the Women were all very solid. The direction, and set design is all fantastic, and everything is made to feel very real, and very painful. I would recommend this film to anyone, there are some tough to take scenes in here of physical abuse, and some graphically violent scenes through out, but it is true, and real, and people should know, and never forget. I Enjoyed this movie quite a bit, but you must remember that this sort of thing is still going on in the world, and not so far from you. If you see something wrong speak up.
