I was hoping to really enjoy "12 Years a Slave" but wasn't expecting a 2 hr long movie of very long, ponderous slow camera shots of nature and hardly any compelling dialog or character development. This was then broken up seemingly every 10 minutes by a savage flogging or a vicious rape or some other sadistic cruelty being inflicted on the movie's hero, the hapless Solomon a freeman sold into slavery, and the other slaves. Except for Brad Pitt's Canadian abolitionist and a gentleman from Solomon's home town, virtually every white character in this movie is portrayed as the very embodiment of evil. No nuance, nothing but unremitting sadism.A lot of people seem to be comparing this movie to "Schindler's List" although I can't understand why. In "List" you had the compelling story of Schindler who, for reasons known only to himself, risks his life to save as many Jews as he can. The Jewish prisoners are depicted as full characters, people you know and care about. Even the Nazi played by Ralph Finnes is given some depth, a man whose cruelty has been unleashed and sanctioned by his Nazi bosses but, you suspect but for the war would be a man who might be interesting to be around---a lover of fine food, good wine and a roving eye for the women. But the slave masters in "12 Years a Slave" don't have the slightest hint of anything human about them, just treating people with cruelty for cruelty's sake.If filmmakers really wanted to make a powerful movie about slavery, they might consider boldly making a new version of "Uncle Tom's Cabin" and hew closely to the story that Harriet Beecher Stowe wrote. It's a powerful book and it gets far deeper into the immorality of slavery than anything like "12 Years a Slave" does. The memoirs that "12" was based on came out soon after the huge success of "Uncle Tom's Cabin". The opening scene of the slave-traders benignly discussing their "wares" in "Uncle Tom's Cabin" was so chilling to read that I couldn't even bear to read it through in one sitting. "12" had a similar scene with the excellent Paul Giamatti as a slave-trader, but the movie never got any deeper.
I can go on and on about how disappointing this movie really is, I am very upset I spent a full 2 hours and 14 minutes watching this overdrawn slavery documentary. I will start by saying I only gave this movie an overall rating of a 2 because of the acting, it would be a 1 without it, and would be a 3 if Brad Pitt didn't ruin it with his Inglorious Bastards accent(he honestly cant change it? and has to be the hero in a movie he produced, ridiculous).So this movie is clearly just another slavery movie showing how bad slaves were mistreated, as if everyone doesn't already know. Yes you feel bad for Solomon throughout the movie but who cares, he had his freedom and then got it back!!! what about all the other slaves who suffered an entire lifetime, from birth until death, no, instead lets focus on one man because he wrote a book about his struggles. The director, Steve McQueen is in fact a Drama Queen. Seriously did we need that sad music as if we were watching the Titanic sink again. More than half of the movie are scenes of someones face(usually Solomons)With his glossy eyes and depressing music playing.I do not recommend this movie to anyone who has already learned or heard about slavery, yes it was wrong, yes it was brutal. But most everyone already knows that. It seems almost as if this movie was created to rile people up and again create hate, especially in the minds of younger viewers.
Where to begin? OK, by stating the simple facts. The history here is distorted beyond all measure. 21st century sensibilities, seen through the lens of sterilized political correctness, make this film practically unwatchable from beginning to the (oh will it ever come?) end. Every white character is a one dimensional pastiche of evil while, conversely, it's only black people who possess anything approaching morality and basic human decency. It wears out and wears thin very rapidly indeed.Steve McQueen - a director whose previous work I admired - got this film all wrong. He needed to do many things to put this film on the right track from the get go. But, most of all, he needed to work with a script which had its roots in reality, not in this distorted, oddly perverse and, frankly, unworthy representation of antebellum America. It's a shame and a sham yet it could have been a great story. Truly awful, but I gave it 2 stars - the extra one because, thank heavens, Oprah is not in it.
12 Years a Slave — a biopic about a black fiddler in NY who somehow wound up a slave in Louisiana from 1841 until the law rescued him in 1853—is the nearly universally acclaimed front runner for the Best Picture Oscar. Yet it's built upon a fourth-rate screenplay that might have embarrassed Horatio Alger.12 Years a Slave is hailed by critics as a long-awaited breakthrough that finally dares to mention the subject of slavery after decades of the entertainment industry being controlled by the South.The message behind the ongoing enshrinement of the rather amateurish 12 Years a Slave is that the cultural whippings of white folk for the sins of their long dead ancestors will stubbornly continue on until morale improves. The formula: Stoke it, package it, market it.Steve McQueen directs the film in a sort of minor league Passion of the Christ manner. Some of the appeal to critics is that Northern whites are shown as saints of racial sensitivity in the film's preposterous first 20 minutes.12 Years a Slave opens in 1841 with Northup being effusively admired by his white neighbors in Saratoga, NY. Northup is a model of ridiculous bourgeois respectability, always doffing his top hat to his white peers while out riding with his family in an elegant carriage.How could he afford that? Well, actually, he didn't and couldn't. A glance at Northup's ghostwritten 1853 memoir makes clear that in 1841, rather than being a pillar of this Yankee community, he was an unemployed fiddler dragged down by his own "shiftlessness."In McQueen's often baffling movie, this respectable family man suddenly decides to run off to join the circus with two fast-talking white men without even leaving a note for his wife. Later, while dining in an elegant Washington, DC restaurant with his new friends, he suddenly takes ill and wakes up in chains.Ironically, his poor family never reported or even guessed that he'd been kidnapped. They apparently assumed that vanishing was just the kind of thing he'd do.When word of his kidnapping finally arrived home in 1853, top officials in both NY and Louisiana were dismayed by the trick played upon this freeborn citizen and worked together to quickly have him released.Interestingly, it was widely believed that Northup had conspired with his white cronies to defraud slave owners of their purchase price by attempting to pull a con on them. Reminiscent of the 1971 comedy Skin Game, starring James Garner and Louis Gossett, Jr. as traveling grifters in 1858 where Garner repeatedly sells Gossett into slavery and then helps him escape.Northup's hometown newspaper, the Saratoga Press, surmised that Northup had been an accomplice in a scam gone awry:"<U+0085>it is more than suspected that Northup was an accomplice in the sale, calculating to slip away and share the spoils, but that the purchaser was too sharp for him, and instead of getting the cash, he got something else."This theory that Northup was a man of dubious character rather than the tediously upright one depicted in the movie might explain another puzzling aspect of his tale: how little help he got from his fellow slaves. In general, the other slaves as display remarkably little human warmth toward Northup. They mostly act completely indifferent whenever he is around.When Northup finally arrived home, an abolitionist politician hired David Wilson to be his ghostwriter. Wilson wrote Northup's story in his own style, and they hit it big in the slave-narrative craze that followed the 1852 publication of Uncle Tom's Cabin. Not many were sold, but more than enough to launch Northup on the abolitionist lecture circuit.Predictably, Northup disappeared from history four years later. Those who knew him best seem to have assumed that he had become a "worthless vagabond," as his wife's obituary bluntly phrased it. Almost all of this is left out of the movie as being far too interesting for Oscar Bait.I suppose Third-rate Victorian literature such as Wilson's version of Northup's memoir is tolerable today if the author understands his limitations. Most of the first-person narration is thankfully utilitarian. Only occasionally does Wilson have Northup reminisce in the grand Victorian manner: "Now had I approached within the shadow of the cloud, into the thick darkness whereof I was soon to disappear, thenceforward to be hidden from the eyes of all my kindred, and shut out from the sweet light of liberty, for many a weary year."Indeed, on the rare occasions when Wilson quotes Northup's utterances, the slave speaks in a more plausible fashion, such as, "There is nobody I want to write to, 'cause I ain't got no friends living as I know of."Unfortunately, Ridley's adaptation takes its inspiration for its made-up dialog from the worst prose in the book. Since it would be racist for Ridley to show slaves ending their sentences with prepositions, they instead orate pompous speeches toward each other, like Prime Minister Gladstone addressing Queen Victoria. As the hero, Ejiofor labors to bring life to these lines, with indifferent, if not comical success.Hollywood has been waving its celluloid wand over history since its inception. Unfortunately, studio contrived "reality" usually wins the emotional battle over the truth --even for those with more than a tenuous understanding of the world around them. It's all part of the ongoing, and successful campaign keep all critical theory groups in their respective consensus trances; instilling grievance focused identities in blacks, and derivative guilt syndrome in whites. I suppose once all the altruistic white people who fall for sympathetic pleas of universal equality have been eliminated via natural selection, blacks will spontaneously adopt their innate, but perpetually oppressed Western sensibilities and go on to build flourishing, first world Utopias? Coming soon to a theater near you!
I've been in the industry for almost 20 years and I had to create an account to say this: This movie was bad. This was a bad movie. This script should have never seen a screen the way it stands. I don't know if Steve McQueen or someone else screwed with it so much that it no longer worked, but someone murdered this script.Characters appear and disappear for no reason. Plot lines are thrown in, rolled around and pulled out. Then there is the miracle ending that's not foreshadowed in any way - a total Hail Mary - like the producers suddenly said: 'Yo, Stevie, you're sitting at over 2 hours... End the thing already before we run out of cash.' Ugh... Never have God (or his human counterpart, Brad Pitt) save your movie in the last 10 minutes. That's first-year film school stuff.I was hoping for a film like 2001's Conspiracy (http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0266425/) but instead I got this. What a total shame. This story should have been a masterpiece. It should have been a classic.The only reason I don't give this movie a 1 is because it is beautifully shot. It betrays a grade-school-level interpretation of history (Northerners were beautiful and cultured while Southerners were drunk whore-mongers who rolled around with pigs), but at least it was nice to look at.
Why Do We Watch Movies?We watch movies to be entertained, to be educated, to be moved.My husband and I recently went to see "12 Years a Slave". It was, quite bluntly, dreadful. The movie was based on the personal accounting of Solomon Northup, a free black man, who in 1841 was abducted and sold into slavery. I did not read his book, but judging by what I have read, the movie did not follow the book very loyally. What a shame. I think I will read it now, if only to redeem a story so deserving to be told.I do not profess to be a producer, a director, an actor, or a cinematographer. I do not presume to state how this film could have been better. I just want to tell you why I did not like what could have been one of the best movies of all time. I am a middle-aged, white, Canadian woman, and it is a testament to our society that I actually have to qualify that. I am so grateful to not have lived in an age of slavery. No man has the right to enslave another, and to have lived in an era where one race habitually and acceptably treated another as less than human would have been excruciatingly abhorrent to me. Slavery is wrong. Slavery is evil.I have no doubt that many aspects of slavery in the 1840's were accurately depicted in this film, and it truly had all the elements of a classic, with a compellingly profound story and phenomenal actors. However, the direction was horrendous, the screen writing decimating. The protracted, paralyzingly boring close-ups and shots of gazing at trees were not evocative or artful, but only served to sap the life from the story for me. Added to that, the excessively prolonged moments of having to watch Solomon tap-dancing at the end of a noose, and the constant, brutal whipping scenes made my feelings of pity and disgust and rage almost dulled to the horror. The cinematography could have been so much better. Settings are characters unto themselves in movies, and instead of bringing to life a Louisiana in the 1840's, I was treated to long minutes of Spanish moss waving in the breeze. It was dull and lack-luster, and added nothing to the film.The only reason I gave this movie two stars instead of one (zero not being an option here) is because of the memorable performance of some of the actors.Chiwetel Ejiofor's depiction of Solomon was excellent, considering what he was given to work with. The screenwriter's stripping treatment of who Solomon really was was very unfortunate. From what I understand, he was intelligent and resourceful, used his ingenuity to enhance the lives of his fellow slaves, and was actually forced to be a slave-driver himself for a portion of his enslavement. Including this in the screenplay might have given his character much more dimension, and shown me a man who I could actually root for, instead of just pity immensely.Lupita Nyong'o was extraordinary as the young slave, Patsey, and is an actress to be watched for in future.Michael Fassbender is always brilliant, even in crappy movies. This performance was no exception. He was evil incarnate, and made me suspect that Master Epps very likely had syphilis, so crazed and bizarre was he portrayed.Paul Giamatti does sleaze so well, and here he did not disappoint.It must be noted that I was downright embarrassed that Brad Pitt as producer cast himself in the role of the big white hero, his acting no better or worse than usual.Perhaps the best performance was that of Paul Dano. As a white-trash overseer with middle-management power and impotent rage, he made me believe what these men might truly have been like in the times of American slavery.How sad I am that this movie was not all it could have been. In the end, did it make me think? Yes, but for all the wrong reasons. Was I entertained, educated or moved? Sadly, I was not.
I was shocked with this film. I ended up wondering what on earth the director had in mind when he was making the film? The sad thing is that the subject of the film is extremely interesting but the director lost all chances of making this a great film.Slavery in America is a huge issue indeed and I do understand that the Caucasian people in the US still try to deal with the issue. And most of them feel guilt. It is more or less how most Germans feel for the atrocities that Hitler has done. BUT someone expects that a film on slavery from an acclaimed director will either go into the core of the problem and prompt you to learn and understand things or will present a human story in a way that can create a case for the issue.This film is doing nothing. It wastes 134 minutes to tell a story that could be told in no more than 15 minutes. When you have a 15 minutes storytelling then you need either to focus on building a characters' film or to insert in the storytelling questions that the viewer should consider. But instead of this the film is wasting all the good actors in an endless cycle of the same idea: "what cruelty humans could cause to humans"!. But we DO KNOW this and we've seen it many times. Please make a point! The most hypocritical scene of the film is the Patsey's whip. Until that scene the film was boring, with this scene it became hypocritical because at that point I think that the director thought: "I can not do a film about slavery without showing a cruel scene; I've forgotten to do this so far, so I do it now"! I learn nothing from the film and I didn't entertain myself at all. I am wondering why all cinema critics have given such victorious reviews. I am sorry to say that I think that the film tries to capitalize on the "white people's guilty" and the director has blackmailed the audience by saying: "If you do not like it the film then you are just like the bad whites that they have done these things to the slaves". I am sorry Mr. director, this is not the case, YOU have exploited the issue of slavery to put money in your pocket. You have succeeded and congratulations on the marketing success, but this is a bad film and will remain like this!
A true story, made into something not real. I could not get into the movie at all. When I watch a movie I like to be captivated and taken in for the ride. So much of it was so bad that it jarred. When slaves were supposed to be digging a paddock they were just tapping hoes on the ground. When slaves were cotton picking they were just playing with the cotton. All the slaves were over weight, and wore clean un-tatty clothes. Quite often the actors looked as though they were uncomfortable doing what they were doing. Those prolonged whipping scenes did not feel real. When he was left hanging, this again did not seem to be at all real. Someone wriggling a bit on the end of a rope. Where was the suspense and drama? Instead an overly long scene. Boring! It could have been a great film. But for me, it did not work at all. It would have been good to hear the story after he was released from slavery. How he tried to prosecute his captors. How he became an anti slavery campaigner. I do understand how for a lot of Americans this is the first time they have seen how slaves were treated in their country, but compared to Django Unchained, which was a great movie, this was awful.
In today's world, we are told to be politically correct. but this movie is a waste of time, nothing special to me .I consider myself on the left side of the political arena.but I do wonder if we are being bombarded with this type of stories, consider the butler .12 years a slave , etc. I was expecting a great movie , but what I watched 2 hours of boring and I mean boring story.he the lead character is kidnapped and put into 12 years of being a slave , he was swapped between owners,sounds like a great movie basis , well it was not .instead it became a boring tale of this mans journey,roots is a much more moving story that covered slavery , also brad pitt as a amish ,I was waiting for vanilla ice to show up and them build a barn.I hate to ask this question but I will ask, does this movie appeal more to a black audience that a mixed audience, as I stated before roots, boyz in nthe hood,and on it goes are all worth watching, but this is not what I expected, I was very disappointed .
This "black exploitation film" lacks any real sense of narrative, instead it showcases a near-sardonic attempt at complete savagery. The film is highly racist against white people, as it attempts to capitalize on the "brutal" scenes and endear the white audience as somehow responsible for slavery, which we of the present, are in no way culpable.It is ineffective as both a polemic and drama. Brad Pitt (one of the film's producers) appearing as a ridiculous, self righteous cartoon, lowers it even more into the territory of baseless sentimentalism.The director is working simply on hyperbolic elements, which make this film highly "unreal". No doubt he is merely using it as visual propaganda, for what cause, remains to be seen.I would not take such a film to be serious at all.
My high expectations for this film, based on it's awards and nominations, critical acclaim, and general reputation, were ultimately not met as this film that neither revealed anything new about the subject of slavery, nor fulfilled any satisfying sense of interest in or appreciation for the characters.The original story may or may not have been compromised for this film adaptation, but the dramatic arc seemed to me relatively slight, and the characters and the dialog old and cliché. I felt like "12 Years a Slave" offered little more on the slavery film than had been presented in the past.I have technical complaints as well. I thought the acting was often over the top. The characters lacked real depth, subtlety, or originality. In life, are people always this one-dimensional? Also, I never understand the need to place recognizable actors in small roles? It's distracting to see Michael K Williams (of "The Wire" and "Boardwalk Empire") in the film for only about 5 minutes (he had two scenes). Or Brad Pitt, or Paul Giamatti... it just is there to remind me that this is a big financial production and not a story.Overall, I was simply too distracted by so many bad moments and production details to allow me to forget that this was basically big Hollywood "Oscar-bait".


                
We decided to see "12 Years a Slave" after it won the Academy's Best Picture award. I cannot express how disappointed we were. Neither the directing, the acting, nor the story itself were even close to Best Picture quality. It was slow, wooden and full of clichés. Chiwetel Ejiofor's acting was nothing special; I got tired of his perpetually pained expression filling the screen. Why didn't he age or grow thinner? Did they have to portray all slave owners as sadistic? And that final scene was so painfully stiff and staged it seemed as though the director and screen writer just ran out of energy. We were just glad to see it end! Clearly this weak film was honored for political reasons, not artistic. Shame on the Academy.


                
I made my account just to warn people away from this movie. After hearing all the awards it won and all the acclaim it received, I decided to give it a shot. I was more than a little disappointed, and I will never again be deceived that a movie winning an award means anything. 12 Years a Slave had the potential to be a great movie, with an interesting storyline about a free Northern black man being captured and sold into slavery down South. With a plot like that, the story has basically written itself. Instead, they decided to solely rely on the plot line and not actually put any effort into the movie at all. The characters were horrible. I couldn't care less about the main character the entire movie. The entire point of getting back to his robotic, emotionless family still eludes me. It was obvious to me neither he nor they cared at all about one another, other than him saying he wanted to see his wife and children. Other characters pop in and out of the story without any true purpose. An overseer that tries to kill him, then runs away; another overseer that saved him, for no reason, just disappears from the story; the indentured servant that betrays him, vanishes; his first master (a nice white guy), gives him a violin then is never seen again. If any of these characters were cut out of the movie, NOBODY WOULD NOTICE. The fact that he was a violinist could have been used to add more flavor to the story. Somehow it doesn't. He is forced to play at some parties, but there is never a point to him having a violin. The violin is constant throughout the movie, but there is never any reason for it. It is never used for anything interesting, its just there. It could have been used to show that he was slowly losing passion for something he loved, which may have been the intention for it, but was a complete failure. He destroys it near the end, maybe that was when he gave up hope? I can't tell that he ever cared about living in the first place. With the violin in place I can't help but try to compare this movie to the Pianist, maybe they should have taken notes from it. There are multiple random scenes that are drawn... out.. for.... too.. freaking... long. Prepare to spend several minutes staring at his face, waiting for something to happen. Go ahead and fast forward if you can, nothing will happen. So far the movie has neglected to develop any interesting or relevant characters, as well as an interesting back story. The movie instead focuses on how bad slavery is. Just in case you missed the memo. Now, I understand with this kind of movie there is going to be traumatic events that happen to the characters, I think everyone expects that. But after the initial 10 minute whipping scene, followed by lots of racial slurs, mothers and children being separated, followed by 2 rape scenes, followed by more whipping and beating for no reason and general disregard for human life, I couldn't help but feel like it the movie was trying to tell me that slavery was bad, and that was the ENTIRE purpose for the movie. Yes, slavery is bad.... I already knew without you telling me. I'm not sure if I have ever met someone who thought otherwise, who is this movie making an argument against? There is a difference between having it as a setting/theme to your movie and shoving it down your audience's throat. This movie should take a lesson from The Pianist, Schindler's List etc. that use similar themes of oppression but are still great movies. In conclusion, the characters were horrible and forgettable, nothing interesting happens, and slavery is bad (obviously). That's all you should know about this movie. 2/10 only because this an interesting period of American history, and I wish more movies were put in this era (but not this one).
Thiis film won Oscars,rated 8.3 and listed in IMDb top 250.so i have some expectations in this film and guest appearances by Bradd Pitt and cumberbatch increased them.But finally i felt cheated.no doubt acting is amazing.each actor gave their best performances.Especially Hero- Ejiofor.He is amazing.and Oscar winner nupita too gave her best.none of the actors will disappoint you.But what I felt is there is a lot of unnecessary violence,blacks may be threat ed in such a ways those days but is it necessary to show whites sadism against blacks in that way?OK coming to taking,i felt like this story took place just10 years back.not a great art used.and camera most of the times stared at hero for long times which made this film unbearably bore.runtime is 2 plus hours and climax made this film totally worst.I am highly disappointed with film.


                
At this point, I'm tired of movies getting a break because the subject matter is "important" and "socially relevant". I'll concede this is a high quality movie crafted by professionals to produce a haunting effect on those that watch it. I just tire of watching the debasing of people from a horrible period time and time again. I tire of us giving awards to these films because it is a socially correct action. I compare this to "The Color Purple", another fine movie I refuse to ever watch again. The searing pain of watching people abused washes out any kind of positive movie experience possible. Yes, events like this happened and I can't help the world solve every de-humanizing act or give proper retribution to those that suffered. And I know for a fact that watching it displayed in gripping horror on a large screen is not going to help my coming to terms that I had white ancestors abuse other humans. It seems the success and recognition of these films is just going propagate similar films until we bleed from watching them. How about a film of nothing but beatings? Throw in a little story, but make sure there are copious amounts of footage showing people getting shredded like cooked meat. Will that be enough? Will it ever be enough? No, I don't think so. If you want to watch this kind of movie knowing full well what you will be facing because, let's face it - there are no surprises here, then by all means, watch it. Award it. Keep producing more and more filmography offspring. Because, evidently, there are plenty of people that want to continue wallowing in it. I have no appetite for it any longer.


                
OVERRATEDActing was really well done in this movie for the most part. producing really well done. i just simply found it a bad movie. The script, which was mediocre at best, didn't necessary add up or make much sense at all. how did the rest of the family end up with Solomon? am i just blind and didn't focus enough? after about 15 minutes into the movie, i just felt disappointed. The white person seems to be practically a Nazi. it doesn't add up to reality of the 19th century. the protagonist's story really isn't that interesting either. they shouldve either made Solomon's story more interesting, or followed the wife's story primarily. her story was much more meaningful and sad. Kids playing around when Solomon is almost being hung? kids. slaves. playing. where does the logistics add up there? those kids have been bought as slaves. why are they playing around? i don't get it. i just think this story has been murdered by Hollywood. simple as that.
Two stars from me, simply because I feel that "12 Years A Slave" was nothing much more than a movie exploiting and shocking in a rather crude fashion.I felt that the producers were conducting more of a display of slavery's cruelties, rather than getting us immersed in the travails of the victims so we could really empathize with them and even more recognize the evils of slavery. Rather, I felt that the producers were working too hard to say to the audience, "You think you are shocked now, just wait until you see what we show you next." I was not made to feel the pain. I was made into only an observer of someone else's pain.Those with differing views are welcome to relate why, but please, let's for once drop the usual extremes we see these days when it comes to such a thing here as being negative and critical of an African-American movie's rendering of such a serious and terrible subject.Can we keep from giving the movie a top star rating for fear of being called a racist? Do not worry that liking "Schindler's List" better than "12 Years A Slave" is based on prejudice. To me, the former was far better produced.Can we keep from giving the movie a top star rating because we have "white guilt?" Mea culpas such as, "I loved Roots, and Denzel is my favorite actor, are unnecessary when one low-rates this particular movie.To me, it just comes down to my feeling that the movie was poorly done. Paying to see it in the first place allows my critique to be made with no strings attached. I would like to see more of the same from other reviewers.


                
This is a drama film set in the 1840s and 1850s. It's about an African-American man who was born free in New York. He's kidnapped in Washington, D.C. and sold into slavery to work on plantations in Louisiana - until freed twelve years later. The film is slow, boring and heavy-going. It doesn't give enough background and context for viewers who aren't knowledgeable of mid-19th century America. There's also very little about the protagonist's life before and after the twelve years that are the focus of the film.


                
12 YEARS A SLAVE is one of those movies on the borderline between Big Budget and Just Plain Boring. While the intentions may have been good (the only thing I came away with was the idea that even slavery was something that could be overcome with a lot of hard work and some unbelievable LUCK), it's Ejiofor's lackluster performance- and the ridiculously LAVISH look and feel of the movie- that undermines whatever serious message or insight(s) the filmmakers may have had in mind. Not ONCE during the course of the movie did I BELIEVE what I was seeing: it has an almost over-fed Television quality to it (not unlike DJANGO UNCHAINED, for instance). The Hype turns out to have been just that.


                
There is no doubt that the makers of this film wanted it to be as true to life as possible. There is also probably no doubt that what was shown on screen was toned down from what probably happened in real life.Well I have say it I found it to be more than uncomfortable viewing, it was horrific to see the portrayal of man's inhumanity to man. If you can't stomach such portrayals don't go. I walked out after half an hour as I couldn't bear to see any more of it. On that basis, I'm not sure how successful this film will be. I wouldn't recommend anyone to see it. Read the book instead if you want to know what happened.


                
How this movie has got such a high rating is beyond me! I just need to ask: what is the point in this movie? What is it supposed to prove?2 hours of oppression, crying, bigotry, death and violence for absolutely nothing. There is no suspense, no retribution and there is no justice. It is just a stream of one dimensional white slave masters getting worse and worse.Maybe I should have marked this as containing spoilers because I have basically described the film. Nothing really happens except that which I have described.I am awe struck as to why so many people have rated it so highly. The story is drab and very poorly executed. The acting is alright but over the top. The only reason for the good acting is that the actors themselves are good. There is nothing interesting about the script or the lines.All I could think of at the end was that I needed to watch an uplifting film just to get this film out of my mind. The point of a story should be to inspire you. Many films are sad and violent but at least they leave you with a sense of purpose.Django unchained is not very serious and meant to be comedic, but at least it entertains. 12 years a slave is not even close to the story telling power of Django Unchained. That is a quality film... this film is not!You have been warned (but unfortunately this will be lost under all the rave reviews). Dreadful film...


                
You cannot help feel unmoved by this movie. The perpetual violence dulls the mind to the point that the story becomes boring and perhaps is mostly made up. Anyone with bad experiences will exaggerate those experiences, especially if it is for commercial gain. I came away from this movie unimpressed. We all know slavery is bad so why try and make us guilty of it. It belongs to a different era with different ideals that we cannot contemplate. So if this movie is meant to shock me or profound me then it has not. Far from it. Perhaps the movie should be about the real protagonists, those behind the buying and selling of slaves in USA. They were most definitely not of Christian faith as is always portrayed by Hollywood.


                
I thought the trailer looked good and I was wrong. As soon as Play was pressed, my attention was never caught. I was bored and playing on my phone instead of watching. It did not seem like a 12 year span. I do not see the hype over this - maybe only because these things really happened. But there have been better movies. And what the heck are these people freaking out about Lupita for? She didn't even do much! Why wasn't the main guy given so much credit to? I'm so confused about this. I think the hype was undeserving because it wasn't that good. I don't mean to sound hateful or that I didn't care about slaves because that is far from the truth. I just didn't like this movie. Or the hype it was given. Or the hype Lupita was given. Glad I didn't go pay money to see this in theaters.


                
I watched this movie completely unaware it had won any Oscars and I have to say I was surprised to learn that it had. The main character is a fine actor and reminded of the roles once played by the late Paul Winfield. What I found incredible was the sheer incredibility of the storyline. The slave story has been done to death, as has the cruel master, etc. Therefore, upon learning the film had won Oscars, I was even more astonished. Here you have a free man, a family man, accomplished and well-known and respected in his native upstate New York and yet he goes off willy-nilly with a couple of self-described circus performers and ends up in slavery for 12 years. The questions are immediate and many. Did he not discuss this venture with his family and well-heeled white friends before setting out? Would they not have advised him against going to a known slave state(s). Did he never attempt to write to them giving an update on his itinerary? In 12 years, did no one investigate his disappearance?Of course in the dozen years of captivity, he made no attempts to escape so far as we can tell and yet he often made sure that others were aware of his "intelligence." Supporting characters were sketchy as well. The one played by Alfre Woodard for example would seem to be in a position to assist runaway slaves or those who wanted to but her basic cameo role is incongruous and I suppose meant to show that white slave owners had black mistresses. Big shock! And patronizing of all is the part given to himself by producer Brad Pitt, the film's white man with a heart. With a part as brief as Woodward's he is introduced as an itinerant abolitionist berating his slaveholding "brother" for the evil of slavery and predicting the slavers would ultimately pay the price for this injustice to mankind. And yet, when approached by the slave for help in posting a letter to those who might rescue him, he balks, claiming fear for his own safety if he did so. But in the end he capitulates and of course the ending owes itself to his efforts.I have to add this spoiler as well. When the evil master demands that our hero whip the master's black chippy (which actress won an Oscar too) I was dumfounded that, given all he knew about this man and had even engaged in an altercation with him himself, that the slave complied. I really was. Perhaps the film was meant to show that any man can be broken. If so, then I do not think it succeeded at that either. When a film at its conclusion has to include so much written screen explanation, I think that shows that the film is lacking. This film bored me and seems like a film about slavery that whites would make who had no knowledge of the situation at all.
I was quite looking forward to seeing this Academy Award winning movie but was completely disappointed in the extensive use of on screen violence and revolting sexual exploitation/rape. I'm sure it's a true story but there are ways to tell that truth in movies with innuendo instead of explicitness. I believe the story should be told, but this movie is such a turn off that I think it does the story of suffrage faced by African Americans an great injustice. It represented the worst element of that era in such a limited storyline, exploited by a modern movie making machine that cares little about the real story of slavery and more about shock value to tell it's story. My family is part African American and I would not take my children to see this movie. The story deserves a better script and direction. This movie, was revolting to watch. The scenes were way too slow and had no depth of character development. As shown it left the viewer feeling that the plot was so simplistic, in its unitarian tale of abuse that it lacked any real storyline that one could embrace and carry with them as a balanced view of slavery. Slaves did experience hardship, and degradation by some landowners who treated them as property, but it was also a time with African Americans became some of the most skilled workers of their time. Many slave owners used them for economic reasons and treated them as a valued commodity. Most of the architecture, furniture, machinery used in the south was built by skilled African Americans. All of the farms of that time were cultivated by African Americans. I'd like to know just how many slave owners of the day were sexual perverts who raped children and whose wives were sadistic torturer's as this movie displays them to be. I suspect a lot less then whoever adapted this script would have you believe. I really don't see how anyone can consider this the best film of the year? Compare to past winners I think it's a disgrace that the academy would choose this film, that was done so poorly; No plot, no cohesive storyline and extremely poor direction.


                
