NO! This is NOT Oscar caliber material, sorry. So we have this virtuoso violinist that is kidnapped, enslaved and tortured. Good story. But what the heck is McQueen doing? Minutes pass with images of trees and landscapes. (remember "Tree of Life"--probably not). Not to mention the lifeless performance by our protagonist. I do like him as an actor but he pales in comparison to the supporting cast. Yes, Fassbender is good, but darn, that Paul Dano is something else. Watch out for him in the future. (see There will be Blood). The topic of slavery is of course a terrible chapter in our history, but the movie is simply not up to the task of relaying this emotion.
Steve McQueen's first film was a masterpiece and since then it's seriously going downhill: Shame was pretentious and moralist and it didn't make me feel for the main character an film felt it was misogynistic in the way the main character's sister was being punished for him and for trying to be happy and alive. Anyway, it at least had the merit to have style (even if it was over substance : I didn't learn anything I didn't know about sex addict) because 12 Years a Slave lacks this : style, it could have been directed by any Hollywood director. There is a bit of Steve McQueen left in it (the hanging scene is a good example), but not much. First the music is atrocious and feels like it's been whacked in two minutes on garage band, not original, boring and useless except for one scene where the soundtrack gets menacing and slowly covers the Diegetic music that the main character plays. The rhythm of the film is flawed, it's smoothed and fast at the beginning when the main guy is being kidnapped, then it's completely all over the place and you have the feeling that's it's been 4 years a slave and not 12. It's also so Manichaean it's painful to watch : bad vs good. The hero is good, the guys that kidnap him are good but suddenly they're bad, the guys that ship him to the south are bad, and it carries on till then end, thank god there's a few good actors to bring some subtlety (Paul Dano is magnificent in his pure evilness and you detect some madness in him ), Michael Fassbender is a brutal drunk you kind of feel sorry for even if he is a pure monster. But then you Paul Giamati as bad bad ( in every way he's an awful actor with zero charisma and whose ugliness than no charm can even save), then it's poor black men and evil or cowardly white people : best example Cumberbatch who looks lost in the film, his wife bad woman, but the worse is the good white men : The hero's friend who is gentle and kind but is nothing else than kindness, his character clearly doesn't exist, and then there's Brad Pitt : being the producer of the film he gives himself the part of the good spirited and modern white man who is going to save the hero and lecture the bad Fasbender that there will be payback day for the bad things southerner are doing to slaves. And he looks like a Pre hippie kind of rebel mixed with his Chanel advert homeless look. At that point I felt like getting a pair of scissors and slashing the screen. On top of that the film is ultra predictable, the hero is reunited to his family and he has a grandson and everybody cries (well what about all the poor other slaves? very subtle happy ending Mr McQueen) we are all supposed to cry. it's not the only emotional blackmail in the film the scene or the hero's lover is whipped, and he is forced to whip her, the scene is just pornographic violence, pointless in the film except forcing the spectator to cry. It's not about the whipping that is wrong it's the way the scene is depicted that is morally wrong, like the rape scene under a beautiful red moon, why should a horrible scene like that aesthetic and almost poetic, after Shame I really wonder what kind of problem Steve McQueen has with women. A lot more efficient is the hanging scene which is a long scene where the hero is hanging from a tree tip toe and trying not to be strangle by a rope while in the background business goes as usual: people doing their daily chores. It works because it shows how atrocity can happen anywhere anytime with a lovely weather in everyday life, that horror can take place in the ordinary, it's so understated and not stylized that it is refreshing, it's a long still shot and paradoxically it's one of the most interesting of the whole film. The film is just a real story being told with no real message behind it : OK it's awful that freed black men were adducted in the north to be enslaved in the south but what is Steve McQueen is trying to say? That slavery is bad? well we figured that out and Spielberg made a better job with The Colour Purple , even Django Unchained is more convincing in depicting the atrocity of slavery, and even if it's caricature the characters in it are more authentic and subtle than in Manichaean 12 years a slave. OK so maybe it's about depicting the evil of earthlings? Well Manderlay and the The legend of n**** Charley's were more effective, because it at least knew what it wanted to be, and those were more believable while being pure fiction because their character had depth. The other massive flaw in the film is it's long and boring, some scenes are pointless, they don't help the story telling they have no message or do not give you any emotion. The dialogs are so contrived and theatrical that it's affects the whole film, you have the feeling that some scenes would be marvelous in a theater but not in cinema. Actually the film works best when Steve McQueen resolves to use visual to express himself than when he uses dialogs You do get the feeling of anger there was in Hunger from times to times, mainly at the beginning but then it is dis-activated by all those boring illustrative and over explained scenes. I'm sorry but I don't want to get bored during a film that treat something as serious as slavery.
Making a movie about a Hollocaust is a surefire way to have your movie labeled a classic. Be it about the destruction of the native American nations and theft of their land, the murder of the European Jews or the enslavement of millions of Africans movies about how awful things can be real award winners. The gravity of the evil injustice is enough to catapult a mediocre script and production into an award winning epic. Even if the movie is not very good.The plot of this film is that slavery is bad. No really, its really bad. We have to tell you that it was bad. Very bad. Awful, in fact! This film reminds me of another stinker, called "The Boost". In that movie the lesson was that drugs are bad. Really bad. Incredibly bad. In case you missed it, drugs are not good. By the first 20 minutes I got it. Slavery was no fun at all.Here's the plot: Solomon Northrop (Chietel Ejiofor) is a free black man living an idyllic life in 1841 New York. He is gullible as heck and agrees to go with 2 slavers to Washington where slavery is legal. It never occurs to him that even free black men should watch themselves in slave country. After being plied with liquor, he wakes up in chains. He then has to work and get beaten for 12 years. Boy I didn't know slavery was bad until this movie. (sarcasim) There really is no plot just a lot of beatings.What I found interesting was that white people in New York were delighted to meet black people. They were welcome into stores and parties and taken on trips. White people in the south were uniformly evil. They would beat a black person nearly to death just for getting a bar of soap. (Except for Brad Pitt, but he was the Producer.) They didn't really work their plantations so much as use them as platforms for the torture.I give it a 3, It was an effort to show a horrible institution that can never be forgotten. But I didn't think it was all good versus all evil. I don't believe 1840s New Yorkers behave like white delegated to the Democratic Convention, nor do I believe that all Southerners were 100% vicious all the time. Yes Slavery was bad. I got it.
I hate to disagree with most of humankind, but I did not like this film. I understand that it was based on a true story, but dud the characters have to be so one-dimensional? The plot line is predictable, and I could recite most of the dialog before it was spoken. I think the worst aspect of this film was the direction. If he were still alive, Robert Altman could have given some sage advice to the director. His scenes went on forever, and he seemed not to know when enough was enough. Short cuts would have been wise. I did make it to the end of the movie, but I don't really know how. Good thing I rented it from Netflix and saved myself several dollars and some time. Too bad; hopefully this year's crop of Oscars contenders will be an improvement.


                
I first heard about this film when reading about the upcoming Oscar nominations, so falling victim to the massive hype the film was receiving, went to see it. The films starts off interestingly enough, a black man and his family seemingly living a middle class existence in New York in the 1840's (I'm sure plenty of us thought all blacks were still slaves at that time in America). Our hero plays the fiddle for a living and is kidnapped by unscrupulous showman who trick him into performing in Washington DC, and sell him to slave traders who ship him to Georgia. By now he has gone through the usual 'Roots' rites of passage stuff, and is quickly sold off to a number of slave masters, good and bad. As the film drags on to the end, all the same clichés appear until his friend from New York shows up to free him from a nasty slave owner. After the film finished I could not help thinking this was not a big screen epic, more of a Fox TV movie, it was cheap, the characters had no depth and the plot was simple and stretched out, it never made me want to read the original narrative, and is a very poor relation to other much more cinematic films, such as the excellent 'Amistad'. The message of the film speaks volumes about the film makers, "lets use a slave story and we can reap the awards" (just as Holocaust film makers use the same tactic). Don't waste your money, you will be bored to tears by this film which at best, should be on at 3pm on a weekday afternoon.
This happens so often. Hollywood churn out these so called masterpieces and it gets viewers excited about another 'wow' of a film. That being said, Hollywood has also failed at given us a masterpiece, and viewers have been failed by the major critics also.Positively, the scenic shots in the film are very good. It sets the tones well, and creates the moods needed. Acting is fine throughout, At first it is easy to blame the actors for some of the negatives that I will mention shortly, but having thought long and hard about it, I feel that the actors done the best they did.And that's it.Negatives come thick and fast in this feature. It starts with the disconnecting storyline, leaving the viewing more stranded and confused than the acting lead. I have no issues with a touch of confusion or the slight misleading of direction if it is part of the style of the film. Sadly, 12 Years a Slave leaves you trying to work things out at various scenes when trying to absorb the story. Very distracting. Some of the scenes go into the graphic torture of the lead but in other areas it leaves your mind to do the math but sadly this never works because the story does not connect the dots.The story itself is very drawn out, making it feel like a 5 hour feature, and it could have been told in half-an-hour. This was possibly due to the overshot scenes of nothing. Scenes where the lead just breathes for about a minute of screen time. Scenes from the plantation, of workers in the heat, but the camera remaining there for ages. These scenes had no benefit to the film other than to be fancy. I don't mind the artsy stuff, but when it prolongs the agony, it stands out very clearly. This is a big failing of Hollywood and the big critics, they like the artsy stuff, but then seem to forget about the story. This is usually followed up with a string of Oscars... and the story repeats again and again.There is also no concept of time/year, maybe that's a good thing as this is possibly how the lead actor feels so this could go either way.I don't really think it succeeds in capturing a huge a slice of the history during the times either. It does bend a little political and fair to certain extents, but fails to touch other things that happened at the time. So what we have is a focus point but not the bigger picture. I have read many historical details during these dark times but they are not really elaborated here. What you simply have is a man that is mistreated, horrifically, and emotionally crushed in a country that does not listen to him. The film is focused on the horror and the artistry that it forgets about character and story development. So you come away learning absolutely nothing more than we already know. It also feels that lots of footage is missing. I just get that feel that this is why the story fails to flow.I think what we have here is a style over substance film. These are the films to watch as they tend to get so much credit but will leave you wondering what all the fuss was about. A lot of people will follow like sheep and believe that the top critics are telling them the truth, just like newspapers tell us who to vote.An artsy film with no substance mixed with a known horror story from history, add some great scenery with a broken story and a touch of fine acting - and you have a picturesque film with a pointless drag of a story.GIFT-A-SCALE: 4 out of 14


                
This movie was a big disappointment and after seeing it, we didn't think it deserved the Oscar for Best Picture. Too many pointless silences when they could have spent the time developing the characters and their relationships with each other. What about Solomon's family? The "whites" in the movie over acted and it was like watching a high school play. The accents were ridiculous, especially Brad Pitt's one note, overdone "Southern accent" when he supposed to be Canadian. His dialog with Michael Fassbender's slave owner character was absurd and unrealistic. His hero stand would not have been tolerated. Frankly, I came away from this finding it hard to believe this was actually written by a slave. Too many pieces don't fit together of a survivor's account.


                
Had the potential for eternal glory in cinema history, but the soundtrack, and the editing were off that badly. Luckily, if you're a person who can appreciate a stellar screenplay, directing, acting, and cinematography without paying attention to the afore-mentioned fumbled aspects, then you will love this movie. Yes, it's horrific how the character's life changes and how if we put ourselves into the character's shoes, we realize this just may be the worst possible fear for anyone in his or her right mind. Unfortunately, just as I started to feel that, I got rattled by the strangely cutting in and out of the soundtrack and random objects flashing large against the screen. The lasting impact is that the mood was fumbled: Instead of taking horrific to mean the horror of realizing that we, as a species, hold that kind of sadistic torture in our souls, the direction shifts manically between the direction of a campy slasher movie, an experimental Bruce Connor kind of movie, and a pretty good cover of "The Passion of the Christ". Come to think of it, there may have been this kind of mix of editing styles in "Shame", but for some reason, it fit more smoothly there, possibly because the latter movie was more psychologically-rooted, whereas this movie is more situationally- and historically- rooted. So, the flashiness only takes us out of the feel. It's as if in the editing room, there was an argument about whether to try to capitalize on the hidden little art crowd or the larger shock- and-thrill audience, and they tried to capture both rather than trying to stay true to the movie's potentially independent spirit. Sad, but here's hoping for a new edit!!!!


                
Well, from my point of view, this movie succeeds. I do not know he has the movie, but he does not have the strength. The movie is very cold. It does not manage to transfer the penalty it should transfer. Anyone who sees someone as a whip will tremble, but watching this movie, I do not know if it is that it does not make it credible or has no soul.The fact is that I have finished watching the movie and I am still thinking why the movie has given me equal. I do not care about anything that has happened. I saw in the final part a fact that surprised me for bad, I will explain it in the spoiler.None of the actors seems to me to be wonderful. Neither the bad ones are bad nor the good ones are good or transmit pen.Photography, neither counts, nor is it beautiful.The address as it fails to convey I think it is not necessary to say anything more. But in addition, the planes are simple, does not even know how to compose.I do not really know why this film is nominated because it is not more than a movie like many.Spoiler: When we finally see how the slave and the family are reunited, it is normal that the grandchildren are cold because they did not know their grandfather but why was their daughter cold? Why did I stop looking for his father?
12 Years A Slave won the Oscar for Best Picture this year. If this was released, say, 25 years ago, this would have received little praise and won very little awards. That just shows how far downhill Hollywood has gone. I can see why people would love it, but place this years ago and nobody would. What is wrong with this? A well-respected black man (Ejiofor) is kidnapped and sold into slavery where he must witness and be victimized to extreme cruelty by his owners. Other than showing how brutal slavery can be, there is no point and the film goes nowhere. Just Negroes getting beaten throughout the whole movie because they can. I know that this movie is supposed to be hard to watch, but that's no excuse to leave important film components out. Pay It Forward was sad, but it has theme, it gets somewhere, there is plot development. 2007's The Girl Next Door had a theme, the plot actually went somewhere. 12 Years A Slave just didn't have a point or story. Django Unchained is a slavery movie that actually gets places. 12 years just repeats the same thing for over two hours. Wolf of Wall Street was more worthy of an Oscar win than this and Gravity, because it actually has a story that unfolds.However, everybody did a mighty fine job of acting. Since Ejiofor is the main character, it is only natural that he would be the best. In fact, I think that he gave the best performance of the year. Sure DiCaprio and McConoughey were worthy, but this is the kind of acting that always moves people the most. Plus people rave this as being the best film of the year, so him not winning was a surprise. But McCounoghey was worthy and I'm glad he won. So I may not have liked this film very much, but the acting (mainly Ejiofor) is the only reason why I would see the again. Other than that, there's no point, like the movie itself.


                
I was very excited to see this movie! I have heard so many good reviews and comments about it from people and from the press. I felt the cinematography was fantastic! A lot of luscious colors and intriguing camera movement at times, especially the shots of the ferry and swamp. However, I started to get disinterested about 45 minutes in. Yes, there were some really intense scenes, and to this day it is still very tough to watch slaves be beaten. However, I felt the acting was very 1-dimentional, and sad to say, I felt this even for Solomon's character. No doubt i felt bad about the actions brought unto the slaves characters for their emotions showed it, but as far as dialogue between characters, it was very monochrome. Maybe part of why I felt it was emotionless and dry was the fact that I felt this story in which the attitudes and actions that were done onto the slaves from the owners were "sugar-coated" compared to how they were portrayed in "Roots", "Django Unchained", "Amistad" and others. Obviously being born in the late 20th century, the only way I would know of what it was like is through books & cinema, but it has seemed that the way this intense, heartbreaking topic is better portrayed in films previous to this one. This is a very touchy subject to this day, and I strongly believe it should be told and retold again and again. This is a horrible event in history, no doubt. One of the great factors of cinema is not to only entertain, but to inform the audience even if it's not for a great subject. Unfortunately, this particular flick didn't present an angle that kept me from turning it off 1.5 hours through.


                
I am going to be short and sweet with this review and say that this movie is absolutely awful. I decided to watch this movie because of all the hype and attention that was brought upon this movie. Unfortunately, what I got was poor plot, little character development, and scenes that made you want to leave the room. Let's be honest; it is not necessary to incorporate a 5 minute scene of Ejiofor staring into the distance. It is absolutely 100% boring and left me appalled on how this won best picture. The only reason why I gave this film a 3 was because of the superb acting by Lupita Nyong'o who gave the movie a small dose of hope, but it didn't last very long. Ultimately, I will never watch this movie ever again and I am utterly shocked that this won best picture. Movies like Captain Phillips and Dallas Buyers Club should have earned more recognition for their accomplishments, not this.


                
If you haven't seen The Soloist and Django Unchained then you might enjoy this film. The title could be as easy as ''1 year a slave'' . When I was watching the film , the 12 years were not there no matter how boring were the repetitive scenes. The Plot is weak. Performance of the main character lacks in character development, equal from start till end. Instead of picking a violin not so far from a cello like in The Soloist, the character could have any other instrument, maybe jazz instruments to be more plausible and really show the afro-American important contribution to music and culture. That would add more life to the character and film. Lots of unnecessary scenes. Predictable ending. Would not see this film again.
I was hoping this movie would have some redeeming qualities and not just like every movie that depicts whitey as a brutal, cruel, and demeaning, stereotypical southern slave owner. This movie was just one cruel treatment followed by another, then another, then another, and then another. I understand that there was some of this going on but just think of the millions who watch this think this movie is what happened to the majority of slaves. I saw no creativity or originality or anything that would make this movie special.As a southerner I was hoping to see this subject matter handled with some balance and saw none. To say this was bad guys wearing the black hats is an injustice to what was a dark time for America but this treatment of this highly sensitive issue was heavy handed with no objectivity at all. This is no way to offer a docudrama as fact when it represented a myopic vision to a much more complex issue. I just hope those who see this movie and not prejudiced by Steve McQueen's poor handling of this time in history.


                
Several months ago I was fortunate enough to discover the 1984 movie "Solomon Northup's Odyssey" among my local television listings. To my great surprise, I had never heard of this fascinating true story and sat enrapt while the compelling plot line unfolded of a free black man in 1841 Saratoga, New York, a talented fiddler, who was hoodwinked into traveling down to Washington, D.C. for a paid musical engagement and then kidnapped into slavery.After all the Oscar hoopla, I caught "12 Years a Slave" on "On Demand" and I hate to have to say this, but I was exceedingly disappointed.For one thing, if I had not seen the prior movie, I would have had difficulty following the finer points of this story line. Right off the bat, I knew I would be frustrated by the disjointed manner in which this movie unfolded. The use of flashbacks can be a very effective instrument, but here it was over-used, leaving the movie with little coherence.Accordingly, there were small - sometimes important - details to the plot that I simply did not grasp.More importantly, AND THIS IS WHAT IS SO EGREGIOUS: The director jettisoned a golden opportunity to tell a truly compelling and largely unknown story in favor of the opportunity to wallow in sadism and brutality.We all know that slavery was a cruel, barbaric institution. But enough already! This movie was far too graphic in its violence. Was it really necessary to watch the skin being flayed off Patsey's back while she is being whipped? Was it really essential to the plot line to see Solomon hanging at the end of a noose for the length of time that the camera dwelled on this scene? Isn't it possible to get a point across without bringing the audience to the verge of nausea? One review on this site likened this movie to "The Passion of the Christ," and I think that's very apt.I must say the acting of Chiwetel Ejiofor as Solomon was phenomenal. He was well deserving of his Oscar nomination. However, and I know there will be disagreement here, but I thought the rest of the acting was atrocious (the other exception being Lupita Nyong'o as Patsey). Michael Fassbender as Edwin Epps was little more than the stereotype of a cruel and downright depraved slaveowner. Sarah Paulson as his wife was little more than an overly theatrical evil stepmother. And Brad Pitt? What the heck was that all about? The ending was a sore disappointment. For one thing, Solomon's reunion with his family fell absolutely flat. Granted, it gave Mr. Ejiofor another opportunity to shine in his acting ability, but why so little joy on the part of his family upon his reunion with them? Also criminally lacking was the background story of how Solomon came to be rescued. The behind-the-scenes machinations of his wife back in New York to find his whereabouts were simply swept under the rug.In actuality, the movie gave short shrift to BOTH the before AND after of how Solomon was tricked into slavery, all in favor of the chance to bring stomach-churning brutality to the big screen. And that is a shame.Very disappointing after all the press that this movie has generated. In the past I have painstakingly avoided movies that were presaged by the prospect of graphic violence, and if I had known that this was one of those movies, I would have avoided it as well.Three out of ten stars, only for the stellar acting of the lead.My best advice to anyone who reads this review is to try to get your hands on the aforementioned "Solomon Northup's Odyssey," a far better movie.


                
After twenty minutes of watching the movie, I felt that I was going to fall asleep cause the movie was going so slow. I felt when I got up to get a drink I didn't miss anything.I believe that this movie could have been better. THe acting in the movie was amazing but the story of the movie was so slow. All the movie was was just another example of how slaves were treated horribly. Yes we get it it American people treated slaves so awful and they deserved better but there was no need to make another movie about it. And also Brad Pitt did awful with his accent. I also believe that the movie could have been shorter. It was too long of a movie and went to deep into the story. I don't recommend this movie to anyone.
Solomon Northrup is a freeman with a wife and children, living in Saratoga, New York, in the years before the Civil War. He makes his living as a fiddler, and when he's invited to join a troupe for a gig in Washington, he agrees. In Washington, he's drugged by his partners, given a false identity, and sold down the river into slavery in Louisiana. After twelve years, he finds his way home.I hate to say this but I found the movie lush but repellent. I can't imagine -- well, maybe I can -- that there are viewers who don't know what slavery in the South was like.In addition, despite its being based on Northrup's memoirs, I thought the scenes of punishment, though well done, were overemphasized and sometimes unconvincing. For instance, the two men who take Northrup from Saratoga to Washington. They have dinner in an elegant Washington hotel, after which Northrup vomits in an alley and is put to bed by his companions, where he sleeps soundly until he wakes up manacled in a dungeon. I can believe his companions got Northrup drunk and sold him out, but drugged? It's a common movie device. The original "Mickey Finn", chloral hydrate, wasn't used as a hypnotic until 1869. Before that, there was nothing that could knock Northrup out. I wish the movie had been honest and simply shown him having a good time in the big city and overcelebrating.That initial suspicion runs through the entire movie. Some of the events are eminently believable, others not. I can certainly believe the brutal beatings, rapes, destruction of families, and lynchings. But the director's camera lingers on them, far too long, long after we understand the import of the scene. You've seen lashes dealt out before, aboard sailing ships and on plantations, but you have never seen so many, nor have they lasted so long. It begins to seem as if the film intends not only to depict the brutality but to revel in it. It starts to look a little like a member of the emerging genre of torture porn.I realize that criticizing a film like this isn't exactly politically correct, and yet we've seen it before, even if less lavishly displayed. It's been thirty years or more since "Roots." Except that here, the director has thrown in some sex -- full frontal female nudity, masturbation in the midst of misery -- just in case you find yourself bored with the atrocities. I have a similar problem with movies about the Nazi genocide. The subjects carry so much in the way of moral outrage that a simple-minded, commercial approach cheapens the tragedy.The photography and wardrobe are just fine. The dialog is stilted, like "True Grit" with no wit. Apparently the antebellum South never heard of contractions like "don't" or "won't". "Slavery is an evil that should not be permitted." That's the way people wrote, in Spencerian script, not the way they spoke. The N word is used without restraint, but I give that a pass because it's evidently historically accurate.I gave it an hour before I was too disgusted to go on. Yet, I think it's a valuable movie for the one in five Americans who can't name the country we achieved our independence from, according to a 2011 poll taken on the Fourth of July. Maybe they really DON'T know.
The film's brutal and noble depiction of American slavery being unjust seemingly makes the film impervious to criticism. I happen to agree that slavery is an abomination, but I don't think that is a question being discussed in America or the world at the moment. As far as I know, it is a question that has been answered already. But the Academy can't help but pat themselves on the back because they have, for the first time, given their Best Picture award to a film written and directed by black filmmakers. Instead of feeling proud, I may instead wonder why they haven't been giving awards to filmmakers of diversity all these years. I suppose they are an American institution and they focus on American films and films that engage with the American sensibility. In this case they have chosen to acknowledge an issue which has largely been sorted in the American cultural mind. I suppose it is a long process rewriting history to include the stories of the marginalised. This is a process that needs to happen, and for many people this is a process that needs to happen in large-scale accessible films that will be seen by many. Thus the film has its place.However, the film doesn't offer any depth into the situation. There is no insight achieved into how this could happen, what toxic ideologies justified this culture on a political or a personal level. There was no attempt to place this man's experience into any large context at all. It was merely a depiction of the nobility of waiting for justice. For 12 years he worked as a slave and barely dared confront the legal injustice of his situation, let alone the moral injustice of it. He nobly waited for 12 years and eventually justice was done and he was able to return home to his family.Titles at the end of the film not only tell us that the kidnappers were not brought to justice, but that the protagonist's salvation was extremely anomalous. Most free black people sold into slavery illegally were never freed. But that is not an inspiring story of overcoming adversity. That is a more accurate rewriting of American history to include the stories of marginalised, but not one that reinforces American values of waiting for things to get better, waiting for justice to have an opportunity to be done.The violence of this film did not offer us a rewarding and insightful commentary on the grotesque cultural and political landscape of America that allowed slavery to flourish for so long.
Maybe it was because I heard so many good things about it that I was expecting too much out of this film. To be fair however as I stopped half way through the film (it lacked any emotional 'hook') so I'll just speak about the parts I did see.Acting was terrible. and I'm not talking about the lead characters here, but the smaller roles. For instance the scene where Solomon is beaten with a wooden bat for the first time. I think the director was trying to get some shock value out of the scene, but frankly, the aggressor seemed to be over doing it. Scenes like these repeated monotonously over the next hour or so that I watched before I finally quit. I think this movie was some sort of an American apology to the black community. Sit for two hours and curse your ancestors for what they did and then move on in life. I wonder why no one makes a movie on the horrors of racism people face today?
For a story with such substance, this movie is quite shallow. The first time we see Solomon, he's already enslaved. He has three {or four?} inconsequential flashbacks to his freedom, his family, whom we don't even get to know, and his violin playing, and that's it. They're there to give us facts, that's it. No relationship with him is formed, and the abduction comes out of no where, leaving us at a loss of a reason to really care about him. We care because he's a slave, but he's not going through anything any of the others aren't, so what sets him apart? What makes him our hero? He's not. The dialogue and setup of the scenes were stilted and overly dramatic emotional bombardments of points, not a nuanced unfolding that we can settle into and care about. You are not immersed, but instead simply watching. And cringing.Such as the language. Now granted, that is the way people talked back then, all perfect grammar and formal wording and stiff. But I'm sure you would not speak perfect and formal in every situation, especially very stressful ones. Throughout there was a stiffness and, dare I say, a falseness to what you're watching for that reason. It wasn't relaxed. When Solomon is talking to whatshername, the crying mother slave who was once free like him, the dialogue was pissing me off. It was acted too stageplay-ish and see through. I saw that scene online before in the movie, and hoped the whole movie was not like that, but given today's film making, I was a fool to. It was. Sometimes over acting in that way is good for a movie like "Dog Day Afternoon" or "Inherit The Wind," but here it took you out of the scene. Slaves did not speak like that, even if they were once free like Solomon was, tone it the hell down. The whites were all the same. Viscous, mean and not normal. Nothing slows down. At least until Brad Pitt, of course.Then there are details that were greatly needed, like what did his family do when he was gone? Did they investigate? Did others look for him? Did they encounter other families who were going through the same thing? And when Solomon finally has a way {after 12 years?} of getting a letter, a letter, mind you, to a friend in New York, via white, zombie slaying savior Brad Pitt, what were the goings on of that? How did it happen? How long? We are not given a full scale picture of what was a very large scale real event. It's choppy and narrow. Solomon became active in freeing slaves but we are only told that through writing on the screen after the end. Lastly the meeting up again with his family was truly weird. He is taken to a house where they {his wife, kids, son in law and new grandson} are standing. Standing. When he enters there is no bum rush into each other. No shouts of I love you or thank God you're home or we missed you so much. No crying and going crazy as normal people would. Instead they just stand there before him like he's a stranger. He tells them to "Forgive" his appearance {gray hair}. After his daughter introduces her husband and newborn to him, his bitch of a wife finally decides it might be good time to approach him now. He says forgive me, which was heartbreaking. She says "there's nothing to forgive" which was true, but you gotta see the scene to believe it. There's no way that really happened like that.Also it got creepy when for one minute and a half Solomon looks at the scenery around him and then stares into he camera, at us. In the eye. I looked away and wanted it to stop. The violence didn't give me that reaction. This is unbelievable poor storytelling and not even the brief shot of naked man wang can save it. The directing, lighting, acting {aside from the content}, costumes and sets, landscape, music, and atmosphere are all spot on and great to look at. Now only if the narrative could be overhauled to match. It had the same air as other black films like "The Butler" and "Precious," constant point making with nothing else to grasp.
Everyone should read Solomon Northup's memoir. It is a powerful, moving, and culturally important tale of the injustice of slavery.This movie, however, seemed to be a poor attempt to turn that story into quick cash. Characters were not developed, scenes were stitched together in an odd way, and the ending was rushed and didn't seem to convey the intense emotions Solomon had in being rescued.I understand a movie can only do so much, but I'm not sure how a viewer who has not read the memoir would be able to get much from the movie. And those who have read it will be disappointed at lost opportunities to convey the true horror of the situation and total exclusion of some important anecdotes (particularly the continued menace of Tibeats)


                
Anytime anyone makes a movie based on a controversial social or historically important subject, it automatically gives it spot in awards or importance. Although the subject matter in this movie is/was incredibly important to revisit, as a movie I felt it wasn't "Best Movie" worthy. The story telling was overwhelmed by the brutal scenes and sometimes a death or brutal scenes can become a low blow to the crotch. Overall the movie was fragmented and the inclusion of Brad Pitt with his poorly done accent lowered the believability of the story. The best part of the movie was the AMAZING performance by Michael Fassbender as the plantation owner. Michael's performance carries the whole movie and was well worth watching for his spectacular performance. Personally I believe that the movie Gravity was a much better executed movie overall!


                
Just before I lower my hand towards my keyboard, I wonder to myself. Am I about to write a review or simply a statement about my disappointment in others? In any case I feel the need to mention It's been a long time since I saw 12 Years a slave. Although I've tried several times to revisit, It's been too painful for me to do so. And the conclusion I bare is that it is for all the wrong reasons.With the exception of Paul Dano's appearance in 12 years a slave, there's really not that much effort to salute. The film contains a long, repetitive, slow-paced series of scenes bombarded with torture and dullness. Whether the monologue, the sudden appearance of American "heroes" or the actual physical torture of black people, It's quite frankly just the same. Surprisingly enough, for the popular audience and the Academy, the blatant manipulative sob-structure actually works like a charm. As the (what feels like Satantango-length-ed) 12 years a' bored claimed endless praise and affection. Even so much that it became the winner of the biggest competition (eh?) of them all in the film industry. The Oscars became the Eurovision Song Contest and the world was just about to deem Only God Forgives a "bad film". I have a distant memory of a scene where the main characters life hangs by a thread as he's hung to a tree by a hangman's noose. It was a perfectly decent scene polluted by the previous and those to come. Unfortunately, 12 years a slave reminds me all too much of The shawshank redemption and all the boredom, dullness and manipulation the audience had to endure. Much like Kubrick, Steve Mcqueen and the man *presumably* that made Shawshank, borrows the art/tricks of the commercial industry in cinema. However, the difference in usage makes for a discrepancy of monumental magnitude. A couple of years later I'm left with one question: Did 12 years a slave have a narrator? Because it sure felt like it did. 3/10 For Dano, the scenery and effort.
