12 Years A Slave is nominated for all the awards and talked about with huge praise. Well sorry, but having just seen it, I have to disagree. It's 2hrs 13mins of hardship.We have seen powerful films in the past that have dealt with injustice and suffering, films like Schindler's List, The Color Purple, The Killing Fields etc., but all these have managed to get across the horror and suffering whilst keeping me engaged. Unfortunately, 12 Years was just suffering.I felt the film really dragged. Much has been written about how Steve McQueen is very brave to hold shots for a long time. The film is littered with shots that linger for an age while little or nothing happens and I say that if you notice that a shot is long then it's too long and doesn't work. Surely if this was a good thing you wouldn't notice it. I noticed it, and noticed it and noticed it.I was so pleased when Brad Pitt showed up, not just because he is always good to watch but his role is that of a saviour and believe me, at that point the film needed a saviour. He has a line that sums up the film "Yours is an amazing story but not one point of it is good".The final scene really killed it for me. This man has been away 12 years and when he meets his family does he run crying into their arms? No. Does he whoop, laugh and shout with joy? No. He sadly stands and meekly asks their forgiveness for his shabby appearance. Arghhhhh! I cry at movies. I am an embarrassment as I cry that easily. Guess what? Not a tear. For a movie that deals with the horror of slavery that's a terrible thing.
"12 Years a Slave" is a gripping, mostly well-made, but basically false film. To say it finally shows the brutal truth about U. S. chattel slavery just proves how blind opinion-shapers are about U.S. racism, past and present.Was the main outrage of slavery really that it could engulf a cultured, free black individual? That's what the hero suggests when, speaking to a sympathetic white, he protests the injustice of HIS captivity. As an afterthought, he also observes that slavery in general is unjust. Several of the other slaves with whom he interacts are inexplicably well-spoken and the camera lingers repeatedly on their faces to remind us of their stoic nobility.The filmmaker shows keen understanding of psychological nuance in the relationships between masters, other whites, and slaves. He evidently meant to evoke viewer empathy with victims who seem to be a lot like "us." This film is meant to make liberals feel good about "our" distance from that world. It predictably has outraged some reactionaries who don't like exposing the warts of U.S. "democracy."The main truth of U.S. slavery is not the story of extraordinary individuals either as victims or avengers but of ordinary people brutalized and traumatized, accommodating and finally resisting the private appropriation of their persons and their labor. The film that tells this truth won't be made until all those who labor, black and white, start speaking for themselves.Rita Freed


                
Story of violence and sadism, which does not reflect historical reality. No one except a few sadists could live like this. In a claustrophobic environment flooded with blood and death. All day and every hour masters at home and their slaves crying and screaming in pain. Every scene the same is weary (heavy). That was not normal, despite the existence of slavery. The first time I saw it, I qualified with a 7 but it was not one to save in the library. The second time I found it worse. Now is a 4.I'm tired of gratuitous violence in movies. Violence in TV or cinema begets violence in real people. So I don't like this movie.Good acting, good sticks. Good movie as propaganda against slavery but Not a movie to watch more than once.


                
On the movie: Tedious monotonous slow boring gore fest that could have been easily made into a great epic movie. All Solomon did after his release would be a much more fruitful script than the ridiculous non- substance matter discarded for hours... and I mean tedious heavy hours.On Brad Pitt: Where did he come from? What was he doing there? It could be anybody else playing such role, even an empty bottle of water, but it was in fact more of a ridiculous fallacious cameo than a proper star acting quality.On people who rated it over 4: It had loads of nothingness... I give you that, and nothingness is Hollywood's recent attitude towards success. I believe that when you walk the red carpet towards the Oscars, this movie will face a bipolar crowd as its best crowd possible.
The most overrated movie of 2013. The movie shows you the psychological horror of slavery with the protagonist not really taking a part in anything. There is no lesson to be learned here, just showing how horrible things were for African Americans at the time. Feels very forced and tedious, and five minutes in it you will know exactly what's gonna happen. Unimaginative or creative at all. I think the director wanted to say: "Feel pain, cause I said so. I won't take the time to build characters or weave an interesting narrative". The movie says let's paint everything with a big general brush-which is OK for action movies- but not for a historical drama.


                
I agree with the last reviewer; I thought the movie was slow and awkward in the flashbacks. It totally omitted any sense of the long years Solomon spent in slavery and how he reconciled himself to it. There was no surprise with the sadism and inhumanity; as far as I am concerned, moreover, it added nothing new to the already tragic picture of slavery in America. It would be more interesting to understand how humanity was able to deal with slavery and why it produced such extraordinary sadism in the white population. The lack of decency was finally resolved with the arrival of Brad Pitt; I found that casting troubling as well.


                
Whew--I'm sooooo relieved to know that most of the real evils of the Antebellum South can be mostly laid at the feet of evil white women, who are either blind or insanely jealous. And of course it's a relief to know that there were some upright and well-meaning white male plantation owners--isn't it? Even if they did tend to hand out fiddles and keep the shotguns for themselves... Sigh. In a sentence? This movie is long and painful, in more ways than one. Of course it had to be made--and the fact that it needed to wait until 2013 to GET made is a horrific indictment of this country--but we don't have to pretend it's well made. This is an obvious mess, as heavy-handed as...naaah, I won't say it. The characters are each less than one and a half inches deep and Chiwetel Ejiofor is (I hope) going to win an Oscar for breathing through his mouth and looking unhappy and bewildered for over two hours. Much of the film feels like an homage to Quentin Tarentino (and as Django was itself an homage this is a quote of a quote...). I know people PC enough to have sat through it twice--and I know people who ought to be made to watch it more times than that (though, frankly, it might just come to have a numbing effect). It would have made a perfect PBS special. See it, or see part of it, or at least buy a ticket--and read the book, which is of some real historical importance, as is the story itself.
The film was powerful and a Goog Cast but I give it only a 4 there were things that bothered me. There were too many times the camera left a scene to another while audio from the previous scene were still playing. Although being taken and in slavery for 12 years we never got a sense of time passing. He never mentioned today is my birthday or it was X years I was taken and sold into slavery at 90 minutes I think it would have been a good film at 134 Minutes it was torture to watch. It was a good cast and super acting I thought the scenes of whipping and beatings were going to be difficult to watch I did not find them disturbing.


                
Ultimately, that is the question I ask myself whenever I see a movie at the cinemas. Was it worth the 16 dollars admission fee? Unfortunately, no.Now, don't get me wrong. I did like Shame. However, 12 Years A Slave pushes the audience so far in its historical chapter of human depravity that you won't take anything from this film, but it will take something from you... your innocence. Films like Shindler's List, It's A Wonderful Life, and Shawshank Redemption have successfully entertained us. This is due to their pacing and inspirational denouements. 12 Years A Slave unrelentingly portrays the horrible subject without any moments of humour or kindness that helps break the tension. This is why this film cannot be considered amongst the great films suggested, because it teaches us nothing we don't already know nor does it give us any inspiration. Who is Solomon? He is just a man waiting for someone to save him. Is he charming? Funny? An opportunist? A man that takes charge of his life? No, and this is why the Law of Diminishing Return comes into full throttle. He doesn't do anything but wait, while practice of torture escalates into something thats boring. I wanted to feel bad for the slaves, but their is no background or history invested to make you truly empathise with the characters. For that reason, the relationship between the 'black man' and the 'white man' feels too clinical. I walked out of this film having lost something. Many of the audience quietly exited feeling the same, I'm sure. If you can, don't pay for this movie.


                
12 years a slave versus Life is Beautiful (1997.)NO SPOILERS for 12YAS, but some for LIB (it's an old movie so cope)I can't say that I'm disappointed, though it was far from an enjoyable experience. I get the Oscar nominations, really I do. The acting was superb, especially by the male lead (Chiwetel Ejiofor) and one can never complain upon seeing a bit of Benedict Cumberbatch. Yet, the movie itself is absolute torture. Whipping, yelling something along the lines of how blacks are worthless, whipping, hangings, more whipping, etc. Yet in spite all this tragedy and suffering, the film was not at all moving. It just makes you cringe. So let's take Life is Beautiful by Roberto Benigni. The story is somewhat similar. In LiB, a man named Guido (a Jew) who is a rather charming character is madly in love with his wife and runs a bookshop somewhere in Italy with the help of his adorable son, Giosue. Then bam, Holocaust. Guido and Giosue are taken to a concentration camp. Once free men, they are now living in inhumane conditions and treated like filth. And yet, that film keeps a lightness to itself that 12YaAS certainly does not, and you can be sure that there is plenty of tragedy in both. We know a lot about Guido's wife and son, how they met even, and I won't believe anyone who says that they watched LiB without feeling concern for the characters. But of Solomon Northup we know almost nothing. We know that his wife is a cook and his children's names, but not much more. And that is why no one in the audience cares about Solomon. Where Benigni managed to infuse some charm into a story of great suffering, McQueen only shoots at us with more and more atrocities in form of violence in hope that it will evoke emotion. For me it did not. While the actor portrays the distress someone in that situation would be masterfully, I felt like Solomon just spends the movie making faces of desperation and half crying. I honestly would not have minded if the movie went on for another half hour if that meant us getting to know Solomon and his life a little bit better, which would certainly contribute depth both to the story and the character.


                
I must have watched a totally different film to every body else. Solomon Walthop is a free man living in Saratoga. He travels to Washington, where he is known to polite society. He meets up with two Gentlemen, who invite him out to dinner and get him drunk. He is sick everywhere. Next thing, you see him in shackles and in a dungeon. he is beaten and you find out, that he has been kidnapped and sold into slavery. So far i find the film interesting. Then for 1 hour and 50 minutes you watch people being whipped, beaten, hanged and a black slave crying throughout the film. all the white people, with the exception of the slaver Ford and the Canadian Abolishinist, played by Brad Pitt, look as if they are portraying the character Simon Le Green from Uncle Toms Cabin and Pitt who is supposed to be playing a Canadian, sounds more like Patrick Swayze out of North And South, which in my opinion is the best ever depiction of that period. A story like this cannot be told in a couple of hours anyway. A far superior film to this was Amistad by Spielberg, which was also based on a true story. Yes you see whippings, but you see the the taking over of the ship and then the court proceedings. In this film you only know what happened to the bad guys at the end credits. My opinion is this was like a rehash of two other terrible movies based on two very good books, Mandingo and Drum, also with fine actors and actresses. Although this one is better made. Very disappointing.
12 Years a Slave, had it been conceived, written and directed by a 12 year old, might have deserved its lavish praise. As it was not, it is unfortunately the most over-hyped movie in a while. For youngsters who were not yet born, nor old enough to remember the TV series "Roots", 12 Years a Slave may well seem shocking, and a serious and meaningful stab at bringing this subject to life, but the superficiality, plodding pace and relentless sermonising killed any emotional impact it could have had. It wasn't short on suffering, most of it endured by the audience who suffered right from the start, as the first 10 minutes or so was irritatingly shot in semi-darkness and extreme close-up, making it jerky and difficult to follow. This broke any rule of "grab their attention right from the beginning", as the stream of apparently unrelated scenes made it seem as though the director couldn't decide on how or where to begin.Worse was to come, with good actors asked to play stereotypical characters in stereotypical scenes, and even less forgiveably, a complete failure within this mess to meaningfully depict the real horror and despair of an educated man being stolen away and brought so low. This chance was passed up in favour of trotting out the usual overseers with whips, drunken plantation owners, bitter and frustrated wives, and of course the apparently kind and enlightened white man who nevertheless shows his true colours when the chips are down.This film simply does not compare to the sweeping story told so movingly and effectively in "Roots" decades before. It also has nothing to add. 12 Years a Slave is Roots-lite, with added pomposity. Why it was nominated for best picture and best director is beyond me. Why it actually won an Oscar for best picture says more about the right-on public face of the Academy than the calibre of the work being judged. It is unfortunate that subject matter holds such sway over voters. My verdict is watch it, and then do yourself a favour and watch the vastly superior "Roots".


                
The cinematography is great – pretty, "meaningful" artsy long shots – but this film could have been so much more. I live in Bristol, a town built on slavery (both black and before that white) which struggles to come to understand its past and the way people behaved – this film simply didn't engage on that level. I didn't feel any great empathy for any of the characters, their motivations weren't explored at any depth, it didn't really raise even the most obvious questions of the way people behaved beyond the most superficial level. And yet it has been really warmly received – maybe it's the power of political correctness, or could it be a commentary on a nation that still hasn't yet the maturity to come to terms with its roots. I'd give it a miss.


                
The movie never quite pulled me in. Each scene was presented and then another one was presented. In spite of the events, Solomon doesn't really seem to have a fire in his belly to escape. There's no real depiction of an escalation of frustration or passion in Solomon.There was also no real indication of time passage either. Twelve years go by, he gets released, his kids are grown. It's almost like for 11 years he looks the same and then when he arrives home, he's got gray hair.Brad Pitt's role was kind of a Deux Ex Machina. Solomon asks for help and it arrives. There was danger for white people helping slaves but here everything goes fine. Solomon tolerates his situation for years and then he asks someone else for help. He never makes a break for it as you would expect.The soundtrack was kind of horrible. Kind of like watching TV while someone is running the vacuum cleaner. You needed to focus more when the soundtrack kicked in.The direction was competent, nothing great. It wasn't like "Hey Mom, look! I'm a director" where the director tries too hard. The acting wasn't bad. Lupita Nyong'o did a good job. I kind of thought Michael Fassbender was a psychopath, how he could ever have owned a plantation escaped me. Chiwetel Ejiofor was okay, nothing great, something was missing.
I had to write a review about this movie when I learnt that this movie has won 'movie of the year' awards at various awards ceremony and is favourite to win at the Oscars too. I look at the past winners of the Oscars, films like 'Gladiator', 'Million dollar baby', 'Titanic' - all of which were hugely entertaining and I can't believe this may join them. This movie was very boring and very long. It was depressing scene after depressing scene. This film was not entertaining and was more like a documentary film (which should have been released on TV with less famous actors, maybe at Sky history channel?) as it had none of the qualities I enjoy in a movie. I guess I knew it was going to be like this and I guess I should not have gone to see this movie. There was no entertainment at all, just boredom and portrayal of distressing and depressing scenes, one after the other.I am a huge fan of Michael Fassbender from his 'Xmen - first class' movie and I was impressed again by his performance of an evil man who was sexually attracted to one of his female slaves. I guess I do have a bias towards him as I am a huge fan of his portrayal of Magneto in X men. All the actors do an excellent job and are very believable. Slavery is a sensitive topic and this film has given an insight into what it would have been like for a slave in those days. So in terms of education and visual portrayal of slavery, this movie did an excellent job. This was an emotional movie and one cannot deny the pain and suffering that the main character and indeed slaves in general went through in our history. One moving scene at the end where he meets his family again after 12 years was particularly moving especially as he learns that his grandson which he sees for the first time is named after him - Solomon.Overall I can only get a feeling that this movie is so successful in the box office and the awards ceremony as it deals with a controversial issue such as slavery. In a way people are scared of putting this movie down as not to come off as a racist or not politically correct. If you want entertainment and enjoyment, do not go to watch this movie. If you want an education lesson about mainly what one particular slave went through and witnessed during his time as a slave and want to witness depressing, disturbing and generally a boring two and half hour movie, please feel free and watch this movie.
There is no doubt in my mind that Solomon Northup suffered greatly during the eponymous 12 years he spent as a slave in the Deep South. There is also no doubt that it was an incredibly bleak period of human history that quite rightly shouldn't ever be allowed to be forgotten. Lastly there is also no doubt that everyone involved with this movie (with the exception of Brad Pitt) puts in fantastically believable performances. Standouts for me were Chiwetel Ejiofor (fairly obviously) and especially Micheal Fassbender who gives an absolutely awesome turn as a man who clearly revelled in having the power of life and death over other human beings. Fassbender's performance alone is worthy of the entry price. Unfortunately the same cannot be said of Brad Pitt as the one-and-only "good" white man portrayed in this film, but luckily he's not in the film too long, and his acting is quickly overshadowed by the other towering and nuanced performances on shows.However, the movie itself is considerably less nuanced in places. The constant onslaught of violence, degradation and misery actually gets a little tiresome after a while, as does the "white man is bad" message that constantly pervades everything. As I say above, there is no doubt it WAS an extremely miserable time for anyone on the receiving end of such treatment from the slavers, but I personally think the movie lost a great deal of its potential impact by relentlessly beating the viewer into submission with its message. Basically I didn't think this movie had anything new to say that hasn't already been said a hundred times before. The other problem for me was that some sequences were actually quite boring. The director seems to enjoy incredibly long and lingering close-ups in which absolutely nothing happens. One shot of Solomon Northup towards the end of the movie had him staring at nothing while the sound of bee buzzed in the background. I'm sure that shot lasted for over a minute...and absolutely nothing happened at the end of it.Basically it's a worthy enough film dealing with troubling and powerful subject matter. The only problem is in the execution, but this film will no doubt garner a huge number of awards as the worthiness will outweigh the failings of the film.
What happened to Steve McQueen, the talented director of Hunger and Shame ? He completely trivialized himself with 12 Years a Slave, putting aside everything that made his previous movies so singular.He delivers a completely asepticized movie, formatted for the mass — and probably the members of the Academy — with ultra clichés shots far from what we were used to and a grandiloquent soundtrack by Hans Zimmer that seems like a re-edition of the one from Inception.If at least the scenario was surgically precise, but that's not even the case. The narration is laborious and that just emphasizes as the movie goes, the last half-hour is particularly chaotic, scenes follow one another with not much coherence.The film doesn't have the dramatic dimension of the true story on which it relies on, as poignant as Chiwetel Ejiofor's performance, the only actor to stand out within a fancy but under-exploited cast.12 Years a Slave turns out to be a terrible disappointment in comparison with what we were expecting from a talented director.


                
