I don't really understand all the praise this film has been getting. It's not a 'bad' film by any measure... but it doesn't really say anything new, or say anything old in a new way. It's basic message is 'slavery was bad'. That's it. The main character is just a victim and a witness. He doesn't transform or overcome (it's up to a time-traveling white man to save him). He's not particularly admirable or craven... or anything. He's just kind of there, taking in all the cruelty and insanity around him. It would have been far better to have concentrated less on the too-familiar beatings and humiliations and show us more of his life before and after the kidnapping/horrors he endured. As it stands, there's not much context. What is shown of his prior life seems almost ridiculously Utopian (the North was NEVER free of racism) and afterward... well, we don't get much despite some notations that suggest the REAL story might have been his attempts to use the legal system to find justice for the crimes against him. Really, I think the focus of this movie is on the wrong parts of the story... indicting the usual suspects and familiar villains rather than the smug racists in the North who refused to help the man find any real satisfaction.


                
I'm just going to get down to my point: Twelve Years A Slave is a good film. It may be an even better film to people who know less about slavery, however, to me it is just "A little better than good".Twelve Years A Slave tries really hard to make the audience uncomfortable by showing the truths of slavery and the cruel world slaves lived in during the middle of the 19th century... and it succeeds at it. The movie doesn't hide how messed up some of the slave masters were and how delusional others were. I have read a bit of the book along with the autobiography of Frederick Douglass and several other slaves. The movie does interpret these events very well.However, this is where the movie's fault comes in: The movie isn't much more than a slave statement. Slavery is bad. Here is a man who changed and went through much suffering. While I condemn racism and I'm glad this movie shows the wrongs of the past, the movie doesn't do anything more than show a whole bunch of wrong doings. The movie is just: bad event, bad event, bad event, bad event--coincidentally similar to Gravity in a sense. The movie doesn't stand up and prove anything that the audience (maybe it's just me) didn't know. We have seen slavery movies in the past and we have read the autobiographies. The movie forgets to be something more than an anti-slavery statement. Slavery has already been gone in America for over 150 years, so the movie needed something more to its message other than "slavery is bad". Granted, racism is still an issue today, which is why this movie still holds importance. Still, the movie doesn't try to do anything other than inform of the evils of the past. The movie is literally a series of horrible things and that is it. As soon as the evils end, the movie ends. In my opinion, the movie needed to flesh out its purpose a little more.On a side-note: This movie has one of the most generic soundtracks I have ever heard, and it is even down-right bad at times. Not even joking, you will hear the same chords played exactly the same for the entire movie.A good movie, but it doesn't bring anything new to the table regarding the issues of America's past.


                
Lets begin, this movie is probably exactly what could have been made out of a book like that. It's a movie that makes you think and his bad and good moments :)I liked this movie, of course. It was good, it had all the element a drama and history drama needed. The director was good, and the actors couldn't be better. It lets you see the life of a man captured and the released after 12 years. TO be honest, movies like his has been done before, don't get me wrong, it was reallllly well made. But i am so tired of depressing movies about like even the Holocaust, it seems like if you do a movie about this you are guaranteed to be in the high leagues of Oscars.


                
Steve McQueen's 'Twelve Years a Slave' is not exactly a bad film; but I confess to a certain disappointment in it. McQueen's earlier movies, 'Shame' and especially 'Hunger', were raw, visceral portrayals of life under a certain sort of inescapably grim reality. But 'Twelve Years a Slave', while it contains many horrific moments, is basically full Hollywood, with emotional background music underscoring the emotions we're meant to feel, and a narrative that stresses the possibility of the individual triumphing against evil and misfortune through strength of character alone. Of course, this is a common solution, because depicting unameliorated misery could make for a grim movie: the audience prefers 'The Shaswhank Redemption' to a story ending in prison suicide, or 'Schindler's List' to a drama actually set in the camps. But McQueen has previously skirted the thin line between truth and unwatchability with considerable skill: this outing, though made with a much bigger budget, is a less ambitious effort.


                
This film is nominated for 9 Oscars. The acting and in particular the dialog , many times throughout the film is like taken from a theatric play. The actors want to look like they care about what they are saying , but it doesn't quite work in the end , mainly because of the dialog itself , but it might also give the impression that the actors aren't doing a good job. Apart from this dialog handicap , the acting from the protagonists is decent , but nothing exceptional and worthy of noticing. Maybe Michael Fassbender has the best performance here in my opinion. The story moves too quickly , that it also seems forced. We move rapidly from the point of our hero's normal living , to his capture and slavery , and in the end his freedom. All is quick. Also there aren't any originalities here. Brad Pitt comes out of nowhere , leaves out of nowhere. In a way , all the characters , the plot , and finally the whole movie , just passes by without great notice. So i guess it is a weak movie. " Blue is the warmest color " doesn't even get one Oscar nomination , and this gets 9 nominations. I give it a 7 , maybe because i've been brainwashed and even so far as that , i feel like i am going against the current , breaking the rules or something. Maybe it should get a 5 or a 6. I don't know


                
Slavery is indeed a heinous crime against humanity that existed in the United States in the past. I had seen this crime brought to life in numerous films from the "Roots" mini-series in my youth up to "Django Unchained" last year."12 Years a Slave" is yet another film that brings back those sordid days of suffering indignities and torture while forced to work in those cotton fields in the American South. Truth to tell, I felt the scenes depicting these horrific events were not really different from what we have seen in the past. Maybe, the level of violence may have been amped up by available technology, but the painful message remains the same.The interesting details which were new to me were those that depicted the abduction of free Northern Afro-Americans to be forced into slavery. It was also terrible to see the slave selling scenes featuring a sinister cameo by Paul Giamatti. But these happen within the first hour of the film. The rest of the film already felt squeamishly familiar, but harder to watch because the floggings approach (though thankfully not exceed) "Passion of the Christ" levels. The acclaim and awards-buzz that precedes the performance of lead actor Chiwetel Ejiofor is much-deserved. His Solomon Northup maintains his dignity even under the yoke of slavery. Michael Fassbender (a favorite star of director Steve McQueen) is very effective as evil incarnated as slave owner, the cruel Edwin Epps. But, sad to say, I felt he did not bring anything we have not seen before to this type of role.First-time film actress Lupita Nyong'o had a heart-rending debut as Patsey, the young female slave who was the unfortunate apple of the leering eyes of Master Epps, which makes the blood of jealous Mistress Epps (a cold Sarah Paulsen) boil. The technical aspect of the film were all first-rate, from the cinematography, to the production design, to the costumes, to the music. Maybe the Oscar hype around this film may have given me unrealistic expectations. It was not bad by any measure, but just not as excellent as I was expecting it to be.


                
It's impossible not to approach a movie like 12 Years a Slave without a sense of obligation. You know you're going to experience moments that make you feel uncomfortable and face things that are downright ugly. Steve McQueen doesn't do much to cushion the blow, but he does offer a hand to lead you through this real-life horror story. That hand belongs to Chiwetel Ejiofor, who plays Solomon Northup, a free man kidnapped into slavery.The movie relies on Ejiofor quite heavily throughout. He's given ample time to think about his situation or, at times, the consequences of his actions. One particular scene near the end, where Solomon wonders whether he dare allow himself any hope or prepare himself for another thrashing (or worse) instead, is a master class in nuance (helped along by some well-placed thunder). He brings a humanity to his character that's more than just pity. His eyes capture a spirit and a longing. He holds the piece together. Of course, he's not the only one that shows up with their work boots on. Lupita Nyong'o delivers a stirring turn with two standout scenes, Michael Fassbender gives an understated performance of an outrageous and over-the-top character, and Sarah Paulson channels pure evil.These performance go a long way to make up for some weaknesses in the script. Filled with one-note characters and some clumsy dialogue, screenwriter John Ridley gives his actors as much to overcome as to chew on. While there are some masterful sequences, like the prolonged hanging scene and Solomon's rescue, the film throws you some duds as well. Eliza and Solomon's heated exchange comes off flat as Adepero Oduye proves incapable of pulling off the questionable dialogue ("You luxuriate in his favour"). At another point, he has Solomon afraid to share his story to a potentially kind master for fear of the repercussions he might face if he's wrong about the man, but soon after has him stand up to and whip a verbally abusive overseer knowing full well there could be potentially deadly consequences. Towards the end, Brad Pitt's character comes in just in time to review some of the main themes of the film in the form of a debate and then save the day.The direction here is strong, for the most part. There's no question McQueen gets everything out of his actors and he does a wonderful job of staging his scenes. If fact, most scenes, taken as individual pieces, are marvelously executed. Certainly each time Solomon's awoken in the middle of the night is powerful in its own way. But not everything adds up as a whole. He builds a mystery around the circumstances surrounding Solomon's abduction by being purposefully obfuscating and then doesn't pay it off until the film's text-based epilogue. Also, for a film named after a passage of time, the film does little to give the viewer a sense of time passing. Were it not for the specific timeframe in the film's title, one would have no idea if a decade had passed or merely a couple of years. The only evidence being the expression on Ejiofor's face and some whisps of grey hair.But at other times you feel a skilled hand at the wheel. To further the theme of alienation, Solomon is rarely seen interacting with his fellow slaves after the boat trips when he's split from his initial cohorts. There's a distance between him and the other slaves. He only ever speaks to Eliza, Patsy or Mistress Shaw (about Patsy). However, during the funeral for Uncle Abram (a blink-and-you'll-miss-him Dwight Henry), the group begins to sing Roll Jordan Roll. Solomon, at first, refrains from joining in. He's shown contemplating his situation. He resists but eventually seems to accept that, whatever he is, he's one of these people and surrenders to the song. It's a scene that's as overwhelming for the audience as it is for the character.12 Years a Slave features the efforts of some abundantly talented people and works hard to overcome its shortcomings. It stumbles along the way but manages to cross the line with dignity. If it's considered a classic in the years to come it will be in no small part to Mr. Ejiofor and his supporting cast. At least films like this and Lincoln will make history classes more interesting for coming generations.
A lot of films are being made about slavery now a days. Just last year we had Lincoln and Django, this year we had The Butler and so on. This movie can rightly be called close to a Schindler's List to slavery in America.Solomon Northup is a free black man who is kidnapped and sold into slavery, hence he realizes the hardships and cruelty faced by the slaves and continues his struggle of survival.Just the thought of what Solomon or the people like him would have faced, like surviving year on year in absolute terror and not knowing what became of your family, just brings some chills to the spine. So a delicate topic handled with utmost care and ease by Steve McQueen and his talented cast. Just like Schindler's List, the film is pretty hard to watch as it says true to the slave stained era of America. From 5 minutes long lashing to the gory aftermath, there is truth in every scene.Proper time has been given to each scene, which is Mcqueens' trademark, it brings about the hidden talent in Chiwetel Ejiofor, a worthy Oscar Nod. The film is also good on technical front with some nice cinematography, editing and costumes. Great character development, one feels what Solomon feels. Particularly when he tries to console Elizia and When he realizes he can't do nothing for Patsy. The conflict faced buy the character is strongly depicted and can be felt by the viewer.Direction: Powerful direction and narrative, a worthy Oscar nod.Script/Screenplay: A perfectly written piece, which stays true to its content and source. Very easily it grips you to your seat.Acting: Chiwetel was absolutely awesome, scene by scene you feel what he feels, for a long time people are going to know him by "Solomon". Lupita is good, but an Oscar nod came to me as a surprise. Micheal certainly deserves a win, he was just marvelous.Music: I am very very disappointed at Hans not being nominated for the original score, it was the soul of the film, another snub.Even though it was an excellent film and I'm almost sure it will win the Best picture Oscar, I still feel it isn't the best of the year. I think Gravity was better. I haven't seen the others, but I'll soon catch up and I will be eligible to comment on the topic. Anyways a great film.


                
First up, a few warnings: this is not for the faint of heart. There is a lot of graphic torture and despicable things which the camera does not shy away from. This is obviously to hit home the ugly truth of the reality of slavery and America's sorry past, but it's very unpleasant to watch. It's also quite slow and long - 2 hours 15min.It could've used more of the support cast, since Giamatti, Dano, Cumberbatch and Pitt do a good job, but it's a true story, so there's only so much creative liberty they could've taken. Most of the film just makes you sad, angry and anguished for Solomon (Ejiofor), wishing you could do something or he and the other slaves would rebel, but that was their reality and it's a harsh pill to swallow.There's no humour or light-hearted moments to lighten the mood - and arguably there shouldn't be - but it's definitely no 'Django Unchained' when you compare their entertainingness. That's not really the directors fault, but I feel it could have been paced a little better - and there seemed to be lots of scenes with Solomon just staring wide-eyed (see above!).


                
(Flash Review)Wait, how can you say a brutal slave movie isn't emotional? To cut to the chase, this was a well-produced, well-acted yet not well- written movie about a free African American who gets kidnapped into slavery. Unlike Amistad or other human sufferage films like The Pianist or Schindler's List, those films drew more emotion from me such as a misty eye, tears or the feeling of needing to vomit during the slave ship scene in Amistad. Yet this movie failed to connect me to the character or the story with the same depth. Perhaps it was the lack of a true goal and story/character arc. Sure ESCAPE was his goal but there wasn't a big plan so there was a lot of biding one's time and taking it day by day. And then Brad Pitt shows up which sort of takes you out of the story because there is Pitt with a beard. He was good but his inclusion and his 'star power' was jarring. There were plenty of unpleasant scenes that were powerfully brutal that made you feel various people's agony yet it didn't draw the out emotions as if they had better intertwined them in a more compelling story.
A well made but flawed movie. My main gripe with it is the dialogue. I imagine it is authentic but the problem is that I could only catch about half of what was said. Chiwetel is great as the main character but when one can only follow parts of any conversation it spoils the effect of those parts of the script. It must have been a difficult task for the actors to treat each other so appallingly, even given they were only acting. It really is not a film that one can be said to "enjoy" it is more a question of appreciating it. Steve McQueen took on a difficult and even controversial subject in this film and it was never going to be a blockbuster. It has been honoured more for the subject and the bravery it took to make it than for it's quality.


                
Aaaaaand the Oscar goes to Chiwetel Ejiofor. He did an amazing job in "12 Years A Slave." Really outstanding. The movie as a whole....7/10. I think I would have scored it much higher if it had a different director. Steve McQueen's style just doesn't work for me. If you're a fan of his other films, you'll probably like this one. I have a feeling he had final cut approval of this film, and it really shows. It desperately needed an editor. A much tighter narrative would have been significantly more moving.The dialogue was unusually awkward for a film of this caliber - it ripped me right out of the story. The scenes of brutality were very difficult to watch, but that was the point. The film definitely made me want to read the book (to which it is supposed to be very faithful). There was some unnecessary creation of inflammatory, fictitious dialogue which is unfortunate because the real story is damning enough. The acting was mostly good (Chiwetel was fantastic, as mentioned above). Michael Fassbender's transformation into a cruel slave master was remarkable and chilling. He'll most likely win for Best Supporting Actor. Benedict Cumberbatch was great, as always. There were a bunch of really, really odd casting choices, though, that, again, ripped me from the story. Taran Killam (SNL), Garret Dillahunt (Raising Hope), Brad Pitt in a five- minute cameo. I understand that comedians often want to transfer to more dramatic roles, but I really think their addition to a production of this weighty subject matter was a huge mistake.This isn't a movie you'll enjoy seeing, but if you're a fan of the cautionary tales of history and want to see a relatively faithful adaptation of a horrifying true story set in the pre-abolition US, then I think you'll benefit from seeing this film.


                
This is a good film, maybe even an historically worthy film, but not a great film. There's little that is truly outstanding about it with the sole exception of a performance by Michael Fassbender. The rest of the cast deliver a very narrow range of emotions that are as predictable from their horribly unjust situation, as they are uninteresting.It is a simple tale told well, but I'm afraid it doesn't stack up next to many of the other films nominated for Best Picture. If a work is to be judged by the three measuring sticks of aesthetics: unity, complexity, and intensity, it lacks in complexity. Severely so. In fact without Michael Fassbender's portrayal of a sexually and mentally deviant slave owner, one could imagine this film attracting no more attention than your common movie of the week.American Hustle, Nebraska, Dallas Buyers Club, and even The Wolf of Wall Street are much more interesting films with far more nuanced performances and with contemporary edge. But we live in times where simple and common are celebrated by the many, and edge is uncomfortable, even with the voting majorities of many professional movie organizations, and as last years wins for the eminently forgettable Argo can attest, this film's string of wins is likely to continue with a Best Picture Oscar, after which it will be as quickly forgotten as next years's hot Reality TV show.We should count ourselves lucky that great films are still being made, whether they're recognized during awards Silly Season or not.


                
With 12 Years a Slave comes a dour and distressing story about Solomon Northup, a freedman and a talented violinist, who was kidnapped one night and sold into slavery. This true story vividly captures his struggles and grueling journey through a very dark time. Now, slavery has recently become a relevant topic even though it no longer exists, but several films have released nonetheless, forcing us to relive the horrors that beset a once troubled race. As a matter of forewarning, this film is raw and relentless in its presentation for it's bound to disturb and place you in a level of discomfort that's rarely visited. You will be forced, as a viewer, to witness atrocious scenes of torture and whippings specifically as misty blood sprays into the air and the sight of deep and thick cuts makes you cringe to no end. By the end of the film, half of the theater was in tears, blowing their noses and withdrawing their tissues. It was certainly difficult to bear the missed opportunities and even larger troubles in a stricter environment. Ultimately, the most crucial services to the power of this picture relates to its performances. Chiwetel Ejiofor, Michael Fassbender, and Lupita Nyong'O all putting in terrific effort and fully exhausting us with deep emotion. In addition, the rest of the supporting cast features the likes of Brad Pitt, Paul Dano, Paul Giamatti, Alfre Woodard, Benedict Cumberbatch, and more- very impressive indeed. At the rolling of its credits, we are officially drained of any sense of happiness. Though the film isn't economic and takes its time with some ironic shots of beauty and others of a grim terrain, it's mercilessly saddening once its content fully sinks in and you understand the "bigger picture." The film's pacing relaxes in certain moments as particularly lengthy shots are utilized in order to realistically depict a situation, excluding any cinematic distractions. As I've mentioned before, this method produces the kind of footage that's raw and gritty; a scene will persist as it's gradually encompassed by a hopeless tone and hurtful details. What packs the punch to the fullest extent of emotion is the incredible score by Hans Zimmer. It does sound a bit like Inception's soundtrack, but it's undoubtedly effective in its complement to a disheartening segment. "I survive! I will not fall into despair...I will kick myself harder until freedom is opportune." Powerful words are spoken, and although a film with such subject matter could've easily hit the point of excessive sentimentality and corny dialogue, the conversations actually carry some very strong points. This experience is arguably an incredibly important one, which is likely why it's garnering this amount of praise and hype. The treatment of the white supremacist race towards a seemingly dissimilar kind can apply to any generation of our history and though the relationship isn't nearly as cruel, the feeling of utter discrimination is what faces both immigrants and homosexuals in contemporary times. Frankly, it's fascinating how modern peoples remain disgusted by these practices, but if you were to somehow teleport them to the age of slavery, would they feel exactly the same way? Racism has not ceased to exist, and most of the informed and aware would surely agree. Hopefully, this film will stir awareness within the more ignorant and prejudiced; I won't point any fingers, but you know. Upon viewing such atrocities, I can't imagine how society of the past could possibly deem such a way of life and action rightful. Of course, we could delve into philosophy and human nature, regarding greed and selfishness, for a considerable period of time, but I'd rather not. With that being said, I honestly don't think it innovatively accomplishes anything but its emotionally compelling execution is what the applause might be directed at, at least for me. Several sequences, though, contain rather muttered speech that somewhat complicated the state of affairs as I couldn't find myself making out what the characters were exactly speaking of. 12 Years a Slave will shock you and leave you in contemplation and vexation. It will be one of those events in cinema where the audience shouldn't be expecting excitement, enchanting visuals, or mindless action but a truly thought-provoking production that will formidably rival the best films this year.


                
I thing the best way to be fair about this movie is to write Pros and Cons. Pros: great acting, beautiful soundtrack, gives you a chance to appreciate life and a look back to history. Its touching and emotional. Cons: I usually love to go to the movies to enjoy a nice romance-comedy or action, so i am not used on such type of movies to be honest. So i found it a little bit sad, bloody story with sometimes excagerated violence details. So if you are looking for a refreshing break from work and life (as i usually do when i go to the movies), see another thing. Overall, I think its a movie worth watching, but may be on DVD when it gets released is enough for me.


                
12 Years a Slave tells a tragic story of a Free black man, Solomon Northrup, from upstate NY with a family and musical talent. On a trip to Washington DC, he gets kidnapped by slave traders and dragged into slavery.Americans know the sad history of slavery in the US. This film slaps you in the face with visceral storytelling of the brutality and abuse of slavery, both mental and physical. Some made it, mostly by keeping quiet and acting like docile pets to cruel masters. Others did not.You will see images of terrible lashings, whips, chains, sexual destruction, hangings, the whole thing. Over and over, this misery bludgeons you into hopelessness. While I'm sure the director expressed all this misery repeatedly to wear the viewer down, after 2 hrs 14 minutes, I had had enough - I got the point. There were too many long scenes, and repeated scenes like the dancing, and the abuse of the poor attractive black girl, and of Northrup himself of course. Maybe that is what the director intended, and if so, he did a terrific job. This movie is not for the faint of heart. If you want an in-your- face reality check on just what slavery was, and perhaps why still today there is a growing animosity from blacks against whites, see 12 Years a Slave. It's not a masterpiece, and I'm sure it was a difficult film for the actors to make, but it is a story that bears your seeing to experience this horrible piece of history that we hope never happens again.Terrific acting throughout, with my major critique being the length. Enjoy.


                
There is not much I can really say about this movie. This is one of very few films that leaves me feeling neutral. The acting is very impressive throughout. However, even great acting can't save a movie from a faulty plot. The movie has a very narrow range of intensity. In order to excite, a movie needs to go from 0 to 100 and then back to 0 quickly, and repeatedly. This movie starts out at a good 30 and eventually gets to about 60. C'mon guys, its a slave movie; if you think whipping is going to feel intense in that context, you are mistaken. Overall, the whole film is predictable, even the resolution. All that said, I can move beyond that and get through it without feeling as if the time was truly wasted. The only intense criticism I have stems from a brief sex scene at the beginning. After reading up on the basis of this movie, I found that Northup's autobiography no where states that he violated his marriage by having sex with another slave. This modification, supposedly warranted by "artistic license", just feels like a cheap and distasteful stab at Northup's legacy, though probably not intentionally. Again, some really great acting, but nothing too special about the movie as a whole.


                
I understand that the original title is from a book on which the film is based, but it is one thing to read a book called "12 years a slave", another to watch a movie: you do not enjoy, nor the beginning, because you already know that will be captured, nor the middle, because you already know that will be released, nor the end, because you would expect from the entire movie. In practice, two and half hours of film ruined by a very wrong way. Then it is no true that the film has made me so enthusiastic. It seems built for very captatio benevolentiae, without much skill on the part of the director and screenwriter. The audience becomes attached to the protagonist, but can not forget the thousands of other slaves who were not already "free men" and therefore will never come to be. It has been chosen to tell the story from a heartbreaking point of view, too much personal; if that's okay for an autobiographical book, not the same can be said for a film nominated for an Oscar. The only ten minutes by Oscar are those in which he starred Brad Pitt; I also believe are the ten minutes the most interesting of the whole movie. For the rest, a recommended viewing, sure, but not a masterpiece.


                
McQueen has, in my opinion, done a great service to the world in delivering '12 Years a Slave' to the big screen. It offers a quality which other films shy away from or never truly live up to; the harshness and brutality of the real world. Where genre classics 'Roots' or 'Amistad' fell, '12 Years a Slave' picks up the pieces, forcing audiences to watch a disgustingly harsh and horrifyingly true two hours of rape, kidnapping and merciless punishment - a very real depiction of the slave trade.The emotion McQueen is able to capture through uncomfortably extended shots is unmatched and, although a little too awkward for more passive viewers, highly appealing to the veteran movie guru. If you're searching for the film to watch that will show you to the extreme the true conditions of the slave trade, without much hand- holding, '12 Years a Slave' will blow you away. However, I would not recommend this for the average passive viewer as some scenes may disturb you, beyond the point of appreciation.


                
Better than most of the movies I've seen lately and the acting was superb from just about everyone. When big names like Brad Pitt and Paul Giamatti give you some of their best stuff, even though they're in minor parts, you know you're watching something good. It's hard to get your head around the fact that this is pretty recent history and it's still an open sore in America. The acceptance by the majority of white society at the time, of the concept of ownership of a human being , is something that still mystifies me. Mind you if you watch a few episodes of Downton Abbey and see how the staff were treated even up to the 1940s you will get a good idea where it came from. Can you believe that a Naval Architect from Liverpool was given an award for a design that allowed for more slaves to be jammed in at the prow of a slave ship? But I digress. This is raw and emotional stuff and it hits you right in the solar plexus. With that in mind, you don't really need to linger with shots of extreme anguish such as the scene with the rope, or the close up of Solomon Northup's despairing face. It's only a minor flaw but you would think that somebody would have whispered in the director's ear that these key scenes could have been shortened for more effect.To say you enjoyed a movie like this doesn't seem right but there's redemption in the thought that those days are behind us in North America (only to be replaced by wage slavery in many cases.) It's important to remember too that real slavery still exists in many other countries and we shouldn't get too smug when we point out the shortcomings of other nations... we've still got a big bill to pay!


                
12 Years a Slave Slavery in America was so bad that slaves actually wanted to move to the frozen wilderness of Canada.Unfortunately, the slave in this drama doesn't make it out of New Orleans.Touring with a performing troupe, a musician from New York, Solomon Northup (Chiwetel Ejiofor), is sold into slavery - despite being a freeman.Liquidated to a plantation owner (Benedict Cumberbatch) under the slave name Platt, Solomon shares his insight with his master.But when a handyman (Paul Dano) starts harassing him, Platt is sold to Epps (Michael Fassbender) to keep him safe.There, he meets Patsey (Lupita Nyong'o), whom he tries to save from the sadistic Epps.Based on Northup's own account, 12 Years a Slave captures the brutality of the times with brilliant performances.However, the director's sullen static shots can become tedious.Incidentally, inequality continues to exist so long as black history month only has 28 days? Green Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca


                
On first Impression I would liken this film to the movie 'A Girl Next Door.' Both movies were absolutely horrible to watch, but left me thinking deep questions about society,and my part in it. Sadism sells,you only have to look at the Saw Franchise to see this. Saw became so successful financially that it even has it's own fairground ride. To use violence in cinema effectively requires a great skill for not only the actors but the plot,the characters and direction, all have to remain very focused. Each slave in this film has their character developed so when they are objectified the viewer knows the slaves inner working, their humanity. 12 years a slave has excellent acting, extremely emotional performances from all it's cast. And with ironic thing , is there is a theme of suppressing one's emotions and intelligence in order to not draw a small minded society's wrath. The plot allows the gradual mental decline of a 'master.' to move with the mental discipline of a 'slave.'Like the raiders of the lost arc in poses the question of does absolute power drive people to mental and spiritual desolation? If you are ready for a film that will emotionally challenge you, then watch this film. It may make you build empathy towards black history. (this is a politically correct term in the uk! ) also dare I say it might remind you what potential "immigrants" are facing in syria and north Korea in this present day.


                
In my opinion, this movie certainly has many positives but unfortunately has also has many negatives. To start off the original story was both remarkable and compelling. There was plenty of material there to work from without much need for embellishment. Overall the acting throughout the film was generally quite good especially the acting of Chiwetal Ejiofor. I thought his performance in many ways kept the movie grounded and more realistically compelling. I also thought the cinematography and period set designs were also very good.On the other hand there were several aspects of the film that for me just didn't work well which is why I could not rate the movie any higher than I did. Steve McQueen may end of being a great director but I feel he is just too reliant on gimmicks and cliché directorial techniques. For example, some the flash-back, flash-forward segments were confusing and unnecessary, especially the micro back and forth scenes where he was actually being abducted. I don't know what point he was trying to make there at a time when the continuity of the scene should have been clear and instead was unnecessarily fragmented and confusing.Use of the long drawn out face shots and close-ups also seemed pointless and just served to slow the pace of the film down. There were also just too many things in the movie that were not explained either at all or well enough. Examples of such are: where did Brad Pitt's character come from? He just all of the sudden was there with very little if any character background information or purpose. The time element was also blurred. The film's title implied that this all took place over 12 years. You never got the feeling that 12 years had passed. The main characters appearance didn't seem to change much if at all until makeup people sprinkled some Gray dust on Solomon's head at very end. There are other examples. I thought Michael Fassbender's portrayal of a lunatic plantation owner was way over the top as the character would have more likely been committed to an insane asylum than a owner of a working farm.The score by Hans Zimmer seemed rather strange at times as well. I am a big Hans Zimmer fan but there were moments where I felt the music would have been more appropriate for War of the Worlds than for 12 Years a Slave. I also felt that some of the costumes were a bit over the top and too formal.In summary, I think the film would have much better if the director would have just gotten out of the way and let the very compelling and tragic story and great actors carry the load.


                
When Solomon Northup (Chiwetel Ejiofor), an African American violin player, wakes up in a cell, bound and chained, he finds he has been swindled by two traveling business men. The abducted Solomon, a northern sate freeman, is shipped off to the south and sold into slavery to a plantation owner. In a prejudice land governed by the harsh realities of economics and beliefs in white superiority, no one wants to hear the truth behind Solomon's incarceration. His bond is passed over to Edwin Epps (Michael Fassbender) - a master who has the reputation for little leniency towards his slaves. Solomon quickly learns it is dangerous to reveal his true identity. The movie traces the twelve years Solomon must endure this incarceration, away from a wife and children.It certainly is a strong and powerful narrative, one made all the more harrowing by the fact that it is based on a true story and works well as a reminder of our not so distant past. Chiwetel Ejiofor puts in a strong performance as the suffering Solomon and the director, Steve McQueen, is not afraid to let shots linger to create ambiance and feeling. It is a movie that certainly checks all the boxes for the Best Picture award it picked up in both the Oscars and Golden Globes.For me though, in many ways 12 Years a Slave has very little to offer past being an interesting and intense narrative. I felt I've seen this theme before, played out in other movies. Yes, the movie is challenging in so far as it exposes some of the sadistic brutalities of our human condition, but I do like a movie that truly makes me look at a subject matter, physical or metaphysical, in a new light. 12 Years a Slave is a straight movie which tells a story that at best, can only reaffirm those beliefs and condemnations I already hold! I know that will probably prove a crowd pleaser for the mass, but to me, McQueen's other works (Shame and Hunger), perhaps delve deeper into the human psyche in so far as they ask visceral questions about ourselves through lead characters of greater ambivalence. I guess what I mean is, I felt strangely removed from the Solomon character, as if I could share in his indignation without ever having to get to know him truly.That's not to say that 12 Years a Slave is not a fine piece of work and cannot hold a mirror up to expose the contradictions of the human soul in its own right. The villain, Michael Fassbender as the troubled master, Edwin Epps, is perhaps the most interesting and intense character. We get to see this conflicted man exposed though the relationships with his jealous and spiteful wife, his slave girl mistress, his twisted interpretations of bible and God, and his contempt, perhaps brought about through his own insecurities, for Solomon. A jigsaw of a man, who is the personification of injustice within a disquieted society struggling in conscience, in a changing world. If you are one that enjoys a powerful and intense narrative, without distracting twists or meandering sub-plots, than this will be an enjoyable watch.


                
Virtually every country has black spots in its history - some countries have them currently, too, including slavery (now hidden or under some other name/form). Depicting this together with understandings prevailing in the 19th century provides a good basis for dramatic events and intense human relations, where different races/genders/backgrounds approach or collide.Undoubtedly gifted Steve McQueen has fully exploited those opportunities plus has managed to attract famous and talented cast even into short supporting roles (Benedict Cumberbatch as William Ford, Brad Pitt as Samuel Bass, Paul Dano as John Tibeats, Paul Giamatti as Theophilus Freeman). But the strongest and longer visible roles (with close-ups of faces) are performed by Chiwetel Ejiofor as Solomon Northup, Michael Fassbender as Edwin Epps, Lupita Nyong'o as Patsey; I would not be surprised if any of those achievements is honored with Golden Globe and Academy Award.As for the script, the beginning is protracted and confusing, and I felt an attempt to burden the white with additional guilt and shame for the past, for their forefathers, especially in case of those living in the Southern states. At the same time, all great nations have based their wealth on penal servitude, slaves, overseas natives etc.I have to admit that Django Unchained by Quentin Tarantino impressed me more. And last but not least - I wonder why a panoramic movie about US history had to be accomplished by Brits mostly...


                
