A random and encounter has led Solomon Northup from living freely in New York to being kidnapped and sold into slavery in Louisiana, getting handed over to various slave owners. There, Solomon witnesses numerous acts of cruelty that no man should ever face.As I stared at the movie screen with full dread, I was reeling back at certain scenes I had just witnessed. There were good films and television shows about slavery before, and they had various nuances at how to tackle slavery. This film is part of said resurgence of the sub- genre, hot on the heels of "Django Unchained" and "The Butler". But while the former relinquishes on Spaghetti Western entertainment more than attempting to address the issue in a political light as the latter, Steve McQueen's "12 Years a Slave" shuts those two up, and perhaps the entire sub-genre, for good. I doubt any future slavery-themed film will be as harrowing as this one was.Steve McQueen is a fearless filmmaker, continuing his streak of unfiltered brutality within human depths. He frames his actors' faces in extreme close-up, the eyes staring into despair, the nostrils fuming in aggression. Naked flesh are shown not because of erotic content, but rather because of desperation and futility. Long takes and wide shots are not uncommon in his films, and here they showcase a plethora of fantastic scenes and performances that work to discomfort the viewer as much as possible. McQueen doesn't just allow the audience to tackle slavery, he guts the audience and leaves them for the consequences. This is an extremely uncomfortable film to watch. Beautifully shot locations are placeholders for unsettling sequences before and after, contemplated by Hans Zimmer's poignant and at times horrifying score. This all works to create a nightmarish time and place where hell walks on Earth.Central to all of this is the performance of Chiwetel Ejiofor as Solomon. Ejiofor showcases that he is a natural force to be reckoned with in this film, after a decade of mostly supporting characters. He spaces out in despair as the camera lingers onto him for solid minutes, not a word spoken. Another sequence shows him mourning the death of a fellow worker, in which the singing of the surrounding group compels him and shakes him down to tears. These scenes follow earlier ones where he is a classy, free man in the upper states, mingling happily with the crowd and partaking in fanciful music sessions. It is a tour-de-force performance.A fine ensemble of established and up-and-coming actors surround Ejiofor in his limelight - Paul Dano, Paul Giammati, Alfre Woodard, Sarah Paulson, even Brad Pitt and Benedict Cumberbatch, but none so ferociously as McQueen regular Michael Fassbender as the despicable, sadistic plantation owner Edwin Epps. So excellent and terrifying is Fassbender's portrayal of such a merciless and barbaric person, that the mere sight of him will either cause audience members unfamiliar to him to flinch.I was left speechless as the credits rolled. A lesser film would have added tacked-on sentimentality/exaggeration and politically influenced claptrap. Not this one. This is a movie to watch as a reminder of how powerful the human spirit can endeavor, and how lucky all of us have grown past that dreadful time in history. The full effect of it has not been felt in movies before, until now.


                
Going into a film like this you somewhat know what to expect. You ready yourself for callous suffering without end for no other reason than a system was just set that way, hope snuffed by despair. You know the injustice and stupidity will revolt, because it is just so blatantly wrong it baffles that it would be allowed to go on for even a day in plain sight.We can't avoid the bluntness if we are to confront that world. Slaves are casually stabbed and thrown overboard on the journey south, a mother is separated by her kids in a slave sale, down at the bayous they are beaten, a girl flogged for wanting a piece of soap, treated at best as mischievous kids or at worst as animals. We see how our man is over the years beaten or numbly retreats to protect himself into a hollow shell. But what good does it do if it merely blunts you to cleanse? Serious question here. Most films work in this way, from the Greek model demanding catharsis, a cleansing from evil so that we can go on about our lives. But if we just go on about our lives merely relieved of a burden, has any actual change taken place? If I shed a few tears at a film like this and the next day take out my work stress on my kids, am I really cleansed of the same root ignorance that at one time supported slavery? Southerners were not in support of an apparent evil after all from their pov, but of what they saw as a right or a tradition or a natural necessity.So I'm glad the film does these two things right, it's the only way it can truly be an eye-opener on the subject. It runs the gamut of people who exist today with the same ignorance: among them the young overseer scorned because he was outsmarted, the jealous and neglected wife, the white worker who betrays the letter to jump ahead in his career, the plantation owner who is thoughtful yet won't buy the kid with his mother because of the cost.And offers no catharsis. The exasperation is sweated out with a stoic capacity for having to be in the world, sentimental music doesn't try to waste all the pent-up energy into simple spine-tingling, the world itself is full of texture and sound because past the imposed confines there was still a world that extended in the distance and went on.I would only have the first segment of normal life much longer so that we'd be more deeply torn from our safet. All that staring into a clump of sunset trees in the distance much more intense because somewhere beyond that is still home and a wife, and this is the greatest visual education I could wish for anyone: not giving up into suffering as not losing sight of the horizon where loved ones are. The notion of persistence solely visual in the arduous field work itself. And only a whole separate film could do justice to the richness of slave songs, their call and response, their hidden narrative and spontaneous order.But a film that already calls up these intuitions has worked more than most, and any future film on the subject will have to build on this.No cleansing because there's nothing to so easily pretend like we can cleanse ourselves of and leave behind in the theater, all the evil in the film does not arise from intrinsic evil itself (otherwise we'd never be able to become better persons) but conditional ego and ignorance and we live every day with these things. If you relieve us with catharsis all that energy goes away. If you don't, it becomes a ball of lead that we have swallowed and have to carry with us back home to our kids, so that maybe it can work its own answer in this life.
12 Years a Slave (2013)Who can possibly argue against the power of this kind of movie, and the injustice that it waves as a welcome reminder? Superbly directed and acted (especially leading man Chiwetel Ejofor playing Solomon Northup), and set with high levels of realism in pre-Civil War America, there is little to separate what the filmmakers intended and what they achieved. A work of excellence.It is not, however, quite the masterpiece it might have been. I don't mean the story or the level of competence here at all. I mean the way the story is told, the choice to simply tell it like it was.That means that the presentation is quite linear (excepting a few gratuitous flashbacks that seem like a last minute editing decision). And uncomplicated. This is the biggest surprise. I mean, the basics might seem enough—a free black man in Saratoga goes to Washington and is kidnapped and made a slave, and he remains a slave until his recovery 12 years later. But that is actually the entire movie.Oh, I know, the details are missing in that sentence. But it is these details where the movie succeeds too well. We are shown the horrors of slavery and made to experience them. It isn't that this is ignoble or unimportant. On the contrary, this is an "important" film and should be seen. But in some weirdly surreal way, we already know everything that happens in these details. Do we need to see a woman, naked and tied to a post, whipped and whipped and whipped, with screaming in our ears? Many will say yes. We need to feel that horror even a little bit (through a movie) to understand how utterly unbelievably horrible slavery was. I would just argue back that I don't really want to be tortured directly to confirm what I already fully agree with. It's just a choice you want to make as a moviegoer. It's similar to watching a kidnapping movie—do you want to experience the inner and outer torments of the kidnapped, or see some larger view of a kidnapping situation and the complexities of that kind of plot?For me, then the movie was excellent at being literal, but that's not enough. For example, there is absolutely no hint at what the family did when Solomon didn't return home after his trip to Washington. Did they search? Worry? How? Who helped, who ignored them? Etc. That's just one of many complexities the movie avoids for the sake of a direct experience of the protagonist. I hope that gives a sense of where this unpleasant, terrific movie leaves you, and whether to watch it.


                
Greetings again from the darkness. Should this be labeled a historical drama? Is it one man's extraordinary tale of strength and survival? Does this fall into the "art film" category that so divides the movie-going public? The answer to all is YES, and I would add that it's a masterfully crafted film with exquisite story telling, stunning photography and top notch acting throughout.The movie is based on the real life and writings of Solomon Northrup, a free man who was kidnapped and sold into slavery from 1841-53. Northrup's story provides us a look inside the despicable institution of slavery. Needless to say, it's a painful and sad process made even more emotional by the work of director Steve McQueen (Hunger, Shame). McQueen takes a very direct approach. Not much is left to the imagination. Torture, abuse, cruelty and misery take up the full screen. The only subtlety comes from the terrific work of Chiwetel Ejiofor as Northrup. His facial expressions and eyes are more powerful and telling than any lines of dialogue could be.You will not find many details from the movie here. This is one to experience for yourself. It lacks the typical Hollywood agenda when it comes to American history. Instead this era is presented through the eyes of a single wronged man and his quest to return to his wife and kids, no matter the inhumane obstacles. We see Paul Giamatti as an emotionless, all-business slave trader. Benedict Cumberbatch is a plantation owner who has a heart, but lacks business savvy. And finally we enter the world of cotton farmer Michael Fassbender, who twists Bible scripture into threats directed at the slaves - his "property".Fassbender dives deep into evil to find his character, and along with Ejiofor, Sarah Paulsen (who plays Fassbender's icy wife), and Lupita Nyong'o (who plays slave Patsey, the center of the two most incredible scenes in the film), provide more Oscar worthy performances than any one movie can expect. You will also note Quvenzhane Wallis (as Northrup's daughter) and Dwight Henry (as a slave) in their first appearances since Beasts of the Southern Wild. Other strong support comes from Scoot McNairy, Taran Killam (SNL), Michael K Williams, Alfre Woodward, a nasty Paul Dano, Garret Dillahunt and Adepero Oduye.Steven Spielberg gave us a taste of the holocaust with Schindler's List, but not since the TV mini-series "Roots" has any project come so close to examining the realities of slavery. Northrup's story seems to be from a different universe than the charming slaves of Gone with the Wind. I would argue that what makes this watchable (though very difficult) is the focus on Northrup's story. While tragic, his ending actually deflects from the ongoing plight of those not so fortunate. It's a story of a man who states he doesn't wish to merely survive, he wants to live a life worth living.McQueen's direction will certainly be front and center come awards season, as will many of the actors, John Ridley (the screenwriter), Sean Bobbitt (cinematographer) and Hans Zimmer (score). The only question is whether the subject matter is too tough for Oscar voters, who traditionally lean towards projects a bit more mainstream.


                
I thought this story was reminiscent of Dumas's 'The Count of Monte Cristo', so much so that I knew what would happen at the end and that he would attain his freedom.Its a depressing and brutal film, which of course depicts how it must have been for the slaves. I applaud the acting from most of the cast and appreciate that Pitt and McQueen would have had a hard job convincing actors to participate in this film. The whole shameful episode of slavery is an emotive subject and must be difficult to portray in a way that neither attracts subscription to far right ideology, nor receives condemnation of its portrayal.I think the film is OK as films go, but the subject matter and the depressing script, may leave people wishing that it wasn't such shocking viewing.5 out of 10


                
The movie which won Oscar for the best picture, is certainly the best picture for the year. Having watched all the nominated movies for Best director category, the academy should've given award to Steve McQueen too for this emotional pre-Civil war movie, IMO. Still the academy awarded the movie for the awesome screenplay. Lupita (the girl who won Oscar for the supporting actress), was too good esp. with the sobbing and torture scenes (made me cry almost). I detested Tarantino's Django, but now I feel like I may like it after seeing this.Somehow I could relate this movie to an Indian (Tamil language) movie named Paradisi released in earlier 2013. Both of these movies deals with slavery and the protagonist falling into it (not by his own will). In Both, the protagonist is separated from his wife and children without their knowledge. Since I am an Indian and have seen the regional movie before this. So I couldn't give it a full 10/10.Bottom line : A must-see movie. Not for kids for torture and nude scenes. Not for sensitive audiences too.


                
In 1841, the Afro-American violinist Solomon Northup (Chiwetel Ejiofor) is a free man, living with his wife and children in Saratoga Springs, New York. He is hired by two men for a two-week tour in Washington with their theatrical company. However Solomon is kidnapped and sold as a slave in New Orleans with the nickname Platt. Along twelve years, he works in the plantations and has abusive treatment of his masters, until the day he meets the Canadian abolitionist Bass (Brad Pitt) that promises to send a letter to his family."12 Years a Slave" is another great story of injustice and the saga of Solomon Northup is as sad as Jean Valjean in "Les Misérables". Steve McQueen made a heartbreaking movie but the plot is based only on the injustice with Solomon Northup; what can the viewer say about the other poor slaves badly treated bu their masters. "12 Years a Slave" is a great movie but did not deserve to win the Oscar, competing against "Gravity" and "Captain Phillips". My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): "12 Anos de Escravidão" ("12 Years a Slave")


                
With many fine actors, a remarkable subject matter and the number of accolades it received, '12 Years a Slave' was watched by me with high expectations.For me, '12 Years a Slave' is not quite as good as the hype and isn't one of my favourite Best Picture winners. It could have been truly extraordinary, but it wasn't quite despite having individual elements that were that adjective. Can see though why it has been so well received, while also seeing where those who didn't like it are coming from in their reservations (though not sharing the vitriolic way they've been expressed by some). It may not be perfect, but from personal opinion, and quite a big number of others, it was tremendously powerful and very brave,'12 Years A Slave' may have some one-sided and conveniently black and white characterisation. It may not say anything new about the subject. Some of the cast, like Paul Giamatti and Benedict Cumberbatch (though they are excellent still), are underused. And Brad Pitt and his dialogue did feel out of place and the dialogue additionally coming over as heavy-handed. On the other hand, to tell the story from the viewpoint of the enslaved was a brave decision in an industry where few films have done it, and it comes over very well on the whole. The treatment of the slaves is not for the faint-hearted, they are shockingly harrowing and not comfortable to watch but they don't feel that gratuitous. There are some emotionally devastating moments, such as the ending and the long shot of Northup singing.Steve McQueen was the right director for the film, a film that needed to be told in a brutal and honest way and being a director with that directing style McQueen brings that out perfectly in a bravura directing job. '12 Years a Slave' is very impressive visually and technically, and Hans Zimmer's score is suitably stirring.John Ridley's script adapts Northup's memoir with tautness, honesty and sincerity, not subtly mind you but it's not a subtle subject. It only falters with Pitt's dialogue. The acting is superb, with Chiwetel Ejiofor's powerfully restrained and sincere performance wholly deserving of its acclaim. Lupita N'Yong'o, very moving, and Michael Fassbender, at his most frightening, are more than up to his level, as are Sarah Paulson and Paul Dano. Overall, extraordinary it isn't but an emotionally impactful film it certainly is. 8/10 Bethany Cox


                
As a non-American, I find it really interesting that so many reviewers here are uncomfortable with the explicit violence and nastiness portrayed in this film. How could it possibly be true? They seem to say. Surely Americans have never been that vicious and uncaring? But for hundreds of years, some of them were, and this film depicts it well. It's not a pleasant film but it does hold your attention and would make an excellent film for history classes. The film's creators depict Edwin Epps, the main slave owner, as an unapologetic bigot, manipulator, rapist and sadist. Generations of slave traders lived their lives like this. The slave of the film's title, Samuel Northup, did, at least, live some of his life in the relative comfort of the North, but it's sobering to realise that generations of slaves lived in total misery, with no way out of their situation. I found Brad Pitt's small role -- as the saviour who contact Samuel's friends and family, who rescue Northup from slavery -- as a little patronising. I.e. the white guy who saves the day for the black guy. But my companion pointed out that often blacks' only hope would have been someone helping them.
Steve McQueens new film '12 Years A Slave' is an adaptation of the memoirs of Solomon Northup, a free black American violinist from New York who was kidnapped and sold as a slave to a Louisiana plantation owner in 1841.Solomon (Chiwetel Ejiofor) has a wife (Kelsey Scott) and children, and was enticed by a couple of showmen to play for a lot of money. After a heavy night of drinking with these men, he awakes to quickly realise that he is to be taken to New Orleans to meet the first of many unscrupulous men who use him as a slave. Slave trader Theophilus Freeman (Paul Giamatti) gives Solomon his new slave name Platt, and sells him to plantation owner Ford (Benedict Cumberbatch). As the film title suggests Northup spends the next 12 years as a slave, not just with Ford but also for an even more wicked cotton plantation owner, Edwin Epps (Michael Fassbender)."Sin, there is no sin. I can do as I wish with my property", Epps is the quintessential hate- figure, a renowned "nigger breaker" who shows no compunction in lacerating his slaves whenever he chooses. By the time Northup becomes Epps' property, McQueens' singular focus on Northup's nightmare is all too real and harrowing. Northup dominates the film, but the strength of '12 Years A Slave' is not just in showing what he has gone through but that for the women its far worse. Women are regularly torn from their children who are sold separately, the likes of Patsy (Lupita Nyong'o) suffer the added torment of rape. Patsy is Epps' mistress of choice, not only does she suffer the abuse from him but also from the jealous Mrs Epps (Sarah Paulson) who is as equally vengeful.Its an understatement to say that '12 Years A Slave' isn't an easy watch, McQueens unflinching and unsentimental film relives America's enslavement of black people in all its horror. There is so much detail in this film, even the language is historically accurate. Although filmed impeccably, there's a lot of economy in McQueens artistic flourishes, which is a shame. Everything is shown through the tormented eyes of the slaves, specifically Northup. McQueen isn't afraid to prolong the agony for maximum emotional impact, not least in the incredible hanging sequence where Northup's toes are barely touching the damp muddy ground. Its a thought-provoking and poignant moment, showing us not just the excruciating pain and suffering he had to endure but that all the other slaves carried on as normal for fear of similar reprisals if they helped him.'12 Years A Slave' has some superb performances by a very strong cast, the big surprise being the unknown Nyong'o who is superb as Patsy. The film unearths devastating performances from the two outstanding British actors Fassbender and Ejiofor, using opposing techniques to flesh out their roles. The more theatrical Fassbender is repellent to the core, the epitome of evil. His faith in his religion and his own manipulation of it is a sad and all too real indictment of how religion is used to justify the worst in men. Ejiofor is spellbinding as the more internalised Northup, using his body and face to convey Northup's terror and anguish. And those eyes, those pained eyes of his which shows a normally articulate man inhibited by his inability to speak up for fear of being beaten or far worse.'12 Years A Slave' is a savage account of slavery and the Americans treatment of black people. Slavery may be a thing of the past, but the film does also highlight the fact that enslavement comes in many forms and that it does still exist, its just not as visible.
In the antebellum United States, Solomon Northup (Chiwetel Ejiofor), a free black man from upstate New York, is abducted and sold into slavery.No film from 2013 has been more rewarded and awarded than "12 Years a Slave", and with good reason -- an incredible (yet true) plot fleshed out by some remarkable actors that really captures what slavery was like without the gratuitous violence of exploitation or the overt sentimentality of a Spielberg film. There is no surprise that the film has captured the top slot in many critics' lists and enters the Oscar race with an impressive nine nominations.Right off the bat let us say that if "12 Years a Slave" wins Best Picture at the Academy Awards, there is no shame in that. This is the kind of film that deserves to win, as it both looks good and covers a topic of great importance. Slavery may not be in the forefront of our minds, but it is always a part of American history we have to live with. That is why I think this film will take the statuette home.After that, the race gets a lot more complicated. A win for adapted screenplay seems fair, as this story more than adequately brings to life historical figures in a way that comes across -- dare I say it -- entertaining, while also being honest and truthful to the source.But a best actor for Chiwetel Ejiofor? This is hard to say. While no one would argue he did not deserve such an award, he happens to be up against Matthew McConaughey in "Dallas Buyers Club". For both men, this is the role that will be the peak of their careers most likely, and I have to say McConaughey gave just a little bit more. So the edge is slight but evident.The exact same situation awaits Michael Fassbender, who was devious as Edwin Epps without becoming a caricature. He is this year's Christoph Waltz, which is quite the feat. But against Jared Leto? Again, the edge tends to favor the actor who put his own physical health on the line, and I think Fassbender will come in second.Lupita Nyong'o as Patsey could get an award. The actress fields are not as strong this year as in the past, and it would be a good time to sneak in past the more established people in the field. (Although her role is small, I was also pleased to see Quvenzhané Wallis as Margaret Northup. Regardless of how everything turned out, "Beasts of the Southern Wild" was the film of 2012 thanks to her.) The only really disappointing thing was the presence of Brad Pitt as Bass, the film's hero (if there is one). Whether or not his acting was good, the part seemed all wrong. Pitt stands out as too recognizable in this world, and when he appears it is as if out of nowhere, proudly talking down his employer with repercussions. Was this necessary? Did we need what amounts to a 21st century man breaking the fourth wall to save the day?That nitpick aside, this is an excellent film and deserves any and all honors that come its way.


                
12 Years a Slave is about a free African American who was kidnapped and sold into slavery. The movie demonstrates the significant amount of hardships, and in great detail the severe mistreatment's the slaves received during the years of slavery. The main character Solomon Northup is sold into slavery where he is no longer considered a person but but a piece of property. Throughout his 12 years as a slave he's sold to a few different slave owners, each one being harsher than the last. The movie showed the harsh treatment the slaves received like constantly being whipped, rapped, hanged and even late night dancing. Solomon continuously received these harsh mistreatment's, especially from the slave owner Edwin Epps. However, there were a few kinder slave owners he encountered. For example, one of the slave owners recognized Solomon's talent for playing the violin and even bought him his own violin so he could escape the hardships of slavery for a little while.Throughout the movie, Solomon has flashbacks of his previous life, where he was free, and had a steady career. These constant flashbacks are what give him the hope to survive and dream that he might escape the jaws of slavery. Along his journey he tries to write several letters to his family, so that he could become free again, however his letters always failed to get sent someway or another. In fact, he even tried paying a white guy to send his letter for him, but this also failed to get sent. However, Solomon makes a deal with a white man that the white man will do everything he can to spread the word of Solomon's enslavement to his family. Which he eventually does, and escapes Solomon from slavery. The director Steve McQueen did an excellent job producing this movie. He clearly portrayed the emotion and harsh reality of slavery. When I watched this movie, it was very emotional because I felt like I was part of the movie and when a slave was whipped I imagined being in their shoes, and feeling the intense pain the slaves were experiencing. Steve McQueen's clever use of imagery and screen shots also helped to complete this movie and prove to the public that slavery really did happen, and that it was awful. His movie makes the viewer feel horrible because they can't help but think that they let this happen to poor innocent human beings. It also signifies how wrong people were that blacks weren't people, that they didn't have feelings and that splitting up their families was okay. It makes me sick to know that at one point we did this to them, and that nobody did anything to stop it. Overall, the movie 12 Years a Slave is an exceptional example of the hardships the slaves endured during slavery.
12 years a slave makes the spectator feel it in their own skin. Steve McQueen brings us a bunch of well-known stars and makes a brilliant movie where Mr. Ejiofor shows an impressive skill as an actor.The share-out also shows Michael Fassbender doing another amazing performance as the lord of the cotton fields, showing the cruelty and madness the lords of those years could show to their slaves. Also having great appearances like Benedict Cumberbatch, Paul Giamatti, Brad Pitt, the movie reflects the hard living (if we can name it like that) of the African American people those days.The movie, like The Butler did, shows how the USA has changed in the last centuries, not even the bad things but also the good ones like the love and the ensemble of the people in such a difficult situations.The only reason i did not give a 10 star rating is just because i think few sequences could be cut, it larges the movie just looking at the landscape, what i think, in my opinion, could be expendable.


                
Mankind has come a long way from just being another mammal to the self-proclaimed masters of the planet. But the one thing that has continued to accompany us throughout the course of our evolution has been our inhuman desire to submit others to our will. Slavery has existed since the dawn of man & continues to exist even today in all forms; be it forced labour, human trafficking or debt bondage. 12 Years A Slave takes us back to the days America is ashamed of & tells the story of Solomon Northup; a free-born Negro & skilled violinist living with his family in New York who, on the pretext of making more money, was brought to Washington D.C. in 1841 and was later deceived, kidnapped & sold into slavery.While narrating Solomon's plight from his bondage to his eventual release over a decade later, this film also paints a viciously devastating portrait of American slavery & isn't going to be an easy sit for everyone. Unflinchingly scripted by John Ridley & excellently directed by Steve McQueen who leaves no stone unturned to prove that slavery is the lowest form of how one human can exploit another, steadily photographed, sensibly edited, calmly scored & outstandingly well performed by a strong cast of Chiwetel Ejiofor, Lupita Nyong'o, Michael Fassbender & others, and each one of them have contributed greatly in delivering the year's strongest ensemble performance.Leading from the front is Chiwetel Ejiofor as Solomon Northup in what is certainly a career- defining work that deserves all the praise it has garnered so far & more. Supporting him remarkably well are Lupita Nyong'o & Michael Fassbender and even the small cameos by Benedict Cumberbatch, Paul Dano & Brad Pitt end up making a mark in this film. On an overall scale, 12 Years A Slave is an emotionally scarring cinema about one of the most barbaric events in mankind history and benefits greatly from McQueen's bold direction, unflinching script, historical accuracy & strong performances from its highly talented cast. There are always some films out there which deserve to be seen no matter how disturbing or upsetting their experience could be and 12 Years A Slave is definitely one of them. Strongly recommended.Full review at: cinemaclown.wordpress.com


                
Perhaps, Masterpiece is the appropriate term to refers to this film. A work of art that may, and must be remembered in the next years. It has the touch of a talented director and a touching, detailed script and also a great soundtrack (always with Hans Zimmer) and an exceptional cast. Some films have all these things but the result is exactly the opposite: a big disappointment. In fact, a film that has all these resources end being either a masterpiece or a disappointment. But this one you can be sure it's a masterpiece. The term sounds too pompous, I know, but I don't care. The film is what it is, and shall not be referred as anything lower. Obviously, you want to know what is so great about it, and I offered the key words, and without spoilers I'll explain why. The script don't has that much of a deeper meaning or what's ever, but it is as strong as anything else. It has a simple message, that it's delivered in a powerful way. Surmount and faith. It explains a bit the slaves mentality in the age, and there is a line in the film that explain it all – of course not going to spoil it; all I can say is that is a great one liner – that would sound cliché under other circumstances, but not in the film – why? – well, the difference is it's about real life here, fellas. The life of the protagonist, Salomon(masterfully interpreted by Chiwetel Ejiofor), it's really touching. And what it's most impressive about the story is how many details is put on it. It's even difficult to follow sometimes every single detail, but this is improved in re-watches. Faces expressions, the sounds of the insects, the breeze in the grass, the slaves cutting the reed, the sun radiating against the trees...everything is shown in details. You can even feel the land. The art direction is used carefully. The acting in general, indeed excellent. Top performances from Chiwetel Ejiofor, which literally brought Solomon to life, and brilliant in the over dramatic scenes; Michael Fassbender, that was perfect as the cold, harmless and somewhat coward villain; and Lupita Nyong'o, though she was one of the weakest in the cast, but her performance was good anyways. Also excellent were Benedict Cumberbatch, Paul Dano and the always excellent no matter what, Paul Giamatti. It no matter if it will win the Oscars or not<U+0085> it's already the best film of the year, and one of the best of this century, and also of all times. No kidding. Watch that film. 10/10


                
My sentimentality stretches the length of a coin."12 Years a Slave" is an impressive adaptation of the diary of Solomon Northup,a free man who lived in Washington with his family in 1840. He's approached by two businessmen who offer him a lucrative job in a circus as a musician.Solomon is drugged and abducted to the Southern states of America to be sold there as a slave.What follows is a gripping and horrific tale of a man who tries to survive in inhuman conditions and suffers under the authority of the white plantation owners who rule with a severe hand and who judge over the fate of these Afro-Americans.At times it's painful and unbearable to watch certain images.The helplessness on the faces and the hopeless situation of these people was distressing to see.The moment they arrive in New Orleans there is that momentary image of chained blacks with amputated hands and an apathetic resigned expression on their face. These Afro-Americans were seen purely as goods:assessed as an ordinary horse and if they no longer meet the requirements,they were simply removed.The whole movie is a picture of humiliation,abuse and torture.The feeling of disgust was never far away.The settings and decoration of the entire film was stunning.The whole movie breathed the spirit of that time, both in Washington and in the southern states.Washington looked like a prosperous sophisticated city.The southern part looked sultry and dusty. You could feel the oppressive heat blasting of the screen and you could almost smell the sweat (by fear and efforts).Beautiful outdoor shots and impressions alternated with shabby huts and decay .An impressive cast has also been incorporated.I must admit that I had never heard of Chiwetel Ejiofor.Till now he had the status of "that-guy-who-also-plays-in-that-movie".That will change now I guess and his (difficult) name will now sound more familiar.However, he also starred in " Salt " and "American Gangster" to my surprise.In this movie he plays the role of his life and it's well worth an Oscar nomination. It's sublime to see how he brings the metamorphosis of an articulate and accepted person into a humiliated and silence imposed slave. A variety of facial expressions pass by: enjoying first, then desperate, humiliated and submissive, anger and resentment, sense of justice and compassionate, and then relieved and remorseful. The whole pallet he apparently plays effortlessly. Michael Fassbender is far better in this movie as the cruel, despotic and demonic Edwynn Epps, than when he played the counselor in "The counselor".At this time he is number one on my list of most sadistic and disgusting movie characters.A figure who adores his dominance, uses a young girl for his personal enjoyment to the annoyance of his wife and apparently has a drinking problem causing unpredictable and dangerous mood swings .The unknown Lupita Nyong'o can look back on a matchless performance and is clearly launched in Hollywood land . What a wonderful achievement! Cumberbatch his contribution was unfortunately limited. At times the figure Ford came across as an affable man who could muster some compassion. But ultimately they were for him purely an investment, not more than that. The moment Solomon arrives at Ford's estate together with a bereaved mother, who was painfully separated from her children, Ford's wife showed a perfect display of the attitude in those parts at that time. First she is compassionate and concerned. Subsequently she advices a necessary hearty meal for the woman and says that she'll forget about her children after a few days. This sad woman is also removed afterwards because she'd likely affect morale. There are also short performances (but not the least) by Paul Giamatti as the shrewd slave trader , Paul Dano as the cruel Tibeats (recently he played a brilliant part in "Prisoners"),Sarah Paulson as the wife of Epps (Mary Lee in "Mud") and Brad Pitt. The latter had a substantive and crucial role in this movie. He's finally the one who ultimately gave Solomon his freedom back. Whether Pitt had to play it or not is another question. It could have been anyone else in my opinion, but his name will probably ensure extra attention, I suppose.So it's a compelling and poignant movie about one of the blackest pages in American history. The strongest point was the lengthy scene where Solomon dangles on a string and in the background everyone slowly goes back to what he or she was doing, as if nothing is happening. The fact that other slaves aren't conversing that much, makes complete sense. The lesson was to say as little as possible, let alone that it would come out that you can read and write. As someone also warned "Unless you want to be a dead negro.".And yet this film is not one that stands above everything else. Notwithstanding that this period may never be forgotten, at the end I had a "Here we go again" feeling. It's not that long ago we saw " Django Unchained","The Butler" and "Lincoln". Plus the fact that there were television series shown in the past like "Roots" and "North and South".I hope that we can let this topic rest for a while now. I also found it strange that although Solomon demonstrates intelligence and seems to be a wise and eloquent man, apparently it wasn't a reason to start worrying. If I were a landowner I would get rid of him as soon as possible. Also the fact that despite the trials Solomon stayed calm at all times (until the reunion with his family), seemed a little excessive to me . And in addition, the film title itself tells the complete story. You can't be surprised anymore or enjoy some ingenious found twist.A film that continues to resonate, a magnificent achievement in acting and for me an Oscar for Chiwetel Ejiofor . However, the movie itself is yet another one in a long row of the same.More reviews at http://opinion-as-a-moviefreak.blogspot.be/
"12 Years a Slave" is an unusual story about slavery and its evils because unlike most films, this one is based on the true story of a black man who was free but was kidnapped and sold into slavery in the early-mid 19th century. Solomon Northup (Chiwetel Ejiofor) was a happy man--with a wife and kids. However, once kidnapped, as the title suggests, he disappeared for 12 years and was treated brutally. The film shows his MANY trials--including beatings, attempted hangings and witnessing rapes and other atrocities.The Oscar winners will be announced tomorrow and there is a lot of buzz for "12 Years a Slave" as well as "Gravity". I saw both in the last two days and would easily pick "Gravity". Now this is NOT because I think "12 Years a Slave" is a bad film. No, it's quite good. However, it's also a rather straight-forward narrative punctuated by many scenes of brutality--and not all that different from films such as "The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman", "Roots" or "Amistad". It's all very sad but doesn't really break much new ground. Whereas the entire production of "Gravity" is unlike anything ever made before--and has a completely unique and breathtaking space adventure that looks and feels as if you are there. To me, this makes "Gravity" my pick--though both are very good films.By the way, I mentioned the brutality in "12 Years a Slave". All of it was very appropriate to include in the film but it's simply too rough for kids. Think twice before you allow younger viewers to watch it or, better yet, watch it with them.


                
Beautifully acted, casting occasionally surprising and a horrifying story. The story of a northern businessman kidnapped. His family could have been mine; it could have been his children, my children. It is no surprise that this movie did not come out of an American director but an English Grenadian born if that is correct. Solomon is the main character played by Chiwetel Ejiofor. He feels so real as do the people around him. Accomplished, educated and talented, he is prime pickings for the slave trade. How could this happen in America to Americans? The movie has to cover a lot of time and events and the viewer could feel some of the short cuts but it came as a relief to me. I almost walked out early on as it was too painful. I wish I were better at reviewing. Sorry I could not give you a more intelligent review. Plan on time to sit down, have a meal and talk about this movie afterward. It will take decompression time. Do you have the guts to see it?


                
Artist-turned-Director Steve McQueen always comes up with such intriguing and unique stories/movies with vast psychological and emotional depth. Like his previous two brilliant works, 'Hunger' and 'Shame', '12 Years a Slave' is relatable at so many human levels.When you talk about slavery, you can ask how can it be relevant or relatable to all of us? The principal story of the movie is about a free black man who is tricked and sold into slavery, and suddenly loses his freedom in his early 30's. The movie clearly portrays Slavery as the loss of Freedom in which people are bullied and tortured to work for their masters; that speaks to everyone at some level or the other. This bold and powerful cinematic piece by McQueen is, by far, the most brutally real and gripping portrayal of the Slavery I've seen on screen; it doesn't celebrate the torture or bloodshed, and it doesn't talk about revenge - it just depicts things as they were. For many of the scenes, the camera non-judgmentally lingers around the characters; it almost makes you feel guilty that you're there, but there lies the beauty of the movie.British actor Chiwetel Ejiofor started his film career over 15 years ago, and has been 'that guy' actor for a while. We've seen him around in many significant not-so-lengthy roles in many good films, but this is the film which will finally push people to learn his name properly. He has given an impeccable performance, and the talent with which he delves into the emotional depth of the character (Solomon Northup) helps you picture the situations through his eyes. McQueen regular Michael Fassbender skilfully transforms himself as the despicable and arrogant slaver Edwin Epps, and is almost unrecognizable in his new villainous role. Sarah Paulson is terrific as the proud, obnoxious and jealous wife of Edwin Epps, and is more discriminate and cruel than her husband, which is quite unusual for female characters in historic movies. As expected, supporting actors like Benedict Cumberbatch, Paul Dano, Brad Pitt and Paul Giamatti perform their parts quite ably. But it's debutant Lupita Nyong'o, playing the part of tortured and sexually-abused slave Patsey, who's the star of the movie and almost outshines everyone else. The movie revolves around lead character Solomon, but towards the second half, it's the agony, misery and anger of Patsey that drives the story forward. And the flair with which Miss Nyong'o portrays these emotions is really commendable. In my opinion, she's the emotional epicenter of the film.The cinematography by Sean Bobbitt is remarkable. Hans Zimmer's background score surely goes well with the characters' emotions, but the resemblance it bears with 'Time' from Inception (his previous work) proves to be a big distraction. Score resemblances to other great movies diminishes the impact of the scene to a certain extent (because the mind already associates it with something else). This is the only complain I had with the movie.Overall, it's a brilliantly portrayed journey of survival and redemption. "Slavery is an evil that should befall none."


                
I was a little apprehensive about going to see this film, I was surprised that my husband picked it. I found it to be a gripping film. This film took us back to a time in history in it's rawest form, it touches places in our souls that we thought were healed.At one point,I had to breath and calm down, I was feeling so offended. But that's the way it was. Just the thought of that happening to my husband sent chills down my spine. It is hard to accept that things like this happened I'm glad that this part of history was brought to our attention. This film is thought provoking and a great conversation starter. I would recommend this film to all those that are not faint in heart.
Review: There can't be anyone in there right mind that can watch this movie and not feel hate, sadness and sympathy during this film. It nearly brought me to tears how these individuals were so mistreated just for there colour of skin. It took me some time to get out of that zone after watching the movie because I felt so emotional and disturbed. With these things in mind, it's mainly due to the director and his extremely deep vision that could have made a movie touch so many hearts, and the excellent performance by Chiwetel Ejiofor who must have found it difficult to play such a role. All of the actors put in real performances which made the movie believable and heart warming. You do have to be in the right mood to watch this film because the whole mood is extremely deep and, in some ways, shocking. Anyway, I'm so glad that it won the academy award because it definitely deserved it. A Must Watch!Round-Up: I'm not one that is usually into period dramas, but this movie covers a period that touched my heart. You can't help but think, what would you do in that position, but you can never imagine how it must have been for the people who had to go through such an awful nightmare. Anyway, the director picked his cast very well and he made use of there acting skills to tell this impelling story. Budget: $20million Worldwide Gross: $188millionI recommend this movie to people who are into there extremely deep period dramas about slavery in early America. 8/10


                
With a shimmer of hope in his eyes Solomon Northup stated, "I don't want to survive. I want to live." (McQueen, 2013) 12 Years a Slave is based on a true story from the adaptation of Solomon Northup's 1853 memoir Twelve Years a Slave. Solomon Northup, a skilled violinist and carpenter, was a free born African-American man who was born in New York. However, he was abducted and sold as a slave in Washington, D.C. For 12 years he served for various masters throughout Louisiana. From the literary aspect of the story line, I believe it was excellent. There have been various movies based off the slavery of the 18th century. Therefore, making another film about it would require the difficult task of making it stand out from the rest. However, 12 years a Slave did a fantastic job in making a name for itself. This film showed another perspective of slavery since Northup was a free African-American who was sold into slavery. The characters in the portrayal of this film were plausible, especially the main actor, Chiwetel Ejiofor, who played Solomon Northup. As a viewer, I felt his anguish when Northup was captured and taken from his family. Looking at the dialogue used in the film, which would be strange for modern day conversation, it was appropriate for the time setting. In the 18th century people spoke more properly. Looking at the major characters throughout the film, none of them showed and change. The masters continued to act like masters. Northup continued to be righteous. He went so far that he argued with one of his masters, which was an incident that almost got him lynched. Overall, the story captured my interest from the beginning until the end. I watched Northup when was a free man, when he was living as a slave, and when he was free once again. The dramatic aspect of the film was well received. The majority of the actors did a great job at playing their part. However, there were was some acting that I would question. For example, Bass, who was played by Brad Pitt, picked up an English accent which I felt was not reasonable. The location and setting of the film was interesting since it is different from how it is nowadays. In the 18th Century there were more plantations than buildings. The actors wore costumes to fit in with that era. I believe 12 Years a Slave did a great job in portraying the characters and brought them to life while utilizing minimal movie stars. Brad Pitt was the sole blockbuster movie star of the film.Camera angles, composition, lighting, music, and sound effects can make or break a film. I did not notice any flaw in the cinematography of 12 Years a Slave. I did notice, however, that the camera angle was usually taken from the side. There were not many scenes that were directly in front of the actors. I believe shooting the film in this manner gave it a darker and more dramatic feel. The movie portrays slavery, which is not a light topic, so it puts the viewers in a position where it is as if they are standing there with the actors. My favorite sound effect in the film was the threatening sound of a cracking whip. For example when Northup was being whipped for claiming he was not a slave. I also did not notice the use of music until the ending when the credits began showing.If there was one thing I could change anything about the film, then I would allow for the development of other characters in the film. The film is based on the memoirs of Solomon Northup so naturally it would revolve around his character and his development. The film did not talk much about any of the other characters. I would have liked to see the development of a couple more characters. This would allow the viewers to get a better idea of how Northup's situation compared to the rest of the slaves or free men around him. For example, Patsey, played by Lupita Nyong'o, first appeared half way through the film. All we know about her is that her master molested her and at the end of the movie Northup gave her a glance before walking away. I am sure that many wondered what happened to her and would have liked to see her character develop a little more throughout the film.
12 Years A Slave (English): The film which yesterday had won the Golden Globe Award for the Best Motion Picture (Drama) and also, which will be releasing in India next month, is indeed an all and all well directed film having shades of directors like John Ford, Steven Spielberg and even Quentin Tarantino. The film has a screenplay by John Ridley, based on the book by the same written by Solomon Northup in the 1860's on his encounter with the slavery that makes you bind as well as bite your nails and even sympathize with the circumstances shown in the film, then the cinematography by Sean Bobbitt not only captures the best of the slavery and brutality but also reminds us of the camera-work as we saw in the film of John Ford. The production design by Adam Stockhausen, costume design by Patricia Norris and even the sound design by Leslie Shatz and Bryan Arenas are simply perfect to say the least. In the performances, Chiwetel Ejifor, Dwight Henry, Kelsey Scott, Scoot Mcnairy and rest are simply riveting and convincing as well. The cameo by the film's co-producer Brad Pitt is also worth cherishing. A great "Great Escape" kind of fare, making a must watch. My rating would be 4.5/5. <U+FEFF>


                
Now if there's one problem I had with this movie is that I couldn't really get attached to Solomon. Solomon got off fairly easily compared to many of the other slaves like Patsey. When Solomon was freed I didn't really feel happy, because Patsey and many other slaves were still left to their cruel fate. Maybe that's not the point of the movie, but it would have strenghtened the emotional impact for me. Of course it's based on a true story so I can't really blame them for the plot.Still it gets an 8, because it did have me engaged throughout. The acting was good all around and despite what I said earlier it did have an effective portrayal of the black slavery.
A great film, based on a true story, centered around a man tricked into Slavery during those times in USA. Chiwetel Ejiofor plays the protagonist who is a free black man but is tricked into slavery. His acting was just Amazing. There are lots of great actors in this movie like Benedict Cumberbatch, Brad Pitt and Michael Fassbender, each given a certain amount of screen time and role and each gave a great performance, especially Fassbender, his role as an evil master was brilliant, I can smell Best supporting Oscar Nod for him. The movie really makes you feel how precious freedom is. The situation of slaves, their livelihood, their condition is very well portrayed. The movie can get very brutal and unforgiving at times. The cinematography was great. The soundtrack was great too, ranging from great emotional pieces too twisted dark themes. Definitely a must watch but not for the light hearted who can't stand brutality and stuff. 8.4/10


                
