Directed by Steve McQueen and staring Chiwetel Ejiofor, Michael Fassbender, Benedict CUmberbatch, newcomer Lupita Nyong'o, and a ton of other stars, '12 Years a Slave' is based on the memoir of Solomon Northup, a freeman who was living in Saratoga, NY before being tricked, drugged, and sold into slavery in the south.McQueen is an auteur known for his honest and brutal direction, and he keeps filming when others would shut the camera off or look away. While making the picture that much more difficult to sit through, his steadfastness greatly elevates the emotional impact of the film. It's a must-see, if only for educational purposes—just as 'Schindler's List' is used to teach about the Holocaust and 'Milk' about the struggle for gay rights. I'm not trying to compare the events depicted in this film with the events depicted in those I just mentioned, all I'm saying is that they are all equally important in portraying the reality of their respective situations. There is a moment in '12 Years a Slave' when, as a form of punishment, Northup is hanged by his neck, the tips of his toes just able to reach the ground below him. The camera stays on him for a few minutes. It is silent, and all you can do is listen to him struggling for breath. This is one of the more disturbing moments in the film, but not the worst. Eventually, Northup is sold to Edwin Epps, a short-tempered and impulsive plantation owner portrayed by Michael Fassbender. He is by far the most villainous and terrifying character in the film, and Fassbender brilliantly captures his mood swings and tempestuous personality. It is Chiwetel Ejiofor, however, who steals the show. He brings so much life to Northup, and completely disappears into his characters. He is able to depict so many deep levels of emotion, while also bringing dignity to a man who was unwilling to let anyone take away his will to "live" rather than just "survive." Additionally, Lupita Nyong'o, in her first big film role, is mesmerizing as Patsey, and hardworking and desperate woman, and the object of her master Epps's attention. She is hated by Epps's wife—masterfully played by Sarah Paulson— and most of the more dramatic moments in the film revolve around her character's tragic story. If I have one complaint, it's that 12 years do not seem to pass by at all, mainly because none of the characters substantially age. Also, Brad Pitt is thrown in for ten minutes to depict a kind-hearted abolitionist, and while he does a good job, it just feels like Brad Pitt on a slave plantation, which is totally out of place. Regardless, while the film may be harrowing and difficult to sit through, it is simply brilliant all the way through, and by far the most honest depiction of slavery that I've ever seen.


                
Considering the social and economic importance of slavery in America's history, the scarcity of serious films depicting the daily life of slaves in the Confederate States is significant - especially since the after-effects from this shameful episode still echo through the culture. '12 Years a Slave' is based upon the memoirs of Solomon Northup, who endured a hellish period of enslavement in Louisiana, which is backed up by legal records.The story begins with him living with wife and children in upstate New York as a free man and respected member of his community. After being lured to Washington by a couple of con-artists who promised him work, he was subsequently drugged, locked in chains, viciously beaten, stripped of his identity and shipped to New Orleans to be sold into slavery. Over the next twelve years, he was owned by two men who treated him in contrasting ways. The first was a relatively civilized fellow, but the plantation's half-witted manager was threatened by Northup's superior intelligence. Their mutual dislike produced a dangerously volatile situation, and unwilling to lose his investment, Northup's owner re-sold him to a neighbor. This unbalanced individual regarded his slaves as property to be used for pleasure and profit, which caused them to live in perpetual fear that his capricious moods would flare into sadistic lust or rage at any moment.It's noteworthy that a British director has become one of the few filmmakers to delve deeply into this subject, and the combination of John Ridley's powerful script and McQueen's directorial skills has inspired exceptional performances from the entire cast. Their dramatization of Northup's experiences is both riveting and uncomfortable to watch, as the film depicts the perverse nature of a society that permitted such a barbaric system. Hopefully it will reach a large US audience, who will learn how a privileged Southern elite cruelly exploited their fellow humans in order to acquire greater wealth for themselves.


                
If any contemporary director deserves to be in the mainstream spotlight without compromising their style, it's Steve McQueen. His debut, Hunger, already had the hand of a confident filmmaker taking a fly-on-the-wall style to the grimy art-house. Shame was one of the finest films of its year for its impeccable depiction of an addiction to one of humanity's primal survival instincts resulting in self-destruction. I'm so happy that his latest film has gracefully conquered early Oscar favourites from the output of David O. Russell, Martin Scorsese and the now delayed film from George Clooney to become this year's Oscar frontrunner. During its festival run when the buzz first began, I took it upon myself to read the screenplay. While I can usually sink scripts within a few hours, the poetic density of 12 Years A Slave took several sittings across a week or two. Even on the page it was a harrowing, exhausting experience. It's a film that needs a have a gut to truly display the length of time, but the script is bloated in its brilliance.Naturally, scenes were cut (whether in the editing room or pre-production I don't know) and that's a blessing and a curse. Now in the film, we rush to Solomon Northup's capture, opening with scenes we shall revisit later on. I understand the decision to enter the world as quickly as possible, but I do feel it hurts its first act. As much as I jump for joy every time Scoot McNairy hides himself in a film, the transition from ordinary life to becoming kidnapped feels jarring and contrived. Who is Solomon Northup as a free man? What does he want? Maybe we don't know because there is no source for the matter. Maybe McQueen isn't interested in telling that story. At the very least, we definitely know that Solomon is a compelling character during his capture. Chiwetel Ejiofor is an actor I've always liked but he's never made an impression until now. His passion and commitment to his portrayal of Solomon is utterly captivating. While he can slink into the background of some scenes where he is not the focus, when it's time to shine he bursts a fuse.Unfortunately during this cluttered first act, it concerns itself too much with subplots that we know will not succeed. While they accomplish establishing the stakes at hand and rule out the 'why doesn't Solomon just<U+0085>' there's just too many abridged tales. Perhaps this is distracting just because I know the full stories from the script, but they should've went all or nothing with them. It results in editing that frustratingly refuses to let us into Solomon's headspace. We're along for the ride, but too frequently not Solomon's ride. During then we only get rare and rewarding glimpses into how he feels and his perspective on his past life stolen from him. Fortunately the film vastly improves once Solomon is free from the deliciously cruel Paul Giamatti to the spiteful live-wire Paul Dano. As the film focuses on his one-on-one conflicts and moral dilemmas, the film reaches intimate and truly challenging moments which is where the film's power lies. Fruitless subplots are dropped in favour of heartbreaking ones as we're introduced to the pitiful Patsey on the pathetic Edwin Epps' plantation.Michael Fassbender and Steve McQueen have been one of the most enthralling director/actor combination in recent years. They always bring out the best in each other. Here, it feels like they've reached their finest work yet, but still feels like their collaboration has just began. Fassbender's Edwin Epps is the film's most fascinating and complex character, a man who sincerely refuses to believe he is evil. He demonstrates the thesis of the film in that the authoritative caucasians didn't believe they were doing anything wrong. Many people have laid claim that he is pure evil, but I don't think that's the point, he belongs in a misguided world where he thinks his lust and affection is apt praise for Patsey's talent. While I may not have sympathy for him, he is a tortured soul, a regrettable and irreversible tragedy of mankind and this is thanks to Fassbender's incredible performance. His victim Patsey, played by talented newcomer Lupita Nyong'o, is an utter revelation. She may not have a fully developed character but in at least two powerful scenes, she makes the best out of what she can for a character that warrants the tears you will inevitably shed.One of the most consistent aspects of McQueen's films is the magnificent taste in cinematography and production design. Presumably from his art background, he's great at immersing you into his bleak visual worlds. Working with Sean Bobbit again, the cinematography is reliably enchanting. In true McQueen style, if a character must endure patiently, in this case Solomon hanging from a noose on the tips of his toes, we must endure with them. No shot this year, not even in the extraordinary Gravity, has been as stunning and unforgettable as the infamous long take of Patsey's lashes. It's a filmmaking masterclass in just a few short minutes. Despite the shaky first half hour, it's all redeemed in its harrowing final 15 minutes. It's the greatest sequence I've seen in a long time and I've never had a scene make me a blubbering mess quite like it. Yes, the jump to his kidnapping feels abrupt and there's no sense of relief to his inevitable freedom, but this is all calculated to mirror the struggle of his experience and we've felt every beat. 12 Years A Slave is a powerful testament to the endurance of the human spirit with its theme of injustice applicable to any point in history that earns the right to be one of the best of the year. After a string of lightweight Best Picture choices from the Academy, this will be a refreshing choice. 9/10


                
One of our partners was invited to TIFF for the premiere of Life of Crime so I was lucky to be able to tag along with him and watch these two great films along with The Lunchbox. I didn't initially even think of writing a review because I would hate to discuss something that the majority of the public hasn't seen yet because public opinion would be limited. But, seeing the reviews that some have published has pushed me to write a review of my own.In the beginning, the movie moves semi fast as far as getting into the central plot but not too fast that you don't get the opportunity to assess the characters. In fact, by the time Solomon (Ejiofor) is sold into slavery, in my opinion, his demeanor, education, and his family are established enough for you to invest enough emotion into him that by the end of the film you care enough about him to wonder if he and his family will ever be reunited.I don't understand how someone can say that they were bored because they are desensitized by the beatings and tortures that African American slaves endured during that dark time. Odd analogy but, I cried at the end the movie Titanic not because I was unaware of the fact that the ship would sink and eventually be the demise of thousands of people but because the story telling grasped my attention and pulled at my heart strings. Same case with 12 Years. Yes, you know Solomon along with the other unfortunate souls will endure physical and emotional pain and you might be well familiar with the tools and methods they accomplished this with but it makes it no less shocking, sad, or important. I wonder if this person saw the same movie that I saw, if at all, because without spoiling too much of the movie, there is a torture scene in which the camera not only zooms into what's occurring but it also seems to last forever to the point where I was so uncomfortable that I wanted the scene to end. McQueen does this throughout this film (along with many of his other films), his scenes make you uncomfortable mostly because his camera lingers on scenes that are very hard to watch.Surprisingly, the only time I got teary eyed was in a funeral scene where Ejiofor's acting shines and mostly with facial expressions (and some singing) you realize that he's finally succumbed to his situation versus how in the beginning he emotionally fought his sudden twist of fate. As far as the other actors, much has been said about Fassbander and Nyong'o's superior acting, rightly so, but I found myself being really impressed with Benedict Cumberbatch and Paul Dano's performances. Hopefully, we can all agree that Fassbander's character, Edwin Epps, is that of a tyrant and just an awful human being. Someone like that is easy to assess but Cumberbatch's William Ford is more complex. He's a slave owner yet he treats his slaves humanely, to an extent he cares about them but he definitely puts his and his families' interest above all, and although he doesn't partake in the beatings he sure doesn't interfere with the process. He makes you ask yourself if neutral people like him are good or bad for progress. I still don't know the answer to that. Paul Dano plays John Tibeats and his character is cruel and has horrible mood swings. The way he was played, I wondered if the person the character was based on had a mental disorder. He's uneducated (almost slow), not even respected within his peers, and overall just a loser. Not to make excuses for him but how could someone with those defects possibly be kind to another human being let alone a human who was considered inferior throughout that time. He too makes me question the hardships that other people, other than slaves, were going through during that time.Overall, this film had a great narrative, strong performances from the entire cast, and I would definitely recommend this film. I do have two complaints, though. I too felt that the ending was a bit abrupt. In all fairness, I'm not sure what kind of closure I was expecting but I felt like much was left unsaid. My biggest gripe of all has to be the torture scene I mentioned above in which Patsey (Nyong'o) yells something to Solomon and it just had John Ridley's over the top style written all over it. According to Solomon Northup's biography this exchange did not happen so why did Ridley feel the need to add such a dramatic statement? What was the need to create sexual(?) tension between Patsey and Solomon's character? The same could be said about a speech Solomon gives in the film. That too was fiction and not realistic but I guess they did that to emphasize on their message on hope.
Like the whipping scenes we uncomfortably witness, in 12 Years a Slave the sting comes in the tail. The end titles tell us neither the slave pen manager nor Solomon Northup's kidnappers were punished. Solomon is saved, but that individual justice does not redefine the terrible system. Racism, slavery and savage injustice persist at film's end. Of course, the point is that even after the Civil War, the freeing of the slaves, the Civil Rights Movement and its legal and societal successes, racism and injustice persist. Hardly a major daily newspaper passes without a reminder, whether it's a regressive change in the voters' rights laws or a Florida bully justified in "standing his ground" against the unarmed black kid he hunted. 12 Years a Slave reminds us what contemporary America grew out of and where too much of its roots remain. McQueen's film deploys an uncompromising visceral violence that rejects the sentimentality and softened focus of American treatments of that period. There is such violence in the air that steamboat paddles churn up a riot of raucous white water and the boat's furnaces roar infernal. The Southern swamps have an eerie other-worldliness that sets up the ghosts of slavery past as a still haunting presence. Apparently it takes an outsider to cast such an unflinching eye on the subject. To his credit, the physical world and the language seem perfectly realized. No trace of the outsider there, but the work of a director steeped in his subject's world. Perhaps the only false note is producer Brad Pitt appearing as the Canadian who brings Northup salvation. His performance is fine but he can't stop registering as Brad Pitt, who gets to make the film's wisest and most humane and modern speeches. Whether his casting was his or McQueen's idea, it shivers the film's verisimilitude and seems self-congratulatory. Pitt brings Northup's story to the North as outside the narrative he helps bring it to the screen. But that is a minor cavil about a film that's courageous, brilliantly written, scored, directed and performed, and as important a statement to America and the world as we have seen this year. For more see www.yacowar.blogspot.com.
12 Years a Slave is indeed a very powerful movie. Directed by Steve McQueen, and written by John Ridley, the movie is an adaptation of the 1853 autobiography by Solomon Northup (Chiwetel Ejiofor), a New York State-born free man who was kidnapped in Washington, D.C. in 1841 and sold into slavery in the South. Chiwetel Ejiofor did a great job, acting as Solomon Northup, and it wouldn't surprise me, if he wins a couple of awards for it. The supporting cast is just as amazing. I give mad props to both Benedict Cumberbatch, and Michael Fassbender for their performance as plantation owner, beloved William Ford and crude Edwin Epps. There are too many powerful performances scenes to count, but I had to choice some, it would be, the scene where Solomon is nearly lynch by John Tibeats (Paul Dano) and he is just hanging out there, while the other slaves couldn't do anything about it. Last is the trials and misfortune of Patsey (Lupita Nyong'o) with her being abuse by both Epps and his evil wife played by Sarah Paulsen. The movie doesn't have too much over the top moments, and seem very accurate. The movie puts a lot of insight, you wouldn't see in much modern movies today. First off, there is the good heart, slave owner William Ford. You would never see that in any other movie, as movies about slavery have all slave owners as a crude one-dimension evil human beings. Second off, you wouldn't see a white field hand (Garret Dillahunt) working besides the slaves in other films. To accurately depict the time period of the film, the filmmakers did a great job capturing the language, the look, and locations of the time. Still, the film did take artistic license, and create some new drama like the scene where a sailor kill a slave. One thing, I didn't like about the film is some of the music. Don't get me wrong, I found the songs, Roll Jordan Roll, and the classical American folk music great, but the soundtrack by Han Zimmer is kinda sound not new. Most of the emotional music being play in the background, remind me too much of 'Time' from Han Zimmer's 2010 soundtrack for the film, 'Inception'. It's seem recycled. Another thing that is bothering people is the flow of the film over the 12 years. It seems to go, really quick over the years. When he was kidnapped in the beginning, his children were kids and he looked about mid 30's. Throughout the movie he doesn't look any older at all or aged. The point is, they could have done was to add the age look for the characters because you can't tell that 12 years are going by or let us know that time is passing by. But it didn't feel like 12 years for me. It more felt like a matter of about 4 months. Maybe if they had showed seasons changing or done makeup on the actors to show them getting older it would have been better. About the brutality of the film, it was there, it wasn't too gruesome in my opinion. It was a lot harder to watch 1997's Amistad than this. I wouldn't say, this movie is for all audience, but I do agree, young mature adults should watch it. I don't find the movie, putting a white guilt to anybody, nor do I say, this is a movie trying to start hatred against whites for their ancestor mistakes. If anything, it is part of the healing process, for the most part, I found myself, not anger, but understanding what people went through back then. Most black audiences would agree with me. I have to say, all people of every race need to see this film, even if it's not teaching you anything new that you don't already know. The reason why people should see this film is indeed, while slavery seems like old practice, it still acts upon the modern world through sex trade, and the misused of illegal workers. Such modern sense of slavery need to quickly end. Indeed, if you like this movie, do check out, 1984's TV movie, Solomon Northup's Odyssey starting Avery Brooks. It's well done as well. Overall: While it did had a limited release, it is a must watch.
The greatest blot on humanity ever imposed by humans was and will remain slavery. It is the lowest form of how one human can exploit another. Then it does not matter if it is sex slavery or slavery to pick cotton. 12 years a slave reminds us what some of the previous generations of humans had to go through just to survive.Based on 18th century America, it is the true account of a free black man and how he is tricked and sold into slavery, separated from his family for a period of 12 years and how he survives those gruesome times. Faced with different experiences of kindness from one slave owner to absolute inhuman brutality from another, the protagonist manages to hold his ground facing adverse conditions. Some of the scenes portrayed in the movie are so gruesome and inhuman, you want to turn your face away from the screen. The act of considering another human as an animal just because he/she is of a different skin color comes as normal as sunshine on a summer morning to the white antagonists. Acting is one of the strong points here. One of the few movies, where each and every actor plays his/her part almost brilliantly. The protagonist black man played by Chiewetel Ejiofor is a revelation. Surely, the front-runner for this years Oscar Awards for best actor. Michael Fassbender as the cruel slave owner disgusts you so much, you want to kill that bastard. The passion for cruelty which he portrays is awe-inducing. The simultaneous innocence and weakness portrayed by Lupita Nyong'o as Fassbender's sex slave leaves you teary-eyed. Definitely, the break-through performance of the year. A Small role by Benedict Cumberbatch and a cameo by Brad Pitt are perfect. This was the first Steve Mcqueen movie I saw, and I am totally looking forward to complete watching his filmography. Overall, a must watch movie.Rating : 9/10


                
I am a southerner and when I watch movies depicting slavery, I am usually suspect. Most films depict Southern plantation owners as evil, cruel, despicable individuals. What I liked about the film, was the fact that it showed the political insanity of slavery, and those who owned slaves as the people they were. Some evil, some defective and some indifferent, and some, just trying to run a business. Notwithstanding the evils of slavery, in some cases the owners knew the horrors of slavery, yet the system was set up by a national government indifferent to the horrors of such evilness. How the lead actor Chiwetel Ejiofore did not receive the academy award, shocks me. The entire movie showed a character who persevered in circumstances inconceivable to most. The story line was straightforward, and since I will not write a spoiler, I am happy to say that the facts of the story appear to be told without undue political banter. I think it is the best movie ever made, and God knows I think Matt McConeghy is adorable, and Dallas Buyers club outstanding, it was a tie for Best Actor in my mind. If you have any time, read the book, 12 Years a Slave. This is a part of history that should never be forgotten, and hopefully all will gain insight of the complications and absurdity of slavery in the 1800's.


                
"12 Years a Slave" is an extremely touching and strong film in most aspects. Quality is there in every scene and the feeling that you are actually in the times of slavery never leaves you during the whole story. Those, who think that Django Unchained had it all, prepare for a drama and much more brutal reality of those times. Colourful with violence and abuse, it is one of those movies when antagonists do not get any physical or emotional punishment for their sins, nor the enslaved ones get to the point of so desired by the viewer nemesis, just like it was historically.There is no happy ending. Bitter of injustice does not abandon you with the redemption of the hero. Meant to be the most beautiful time of his life seeing kids grow, he spent being abused, beaten to his knees. The unique mix of class acting, intriguing plot and right focus on the reality of those times make the picture my personal top pick in 2013. Contribution of Michael Fassbender as the main villain deserves particular compliment.
Congratulations to 12 Years a Slave on winning the Oscar Best Picture, Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Supporting Actress in the Oscar. The movie is based on a tragic true story of Solomon Northup, a free man who was kidnapped and enslaved in the deep south of America before the Civil War. While we rejoice at the achievement of this production, we should not forget the agony millions of slaves suffered while building America.This is a very difficult and disturbing movie to watch because of the slow tempo depicting the heavy and ugly reality that actually happened more than a century ago. All the torture, helplessness, abuse, and betrayal caused a minor headache. The last movie I felt so upset but had to finish watching was Schindler's List. There were so many moments that I wanted to just leave the theater.But I also want to stay and see what happened. I know Northup's (Chiwetel Ejiofor) ordeal would end and I want to find out how he sticks it out and return to freedom. The film opens with his determination to reach out to the outside world – by boiling fruit juice to make ink to write on a precious piece of paper. But it is not until the latter half of the movie that this scene reappears. By then he has almost spent 12 years as a slave in a plantation under a mad couple who routinely abused their slaves.Solomon Northup's misfortune started in 1841 when the talented violinist was invited to perform at a circus in Washington DC. He drank with his acquaintance and got really drunk. But the time he woke up, he was chained up and locked in a cell where the Capitol was seen. He and other black people were herded on a boat, shipped along the Red River to the south, stripped and sold like a cattle. Throughout the film, we witness how threatening life can be to a slave, whether they work in the sugar cane field or cotton field. It is no Gone with the Wind, and definitely not Unchained Django. As meticulous described in Solomon Northup's memoir, slaves work day in and day out without knowing what will happen to them in the next minute: they can be physically or sexually abused or be sold to other monstrous plantation owners anytime. They are treated as property which can be freely sold. It seems to be a massive psychotic society where slaves were not respected at all. Being illiterate and without knowledge of the outside world, many just put their head down to survive. Some, like our heroine Patsey (Lupita Nyong'o who won the Best Supporting Actress for this role), do not even want to survive but also lack the courage to end their own life. Yet in this hopeless and helpless situation, Solomon does not only want to survive, "I want to live." He exhibits enormous determination to leave this situation and return to his family in the north. He never loses hope despite failures and threats around him. He fights back. He attempts to escape. He asks a white slave for help only to find out he is betrayed: he tries all he can to return to freedom.Since Solomon is literate, he can articulate and record his mundane and tortured life on the plantation after he regains his freedom. Think of all the other unheard and unrecorded horror stories. Award winning script writer John Ridley based his script, many lines verbatim, on Northup's memoir. Armed with this capturing script by John Ridley, director Steve McQueen gathers an excellent ensemble of cast to relive this unflattering history and forces us to reflect on what we have done to our fellow human beings and how noble some people are despite the cruel circumstances. The sound effects, or the lack of it, is haunting as we witness the slaves' hardship: when Solomon was hanged on a tree, tiptoeing the mud right beneath him under the boiling sun; when Patsey was whipped by Northup, we only hear the whip wheezing and her screaming. According to Northup's memoir, when his master Edwin Epps (Michael Fassbender) took over the whip, he hit 10 times harder than Northup himself. That prolonged scene is tormenting to watch and provoke you to wonder how can a person do this to another. She, a hardworking woman who yields more cotton than the men, is already abused sexually in addition to being the source of jealousy from Mistress Epps (Sarah Epps). This abuse of power reminds me of the Stanford Prison Experiment initiated by Dr Philip Zimbardo in the 1970s. Once university students were assigned a powerful role they did horrible things to the prisoners. That experiment was aborted after only six days but slavery went on for decades in the US. Although the Declaration of Independence was adopted in 1776 which states that "All men are created equal," there were slave trade in even the capital! America is such a hypocrite society. It is sad that Solomon's persecution against his abductors did not materialize and his last days were unknown. African Americans has come a long way, from slaves to the civil war to Rosa Parks. They built America but their effort was not commemorated and it was not until Martin Luther King then they are more equal and finally there is Barack Obama. This movie would mean so much to the American society. Very serious and very heavy but so brutally real. More stories like this should be told. Not just the glamorous Gone with the Wind, heroic Django Unchained, and the entertaining Butler. It is high time we face our past. For without know the past, we would never understand how and where we would go forward. A must watch for those who care for humanity.
I love this time of year in the run up to the Oscars – - the real power-house films are coming to the fore. 12 Years a Slave is a case in point: a hard film to watch, but ultimately a must see.The film tells the true story of Solomon Northup living life as a gentleman in Saratoga, New York at a time when the divide between the Northern and Southern states on colour was never wider. Tricked and kidnapped, he is cruelly stripped of his fine clothes, his dignity and his freedom and shipped south to a life of servitude at the hands of a variety of 'owners' , all of them supposedly a'God-fearing Christians, but some distinctly more Christian that others.The film is beautifully shot (by DP of Photography Sean Bobbitt) with long lingering panoramas of bayous and vistas contrasting the beauty and quiet of the landscape with the ugliness and brutality of the plantations. In fact, this film is bound to feature strongly in all of the nominations in the technical categories at the forthcoming awards: lighting, wardrobe, editing all magnificent. And the special effects used in one particularly uncomfortable scene are truly impressive: sometimes you don't need to be in a galaxy far far away to appreciate the subtle arts of a special effect.Londoner Steve McQueen directs with true flair. Some of the shots are long, langourous and without dialogue, letting the audience inside the head of the actor to the point where you want them to cut away because it is becoming too painful to carry on watching. True directorial power. He is certainly not afraid to continue to tackle controversial material head-on, given that this is his follow-on film from sex-addiction film "Shame". (For female fans it is worth pointing out that there is one shot in particular – in which he wears loose fitting pantaloons – where Michael Fassbender reveals – ahem – the length to which he went in that earlier film).In the acting department – as for American Hustle – this deserves an award for the ensemble cast who work together splendidly. The big names – Benedict Cumberbatch, Paul Giamatti and Brad Pitt – all perform admirably for the limited time they are on screen. Giamatti in particular (who impressed in his role as the driver in "Saving Mr Banks") is particularly chilling as the inappropriately named Freeman, selling on the kidnapped slaves to new owners: a portrait of urbane callousness.But it is the sparring between London-born star Chiwetel Ejiofor and Michael Fassbender, as the evil cotton plantation owner Edwin Epps, that really make the acting sparks fly. It would be no surprise if both actors were Oscar nominated, and indeed a surprise if they were not. Both are outstanding. Interestingly Ejiofor made his film breakthrough in another slavery film, Steven Spielberg's Amistad, before going onto greater things (sarcasm) in Richard Curtis's Love Actually.Also notable is Lupito N'yongo who – astonishingly – makes her acting debut in the role of Patsey, the beautiful but abused love interest of Fassbender's Epps. Finally, acting herself firmly into the category of "most despised female of the year so far" is Sarah Paulson as Epps wife, vindictively taking her marital ire out on Patsey. In Django Unchained I was critical of the way in which the plantation owner's wife Mrs Candie – who seemed to be, if not good, not fundamentally evil either – got cruelly, albeit comically, dispatched at the end of the film. No such reservations if Django wants to pay Mistress Epps a visit! My one and only criticism of this amazing film is the music score. I thought a recurring theme sounded startlingly similar to a theme from "Inception" and I found myself thinking "whoever wrote this must be a fan of Hans Zimmer". Then as the credits rolled, I saw the score was written by<U+0085>. Hans Zimmer. A quick google of the two films' titles reveals that my observation hasn't gone unnoticed by others. A bit of an irritating distraction for me.Many years ago Spielberg's "Colour Purple" made a big impression, both with audiences and at the awards. This wonderful albeit gruelling film deserves to do likewise: it is the Colour Purple of 2014. It is a sad and astonishing fact that more than 150 years after this film was set, a minority of our 'civilised' society still judge a person by the colour of their skin. As such, and in the same way as Schindler's List was used as an educational tool, this film could and should be shown in schools as a weapon in the fight against racism.


                
And the Oscar for best picture goes to... 12 Years a Slave, and it was deserved! Sure, it had a lot of good competition, but in my view it was the right choice.This is a strong theme, and lately there are other movies about slavery, but if you want to see one of the best in the genre, this is the one. A movie based on a true story about the memoirs of Solomon Northup, and how he was abducted and sold into slavery, for 12 years in his life, hence the title.We begin the movie seeing Solomon and his family, for now he's still a free man, but things are about to change. Two men tricked him, and he's sold into slavery. From now on, he'll have to live working for slave-owners. The story develops from here until he's finally free, after 12 years (obviously predictable, so not a spoiler).The cast is absolutely fantastic: Chiwetel Ejiofor - main role interpreted beautifully. Benedict Cumberbatch - brief moment in the movie, played the role of the "fair" slave-owner. Michael Fassbender - he should have won the Oscar, he delivered a spectacular performance. Lupita Nyong'o - now a Oscar-winner, and doing a very good job. Brad Pitt - even for brief moments, but with a determinant role.The cinematography is stunning, the music, despite being a little repetitive enters in the right moments building up the movie's atmosphere (Music by Hans Zimmer). The narrative is built from the book, it's well-structured, and developed in an easy way to understand it.You may need to have a strong stomach at some points because the violence is present and it's a very visual and also emotional experience.


                
During the days of the big studio system slavery was a topic that was generally avoided. The standard interpretation of the era's history made such work as Birth Of A Nation and later Gone With The Wind the way we saw the era. It was the Civil Rights Revolution that opened a lot eyes and now with a bit of perspective there, a film like the incredible true story 12 Years A Slave could be made.Not only is it true what happens to Chiwetel Ejifor's character this was hardly a unique situation. Slave catchers were really down on the social scale even at that time, but it was a business to them. So of course if you can't find a genuine runaway slave, why just take any black person that answers a general description. Naturally free black people were on the alert, but these two low lifes who capture him use stealth and planning to bring him to the south and sell him.This story of degradation and despair is a future cinema classic and ought to be required viewing in schools and for those who think any group of human kind deserves to be treated in this way. Slave owners knew exactly what they were doing when it was forbidden to educate a slave. If you remember in Band Of Angels Clark Gable did educate the child who grew up to be Sidney Poitier almost to his dying regret. The hardest thing that Ejifor has to do is conceal his education in order to survive.Michael Fassbender plays the last and worst of a series of plantation owners who Ejifor is in slavery to. Fassbender is amazing to watch as his character sinks into moral degeneracy as more and more he has to justify this system. The saddest story in the film is not our protagonist's. Rather it is that of Lupita Nyong'o who plays a woman separated from her children when she's sold off in a slave market which is placed in someone's parlor. The degradation and misery she endures can only be compared to Schindler's List and clearly 12 Years A Slave was influenced by that Spielberg masterpiece. You have to a Medusa victim not to be moved by Nyong'o on the screen.


                
"I will not fall into despair till freedom is opportune!"Steve McQueen is a brilliant filmmaker who makes movies that are sometimes difficult to watch, but at the same time are powerful and engaging. His characters usually are troubled souls who experience some sort of physical, psychological, or emotional torture. They are slaves of their circumstances, and no character literally captures these elements as well as Ejiofor's Solomon Northup as he is chained and sold into slavery. Some people claim that films about slavery and the Holocaust are overdone and exploitive, but I disagree, if made right they can be powerful and sensitive like was the case with 12 Years a Slave. The same people that make these claims are the ones that don't mind going to see five or six superhero or vampire films a year. There are good superhero movies and terrible ones, and it's the same thing with films dealing with these dark historic moments. This film isn't just a movie about slavery, it's a movie focusing on Solomon's story, it's a character study focused on an exceptional man who is determined not to lose hope or fall into despair. I'd even go as far as saying that more than a film about slavery, this is a dramatic and thrilling movie about the lack of human compassion. There are several villains in this film and they aren't only the slave masters, we see several scenes were even slaves turned their backs on each other, and that lack of compassion is what truly captured the essence of this film.This beautiful screenplay adapted by John Ridley from Solomon Northup's autobiographical book, Twelve Years a Slave, tells the story of Solomon (Chiwetel Ejiofor), a free man and New York citizen who was kidnapped, sold into slavery, and forced to work in several New Orleans plantations during the mid 1800's. This is where Solomon's fight for survival begins as he is determined to regain his freedom and return to his wife, Anne (Kelsey Scott) and two children. Once Solomon is sent to New Orleans he is sold by Freeman (Paul Giamatti) to a wealthy slave owner named Ford (Benedict Cumberbatch). Ford is a kind Christian, but ultimately he really wants to look out for himself and when Solomon has trouble with one of the overseers, Tibeats (Paul Dano), he sells him to a ruthless slave owner named Epps (Michael Fassbender). This is where Solomon's soul is really put to the test as Epps cruelty is unbearable. However, Patsey (Lupita Nyong'o) suffers the most from her Master's cruelty as she is raped and despised by Epp's Mistress (Sarah Paulson). We follow Solomon through these tormented 12 years as he experiences all sorts of horrors until he finally finds a compassionate heart.This superb film benefits from a powerful lead performance from Chiwetel Ejiofor who deserves all the awards he's been receiving. His facial expressions and agony transcend the screen and break our hearts. The same could be said from the supporting performances from Paul Dano, Benedict Cumberbatch (who plays the more complex character and probably the only one that isn't either white or black morally), and Michael Fassbender who is the personification of cruelty. Fassbender, who was also brilliant in McQueen's two previous films, plays one of the most despicable characters in recent film history. McQueen's direction is outstanding and several of his scenes were beautifully shot while at the same time very disturbing. His trademark long takes stand out in this film. The whipping scene is horrifying and the long shot where he is tortured and left hanging while we see everyone else going on with their normal lives is a testament of the central theme of this film which had to do with the lack of human compassion and mercy. This is one of the best films of the year and completely deserves all the hype it's been receiving.


                
12 Years a Slave director Steve McQueen is on those authors whose movies will be remembered for many, many decades. This movie, just like Shame and Hunger, goes beyond the masterful aesthetic of the picture and camera to a sober, solid and honest drama about a free man who is kidnapped and sold into slavery on the United States. 12 Years a Slave embodies by nature the characteristics required to be considered an award winning movie, that is sure, but the movie goes a lot further and disconnects itself from that award aura. The north-American slavery theme is not a recurring one in cinema, even if the recent Django Unchained walked those steps one year ago. McQueen proposes a well paced movie that chooses feeling over gore, atmosphere over shock. The movie develops and gets better over time, presenting a lot of well written real characters that end up being shadowed by Chiwetel Ejiofor and Michael Fassbender's unbelievable performances, only matched by Cate Blanchett's Blue Jasmine this year. 12 Years a Slave is not an easy movie to sit through, nor is it a particularly hard one. It is, above the drama, a contemplative movie that respects the audience. This is not a candy to chew on, but a gourmet dish to look at before tasting. Cinema at its best level, and probably the best movie of 2013. Visit thefadingcam blog on blogspot! Also like us on facebook to follow all our reviews!


                
To be honest, I am not sure why as a Black male I subject myself to watching films focused on slavery. You learn about it in school, hear about it from parents and grandparents, and the internet is filled with pictures which make you internally grateful you are born in this day and age. Yet still, something draws you in like the advertisement of horror movies. You know you'll be frightened, but not by some crazed, sometimes mystical, being, but by something that you only missed out on by 2-4 generations.In the movie, to me there is only a handful who really stand out worth noting. Chiwetel Ejiofor as Solomon Northup naturally stands out, for he is the lead who we watch live 12 years with swaying hope, a consistent sense of pride, and a tongue which constantly makes you think he has a death wish. Joining him is Michael Fassbender as Edwin Epps, who pretty much is despicable that you hope you get to see him die violently, brutally, and to the point he can't be recognized. Alongside Edwin is his wife Mary Epps, played by Sarah Paulson, of American Horror Story fame, who, at best, is like a mad dog barking, but rarely having the guts to bite. Then, in my opinion, the only person left worth mentioning is Lupita Nyong'o's Patsey, a young girl who works hard and who finally represents the often ignored plight of a Black woman enslaved on a plantation.As for the story, we cover Solomon's journey from a freeman to a slave. During this journey we see a man who had an education, skills, and a sense of being dignified, be dehumanized to the point where you realize that, even now, no matter what type of paper you hold, be it one saying you are a freeman, equal citizen, or what have you, it doesn't change the color of your skin and the way others perceive, and will treat you, because of it. Luckily for us though, 12 years fly by and though brutality is in every other scene, the pain is shared and Solomon does have some moments when he gets even the most minuscule of victories.Now, I am well aware of the many praises of the film there are, and while some of it is definitely granted, in other areas I feel iffy. But, to start off, I believe there is so much praise that should be bestowed on Lupita Nyong'o. Though this is Solomon's narrative, her character at times steals any feelings you'd think you should have, or do have, for Solomon. She makes your body shake, your face tense, and may make tears fall from your eyes. As for Chiwetel Ejiofor, I must admit I didn't think much of his performance for most of the movie, but as the movie comes to an end you realize why. To me, it was because of a sense of empathy to the point of being sometimes like stigmata. Solomon has to numb himself so much to keep hope that you end up numbing your emotions as well. However, when there is a rope around his neck, you do feel your collar tighten; when he is beaten and healing from his wounds, you start to become uncomfortable in your chair like sitting against something, no matter how soft, is just masochism; and though you are given many reasons to cry, you suck it up for you know it won't do much for you to shed tears. But, during the final scene, when the self-induced Novocain wears off, you shed tears like he does and let go of all that you've held in throughout the movie and even find your body, as you leave, numb and shaky from trying to keep your composure, as Solomon had to for most of the movie. Which leads to me going into what didn't work with the film, of which there isn't a lot. The first thing I must note is that it seems the film tries to pull a Django at times by having Solomon fight back or talk slick, giving him a moment where he outwits his slavers and gives you some relief from him being continuously forced to be subservient. Such, at least I felt, seemed a bit unreal and it, to a small point, diminished the would-be villains, like Fassbender's Edwin Epps, a bit. Though I must not Edwin quickly reasserts himself. Outside of that though, the only issue I could have is that for most of the movie you may find it hard to connect to Solomon, or realize you are doing it. Because of that, you more easily attach yourself to other slaves' stories, especially the women like Lupita Nyong'o's and Adepero Oduye's characters. Oduye plays a slave named Eliza in the film. Because of this be it Eliza, Patsey, or even Alfre Woodard's character Mistress Shaw, Solomon's story becomes less of an interest and you end up wanting to learn about these women much more. Perhaps though that is more a praise to the women than a criticism though.Overall: Worth SeeingTo me, this is a film you see once and never again. It is brutal, graphic, and I personally found it triggering my freedom and Civil Rights were given only a few years ago. And it really does touch you that deeply too, and whether you are a man and end up feeling Solomon's pain or take on the pain of the Eliza or Patsey, you don't leave the film without being the least bit scathed. Which is why I say it is worth seeing. Nyong'o surely gives an award worthy performance which thinking about makes my breaths shallow and eyes begin to water. Ejiofor holds his own as well, but he is definitely put in Nyong'o's shadow. This isn't to say though he surely doesn't deserve accolades.
Steve McQueen is a Turner Prize winning video artist. I am familiar with two of his previous works, Hunger and Shame hence knew what to expect from 12 Years A Slave. Steve McQueen works with the human body, placing it in various circumstances and having us witness how it transforms through the film. In Hunger, it was the famished skeleton of Bobby Sands, in Shame we saw the moral and physical implications to Brandon's addiction. 12 Years A Slave was no different in that context. A large portion of the film is dedicated to manual labor under appalling circumstances. We see the sweat, tears and blood of laborers working tirelessly in the hot sugarcane and cotton fields of Louisiana. The camera documents this beautifully. The mundane everyday life in a slave farm is broken by harrowing fragments of rape and torture. 12 Years A Slave does not politicize the human body, I think we do. The films documents the story of a free man enslaved for years in a farm trying to escape his unhappy fate.It is true he happens to be black and his master is white. We see characters who are black as having escaped slavery, living comfortably in the north of the country or in farmhouses in the South. We also see whites enslaved and working in the fields along with other black laborers. I think placing the film in the way identity politics was looked at in the 60s - 70s would be simplistic. Slavery still happens today and most often the color of one's skin has very little to do with. Slavery happens because of financial inequalities, bad government policies. Slavery was banned in the North because it was not feasible to keep and maintain a slave. The film confronts a political subject, for me, I looked at it in the same frame as I see other Mc Queen films and it helped to remain objective than emotional. It is a period film but the subject is very contemporary. Many countries still have the practice of keeping domestic helps and paying them a pittance, confiscating their passports and torturing them. Factory workers are made to produce high yield humanly impossible. It is not very different to what was happening in the fields in Louisiana, US in the 1800s.
"12 Years A Slave" is a powerful picture on the challenging struggle of real-life free-slave Solomon Northup, who was kidnapped and put back to the horrors of slavery. Chiwetel Ejiofor's name will be pronounced numerous times during movie awards season for his riveting starring performance as Northrup. In fact, the whole movie was freed from lousy acting with other impressive performances; most notably from Michael Fassbender as the villainous slaveowner Edwin Epps, Sarah Paulson as his horror story-esque sister Mistress Epps, and Lupita Nyong'O as the tortured slave Patsey. Director Steve McQueen's work here will propel him to elite auteur status. But believe it or not, John Ridley's screenplay was a bit too detached for my taste. Nevertheless, break the chains and witness for yourself the gripping "12 Years A Slave". **** Excellent


                
"12 Years a Slave" follows the story of Soloman Northup, a free African-American abducted and sold into slavery. The movie's center is not so much the journey as it is about the man and his struggles. He faces unimaginable odds and ultimately triumphs after 12 harrowing years. Many words can be used to describe this film. Cruelty, and man's preference to bondage and brutality. Complete despair. Yet hope, compassion, and emotional power. This film is a true experience that is brought to life with bold energy and performances that will burn deeply into your memories.Chiwetel Ejiofor as Soloman Northup delivers the greatest performance of the year. He evokes a man of torment and sadness so perfectly that I could feel his suffering in my soul. He gives us a character that can tell us what he is feeling and thinking without uttering a word--his facial expressions and voiceless body language is that good. Not many thespians can achieve this rare talent. Lupita Nyong'o as his fellow slave Patsy achieves equal acting capacity. I have never seen a character that I felt such pity and sympathy for. She exemplifies the thousands if not millions of persons whose voices have gone unnoticed over the centuries from the inhumanity of slavery. Having won the SAG award, she could very well go on to win the Oscar for supporting actress. Michael Fassbender in contrast does not convey as such a strong or in-depth character as Ejiofor or Nyong'o. He acts more like a three-dimensional villain than an actual believable character. He does play the drunken, psychotic, inhumane slave owner well though.The technical accomplishments are something to admire. Director Steve McQueen relies heavily on extreme close ups on both his actors and to emphasis important details during a sequence. He also utilizes long takes with few cuts, allowing scenes to progress without interruption. The cinematography is pretty decent with its ominous low-key lighting at night and the use of natural lighting during the day shots. The costumes and set pieces, though sparse, help add to the authenticity of the period. Hans Zimmer's score is mainly a two-note, slow-paced melody, exemplifying the passing of time. While simple it is subtle and moving. He does squeeze in some of his loud, bombastic moments. This movie has achieved just about everything I had desired and expected from it, except for one little thing. And that is the movie's focus. I understand the humanizing of Northup, and the cruelties of slavery, but that is all the film really examines. I anticipated more of a recreation of Southern slavery in terms of how they lived, their way of life and daily activities, and how they engaged and coped with the trials of the days. (Note: the book goes more deeply in these regards) Plenty of barbarity is shown in this film. Enough to make the audience members of the theater I attended to gasp and utter the occasional "On my!" Focusing only on the violence is just one part of the bigger story. I understand that so much can only be covered in a two-hour film, but the cup does not feel full. The ending in particular feels rushed, not giving enough information to view 12 years of a man's life. No matter, this is a very good film<U+0085>even a great one. I add it on my Best of 2013 list. However, this is far from the likes of other masterpieces created over the years.
Based on the extraordinary autobiography of the same name, 12 Years a Slave charts the abduction and imprisonment of author Solomon Northup. Beaten and near broken, he desperately tries to maintain what shred of dignity he can as he looks for a return to his life as a free man.The ever eloquent Solomon is played out superbly by Chiwetel Ejiofor. Introduced to us amid the upper classes of New York, Solomon is a skilled fiddle player and a much respected, loving family man. Deceived by two men (promising the fame and fortune of a travelling circus-like gig), he awakes in a cell, chained. What follows is his descent into the booming slave trade of New Orleans and to his new life as a prisoner. Shouldering the responsibility, Chiwetel commands every inch of the screen with the performance of a career. We look out into this world through Solomon's eyes and so Chiwetel's ability to portray compassion, humanity in the face of the most inhumane situations, is the films greatest achievement. Not content on simply surviving, Solomon is a character with a fire burning beneath the surface. Baffled by his predicament, he is forced to mask his intelligence for fear of his life. In one particular devastating scene, he sings straight from the soul at the funeral of his fellow slave. Accepting the situation, almost the entire scene frames the tortured face of Solomon. It takes a fine actor like Chiwetel to maintain a hold on the film when the Van Gogh looking Michael Fassbender is in this kind of form. As the sadistic slave owner Edwin Epps, he prides himself on being the so called 'nigger-breaker.' He spends his days drunk, bearing over his land and his nights awakening his 'property' to dance for his delight. He is relentless in his barbaric treatment to all and yet ideologically insecure in his self loathing love for Patsey (Nupita Nyong'o), the most competent of his slaves. He continually sparks off against his wife (Sarah Paulson) as she competes for the affection for his most prized possession. Fassbender excels in colouring the grey areas of character psychology, proving once again his ability to layer a man who, on the page, could threaten to be two dimensional. 12 Years a Slave arrives at a time when America's neglected, ugly history is finally beginning to reach an audience in cinema. Most recently the toast of last year was the much debated Quentin Tarantino effort Django Unchained (2012). The waves of controversy it welcomed were however pale in comparison to what is witnessed here. For here there are no quick witted catchphrases or sharp tongued characters. No splashes of soundtrack to interrupt the historical horrors. Just the unbroken take of a black body hung from a tree, life on the plantation carrying on around him. It is unfair, and perhaps inevitable, that the two will be compared. Each director has taken this subject matter and gone about it in their unique manner. With Django, America's Slave Trade was but the back story to the tale of bloody revenge Tarantino was telling, an historical setting for the narrative to react to. McQueen however has unashamedly brought it to the front and centre. The study of one man's suffering in both Hunger and Shame, dwarfed here by the millions that suffered the sins of humanity. What else could critics find to criticise than the decision to tell one tale of twelve years, subsequently ignoring its mammoth history? True, this is but a drop in an ocean of injustice but nonetheless a very wise decision it seems. No film weighing in at two hours could ever do justice to a near two hundred and fifty year holocaust of enslavement. By giving focus to a man who at one time enjoyed equal status, now stripped of liberty and identity, it hands the audience a vehicle from which they can witness and respond to. Let us not forget that this is a product packaged for entertainment just as Django Unchained was, or any other film for that matter. It will no doubt go on to win gold and earn a great deal at the box office. Yet great films bring great debate and this is precisely what McQueen offers. Whether it wins awards or not is now irrelevant, what is important is that it now exists. Striking with visceral impact, McQueen's intense, unblinking eye has earned him the reputation of a fetishist, which is unfair. Audiences are being shown these images not for sadomasochism but for their artistic merit. Whereas lesser directors avert their eye and suppress these scenes, McQueen keeps the camera rolling, allowing the images a voice. As expected it is a test of endurance and yet for such an ugly subject it is an aesthetically beautiful, if brutal piece of work, uncompromising, necessary and strangely his most accessible film to date.


                
I want to put into words how this film affected me, but, appropriately enough, there aren't the words there. Steve McQueen's adaptation of Solomon Northup's memoir is a film in which words are precious and very carefully chosen – whether shouted or sung or uttered in whispers out of earshot of the savage ruling class.Northup (Chiwetel Ejiofor) is a free man tricked into slavery. The story charts his ordeal – and those of countless others – under the tortuous watchfulness of a series of plantation owners, cruellest of whom is Edwin Epps (McQueen regular Michael Fassbender). It is a film whose relentless scenes of abuse are punctuated by levity of only the most desperate and solemn kind, and which is determinedly unbothered by the comforts of sentimentality.Ejiofor captures the agony at the heart of Northup, from the initial indignity of his situation, through physical torture endured, observed and committed, to the brutal annihilation of his character through supremacist re-education. In place of the stock conclusions drawn by Hollywood, John Ridley's script has other ideas: rather than rousing speeches there are bursts of quickly-suppressed anger; instead of soaring emotion, upon release Northup remains bound in the shackles of guilt left upon him by the guilty.As with his previous films (Hunger and Shame), McQueen embeds meaning in the frame. These aren't pretty images for the sake of it. The burning of a letter represents the dwindling of hope – and yet how long it seems to take to dwindle, and we linger until every sliver of fire is spent, staring ever harder for the remaining light in the darkness. Northup is staring also, unblinking, into the abyss of humanity around him, holding out for some such glimmer.In terms of characterisation (do we call them characters if these monsters truly existed?), Ridley and McQueen's greatest decision is to give as much depth to the masters as their slaves. Epps is a vile creature, but we are dared to empathise with him as he impotently hands the whip to Northup, under the emasculating gaze of his jealous wife (Sarah Paulson). The object of Epps' violently ambivalent affections is Patsey (Lupita Nyong'o) an angel in a world where the beautiful and the talented are particularly prized for self-sanctified hatred.So it seems I have found the words to describe a little of my experience of watching this remarkable film. It's a reminder that cinema is not solely a reserve of entertainment, and that the atrocities of humankind sometimes need to be shown to us – nakedly, harrowingly, unforgettably.
12 Years a Slave is a shocking and brutal look at slavery and the reality for many during those horrible times. It does shy away from the harsh realities of slave life and viewer does not get a veiled look of their lives. It is this journey and story of Solomon Northup that makes this a beautiful film. Without warning a respectable and free man is taken away from his family to the inhumane life of slavery. Harsh truths of life during those times are shown at a nonstop pace. It is also interesting to note the disparities that existed within a country from free states to slave states. On some level viewers might even relate to Solomon's plight. What if one of us was displaced from our comfy lives and put in an unknown and foreign place where people didn't care about laws and men? The performances are simply first class. Chiwetel Ejiofor, Michael Fassbender and Lupita Nyong'o give award worthy performances and belt it out to the back row. You feel their frustration, fear, anger and other emotions. This film is also beautifully directed and has a masterful soundtrack to accompany it. Steve McQueen manages to immerse his viewers in the lives of slaves and slave owners in those times. We are captivated by the beautiful storytelling, direction and cinematography. This film is not something you can watch over and over as it is a powerful dose. Despite being an incredible film it is not easy to re-watch just like it was not easy to re-watch Schindler's list. 12 Years a Slave has to be one of the greatest films ever made and is truly a cinematic experience. It definitely earned its best picture Oscar. Definitely recommended if you want a thought provoking and moving experience, 9/10


                
After watching 12 Years a Slave with my family, we all agreed that this film is a must see for any American. While it is awfully sad and hard to watch at times, it is rightfully so. As George Santayana once said,"Those who cannot learn from history are doomed to repeat it." It's important for people to understand that slavery is part of our American history or else we may be doomed to repeat such atrocities. This movie transcends time and is able to bring the viewer back to a time and place that most history text books would like to skip over. Part way through the movie I even realized that I was instinctively scared when a white person showed up on screen. This is the kind of experience everyone needs to even begin to understand what antebellum America may have been like for a slave.


                
While I'm not familiar with Chiwetel Ejiofor and his past projects, he knocked his role of kidnapped freeman turned slave Solomon Northup straight outta the park. Benedict Cumberbatch and Michael Fassbender play their roles as Solomon's masters incredibly as well.As for the title above, McQueen directs the film in a way that forces you to comprehend the brutality and pain that plantation slaves felt back then, even if there where times where it was hard not to look away the violence that was on-screen. However it wasn't directed in the way to show the blood and gore just for the sake of there being blood and gore. It had purpose to all of it and it never felt like the director was ever just "throwing stuff in."In short, the movie was great and it definitely sheds light on some of the horrible, ugly, nasty things that went on back then. 9/10


                
What strikes me about Steve McQueen is, he always seems to get me begging for more, his films are mesmerising and transport you into the unimaginable world of the protagonist. 12 Years a Slave was riddled with superb writing and excellent directing; every aspect of the film, every part of the story, every character introduced was so compatible. It was hard to watch, because I felt as though I was obliged to help the Solomon because I was drawn in so deep. And to watch him descend from this respected, attentive man to a , as they would say,a 'thick lipped cotton picker nig**r', was very powerful and upsetting to see. There's nothing I love more than feeling true sadness for a character, and this just pulled the plug for me. Great, great, great. I'm so glad I spent money to see this film, it deserves every award it was nominated for.
