This American masterpiece came as near perfection as popular art contrives to be, from its beautifully equivocal and suggestive title to the magnificent performance elicited by William Wyler from the nonprofessional amputee Harold Russell<U+0085> The film epitomized both the dream and the reality of the postwar world<U+0085> This intimate engagement with the psychological facts of American life gave it an almost universal audience<U+0085> But, unlike contemporary and preceding "message" pictures, it was not a preachment<U+0085> It showed Americans as they are, presented their problems as they themselves see them, and provided only such solutions<U+0097>partial, temporary, personal<U+0097>as they themselves would accept<U+0085> The picture's values are the values of the people in it<U+0085>William Wyler, an outstanding director, triple winner of the best picture Oscar, adds an air of distinction to melodrama, epic and Westerns... With his distinguishing visual style and his taste for solemn material, he gained a reputation as a meticulous, serious artist... Wyler's most adept use of deep-focus reveals the real commitment to emotional content...The film tells the story of three men coming home from war to a small middle-American community, and find it variously difficult to pick up where they left off... The three heroes are: a middle-aged sergeant (Fredric March), magnificent as the devoted family man who succeeds in breaking the ice with his family; an incisive Air Force captain (Dana Andrews) returning to an unfaithful wife; and a tormented sailor (Harold Russell) who has lost both hands in service, replaced by hooks in real life...Winner of 7 Academy Awards including Best Picture, "The Best Years of Our Lives" is eloquent and compassionate, a deeply personal motion picture with touching wordless homecoming scenes: The first words of the sergeant's loving wife when he arrives home unexpectedly: "I look terrible! It isn't fair of you to burst in on us like this."The involuntarily sob of the sailor's mother when she first sees her son's mechanical hands... She blurts out: "It's nothing!"With her dry-martini voice, Myrna Loy combines charmingly her wifely qualities with motherly ones; Teresa Wright is lovely as the sergeant's nice daughter who falls in love with the pilot; Virginia Mayo is harsh as the disloyal flashy blonde wife whose first loves are money and high life; and Cathy O'Donnell is wonderful and sensitive as the sailor's fiancée...The situations and even some of the characters seem a little obvious, but this is a superb example of high-quality film-making in the forties, with smiles and tears cunningly spaced and a film which says what is needed on a vital subject...
One can't watch this without thinking of our present coming home soldiers. Consider the rampant PTSD and all the other factors that affect the lives of these young men and women. Some are maimed and some are psychologically damaged as they try to resume their lives. This film brings a portrait of three men who have left the same war, World War II, with various handicaps. One has lost his hands in an accident, one has become bitter and dissatisfied with the treatment of his fellow military comrade, and the third goes back to his wife, who has no interest in him anymore, who is only interested in a meal ticket. We get to see how war has changed these people. The handicapped man is the most obvious, as he longs for normalcy, yet watches as his family and friends drop into a depressed state, utterly aware of his limitations. They don't mean to, but they take away his humanity. He falls into the pits of depression, almost driving away the one who loves him most. The other two wrestle with their own demons. This is beautifully presented in a subtle way, without being maudlin. Of course, Hollywood requires a sappy ending. Still, the rest of the movie, including the great Hoagie Carmichael as a piano playing bar owner, stands on its own merit. I hadn't seen this movie in nearly forty years and it was a delight.


                
Though we had a plethora of films about troops returning from the Vietnam war and trying to re-integrate back into their societies, most of which were hard-hitting, angry voices against War, here is arguably the original - and best.Definitely a family orientated movie (Cert U) this will appeal to and find favour with all ages, but don't start thinking that this is all gooey, slushy nonsense. There's some quite hard-hitting topics covered, even by today's standards and of course, with our minds on our current troops in Iraq/Afghanistan, equally relevant.Multi-stranded, which each of the three G.I.'s immediate and extended families and friends being examined, it's about them coping, with varying degrees of success, with home life and getting jobs, now that the War is ended. It's the little observations and stories around them that are so fascinating, as the Heroes of yesterday are now anything but when it comes finding new purpose in a changed world.The cast is exemplary, not necessarily the biggest stars of the day but the most believable and natural for their roles. Dana Andrews, Myrna Loy and Fredric Marsh are the ones most easily recognisable and their appearances convey a sort of reassuring familiarity and normality. They're all excellent, of course.Though long, at nearly 3 hours, William Wyler's easy going but assured and tight direction keeps things flowing nicely and it never drags. This, my second viewing, is an enjoyable one as the first and if anything I'm more at ease with it.Though obviously not as exciting or dramatic as other 'normal' war films, it's a tragedy that it's not more well known. I've never seen it to ever have been on TV, or to my recollection, even Sky Movies, for that matter. Any movie that won 7 Oscars and is currently no. 180 in the top 250 IMDb's films of all time, voted by its voters (us, the public) is hardly one of minority interest.A friend I lent my DVD to watched it with his family and normally they only go for current films, or ones they know, but they not only enjoyed it, but felt enormously moved by it, too.If you haven't seen The Best Years... yet, make a mental note to do so. Your life won't change by doing so, but it really is worth the 3 hours of it that it will take. You certainly can't say the same about every film out there....


                
I could use all the movie clichés to describe this heartwarming and bittersweet film, but only the most vivid ones will do. The direction and the camera in the opening scenes, in the plane and in the taxi are held not too close, but just far away enough to get the scene, as if we are reading a book, or eavesdropping, which is the way it should be, so smart not to take close-ups of such gut-wrenching emotional interplay. I can never forget how Homer arrives home, and how he is greeted, so bravely and so American in spirit. Even thinking about it makes my eyes water. This is a film about bravery, about how to deal with tragedy smartly and with courage. It has humor, it has love, and as I said all the clichés that go with it. And it is timeless, for no matter what war or period of time, people will react the same, wanting to help but not knowing how, wanting to give but not knowing what to give.A masterpiece of direction and cinema, it should be seen by young and old as a lesson both in great filmmaking and about life.


                
At its first 30 minutes, "The Best Years of Our Lives" summarizes the dynamics of 3 servicemen returning back to their families after the war is over. Intriguing are the expectations and the fear they hold within their hearts. Fear of being forgotten, of being replaced by another person. Another angle widely explored in the movie would be their (re)adaptation from life in campaign to the life in the cities. Things are not the same they were when they were deployed, and they must accept they will never be, as the construction of a new life with their families begins."The Best Years Of Our Lives" is a rich portrait of the American post-war scenario, full of emotion, but not drama. For those who would like to experience the 40's in the United States, this movie will do the job just like a time machine would.


                
The main triumph of this film which makes it quite exceptional and unique of its kind is the performance of Harold Russell as Homer Parrish, who has lost both his hands in the war, which invalidity he shares with Harold Russell. It's a story and film about war veterans and without doubt the best of its kind for its humanity and extremely sustained restraint all the way in the exposure of very sensitive and personal affairs and feelings of the most delicate kind. All the actors are outstanding in their characterizations, Fredric March as the sergeant and former banker who can't quite control himself or his bottle, Harold Russell in the performance of his life, (the pajama scene must melt all hearts,) the only time ever an actor received two Oscars for the same part and well deserved, Dana Andrews as the noble war hero who is humiliated by his wife (Virginia Mayo perfectly abominable) but has the very good luck of finding the irresistible Teresa Wright instead and at her most charming, who is so much the better, and Myrna Loy finally as the sage and stable mother. The music is perfectly fit to illustrate the moods and the tensions, with Hoagy Carmichael crowning it, while the mastership of the direction of William Wyler in his slow and careful but very well thought out and intentional direction to bring out all the best and the truth of the story from his actors probably takes the prize. The film has a number of unforgettable scenes of singular eloquence, but I think my favorite would be Dana Andrews' revisit of his old pilot job in the junkyard, one of William Wyler's most impressive scenes, and there is an important forewarning of it in the beginning. This is a veteran film for all times which is inexhaustible in its humanity and which all people of all generations have something to learn from to improve themselves with. Finally I have never seen so many reviews for a film here, but a film like this just can't have a review too many.


                
This movie is a drama about three American servicemen, from the same small town, who are trying to adjust to their new lives back in the states after World War II. Fred Derry (Dana Andrews),a decorated young airman, Al Stephenson (Frederic March), an older man serving as a sergeant, and a sailor, Homer Parrish (Harold Russell), who is retuning with the loss of his hands and must use metal hooks. The war has affected each of them in their own way. Al Stephenson, who is coming home to a cushy job at a bank and a very nice family, has a problem with alcohol. Fred Derry comes home suffering from nightmares. He discovers his wife has been cheating on him and is more of a party girl than anything else. Homer has the worst physical transformation of them all. Mentally, he comes home not being able to stand his family feeling sorry for him and then tries to drive his fiancé away when she tries to care for him. All and all this is a serious look of what really happens to soldiers when they return home from war. The performances of these men were superb demonstrating openly the mental and physical realities that go along with the horrors of war. Each performance is subtle and genuine. Al's wife, Millie (Myrna Loy) does an excellent job portraying the supportive wife, helping Al assimilate to his old life. Marie Derry (Virginia May) is looking sharp playing the mouthy, cheating wife of Fred Derry. Teresa Wright deserves a nod too; playing Peggy Stephenson, Al's daughter who falls in love with Fred. This film has amazing cinematography. With the use of deep-focus photography, the meaning of each scene reveals itself to the viewer, instead of just being shown close-up after close-up. For example, the wedding scene between Homer and his fiancé, the director, Wyler, focuses on the entire room, but as Homer and his girl are getting married, we can also see Fred and Al's daughter, Peggy, professing their love to each other. This film runs a little long, approximately three hours, but is certainly a must see. The story is strong and the performances are outstanding. The director, William Wilder, utilizes his years of experience and talent to bring to the screen the most accurate depictions of the combat veterans he came in contact with during his years of service during World War II.


                
"The Best Years of Our Lives" is an introspective movie about three veterans adjusting to civilian life after World War II. The film, directed by William Wyler and released in 1946 strikes a significant chord even today. The story follows Fred Derry (Dana Andrews) an Army Air Force Captain, Homer Parrish (Harold Russel) a Navy man who lost his hands in the war, and Al Stephenson (Frederic March) an infantry platoon Sergeant. They meet on their way home to Boone City and each one experiences excitement and apprehension in resuming the life they had before the war. The three veterans have their own personal story. Fred Derry before leaving for the war, impulsively married a showgirl (Virginia Mayo) who turns out is only interested in money and having a good time. Harold and his longtime girlfriend Wilma had plans to marry, but fears she won't accept him with his physical disability, and Al Stephenson returns to his banker's job and a family who has grown up while he's been away. "The Best Years of Our Lives" is beautifully and poignantly shot by Academy award cinematographer Gregg Toland, famous for films like "Citizen Cane" and "Grapes of Wrath." Toland provides in depth wide shots incorporating busy real life activity as depicted in the department store scene where Derry reluctantly returns to work. The scene with Derry in the background of the piano bar as he makes a painful phone call while Homer plays piano (with his hooks) alongside Uncle Buck (Hoagy Carmichael) is compelling. Various film scenes cleverly shot such as the view of the aircraft graveyard gives a sense of irony and tell a deeper story. A strong performance by Theresa Wright as Stephenson's daughter who is in love with Fred Derry, adds to the conflict. Myrna Loy and Cathy O'Donnell round out an excellent cast. The biggest surprise for me was the performance of real life disabled veteran Harold Russell. He gives a sensitive and straightforward performance as "Homer" that earned him an Oscar for Best Supporting Actor. "The Best Years of Our Lives" won 8 academy awards including Best Score and Best Picture.


                
I love this film. Hollywood has rarely achieved more compelling - and likable - human drama. This is a glossy and romanticized slice of Americana, yet it tells a powerfully real story. It's got great screen stars - most notably Fredric March - doing some of the best work of their careers. And it has absolutely impeccable direction by William Wyler - so polished that you have to work hard to pull back and actually notice the sophisticated techniques at work.The film's only limitation is one it can't avoid: it's of its time and place. This is a 1946 Hollywood film about the aftermath of global conflict that had only just ended. It's a work that tackles a deeply political topic, from within the period it tries to capture. This inherent difficulty comes through in one subtle way and in one overt scene.The subtle slant comes from what we don't see. For example, we aren't shown the many soldiers who were far worse off than our three protagonists. Homer Parrish does mention that his own shocking disability is actually one of the milder ones he's seen. The film passes this off as casual heroism on his part, when it's in fact all the lip service that's given those who paid a much higher price than this film's relatively lucky trio. All three of whom swiftly find supremely happy endings - surely, not a statistically realistic outcome. This can be thought of as subliminal propaganda, no doubt, but it's mostly just artistic license - a way of sugar-coating some hard truths for the benefit of a war-weary public.The one overt bit of actual propaganda comes in the scene in which Homer gets in a fight with a guy at the lunch counter, who dares to question the political rationale behind the war. If you listen carefully, this man actually says nothing derogatory regarding the troops. Although his manner is made deliberately obnoxious, what he says repeatedly is simply: "get the facts, learn for yourself." An admonition that should never be controversial, in a free society. Yet when Homer snatches away the man's flag lapel pin, the message seems to be that some topics are simply too important to be examined rationally, because, well... patriotism. Once you've spent enough lives, it's no longer acceptable to question whether the tactics were wise or the cause just.We can only hope that this point of view may look a lot more dangerous now, than it must have in 1946. But, to its credit, the film can also be read another way. It does at least hint that the two servicemen are in fact over-reacting. That they probably should question the official narrative, but that their memories are still too painful. Is the scene helping create an attitude of denial... or consciously reflecting upon one that inevitably did exist? I suspect the subtlety is deliberate. Which is the most we could hope for in a mainstream film originating in this time and place.Obviously, any film must be viewed in the context of history. The Best Years of Our Lives must have been a revelation in 1946. A landmark, in going as far as it did in recognizing that the human cost of a war extends far beyond the conflict itself, even for the 'victors.' But today it remains above all a brilliant bit of human drama, a supremely skillful telling of three intertwining stories about characters that are at once noble, likable and credible. It's a film that takes real effort to analyze, simply because it's so overwhelmingly enjoyable.


                
'The Best Years of Our Lives (1946)' is one of the most powerful war films I've seen, and yet its story begins after WWII had officially ended. Too often in cinema, the end of the battle is considered the end of the war: a sweeping camera movement, an upwelling of stirring music, the hurrah of victorious soldiers, and suddenly everything is all right. But war doesn't end when the guns stop blazing, nor when the politicians put their pens to paper. War lingers for days, months, and years. Returning veterans, even those who emerged from conflict without a scratch, faced an uphill battle to reclaim their former lives, having sacrificed their happiest years in service to their country. In 1946, the issues faced by war veterans had only just come to public light. 1944 saw the introduction of the G.I. Bill, which allowed ex-serviceman access to low-interest loans with which to rebuild their lives. Post-traumatic stress disorder in soldiers had previously only been explored in the film noir 'The Blue Dahlia (1946).'Three soldiers from different social classes, returning to their home- town after years of conflict, are united in their desire to rekindle their former lives. But things will never be the same as before. Homer Parrish (true-life war veteran Harold Russell) lost his hands in battle, and fears that his faithful girlfriend (Cathy O'Donnell) remains with him only out of pity. Working-class pilot Fred Derry (Dana Andrews) finds that, despite his distinguished achievements in war-time, he still lacks the necessary experience to assimilate into civilian life. Al Stephenson (Fredric March) returns to children he barely recognises, but finds consolation in "the perfect wife" Myrna Loy. The intertwining journeys faced by each of the veterans are often uncomfortable to watch, sometimes shameful and embarrassing, but the overriding message is one of hope: whatever adversities these men must confront, they can be sure to rely upon the support of their family, friends and the grateful United States government.Gregg Toland's crisp deep-focus photography is excellent, but the major strength in William Wyler's drama are the characters themselves. Harold Russell, who actually did lose his hands in combat, was hand-picked from a military documentary on rehabilitated soldiers, and his performance works so well because it's genuine. Russell is clearly an amateur next to the neatly-balanced dramatics of March and Andrews – he even flubs his characters' wedding vows – but the emotion is authentic, and his pain heartbreaking. Fredric March won his second Oscar (after 'Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde (1931)') for his role as a banker who lost his commercial hardness in the trenches. A little disappointingly, his character doesn't figure prominently in the film's second half, his role somewhat reduced to that of a vector facilitating Andrews' melodramatic, but satisfying, romance with Teresa Wright. I would have liked the film to have more thoroughly explored Stephenson's detached relationship with his children, but evidently there were time constraints to be considered – having said that, though, the 172 minutes flies by effortlessly.
The Motion Picture Academy honored the World War II era with Best Picture honors for films that explored unique perspectives of the war each year from 1942 through 1946 (with the exception of 1945). In 1942, it was "Mrs. Miniver", about a family surviving on the home front. In 1943, "Casablanca" dealt with the seedy underbelly of the black market, and how it was used to transport people persecuted by Nazi Germany to the United States. In 1944's "Going My Way", it was more indirect; a young man seemingly goes half-cocked, marries a singer, then leaves for duty. And finally, we have "The Best Years of Our Lives", a tribute to veterans and what became of their lives once their tours of duty were finished.Dana Andrews stars as Fred Derry, a captain in the U.S. Army Air Corps who is returning to his hometown of Boone City. On his way, he meets a sailor named Homer Parrish (Harold Russell) and an infantry sergeant named Al Stephenson (Fredric March). Each man has a different perspective of their home town, as well as unique experiences from the war, even though all three served in the Pacific Theatre. And all three men bear their own scars of the war.Though, like most films from Hollywood's so-called "golden age", this movie does have a "Hollywood ending", it isn't contrived here. The script by Robert Sherwood works well, and the performances by all the cast not only express the torment of men trying to fit back into their old lives, but also of their families and how they coped (or didn't cope) with them.This movie is among William Wyler's best, and it would be the second of three Best Picture winners that he helmed in his career ("Mrs. Miniver" and "Ben-Hur" were the other two). It stands as a testament of among the best films Hollywood has to offer. As I have said already, the entire cast worked well together in this movie, one of the best examples of ensemble casting I have ever seen. But I give a special salute to Harold Russell, who plays the disabled sailor who just wants to be alone. Russell never considered himself a professional actor, and he had very few dramatic roles (mostly after 1980), yet the Academy deservedly bestowed him with not one, but two Oscar statuettes for his portrayal of Homer Parrish. I will not mince words here: Russell's performance is quite moving."The Best Years of Our Lives" is a film of rare breed. I say this because not many films explored the lives of military personnel after their experiences in war. There have been a few more recent examples, like "Coming Home" and, in a lesser sense, "Courage Under Fire", but this was among the first. It is a moving example of film-making at its best.


                
A daring film in an old-fashioned way: rather than flout social convention for shock value, this picture risks absurdity by its very wholesomeness. It lives and breathes Americana and celebrates the most obvious of values. Its greatest asset is blatancy. And yet it is a very, very good movie."The Best Years of Our Lives" succeeds at dramatic hokum that Capra and Spielberg would find difficult. The wedding scene is preposterous: Harold Russell has to put the ring on Cathy O'Donnell's finger, a delicate operation with brutal-looking hooks; she's terrified he'll drop it; her parents are against the wedding anyway; Dana Andrews has his back but he's on the skids himself - and the sailor not only performs, but soothes Wilma's trembling hand with his grim prosthetic. This should not work. This should be ridiculous. But the thrill is genuine, because the trick is delivered with an absolutely straight face. We're watching a moment that is essentially mundane, executed with grace and simple efficiency, and we realize a kind of zen. There is only this moment, and this moment can be beautiful.Beyond its politics, the picture has technical excellence of various stripe, and many of the scenes are so well constructed as to transcend genre and propaganda. The slow rekindling of Frederic March and Myrna Loy's love and faith, from drunken jitters on his first night home to the hopeful center of the movie by the third act, is as human and believable a story as Hollywood had produced by 1946, heroically realized by William Wyler, Robert E. Sherwood and the two actors. The bedroom scenes hum with nervous exhilaration. When March, fed-up and drunk, starts to blunder his way through a business dinner, then pulls off a crashing victory of a speech, it's not just the high-wire act that amazes: it's word, gesture, nuance, angle, a confluence of competencies. This movie is a little like the San Francisco 49ers of the 1980s - everybody's on top of his game, nobody's too flashy, and so the vehicle inexorably gains one advantage after another.Myrna Loy gives one of the choicest readings of a brilliant career, enjoying dialogue that seems written for her alone of all the actresses in the world. March never was more complex and true. Dana Andrews surprises with his range and gravity; the ingénues are sweet and sympathetic; and what one might have thought was a sympathy Oscar for Harold Russell turns out to be the reward for a supporting performance akin to the best of Ward Bond, Victor McLaglen or Wallace Beery.
Most discussions of 1940's films will be tripping over themselves to again praise the overrated "Casablanca" and "Citizen Kane"; William Wyler's "Best Years of Our Lives" easily eclipses both of these and is easily one of the five best films of the decade.The fact that the audience will not likely notice the film's tremendous running time is a tribute to how engaging the story is; when you finish watching "Gone With the Wind", you KNOW you've been watching it forever, there is no such feeling with BYOL.Myrna Loy, Dana Andrews, and even Fredric March (whom I'm not usually a great fan of) turn in the performances of their careers. Virginia Mayo's performance of a thoroughly unlikable character is also noteworthy. The weakest of the cast are Cathy O'Donnell as Wilma and much worse, Michael Hall as the wooden Rob, but they are easily compensated for by the rest of the players. The story is told beautifully, never over the top or too melodramatic, just very real. Harold Russell's portrayal of a handicapped veteran is quite unusual material for a film of this era, and is done so adeptly that one feels empathy, but never pity, and finally genuine relief when we see that his character will ultimately pass through the torturous adjustment and again enjoy a happy and fulfilling life. Other reviews have outlined the story already, I'll just say this is a film that will not disappoint. You will feel you have been transported back to post-war middle America and are realizing things about it that never occurred to you before. This film will make you laugh, tempt you to cry, and above all, give you cause to think. This is what film-making should be like. 9 stars of out 10, only because nothing is perfect.


                
When I saw the title of this great Oscar winning film of 1946, I immediately thought of what our returning soldiers from the war had gone through. Who would ever guess that the title emanates from the likes of the character of Virginia Mayo, scolding her husband (a marvelous Dana Andrews.) She had the nerve to tell him that she wasted the best years of her life while waiting for his return. Actually, she didn't wait, she had Steve Cochran,in a very brief part, to wait the war out.Who can forget that scene when Frederic March returns home and is greeted by his family. Myrna Loy didn't have to say anything. The way she stood there was forever memorable.What did Dana Andrews have to do to win an Oscar? He was so good here as a returning GI but was denied a nomination. March was adequate and was rewarded with a best actor Oscar. I don't know why in a year, when Jimmy Stewart was up for It's A Wonderful Life, did March deserve the accolade.The movie was timely as the war had just ended. Other poignant scenes dealt with Harold Russell, who had lost his limbs during the war, dealing with his handicap.Unlike her undeserved Oscar for Mrs. Miniver, Teresa Wright, who died this year, was effective as March's daughter.


                
Wow. I've sort of been trying to go back and watch a lot of the so-called 'great' movies of the past that I've missed for one reason or another. Sometimes I look forward to seeing them. Others I find myself sort of dreading --- feeling like I'm doing them more as an assignment than a pleasure. "Best Years of Our Lives" was one of the latter. I assumed it was going to be painfully schmaltzy and didactic.Boy was I wrong. It's really an excellently constructed film. Sure it's still a "Hollywood" version of reality, but far more than most films (even today) this one is willing to deal sort of honestly with post-war conditions. Things aren't hunky-dory just because the war is over, heroes aren't perfect and don't become so. Adults clearly want to have sex and do. And even the bad guys (or girls) aren't completely demonized.It's pictures like this one that remind me why I'm going back to look at the great films of the past. They aren't all great, but it's a real pleasure to happen across the ones that are.


                
Some months ago, a co-worker and I were discussing our favorite movies, and his happened to be "The Best Years of Our Lives". I had certainly heard of it before, and knew it ranked highly on the IMDb and AFI lists of all time top movies. Up till now though, it had remained low on my radar, but I requested it through my local library system and got a chance to see it today. The film has to be one of the best ever in dealing with the return of military soldiers to civilian life, certainly the best regarding servicemen from World War II. It wisely stays away from battle scene flash backs to concentrate on the human drama of three ordinary men thrust back into a world they have to familiarize themselves with all over again. Their experiences range from the happiness of friends and family to have them back home, to the wrenching adjustments they must make individually as befits their respective situations. Perhaps the most heart wrenching is the personal ordeal of sailor Homer Parrish (Harold Russell), a real life veteran who lost his hands in an accident while training paratroopers at Camp MacKall, North Carolina. You would never know Russell wasn't an accomplished actor of his own accord, and for his effort in the film, was recognized as the only actor in history to win two Oscars for the same role in a picture (Best Supporting Actor and an Honorary Award for bringing hope and courage to fellow veterans).All of the performances by the principals are uniformly believable and consistent, with Fredric March and Dana Andrews rounding out the wartime trio who hook up by chance for a flight home to Boone City, a fictional city set in the Midwest. Young viewers probably won't believe the visibility offered by the nose of a B-15 bomber, just like I couldn't get over it when I saw the real thing at the National Air and Space Museum's Udvar-Hazy Center. There, the cockpit and nose section of the Enola Gay (actually a B-29 bomber) is on display, and seeing it, I earned an even greater appreciation and respect for the combat fliers who went to war for their country.Watching the film today, it's surprising how daring director William Wyler was in executing the story. The first example of course was using Harold Russell in a lead role, but you also have themes that were downright shocking in the 1940's. When Peggy Stephenson (Teresa Wright) declares that she's going to cause the divorce of Fred Derry (Andrews) and his wife Marie (Virginia Mayo), you can almost hear the gasps of movie patrons back in the day. And even though it's played for laughs, I had to wonder about the scene when Fred and Al Stephenson (March) were bundled up in the back seat of the family car in a drunken stupor. Speaking of which, stay attentive to the scene at Butch's tavern; Al introduces Fred and Homer to his family using each other's names. Of course by that time he was already a bit pie-eyed, so if it was a mistake, at least it was a credible one.If you never saw the credits for the movie, I think you'd be hard pressed to rank the actors in the story, so good are the performances and the screen time shared by the leads. To my mind, Harold Russell and his story are the standouts, but one could make as good a case for Dana Andrews and his conflicted relationship with wife Marie and the love he finds with Peggy. I'd have to surmise that Myrna Loy and Fredric March are top billed because they were the biggest names at the time, but that takes nothing away from their roles either, ones in which they attempt to rekindle a marriage following the strain of war and separation. You know, there were times that Myrna Loy seemed to have a devilish look in her eye like she was itching to go into a Nora Charles characterization, but had to restrain herself for the more sedate role she had. She probably should have had a scene where she could cut loose, but that wasn't the mission so to speak. You've also got Hoagy Carmichael aboard for a few musical numbers, which leads into the wedding march that helps close the story.It's hard today to try to imagine the kind of things returning servicemen had to endure returning to civilian life. The story helps set that tone with the men attempting to get back into the work force. I found it to be quite a disparity for Fred to be employed as a soda fountain clerk at $32.50 a week, while Al goes back to his bank with a promotion and a raise to twelve thousand a year, roughly two hundred fifty dollars a week. When Al took sympathy and a chance on a loan for a deserving veteran, it leads to some wonderful dialog about the kind of collateral a man brings to the table, the kind that can't be measured in money and property, but the kind that comes from the hands, the heart and the guts. That's what the true spirit of America was once, and is still if you can find it underneath all the garish headlines and muck that passes for news today. "The Best Years of Our Lives" works because it portrays everyday heroes doing courageous things off the battlefield, where for most of us, that's where it really counts.
This is a real classic, sort of in the same vein as "It's a Wonderful Life", and old fashioned in the same way.If I were putting together a film series called "Understanding Modern America" or "Best Films About What War Really Does to People", Best Years of Our Lives would definitely be part of it.The movie follows three soldiers as they come home from the WWII -- one an older rich guy who was a grunt in the war, one a younger poor guy who was a star pilot in the war, and the third a very young soldier who lost both his hands. It is surprisingly modern for its time in the way it depicts the moral and emotional hangover that always follows war, while at the same time being very compassionate toward its main characters and really celebrating what's most beautiful and idealistic about Americans. If you can get past some rather corny acting by the younger females (Myrna Loy is, as always, outstanding as the older guy's wife), and if you'll have some patience with its sort of low-key approach to post-traumatic stress disorder, you'll find a real and thoughtful movie treasure that stays with you a long time after the movie's over.


                
Could their be a more emotional feeling than coming back to your home and hearth after fighting in a war?  An excellent movie with a superb cast of actors portraying average people, returning to an average city, in a world that is not so average any more.  There is good reason this movie is so beloved by veterans of WWII.  This is also surely a favorite of those people who understand the price that was paid by veteran's everywhere, and how nothing would be the same again for the men and women caught up in a world at war.


                
Here is one of the titles which I had never been exposed to.  Never heard it mentioned in passing, had it recommended by a friend, noticed it in any way, shape or form.  Yet there it was, smack dab in the middle of the AFI list. My expectations were decidedly modest, without any big name stars except Myrna Loy (and William Wyler directing, of course).  Noting the year of release (1946), and the subject matter, (veterans returning from WWII), I was half-expecting a dated classic, which would stand up as a piece of historical interest, but not really place high on the enjoyable scale. I'm pleased to say that I was way off base. This turned out to be a film chock-full of outstanding performances, wrapped around a script which took its time unfolding.  It followed three veterans returning from the war with relative degrees of success.  Each had his own set of problems to deal with while readjusting, and each dealt with success and failure in their own ways.  I found myself actively rooting for each character to come through, even though I typically am hesitant to embrace Hollywood style happy endings. Scores a 9 / 10.  See it with less trepidation and more enthusiasm than I did.


                
The stories of American combatants under the psychological stress of returning from World War II is often left out of the narrative of American participation in the conflict. Here Wyler strikes an incredible tone that is full of angst and yet lives in periods of silence, handled brilliantly by a group of actors who play their roles authentically from the heart. In particular, Frederick March allows a sensitive script to shine through his portrayal of a successful businessman whose war experiences end up altering his life's priorities. Teresa Wright, Dana Andrews, Harold Russell, Cathy O'Donnell, Virginia Mayo (in one of her best performances), and Myrna Loy round off a cast clearly dedicated to bringing alive Wyler's concept.


                
I am far from thinking that I would be among the first who had written about this film which is for people more likely to be fond of the old cinema, history and culture.After a strong start we are moved in slowly gripping deposited life. The best years of which have been mixed due to the commitment of the majority of American men. This is my first encounter with a serious critique of the meaning of war, and the first time to be shown clearly the attitude of the government towards the end performers of its debt. Wearing upheavals in society, international conflicts, seen from the distance of the next century, seem pointless.Raw symbolism showing amputation at the fine human, the size of the defense industry and the shock of the experience. Some people move through it, others - do not. Finally, the need for global normalcy and continued humane existence.Nearly three hours post-war rehabilitated existentialism saved by the power that is able to overcome everything. Innovative techniques of shooting indoor and seven awards "Oscar".http://vihrenmitevmovies.blogspot.com/


                
William Wyler won a best directing Academy Award(as did the film itself) for this powerfully told film about three returning veterans from WWII: Al Stephenson(played by Frederic March) who is a banker with a wife(played by Myrna Loy) and daughter(played by Teresa Wright). Fred Derry(played by Dana Andrews)with a wife(played by Virginia Mayo), and Homer Parrish(played by Harold Russell(Academy Award winner) who lost his hands, though still has a loving family and girlfriend(played by Cathy O'Donnell). All three men have various troubles adjusting to civilian life after their war experiences, equal parts emotional, financial, and physical. Their families also struggle reconnecting, since they have changed as well, and not all will stay together... Heartfelt and compelling film was the perfect tonic for post-war audiences at the time, and remains an excellent motion picture today, having lost none of its power to move the viewer. A classic.


                
An Emotionally Draining Film, it makes its Point so Poignantly that it's an Indelible Work of Power and Strength. The Real-Life Story is Forever Etched on the Heart and Provides the Viewer with Extreme Empathy.It is Flawlessly Acted and that makes the Tragic Situations more Believable. The Movie is as Genuine as a True-Life Drama could be in 1946. It may stand as the Precursor to most of the Post-War Film-Noir that incorporated it's Theme of Returning Vets trying Valiantly to Readjust to Civilian Life. Discharged from the Hell-Holes of the Earth and finding that They were "Strangers in a Strange Land".Some may say that this Profound and Heartbreaking Story is a bit Long (almost 3 hours) and that is a Valid Statement. There does seem to be just a bit of Embellishment. An Example might be at the Wedding Ceremony, where the complete Marriage Vows are Recited. This may be a Nitpick but it is an Example of where a Few Minutes could have been Cut and there are others.That aside, this Close to Perfect Movie is one of the Top 100 American Films on just about Everyone's List.


                
A sailor and two soldiers return to their hometown; back from the war. They are revered by their fellowmen for fighting for their country. Al is promoted in the bank he worked with before the war. Fred returns to his house and realizes his wife had long vacated the house. Whatever happens to the lives of Al and Fred is of lesser importance when compared to the true life and pain of a handless soldier. Homer loses both his hands in the war and his perseverance and strong-soul get him going. His parents and neighbors pity him but he does all his daily chores by himself and demands he be treated the same way he was treated before the war. He gives humorous explanations when inquired about his condition and even tries to choke a man who feels war was a waste of incalculable time, money and countless lives.He has truly established courage in the minds of his fellow soldiers who have seen the horrors of battle and has given them a reason to live, for they have served the country. Harold has shown us that you don't need two hands when you have an iron heart. Salute!
A huge commercial success of Wyler's film upon its release right after the war and a spectacular critical reception (9 Oscars including Best Picture) are surprisingly conflicting (and somewhat symptomatic of the film's value) when one determines his expectations towards a picture that suggests post-war revisionism encapsulated within the spirit of the Classical Hollywood melodrama. The Best Years of Our Lives is a complex film in a sense that it is intricately honest about its political restraints and yet applies the same careful consideration to both the entertaining dramatic facade and underlying it social context.Running time of over 170 minutes turns The Best Years of Our Lives into a 'domestic epic'- film of subtle pleasures and intervening relationships focused on the mundane but extended into the proportions usually reserved for stories of much more grandiose scale. Yet initially balanced perspectives shift dangerously and for lengthy periods of time character of Homer is pushed into the background. Played by an actual disabled veteran, Homer adds a level of harsh realism that is unexpected for a Hollywood film of that period. All three veterans, levelled only briefly by a shared anxiety of returning to their families are constantly challenged by their different economical positioning, but strangely disproportionated by the narrative's momentum.Wyler's film reveals itself to be a melodrama, in most natural way evolving from the struggle for readjustment into a love affair and it thrives on sentimentality. This notion dominates the tone of the whole with a pleasurable alas predictable manner, leading to an ending that seems to be entirely satisfied with its shmalzy quality. Film is simply most comfortable in this familiar territory, once the obstacle of the controversy- Al's contradictory intentions at work, Fred's unemployment and Homer's disability become merely a set up. At one point Homer's sacrifice comes under blunt questioning but the villainous gentleman who dares to display his doubt is brutally dispatched- questionable necessity of war dismissed in favour of the future prosperity; an optimism of blindfolded conformity. This suspension of criticism is film's dominant mode.Staged and executed with precision, film utilizes, infamously, deep focus to achieve a level of undeniable verity. It is hard to dismiss it as only a technical nuisance and although one should be extremely careful to seek Bazinian inclinations of dominance in this particular form, The Best Years of Our Lives is a thoroughly impressive achievement. Depth of every shot provokes a curiosity that is often rewarded through reoccurring use of reflections and significant details that would otherwise require editing, disturbing film's considerate pace.Verdict: It's a classic that is as enjoyable a movie now as it might have been in 1946 but even more interesting as a story of a significant compromise. One between the urge for reassessment in a mass medium not quite ready for this kind of impact and a story that could support the interest of a broad audience- disillusionment and patriotism. More a mark of its times than perhaps any other Classical Hollywood venture, The Best Years of Our Lives is an example of a film that lost none of its excellence and purely emotional impact even if it intellectually resonates in a rather underwhelming way.


                
