A documentary is supposed to document the facts of something, not pick and choose which facts to use and then cleverly edit the video and audio recordings in order to cause a social media uproar and promote your own careers.I wish there was law to protect victim's families from people like Laura Ricciardi and Moira Demos. These filmmakers are masters at taking things out of context and using those things to promote the story they are trying to spin.I'll admit that I was absolutely captivated by the first few episodes which lay out how Steven Avery was convicted of a crime he didn't commit and how the Manitowoc police department failed him in many facets of the investigation and subsequent incarceration. Having said that, when I was watching the episodes related to Steven Avery's trial for raping and killing Teresa Hallbach, I found myself saying, "No,,,No,, NO WAY can he be found guilty... NOOOO WAYYY!!!" I couldn't understand how a jury might convict him if they were seeing the evidence we as viewers we seeing. So, I researched the case on my own. I read the transcripts from the multiple confessions Branden Dassey gave and looked over ALL of the evidence which wasn't covered in this film. I quickly realized why Laura Ricciardi and Moira Demos left out so much of the evidence. The reason is, the evidence they left out is completely irrefutable. They couldn't take it out of context and make it look like something else, or cast doubt on it. If they hadn't left out all of the extremely damaging facts about this case, no one would have ever heard about their "documentary" because it is a clear cut rape and murder committed by a child- molesting animal-torturer and previously accused rapist who had been stalking the victim:If you care at all about this case and the rights of the victim and her family, please do a quick search for what the filmmakers omitted.


                
Like most people I was unfamiliar with this case before watching this "documentary." And like most people, I was disturbed as the makers of the film started to create real doubt as to the guilt of this man. Little insinuations and open ended segments are put in that make you scream "what is going on here!?" However, unlike most people that have watched this series, I started to research the court records of this case. I started to examine the actual evidence and testimony. I went beyond just getting my information from this show. What I found was probably the most open and shut case in the history of mankind. You had a truly evil human being, that had motive (the desire to rape and kill women). means (he was the last person to see the victim alive) and more physical evidence than you can shake a stick at. The man made numerous anonymous attempts to lure this woman on to his property, there is no evidence of her ever leaving his property, her vehicle and remains were found on his property... it is open and shut. As for the defense's case, they did not have one. They simply relied on "it is a conspiracy." But there is not one example of them ever expanding on or proving that conspiracy. So many facts all but scream, Avery did it, from his numerous attempts to lure the nervous victim on to his property, numerous incidents of his abusing women and others, his feeling that his being wronged in the past allowed him to do anything he wished to women, the actual physical remains of her body on his property, along with her vehicle, all of which he tried to cover up. I will not even bother with the numerous incriminating events in his background and numerous people that heard him brag about what he did. Steven Avery is a very bad man and a very guilty man, the testimony in court proved that, which is why the jury convicted. Anybody that would take the time to actually examine the case on their own, instead of simply relying on this extremely deceptive and manipulated "documentary," would know that. People have said this is a disturbing documentary, I agree. It is disturbing, because some manipulative filmmakers decided they were going to create a documentary to con thousands of people into thinking a guilty person was innocent, and they did just that. They mixed and edited a film that turned black in to white and up in to down. They banked on a viewing audience being too lazy and inflamed to actually take time to examine the real facts of the case. That is evil almost in the realm of Steven Avery.


                
Too often, cruelty to animals is swept under the rug, as seems to have happened in Making a Murderer, the documentary about Steven Avery, when filmmakers omitted specific details about how Avery, at age 20, doused the family cat with an accelerant before throwing the animal onto a fire. Avery was convicted of misdemeanor cruelty to animals and served nine months in jail for the crime. This is not a person to be idolized or sympathized. Having him off the streets for 18 years was probably a good thing. Today, the FBI recognizes cruelty to animals as a precursor to further violence and tracks animal abuse like it does homicides. Many serial rapists, serial murderers, and mass murderers have a background of abusing animals, including Albert DeSalvo (the "Boston Strangler"), Jeffrey Dahmer, Dennis Rader (the "BTK killer"), and Columbine school shooters Dylan Klebold and Eric Harris.The filmmakers were wrong to downplay the importance of taking cases of animal abuse seriously and did viewers a disservice by glossing over that important information.


                
I don't know where to start with this show. Let's start with the film-makers.2 first-time 'documentarians' got wind of a shocking story. Steven Avery, a man wrongly convicted for attempted rape and murder in 1985, but subsequently exonerated by DNA evidence in 2003, was charged, again, with the murder of 25 year old photographer Teresa Halbach. This despite the fact that he was suing the Sheriff's department whose neglectful conduct got him convicted the first time around. The figure $36 million is thrown about like he had it in his pocket already. Impossible he's guilty, right? What a story. Not to mention that 3 months later, his 16 year old nephew is charged with murder, rape and mutilation of a corpse in the same crime.So, the documentarians hot-footed it to Manitowoc, Wisconsin, to film the goings on. Except, only some of Avery's family, former lawyers and current lawyers wanted anything to do with the film. Teresa's family, friends, police and prosecutors declined to be involved. So, we see many intimate, confidential scenes and interviews with Avery's supporters. Any footage of those who did not wish to participate is taken from press or trial footage.This is part of the problem. The film-makers clearly developed a rapport with the family. They visited Steven in jail and talked to him on the phone. They believed he was innocent and they embraced the idea that this was a police frame job to prevent Avery from winning the $36 million (or whatever he would actually have received), the real killer being some mysterious outsider who also framed Avery. The nephew was also a victim of over-zealous interrogation, as he was a little slow and just wanted to get his report in by 6th hour.Sounds like a great story, right? Yes, it is. It is a work of fiction, however. The film-makers avoided 'bad' evidence, minimized Avery's questionable prior behavior, and went out of their way to paint anyone who wasn't Avery and his supporters as suspicious. This included the victim's own brother. We are shown a fraction of the evidence, a fraction of the trial footage, and guess what? It supports the narrative that Avery was framed.Steven Avery is unquestionably the man who kidnapped, raped, tortured, murdered and burned Teresa Halbach on October 31st. Brendan Dassey was, at the time, a rather slow, awkward, self-conscious teenage boy, abused by his uncle, who was invited to take part in a horrific crime and couldn't bring himself to do the right thing. His conscience got the better of him and he cracked enough to inculpate himself. And yet there are hundreds of thousands of people who, based on a 10 hour show, wish to have this dangerous man freed.There were grave injustices in 1985 and after. The prosecutor is frankly a creep of a man. This does not merit the release of someone who would plan to kidnap, rape and murder a woman in the blink of an eye, just because he wanted to.
A fair documentary would detail the prosecution arguments, the defense arguments and detail in full the evidence used to convict and then honestly evaluate that evidence. Instead of clearly explaining all the evidence used to convict and the full arguments of both sides this series simply chose to post misleading evidence and arguments that suggest Avery is innocent and a victim of a miscarriage of justice. Since the only way that Avery could be innocent is if the most extensive framing in all of US history was engaged in that is effectively what the defense argued in court. However the defense found nothing to substantiate these grandiose allegations. A great deal of deception is employed by the producers to give the false impression that the planting allegations of the defense are true and were substantiated. The producers intentionally chose not to reveal the full extent of evidence against Avery because the notion every bit of evidence was planted is absurd.To try to pretend the police had a motive to plant evidence there was a great deal of deception built around Avery's civil rights lawsuit. Not a single thing was portrayed accurately about the lawsuit which actually had no legal leg to even stand on. The producers could not even be honest about the amount of the lawsuit. The demand was for an amount of at least $1 million and as much as $18 million, which Avery's lawyers arrived at by saying he could be entitled to up to $1 million for each year in prison. He was actually only in prison for 12 years as a result of the rape conviction that was vacated. The first 6 years he would have been in prison anyway for a different crime his sentences ran concurrently (served the same time). So even if by some miracle he got $1 million for each year in prison (which is unheard of) he still would have only received $12 million.The county's insurance company defended the suit and settled it for $400,000. They settled it because it would have cost more in legal fees to settle the suit than to fight it. Even if there had been a judgment returned against Manitowoc it would have no impact on the police who handled the Halbach case. The series tries to give the false impression that they stood to personally lose which is nonsense. The suit was settled in February 2006 before some of the evidence was even found. What evidence was found after? Well for one thing a bullet with Halbach's DNA that had been fired by Avery's rifle thus proving someone shot her in Avery's garage with Avery's rifle and the bullet either grazed her or exited her body. Who had access to Avery's rifle? Only him, no one else had a key to his trailer. The lawsuit was over at this point so the supposed motive of police to plant evidence at this point ceased to exist. That is likely why the series fails to discuss this evidence. A number of times the documentary presents misleading evidence instead of the full story. For instance it suggests it is fact that pieces of Halbach's pelvic bone was found in the quarry. Left out is that burned animal bones were found in the quarry which is close to a hunting area. When looking through these animals bones the expert saw 2 small bone fragments that based on the shape could have been small pieces broken off of a human pelvis. But small bone fragments are not unique in shape, it could just as easily been fragments from an animal. The 2 pieces were tested and the tests failed to establish either was a piece of human bone. So it was simply an unproven suspicion that 2 bone fragments among the animal bone fragments were human. The documentary elevates this to fact omitting the part of the testimony that reveals the full story. This kind of deception is used throughout the series to try to fool viewers. The series alleges that this proved she was burned in the quarry and then her body was moved to Avery's burn pit. What the true evidence establishes is that Halbach was burned in Avery's burn pit and then at some point Avery shoveled some of the ashes from his pit into the burn barrels at his sister's house and in the process some bone fragments were shoveled into a barrel there. There were already animal bones int he barrel so perhaps he decided to hide them among those fragments. Whatever the reason this is the only movement of bones the evidence supports. The notion someone burned her in the quarry and moved all but 2 bone fragments to Avery's burn pit and put some in Barb's burn barrel as well for good measure is nonsense.If you want to learn the true facts about the Halbach murder you will have to look somewhere else.
We sat and watched....and watched....and watched! When was it going to deserve the high praise it was getting from so many?!?!?! The interviews that they show seem to be prompted and scripted. The interviewees are terrible actors. The Jinx is SOOOOO much more interesting than this story. His family members claim "sure, maybe he did terrible things, but he eventually admits it and fesses up". And that is their reasoning for knowing he's innocent? He's guilty of torturing animals so i have no sympathy for this son of a bitch. He can rot in jail and i hope he does. The "film makers" steal from mood and music from "Fargo" to try and give them some clout but they are hacks. Just look how many times they both greedily put their names in the credits! The Jinx is BY FAR the best crime documentary ever made. So, just watch that and accept that it just doesn't get any better than that.


                
Impressed by the ratings and the very good critics, I kept watching one episode a day until the last one. And now I keep scratching my head and wished I had done anything else as 10 hours of Windows Minesweeper would have been more entertaining. The first episodes caught my attention enough to get going but then it was all downhill<U+0085> It is a one sided, thus heavily biased, view of a criminal case that is badly edited and overstretched. I really feel cheated by the critics on this one.This has nothing to do with The Jinx, these two series are not of the same class. You should look elsewhere for an enticing series on a criminal case, go for The Jinx, The Staircase or Sin City Law to name a few. If still you want to give it a try, I would recommend to have a look at the case online first and to drop the series as soon as you get bored because it will not get better in the later episodes.


                
Boring unbelievably biased proof:whatculture.com/tv/19-things-making-a-murderer-covered-up-about-the- steven-avery-case.phpVerdict Boring, biased, and regardless if he committed that crime he got what he deserved.One out of 10One star Wouldn't recommend for anyonePropaganda in blatant formDon't waste your time on ten episodesPlease read the link for further information


                
Spoiler alertIf you have any intelligence you can see right from episode 4 that the two high paid lawyers representing Steven are excellent at manipulating the family of Stevens into thinking they are winning by striking off minor cases all while they get paid for it.I really hate how the directors use emotions to try and attach the audience in favor of the murderer and that somehow playing delicate music when they are chatting over the phone might help that emotional connection - screw emotions just look at the logicality of the case..Load of rubbish, how on earth this has 9/10 just shows me how dumb people can be.


                
I gave it 3 episodes. This was very boring to watch. The same evidence was given over and over. I am not sure how many times I can see the same mug shots and still pictures of Avery. It was like watching reruns of murder she wrote. Old films and pictures are not gritty to me, just depressing. If you have the 10 hours to sit and watch this go ahead but if, like me, you find after a few episodes that the hype this has been given is just not worth it then stop like I did and just read on internet quickly what happened. With anything on the internet that you read nobody can be sure what is fact or fiction just as this making of a murderer story. I am sure things were left out that did not help the story.


                
I couldn't even get through it. I kept waiting for the exciting parts, but after reading ahead and taking to people that stuck it out, it seems there is no exciting parts. So incredibly boring. The jist of the story can be explained in one paragraph. I just don't get the hype. I gave it a fair chance too, I got halfway through and only kept watching for that long because others had convinced me that it gets interesting. More of the same stuff over and over. Do yourself a favor and spend time with your family. Don't waste your time trying to empathize with a stranger. No one knows what really happened, and after doing some reading, desperately trying to find something remotely intriguing, I discovered that things presented in the documentary aren't inclusive of all the facts! Dear Internet, you lied to me.


                
The Making a Murderer documentary series is propaganda of the most sinister kind. I can't quite figure out what the whole agenda is here, but Avery is guilty as h-e-double-toothpicks. All it takes is about ten minutes of research online to find out that the filmmakers are deliberately deceiving the audience. They leave out crucial details that are incredibly incriminating... so incriminating, in fact, that the guy was convicted of murder in a court of law by a jury of his peers, not something that happens often if you're not a murderer. Some of the details that are left out -- while not necessarily part of the Halbach case -- point to the low character of this so-called person. Part 2 of this series is especially pathetic and desperate, filled with nonsensical interviews with Avery and Dassey family members, as well as all kinds of other filler. It is plain that the filmmakers know they have nothing, and so they're putting on a show of misdirection as best they can.However, I would recommend watching this series if you are interested in studying how propaganda works in documentaries. Listen for sinister music in the background whenever someone anti-Avery speaks. Or how about the grainy video and shaking camera every time the former prosecutor talks. By the way, The Staircase is another false advocacy documentary to check out; it is another complete and desperate lie, and so painfully obvious once you look into it.
Imagine a court trial: now imagine you only get to hear the defense case and the prosecution is just completely missing and you're beginning to have this shameful programme. This show is dripping with bias; they quickly gloss over anything which would put the audience against including the fact that this is a man who murdered and tortured cats for fun. Judging by the score they have completely succeeded in duping the majority of the audience.
There are SO many facts left out that it leaves people actually thinking the police killed her and staged the evidence when clearly its not the case. Kathleen Zellner is fighting a battle that is going to make her look stupid when she realizes he did it. She isnt a hero in this case. She is grasping at straws to get her client out but if she were to become successful Steven Avery would make a mokery of her.


                
To put it simply making a murderer tries to make you sympathize with convicted serial killers, mass murderers, and rapists. All while pretending that the system was wrong for putting the convicted behind bars or to death. The producers and writers of this show attempt emotional manipulation multiple times throughout the series. I'd not recommend this series to anyone who is intelligent enough to make their own decisions.


                
If you believe everything you watch in this doc then you're lacking brain cells. It sounds the most biased documentary I have seen. I watched it and at first was eating it up watched 4 episodes without leaving my couch. Then began to realize it was pushing me in one direction. I started to do my research they left out so much evidence in this film to make people believe it. A 10 min google search and it will blow your mind. Many networks turned it down due to the fact that the makers left things out so the audience would believe it. I feel so bad for the family of the woman who was murdered by Steven Avery. We should be ashamed of ourselves for allowing a film to only show one side. The women refused to go to his house because of her past encounters with Avery. He called her office specifically asked the office to send her there and then she ends up dead. I'm sorry these makers and Netflix should be ashamed to promote a killer as if he is innocent. Maybe make a doc on a actual person who is innocent or provide the viewers with all the facts.


                
This "documentary" is extremely biased and one sided. They altered testimony, edited, and manipulated viewers. Don't waste your time, you won't find the truth in this movie.


                
First season was alright second season is boring its a show for conspiracy theory tin foil hat wearers Avery is guilty and that stupid theory that the police are setting him up same thing OJ Simpson's lawyers said what happened to that woman disgusting and the people sending Avery and Dassey fan mail are idiots.
