I watched all ten episodes of this original Netflix series over the course of two days, which will give you an idea of how immersive and compelling it is. Why the low rating then? Simply because this documentary is not really a search for truth in the case of Steven Avery, now a convicted murderer, than it is a biased presentation of one side of the story — Avery's side. Ten minutes of fact checking after my binge viewing revealed a wealth of damning evidence, along with a disturbing picture of Avery's criminal history, that is nowhere mentioned in the documentary as it attempts successfully to portray him as a railroaded innocent, a victim of police corruption and duplicity. If anything, the documentary does provide an inescapable indictment of the Wisconsin criminal justice system — for that it gets 3 stars. You get a visceral sense of how powerless most indicted nobodies are before a system that is stacked against them. But at the end of the day, this documentary fails in its main task, which is to provide all the pertinent facts, and let viewers draw their own conclusions. For that reason, even though I enjoyed it from beginning to end, I feel it is essentially a waste of time — a slick presentation of a single point of view, with critical facts hidden when they support a different conclusion than the filmmakers clearly started with.
I found the beginning maddening and his first stint in jail a real tragedy. But if you watch this movie, please do read other information on the web about the case - read more than what is provided by the movie makers. I can't call them documentarists since they did not do the story justice (see other facts). The New Yorker Mag has a good piece on the problems with this movie.In addition, read what Nancy Grace has to say about the case. I am not a Nancy Grace fan in any way, but she does walk through a cogent telling of facts that were left out. The movie makers had a story line and developed their movie along it - including things that bolstered it and discarding things that did not. And while the first conviction was an apparent mistake, one has to wonder how many lives were spared while this monster was behind bars? The ends do not justify the means - but one does wonder.


                
A podcast called "Rebutting a Murderer" lays out MANY facts that the filmmakers conveniently left out. This was absolutely not a miscarriage of justice.


                
The guy is guilty, even with the bias favored towards him. I watched season 1 in hopes it would reveal some major information that would show his innocence but every thing I saw he seems guilty to me.
... by the defense team and documentarians. The first season you can sorta see how they went from maybe, maybe not to a slanted conclusion at the end. The second season is just a hit job on Kratz. and a media needy lawyer. obvious documentarian slant, brain fingerprinting (?) and the same sort of laughably shoddy crime scene recreations seen in the Michael Peterson (see The Staircase) documentary are used to exonerate Avery in the eyes of is defense team and the filmmakers. I'm guessing the phrenologist's conclusions weren't as favorable. The second season is a real mark against the originality and suspense that made the first season so landmark.
Technically, since Avery and Dassey's respective cases have been in the news, and that data is available for anyone searching the internet, we don't have to watch Season 2 to understand what has happened. I came away with the feeling that Season 2 helps generate revenue for the various interested parties rather than add any new information about the various legal actions. While we can question whether Dassey's confession was coerced, Avery had very competent legal counsel. Other than very granular legal analysis and strategy, what seems to really be lacking in both Season 1 and Season 2 is compassion for Teresa Halbach and her loved ones. Since this is supposed to be a documentary and not fiction, I would have expected, and would have found it far more interesting, if we heard more from the perspective of the Ms. Halbach's family and the prosecution. What would have been an interesting follow up to this documentary (didn't think one was really needed since there is sufficient information in the news on Avery and Dassey), is if Season 2 was done through the lens of the prosecution and police - completely different viewpoint.
