Just finished watching the 'Making a Murderer' series, before my free subscription runs out. I looked up google afterwards, and surprise surprise Kathleen Zellner is now cashing in on it. IMV Steven Avery is certainly evil incarnate, getting his slow-witted 16-year old nephew to allegedly rape that poor young woman. Sure the police acted unethically, taking advantage of Dassey's naive gullible nature, but Avery deserves to be locked up for life (with regular parole reviews, as we are civilised, after all). Can't believe he has three ex-fiances. the first one,Jodi, was a true psycho if I ever saw one, with that half smile on her face the whole time.It certainly was compelling viewing, although I had to force myself to continue after episode three, as it was clear the defence were clutching at straws and completely railroaded the trial to focus on the police instead of the murder.The defence even highlighted the prosecutor's 'sexting' scandal, years after the case, which had little to do with the trial. I felt sorry for Avery's Mom, and Dassey's Mom. They seemed the only normal people in that family.Sorry to be behind in all this, but now Netflix are making 'series 2' featuring... Kathleen Zellner..At least we now know where Amanda Knox got her ideas from in carefully building up her phoney, 'wrongful conviction' claim, all carefully concocted and scripted. .'The new episodes will feature Avery's new lawyer Kathleen Zellner as she takes on the case. The news of season two was confirmed in a joint statement by two of the people behind the series, Laura Ricciardi and Moira Demos.'Innocence fraud fatigue kicks in, sorry.


                
If we see this as a documentary, it fails all the way: there's no "showing things as they happened", there's no bringing all the proves and there's no objectivity. The first couple of episodes were pretty good: I couldn't figure out whether Steven Avery was completely a good guy or he had dark sides. But all of the other episodes try to tell you one and one only thing: Avery is the good guy who was framed by the bad policemen, and this is boring as hell. I mean, if it was about showing the police as the good guys I would have stopped watching it after like 10 minutes, but if this is a documentary you can't show me this as the good guy and those as the bad guys: the world's not that way.If we see this as a show, it is a very bad one: it's boring as hell, it is far too long, the images shot to fill in the voice over telling of the story are really pure shot and photographed and it is even badly edited, in my honest opinion. The Steven Avery story is one of the most interesting stories I've ever heard of, it was important to be told (he may be innocent - this is not up to me) in a matter of social rights and I feel kind of upset to see it shown in such a poor and boring way.
