Yes, I agree that this film is incredibly important for understanding the flaws of our Justice System. Ironically, however, this 10 part documentary also exemplifies the flaws of the movie making industry.After binge watching the show in a single night, I decided to follow my satisfaction with research about the film's origin and process. Much to my dismay, I uncovered crucial evidence that was deliberately undisclosed. In order to keep this review concise and factual, I will not elaborate on the method of my findings. Trust me, however, when I say that this evidence is legitimate. Nevertheless, these are the most important of my discoveries. 1) Steven Avery touched on the horrific memory of when he "accidentally" roasted his family cat in an open fireplace. What he did not disclose, however, is that this was no accident. In fact, he went so far as to douse the poor cat in oil before intentionally setting it alight. This information alone is enough for me to conclude that this man has an innate blood lust. 2) Remember the conversation during the trial in which the prosecutor states that Teresa Halbach was receiving constant calls from a man with whom she was becoming annoyed/frightened? The name of this caller was not revealed in "Making a Murderer," but it would be staggering news to discover that this caller was the one and only Steven Avery. And yes, it was.3) Teresa Halbach specifically asked not to go to the house of Steven Avery. This is by far the most crucial evidence, as it confirms that Avery is problematic at the least. The part of "Making a Murderer" that most troubles me is that the filmmakers portray Avery as a magnanimous, almost saintly citizen of Wisconsin. The way they present his case, it is perfectly clear that he is innocent of every charge that is set against him -- yet this is untrue. This false portrayal makes me question the validity of this documentary, and others. However, with all this being said, our Justice System has countless flaws in its method of convictions and obtaining evidence, and that is undoubtedly true. So as stated earlier, I do believe that this documentary is important, but its reliability could have been improved upon.
This film series is a documentary.Doc-u-men-ta-ry
: of, relating to, or employing documentation in literature or art
: being, consisting of, or contained in documents
: a presentation (such as a film or novel) expressing or dealing with factual eventsI don't know why people seem to believe documentaries are somehow "required" to present both sides in an unbiased manner. That's the job of journalists, and even they don't do it; the nightly news is filled with bias.People who confuse "documentary" with "news" don't understand what documentaries are supposed to be. Read the definitions above. Nowhere does it say that all facts must be presented or the presentation should be unbiased.The intent of documentary film is to present an argument and support that argument with information. Documentary film is the media equivalent to a structured debate or writing a persuasive essay. You include opposing arguments and facts only to the point they help make your case. End of story.This series provides a clear narrative from a certain point of view. It tells a compelling story about a man and his encounters with law enforcement and our obviously imperfect judicial system. Some of the things we see are truly horrific. Things on both sides of the argument.And that's really the point. We should really only be shocked by horrific things done by criminals. We shouldn't observe police and prosecutors engaged in any activity that even gives of whiff of impropriety. Yet, we do. In fact, it's observed so often, it has become almost a running joke. A very tragic joke, to be sure.Also, it's dumbfounding how many people fundamentally misunderstand our criminal justice system. Only the prosecution must prove anything using evidence. The entire purpose of the defense is to create reasonable doubt. Avery's attorneys have no mandate to provide evidence or even substantiate their claims in any manner. Defense attorneys routinely manufacture outrageous lies to save their clients. This is done every day. It is how it is supposed to be done, if the lawyer is any good. If the defense were required to state the truth and provide evidence, 99% of trials would never happen, because the defendant would just plead guilty.


                
Although the subject matter was occasionally sleezy, this series re-set the bar for a crime docu-series on television, and the fact that it took 10 years to produce shows me they had the patience and vision that is in short supply today. We sure could use more of that these days!


                
An interesting documentary that paints a clear picture of wilful deception present within the justice system. The most painful part may be seeing that the judges at all levels had decided before any arguments are heard. This points to the real failure of most current justice systems where guilt is still ultimately decided based on personal feelings and biases rather than science or facts.Season 2 nicely improves on season 1 by showing a good amount of actual evidence. What is presented strongly suggests that Steven Avery was framed. However, the case from Brandon remains unclear and shifting opinions
are given by the defense lawyer based on convenience for her client. What is clear is that a confession was coerced from someone incapable of understanding the consequences. Having been in a similar situation as a minor I understand how important it was to be sufficiently cognizant. Unfortunately the series still seems to lack the investigation required to reveal what actually happened.
Making a Murderer shows what democracy looks like where you might naively expect it to be most healthy, if you have an idealized and outdated view of Wisconsin and Midwestern country life. It is not a balanced documentary series, but even if it was, Manitowoc would still appear as an absurd, idiocratic dystopia full of clowns, fools, and villains -- all of them narcissists -- clinging to different pieces of the wreckage of the old class system that was never about being nice at all, just Midwestern nice. What may have been a fig leaf of bourgeois respectability once upon a time today is everyone's slummy attempt to parlay a bit of attention into celebrity gold.The unintended genius of the filmmaker is to proffer the carrot of our national voyeurism to these hungry naught selves and dangle it back at the rest of us. We too have sconnie bohunk Neanderthals and church lady scolds within us, literally or figuratively. MaM certainly exploits and reveals the ways we all try to identify truth with moral rectitude through simple moral types so we can separate the sheep from the goats. It is a terribly innocent notion of innocence, which Graham Greene aptly described not as a virtue but as a blind leper who has lost his bell and his way.Right away we learn Manitowoc's zeal to put away a goat in the past for a rape he did not commit is the festering sore on their collective pride. The authorities and solid citizens want to keep their lusty monsters (and sexuality in general), their pure and innocent victims, and their trusted guardians in the separate, unequal categories of an imagined community. It's an image that the polite society of every small town or city has of itself. It does not exist in fact and the best way to demonstrate it is a lie is to prop it up with prejudice and power. This is kind of "faking it to make it" really means faking out yourself so you can live with the smell is not an unusual municipal survival strategy in the Rustbelt that brought Scott Walker to power.The 10-episode first season of MaM is extremely limited in scope and depth, since it focuses almost entirely on the defense of a rather polished image of the Avery elders as Ma and Pa Kettle. You see the police and prosecutors railroading these poor, seemingly ignorant people. It's a conspiracy to convict them -- of course, that is what policing is -- but the camera does not offer a breakthrough to "the truth" behind the swirl of contrary stories and images. It would have been a lot better as reportage and art if the cameras had looked into the community and families more, where they would have found a full spectrum of hometown monsters. The filmmakers never dug into the carnival of violent perverts in the literally inbred Avery clan. Fans and amateur sleuths have gone and done the digging themselves online.The last episode briefly tacks on former DA Ken Kratz's downfall as a narcissist who now claims sex and drug addictions made him a victim too. After the show came out, Kratz became the villain to viewers. His career had already imploded due to his predatory behavior and sex-ting of female domestic abuse victims he took as clients. Kratz today is desperate for the public to know he is on the other side of recovery now. He is not just a creep. He is also writing a book and writing strange harassing letters to Avery to bait him into confessing his crimes for Kratz's book. No doubt they would write a book too, if he could.The defendants and defense attorneys receive only friendly camera attention throughout the series, but it's not pure whitewash. The defense attorney who is the most credible and seemingly sincere moral actor in the show, Dean Strang, holds onto the possibility that Avery is guilty. Ultimately he hopes he has been defending a murderer rather than believe the county justice system is corrupt. He's holding together what seems like two radically different possibilities in mind, but in fact both may be true. That is the conclusion no one wants to imagine, but given the time to reflect it seem to have become the dominant public response.In the end it's disturbingly easy to imagine a plausible master narrative that resolves the case by implicating nearly everyone involved as stupid, crazy, *and* evil -- especially at least some of the extended Avery family. It's a fascinating, dreaded combination of motives that defines the psychopath who walks among us. They're bound to deceive anyone who is trusting rather than paranoid, anyone willing to check self-interest against a generous concern for others, even strangers. The victim's roommate and her brother, the Avery family, the sheriff's department and prosecuting attorneys -- they all come out looking not just suspicious but deceitful and possibly criminal. Once viewers realize that, there's a bigger problem that explains the popular obsession with the show: this is not just something that happens in Podunk Wisconsin where everyone is white. Our social contract is well and truly broken.Making active legal cases like these into popular entertainment spectacles is a new level of voyeuristic realism. It dissolves our Made in the USA social imaginary by showing the factory floor and the company town where our normative unreality is crudely manufactured. It's a docudrama for idiocracy, a mockumentary for the American soul for anyone who still wants to believe.
I have always been a whodunit nut, so a crime thriller like this show seemed immediately up my alley.Episode 1 lays the groundwork and portrays the gross miscarriage of justice which seems inconceivable in retrospect. Episode 2 is essentially what lends the series its name. At this point, I could clearly see where this series was heading and hence left it hanging. It was only this week that I picked up Episodes 3 and 4 which left no doubt in mind that the show is following the same script as the podcast Serial which was perhaps the first investigative true-crime series that caught the public's imagination. The coverage and impact of such shows is usually as follows:1. The protagonist is found guilty and to this day is in jail with repeated appeals being rejected 2. The series investigates and puts forth "evidence" that indicates wrongful conviction 3. There is a public uproar amongst the viewers of the show 4. The possibility of a new trial arises based on the discovery of new evidenceHaving struggled to watch through Episodes 3 and 4, I decided to quit the series and instead read up on the the case's progress. Surprisingly, it doesn't seem I am missing much in terms of content. Unsurprisingly, all the 4 points that I stated above seem to be applicable to this case/show as well.We live in times where there is a media trial painting the accused as guilty prior to conviction and then a media retrial post- conviction portraying the convicted as not guilty. Based on the episodes I have seen, I can see only one opinion forming in the minds of most viewers. Everyone is free to make their own opinions but ultimately it comes down to the courts. The judicial process in any part of the world is particularly onerous one and the outcome largely depends on how a case is presented. This provides the leeway of the guilty being exonerated and the innocent being convicted. The truth for most is how and what they choose to see and hence I am pretty unsure of what to take away from this show. Should it be anger, disbelief, misrepresentation or something else? It seems that I feel most comfortable in just having the facts presented in a neutral manner with a less protracted coverage and hence I couldn't really get in to this show.


                
The story is fascinating and my heart goes out to Steven Avery. But these shows cannot be fully trusted. They may be selling us a lie . He may have been not innocent. Cannot really say. I did not enjoy it as it only showed one side of the story


                
Does anyone really believe that these 2 guys are innocent?? What are the odds that a complete stranger unknown to this poor girl killed her and those 2 knuckle heads had nothing to do with her murder? U can have all forensics and scientific evidence u like because u can always make guilty look innocent in trial.i believe there guilty as hell and there just playing on all the hype surrounding this case.


                
I agree with one unfavorable review. Steve Avery is guilty as charged. His lawyers failed to exonerate him with one fickle reason, police planted the evidences which was pitiful and shameful nonetheless to say.Avery was a psychopath in the making since his childhood. None of us with cautions should never discount the factual evidences. He was the last person saw the victim besides her car and burn bone fractures were scattered around the junk yard. I did have one issue was while DA tried to link his nephew to the crime, it appeared to be lacking of physical evidences so it would only be fair to release him instead.The lawyers who took the case based on only one strategy which was proving police planted one of the evidences and subsequently requesting the judge to throw out all the evidences in order to secure Avery's innocence which failed miserably. I would say anybody with sound mind would not even partake. It's intriguing despite of a lot of ridicule in the program. However, it did little convincing.


                
As a true crime-fan this was a must see for me. And if I had seen this three years ago when I was new to true crime, I would have screamed about innocent and just believe everything this documentary showed. But now my first thought after I finished watching was about the fact that they showed so little from the prosecutors and the Halbach family side. I know that that's because they have declined to be in the show, but it doesn't change the fact that MAM is obviously Pro-Avery.Of course a 10 hour long documentary can't go in to detail about every thing, but some googling shows that they kept things that make Steven Avery look bad out. It makes me a bit more negative about the documentary witch makes me give it a lower grade. I would have wanted a more balanced program. I still think it's interesting and made me think and say "what?" and that's what I think a documentary should do. It was a bit slow sometimes, but overall it kept my interest and I would recommend it to others. But I would tell them to Google after to get more of the story.
