Just as fascinating as the first. You want to finish it as soon as you start it to get all the information which makes it compelling viewing. The contributions from Steven's lawyer and Brendan's lawyers are the most interesting and there is a different theory to the murder that wasn't in the first one.
It is also interesting to watch the timeline of events in Brendan's appeals and see the tricks prosecutors played in sealing their conviction. As for the alternative theory it makes you think and doubt the official explaination and it's up to you to draw your own conclusion but it makes a good series to watch and I highly recommend it.
As soon as this show came out and I knew what it was about I knew I had to see it. I am a real crime lover and I love to dive into cases to see if I can solve them or notice other things that haven't been noticed before. I've watched the show completely 5 times and every single time I see new details. There is simply too much information to process in one watch. It's given me a lot to think about and I am still thinking about it every now and then, deciding what my opinion is. I am waiting impatiently on the new season!


                
I don't think I have ever watched a programme that has left me so frustrated at how so many high ranking officials can just "reject" appeal after appeal after appeal even when they receive new evidence that disproves almost EVERY statement/evidence of guilt/everything that has been said in court.I watched Season 1 back to back, and the same with Season 2, expecting not a happy ending, but at least some sort of positive resolution to the ridiculous (almost evil) way the court system/legal system worked.It didn't happen. So sad.Will there be a Season 3? Who knows ....
I have controversial feelings about this. When I watched the series I noticed they wanted to look like they present the case objectively, but I could still see they picked a side and there must be other things they didn't show. Reading the comments and articles now I know I was right.I think we can agree that the first episode was done well. The rest of it I'm not so sure. It played more on the dramatic, emotional side than the factual one. I really enjoyed it(that's why I rate it higher), but throughout the series I was like 70% sure he did not commit it and I'm pretty sure that number is 100% for most viewers from episode 4 at least. After reading some more about it now I would say it's 50-50, it's just one of those cases where I can't pick a side. Both stories told could have happened.Both of his defender lawyers looked like rational people, who actually cared about the truth. I thought this is like a reversed OJ case(innocent proved guilty, because police framed him as opposed to guilty proved innocent, because they say police framed him), but then I realized we, the viewers only have 10hours of knowledge from one perspective in a case very complicated. I don't think the jury trial is a good system, but nonetheless they spent more time listening to the case, has more insight than we do. But then again if you do a documentary showing every bit of detail that would take forever and most people wouldn't watch it through and wouldn't talk about it.As for the Brendan part I'm almost certain he didn't do it. It's ridiculous that you go to jail for the rest of your life just because your own statements. I mean let's be real here, the people talked kindly of this, but he was a very asocial, borderline retarded teenager. When I saw the video clip it reminded me of someone getting tortured who doesn't know anything and tries to figure out what he has to say to get out of the situation. Not someone who confesses horrible crimes to relieve it's soul from remorse. I hope he gets out eventually.
I loved this series, was gripped from episode 1. The storyline was fantastic, difficult to get that backwater America stereotype to fly in 2015 with Trailer Park Boys and other shows hogging the limelight but this was balanced perfectly. The deadpan defence lawyers didn't smirk once and the actor playing Steven aced it, never tried to ham his part up, worked the satire perfectly. Whoever did the casting can take a bow, giving the main villain that squeaky 'Austin Powers' voice was just genius. Very surprised to see the bad guys win - doesn't often happen in US shows, refreshing touch. The only downside was episode 9, pushed the envelope a little too far; otherwise - with tongue firmly in cheek - very believable. Well done all involved.


                
The documentary is very well made and it clearly takes side with Steven's innocence. It may be very hard to digest the fact that the justice system can be so broken and biased and I can believe when others say the documentary leaves out facts and possible evidence against Steven. But one should ask what would be the reason for the producers to do so. Even if the producers would have motives to highlight facts that would presume Steven's innocence and hide evidence against him, how would one explain Steven's lawyers and investigators, years after the case, still state their shock on how biased the trial was? They are not just commenting on a case they lost, but about a case that was remarkably biased against the defendant and therefore very unfair. An extraordinary case in their eyes, indeed. These are people that have had access to all the evidence against and pro Steven, the same evidence conspiracy theorists claim the documentary leaves out to defend Steven.
This is certainly a great documentary, and its purpose to examine the justice system is applaudable.You are immersed into the personality and mind of Steven Avery as he goes through hell and back, then to hell again and again and again. The emotions of what is being transpired suck you in so deep, that you will need to keep watching to see what happens next episode. Book off a day or two before starting this show, otherwise you're going to work with bags under your eyes the next day.My only criticisms are (a) that the documentary does not take an unbiased approach, as it seems to favour Avery's side, and not showing the complete story on the state's end to allow the viewer to make a fair assessment of the events and (b) It felt way too long. 10 episodes to explain what transpired is 7 episodes way too long in my opinion. It could all have been condensed without some meaningless ramblings here and there.Overall, give it a watch. It's a thought-provoking tale that connects you to real-life, and makes you question the legal system and its fairness.


                
Though perhaps not with the same technical prowess as The Central Park 5 or The Jinx, it is riveting from start to finish. I'm glad I didn't marathon ALL of it - I watched it in mostly two chunks over two days, and it shows how the system is just one completely screwed place. You want to have faith that the cops and lawyers and judges and jurors know what they're doing, but they don't. What I loved too is that the doc didn't necessarily make Steven Avery or Brendan Decasey seem all honky dory - they both come off as dumb white trash to varying degrees (though one can sense Steven gets a little wiser while away for the FIRST 18 years on the case that got over-turned).It's a staggering case to tell about this man, and also his nephew, who were arrested and convicted of rape and murder. Watching this any person with reasonable logic can see that even if not every single thing the filmmakers point is what is so - if say things are left out from what happened between October 31st 2005 and March 2nd 2006 - it's hard to see the whole concept of "beyond a reasonable doubt" with a guilt verdict. So much is presented that is not even necessarily about showing the innocence of Avery and/or Brendan (though there is); it's ultimately about what happens in the gears of the justice and legal system, what it's like not just when the lawyers are talking in court, but what they say to the press immediately after each day ends. How do the gears turn and make things so... unfair? Are there moments where an episode leaves a bit much on a cliffhanger? Sure. It would have been nice to not have to keep doing that (seeing as this is a Netflix film, you are watching this basically beat to beat). But I got connected with these people, and felt things being gut-wrenching at times like when Brendan is going through his "did I do this did I not" mental anguish as he's a person with limited intelligence (some of those phone calls are so hard to take). It's a plot-driven epic of small town horror, and whatever you think about the fate of the convicted it's difficult to say that the filmmakers don't show moments (like Brendan's confession videos/calls) where the sense of 'what is going on here' to the point where everything builds up to a sense of moral outrage. It's something that could be revisited and one can find some more interesting elements.


                
It deserves a 10 for its intensity, but I didn't like the fact that it was pretty one-sided and thus you couldn't know after e10 if he was guilty or not (and why no court in America believed in him!!). It was one-sided just to make it more intense, as they tried to make entertainment. Nonetheless, this isn't really entertainment anymore, is it? When you think of it as an empathetic human being, this is sickening. I don't blame the makers though, because he's innocent. Why? Let me tell you/myself. Firstly, he didn't do it the first time either, and he went to jail for that for 12 years (18 minus the 6 for driving that woman of the road). People didn't believe him in 2002, although a lot went wrong in that prosecution as well. Hardly anyone believed in him until the day he got released in 2003. Please understand that people have a natural tendency to believe in authority and how they won't hurt them. That's what we've been learning from childhood. Nobody wants to believe that the police didn't just plant it, but also killed Teresa Halbach... Secondly, Teresa Halbach (TH) had been missing since the day the Avery Bill passed. How f'ing coincidental is that. I don't mean the fact that it happened that same day, but it just shows so well that the Manitowoc police must've felt silly and exposed; and moreover, very scared about their future... Thirdly, he has no motive. Manitowoc clearly did have one to frame him. I never hear anyone talk about that... Fourthly, it would be the dumbest murder of all time: when she's at his house making pictures (sure, kill her now, because no one will suspect you then), while he has a car crusher he leaves the car on his terrain, he asks his moronic cousin to help for some reason, and he burns her body WITH him. Avery isn't smart either, but.. yeah... Fifthly, Bobby Dassey says he saw her RAV4 at 2:30, whereas both Brendan's bus driver and a random propane filler (normally filling up around the same time each day) saw her car near Avery's trailer at 3.30 (leaving, according to propane-guy, although he didn't see who was behind the wheel). Bobby Dassey's alibi is his step dad, who has Bobby as HIS alibi, at 3:00. Sixthly, from the start all authorities point in one direction, and one direction ONLY: Steven Avery. Not too cautious after you falsely put him in jail... Seventhly, Monitowoc County keeps interfering, talks about him as if he's guilty from the beginning ("if we wanted to eliminate him, it would be easier to eliminate him than to frame him" and "in order to prove a guilty man is guilty, it doesn't matter if the key was planted"), Lenk keeps coming into his searched trailer etc. Eightly, Brendans' confession is clearly ridiculous. Ninthly, where is the blood: I haven't heard one logical explanation for how the non-genius Steven exactly did it so cleanly. Tenthly, TH's moved bones, the key, the opened blood sample... There went Manitowoc's evidence.You're reading the words of someone who, on a personal level, was quite disappointed because he didn't get to know whether Steven was guilty or not . I've been doubting his innocence because the documentary was very biased, I saw the interview with Jodi and I read about Kratz' additional evidence (although his credibility is very low by now). It is healthy to have reasonable doubt, as this documentary has clearly showed, but remember that Avery's story is too weird to just believe it. It's easier to believe he just killed it, than to believe in another theory. If the jury (who started their end discussion with seven votes for innocent, two neutrals and three for guilty) would have said he was innocent in 2005, everybody would have probably believed it . Yu know.
I gave an 8 because of some explicit images shown I'd prefer, as a viewer, to not see.Other than that, the entire thing is engrossing.


                
