This is one of the best documentaries ever created and a must-watch for everybody. 
The story is so insane and unbelievable that you would think this is a piece of fictional work, but it is not.The only thing that could have been made a bit better is the episode running-time, sometimes the episodes feel a bit too long.
--9 out of 10 stars--


                
I've been binge watching this and I'm halfway thru season 2 and all I can say is I'm thoroughly disgusted with the cops, prosecutors, judges, jurors all of them. All one needs to do is watch the very 1st time Brendan's so-called confession tape was aired in the series! That CHILD had NO CLUE what the interrogators were talking about nor what they wanted him to say. This boy was, no IS so innocent, that when they started their LEADING questions regarding "what happened around her head area"...after a long bout of silence he responds quote: "I CUT HER HAIR?". That is how innocent and non-violent Brendan is. That the first thing he could think of ON HIS OWN was a freaking HAIRCUT!!! Those interrogators were SO frustrated by his obvious lack of knowledge of what happened to the poor woman that they announced for all of us to see THAT THEY TOLD HIM she was shot in the head. Haircut to a Bullet in the Brain. Despicable. Wisconsin is full of corrupt cops, prosecutors, state attorneys, forensic analysts, and judges...in at least TWO COUNTIES. SHAME ON YOU!


                
This documentary series potentially depicts the greatest miscarriage of justice on American soil as the producers go out to prove that Stephen Avery, a Wisconsin resident, is purposely being made a scapegoat for crimes he did not commit.The series possesses the hallmark quality of Netflix's original programming:'bingeability'. Once you get a grasp of what it is all about, you just continue on with the flow until the documentary reaches its conclusion.An important point if you are coming fresh from the similar true crime series, The Jinx, then you might feel that this documentary series doesn't put as much emphasis on flair and reenactments. Instead the approach is based on journalistic substance with a lot of focus being placed on police reports, recordings, court documents etc. However, I found the series intro theme to be hauntingly beautiful. It really gets stuck inside your head.Like The Thin Blue Line, Murder on a Sunday Morning, and Paradise Lost documentaries before it, the approach is overwhelmingly in favor of the defendant. You feel like you are witnessing a great injustice unfold before your eyes. There is little room for you to argue that Avery is guilty. But with the amount of evidence both substantial and circumstantial presented in Avery's favor, there is certainly little to argue anyway.In conclusion, I would recommend this documentary to anyone into true crime. It really is well-prepared and worth a watch despite being a tad exhausting due to its length.


                
This documentary plays out like a docudrama. The more you watch, the more you end up feeling sorry for the guy. I don't know what to believe throughout the series. You constantly walk away with a sick feeling in your stomach. Definitely worth a watch!


                
My best tip for this series, is that if you find it a little slow at the beginning, stick with it!Ilwhilst this series has been knocked a little for being bias, your own instincts from some of the facts provided will have you torn in both directions as to the innocencevor guilt of the two involved.So engrossed was I, that I went to see the Lawyers used in this series, whilst on tour who did a great Q&A evening hosted by Professor David Wilson.This will be of all kinds of interest to people interested in law, justice, truth, police, human rights activists and of course the ripple effect of all those touxhed by this.


                
An amazing documentary series focusing on a young man who went to jail for a horrid 18 years, for a crime he did not even commit. 2 years later, the nightmare had only begun.I drew me to this show was the trailer on YouTube. I watched it and just assumed this was about a man who went to jail wrongfully and then somehow made a mistake and just went back to jail. Didn't realize that what I would end up watching would just be a total and utter mess. Not speaking of the show, but the situation. Nothing about this case made sense, and if you watch you will probably agree with me. At times I catch myself thinking if the show was even real, or maybe based on a fictional story because of how absurd the details were leading up to each investigation. This is one of the best documentary series I have ever watched. You gain a real connection to the Avery family, not only the case, but the members of the family and Steven Avery himself. It's truly incredible how the family handles every situation, with all seriousness but remaining utterly and completely calm. It's quite remarkable. The only reason I gave it a 9/10 is because of the lengthy episodes and how the material can get quite confusing with all the different people's names, and the dragged on scenes of the officers/attorneys speaking about each different situation. In a couple episodes in the middle, I felt my self getting lost in the crazy scenarios and different accusations. This show is the epitome of criminal injustice and will probably leave you with your eyes wide open of the things that really go on in this world. Watch it for yourself, you won't be disappointed.


                
Manitowac county Sheriff's department should be so very ashamed of themselves and the crooked department they run. There lies snowballed out of control and they need to own up to each & everyone. Their corruption, lies and misuse of power are the very reason people have lost respect and trust for police. The justice system is designed to work but when you have so much corruption, lies and crooked cops then it will only fail and innocent people suffer. The actions of the Manitowac county police are completely dispicable. One day their evil ways will catch up with them and I cannot wait to see that happen. The Manitowac Sheriff's department is a huge shame to the American public and their constitution.


                
I've watched many Documentary TV series, I've seen 'The Jinx' and 'Paradise Lost' series, and this has to be as good, if not better. I've not been so wild, surprised, annoyed and upset over a TV show like this in years. What Steven Avery and his family goes through is amazing. I knew that some police departments in the U.S have 'questionable' tactics, and after seeing the 'Paradise Lost' series you see that, but you really do hope it's not a common thing. But then you see shows like this one, and it really makes you wonder, how systemic is it in some of the State Police departments? And if this is just one other example of it, how many other times have other Police Departments gotten away with doing this? How many innocent people are in jail right now? Then add to that the privatization of the prison systems, meaning they have to keep the incarceration rate to near capacity to make their profits, then it makes you wonder how many people have been incarcerated using false evidence or coerced confessions. The judicial system leaves a lot to be desired, I'll say that much. I highly recommend this documentary series. It will leave you flabbergasted, it did that for me. I'll give this a 9.5 out of 10.


                
There are 2 innocent men in prison. There that is the spoiler. It's not editing tricks or production or any kind of bias in this documentary that leads a reasonable person to that conclusion. It's the overwhelming evidence. There is not a shred of doubt in my mind.If you are like me you will absolutely hate the ending. If you want someone to blame for that, blame the legal system these 2 men went through like a meat grinder. The difficult part about this is that it could be years or decades before the REAL killer is found if ever. So there may never be an ending to this.I'm still mad to be quite honest. So many questions. Like why nobody asked more questions of the police officer who radioed in the license plates and make/model vehicle 2 days before it was conveniently found on the property. Why was he never given a poygraph? There are a lot of common sense things as well. Like why would someone do things that would so easily connect them with the crime? It was a scheduled appointment, there are phone calls. His history of being convicted! Seemingly like he wanting to get caught which is of course ridiculous. Why did the key pieces of evidence like the car keys and bullet fragments only show up after several searches followed by a visit but one particular officer? The opened evidence containing Stephens blood? What about the conflicting information and timelines of 2 witnesses who could be potential suspects? What about the 2 guys who found the vehicle. One an ex bf. Any investigation will start with people who knew the victim but nobody talked to the ex bf. At least not right away.
Fascinating Documentary. Kathleen Zellner is brilliant in her attempts to not save a man but find out what happened to a woman? She leaves no stone unturned


                
Someone is lying...and this documentary casts a lot of doubt that it's Steven Avery


                
Recommended to watch this documentary..excepting season 2 soon.But in my opinion he is not guilty..The evidence must hav been planted by other to frame Steven Avery...
I wonder how any professional from legal background can watch this series without doing something, anything to either put individual effort to contribute exonerating mentioned poor individuals or to simply burn their legal diplomas and change profession! For me the scariest part is how tight and loyal whole judicial system is to protect their own goons who abused their powers over and over again. Whoever proudly advocate about "American democracy" and its leadership role in protecting human rights and freedom should watch this and maybe they would change their mind.Kudos to Netflix to come up with this gem and steer the pot and make us all think and do something.


                
Excellent documentary series on Netflix. "Making a Murderer" runs ten episodes beginning with the wrongful conviction of Steven Avery, who was exonerated after 18 years in prison for a rape he did not commit. Following his release in the first case, Avery filed a suit against the state, county and the law enforcement officials who failed to follow the evidence which would have led them to the real rapist. The development of DNA procedures eventually proved that Avery was not present at the crime, and another man, who had committed more assaults and rapes while Avery was in prison, was conclusively found to be the culprit.Avery's family owns a junkyard on the edge of town and the towns' people do not think kindly of the Avery clan. The Avery case became a major embarrassment for the sheriff and the district attorney who were facing civil liability amounting to millions of dollars for their unethical conduct. Hours before Avery was to enjoy a substantial windfall in the wrongful conviction suit, a woman was murdered, mutilated and her body burned outside Avery's trailer.The second round of trials begins. It is a horrible sight, viewing the flaws of the justice system, the misconduct of police, prosecutors and hubris of the judges. The police bullied mentally impaired young people into giving false confessions. A "defense" attorney bamboozled his mentally-impaired client into giving a false confession. Incredible stupidity and a nauseating display of incompetence and abuse of the unsuspecting. One wonders if all Wisconsin attorneys are required to attend law school. The documentary underscores the vast difference between inept lawyers and extremely professional ones. The defense team for the murder trial and the post-conviction appellate attorneys were excellent, but the documentary illustrates the heavy lifting that must be done to overcome ineffective counsel early in the case.Kudos to the filmmaker.
I've read the testimony of the forensic anthropologists.... none can label the bones and teeth as specifically Halbachs... just a female human . And blood in a car doesn't mean she's dead . shouldn't the defense be all over that? Isn't a trial based on proof?


                
Why hasn't anyone checked to see if anyone involved in the arrest or prosecution of this case, received any compensation!
Financial, promotion or any other incentives.


                
The 'justice' system of modern day USA, namely Wisconsin! Heartbreaking for the Avery family particularly Stephen and his elderly parents. Enormously satisfying watching Kathleen Zellner expose the shocking incompetence, arrogance and complete lack of professionalism shown by Wisconsin state officials. I hope they die of shame.


                
An unprecedented real-life documentary covers A heartbreaking and compelling story about injustice within the U.S. judicial system. Filmed over a 10-year period by Moira Demos and Laura Ricciardi. This spellbinding mystery is set in a small town with an atmosphere and setting that give the documentary the same kind of vibe as True Detective's first season mixed with a little bit of Fargo. With an unconventional runtime of 10 episodes which vary from 47 to 66 minutes per episode, it's a whole other experience than watching a conventional documentary with a runtime of 1,5 to 2 hours. It's because of this you somehow get even more drawn in than usual. One of the best documentaries I have ever seen. I rate it a 9 out of 10. Produced by Netflix. Picture format Digital (HDTV). Original release December 18, 2015.


                
This is an intriguing documentary that's grabbed me like few others. Aptly titled "Making a Murderer", this documentary turned into a 10 episode series, details the wrongful prison sentence of Steven Avery, police corruption and eventful arrest on his suspicion of murder on a separate case. What makes this unique, at this particular time, is that this is an ongoing case. So, while I won't provide any "spoilers" they're just a google search away. As for this documentary, each 'episode' is broken into a time-line of events from Steve's childhood up to current events. The intrigue comes from this being a true story of so many different angles and twist, it is almost hard to believe that this isn't some elaborate prank. "Truth is stranger than fiction." comes to my mind. Yet again, a google search, or even looking at any number of online news sites today will reveal "protesters Pro-Steven being confined to a sidewalk" blurbs and other parts of this story. There are enough curves in this story to end each hour long episode with enough steam to leave you wanting to see what the next will be. Making a Murderer is put together well enough to make you feel a complete story is being with enough suspense to keep viewers interested. This is where a lot of documentaries fall short and you're left watching them out of pure education interest. Though the events, tragedies, lives lost and affected are not entertaining, the fleshing out of this mystery is fascinating. I've gone back and forth on what I think about what has happened every episode thus far. I'm nearing the end of 4 now and I've changed my mind twice already on just this episode. It's understandable how others may feel and a town and family was so tragically divided. If you don't like documentaries, then just think of it as a series: a murder-mystery series. Not only that, you get a surreal look at police corruption. I don't believe all police are corrupt and our justice system is completely broke, but you definitely see get a picture of how it can be questioned at times when it needs to be unquestionable. Must watch.


                
This is a documentary, not a fiction. So, all you see, the interviews, the court hearing, the situation of the families involved is true, and that is what will haunt me for a long time. This was one of the shows where they were rooting for the accused, that is, Steven Avery. So, the whole story is told by the perspective of Steven's defence. This is a new style. Generally documentary film makers choose to show both sides of the story with equal strength to attract the audience. This was not the case in Making a Murderer. This showed how the life of a person was affected after one incident, a small mistake. This documentary helped Steven's case to come out breaking international boundaries. I think this will also increase the number of people who sympathise with him now. Now, we can't be sure what actually happened out there that time, but the film makers showed everything that was right to build a strong defence in our mind, leaving no stones unturned. This is what was one of the admiring things about it.
This series is so interesting you want to binge-watch it. At the same time, This series is so cringe worthy you want to take a break. Following the release of Steven Avery, this show is a perfect case building around his new trial. The evidence is presented in a clear way with logical connections, a must-watch for any person interested in court cases. The show is so one sided, you cannot believe Avery's side is not the truth. However, when it comes to court cases I am not a legal expert and I was not there for the entire trial, some people tend to forget this. The show is really nicely put together, combining pictures, home- videos, court recordings, confessions, everything - at least it feels like everything - is in there. Regardless of the content and the verdict, making a murderer has a perfect title. You can see how the media, the court, the people make Steven Avery a murderer in their minds. The aftermath of this show - as directors stated that its still going on - is perfect. More and more information is available which makes this case even more puzzling at times.


                
The most powerful, involving, and infuriating, doc I've seen since Errol Morris's "Thin Blue Line," way back in the 1980s. The 10-ep format gives the filmmakers lots of time to fill in the background the way a writer like Richard Russo might do— small town bad boy belongs to the kind of large, intermarried (some would say inbred) rural family that's always called a "clan"; they don't seem to get on all that well, but a lot of them live in a "compound" of trailers and bungalows adjoining a vast auto graveyard. Bad boy has beef with gossipy girl cousin who works for the sheriff's department, with the result, at least indirectly, that he spends half of his life in prison<U+0085>There's even more time to get down into the weeds with the evidence in the murder trial. Critics—including the likes of Nancy Grace and Ken Kratz, the state's attorney who tried the case—have complained that there's been a lot left out that's prejudicial to Steven Avery. (From what I've read so far, the only serious allegation* the film doesn't deal with is that Avery had been "harassing" Teresa Halbach before she disappeared—which was partly based on testimony the trial judge excluded.) The defense team comes off as smart, capable and committed, the prosecutors as smarmy and self-serving, which, IMHO, is only partly due to their refusal to cooperate with the filmmakers: Wait for a late-breaking plot twist that sheds a few rays of disinfecting sunlight on state's attorney Ken Kratz.* I'm not talking about the forensic evidence—I think a good case can be made that much of it was planted, or at the very least contaminated, by the Manitowoc sheriff's department<U+0085>


                
After watching some scene at almost every episode, I repeatedly check "is this a documentary?" "no it cant be real, right?".This is a story of a conflict between a man and justice. the story of Steven Avery. how he lived his life fighting for his innocence after mistakenly imprisoned for 18 years for rape and murder attempt, to find himself to be captured once again after his release for a different case of homicide.The Documentary wrap itself into a crime-mystery genre at first and switch into a courtroom drama in the second half. and my god it was the Best courtroom-drama I ever saw. it Bested any courtroom-drama movie easily.This series is telling a dangerous story, a controversy perspective. raising doubt to the system, doubt to a lot of public figure, crushing the county reputation, and opening a discussion of conspiracy. because it leaning on Steven Avery innocence, I have to keep an opened mind watching this series. because even if it is a documentary, I don't know how many fact is there.I'm not from USA so I watched this not to judge anything. I believe this kind of story happened everywhere all over the world, but it just not as well-documented. So, Huge thumb's up for the series for finding all of the footage. and did i mention it was uncensored? yes. all person face and name is there.I watched this kind of documentary in the movie "senna" (which is fantastic). the way all kind of video and audio footage linking, entwined to such a suspense, heartbreaking, mind-blowing drama is amazing. after watching the series, I felt broken and frustrated. I cannot sleep, and it linger for another day or two. this is a must watch for everybody, and I advise all viewer to keep an open mind and enjoy this amazing real life drama.
If you've watched Making a Murderer, and have started following the case like I have, you may have noticed just how dedicated each side is to their belief of innocence or guilt.This docuseries, while being a little in favour of Steven Averys innocence, still gives you enough to think about, to question both possibilities. I know I am still not convinced one way or another.The timeline, flow and delivery of information make this so easy to watch. Its never boring, it doesn't drag out, and every time you get comfortable with a theory, BAM! another piece of evidence comes to light (especially in Season 2).


                
I can only hope Zellner has the chance to defend him in a new trial . The state will buckle in fear. The original defense team was elementary at best ....hugely incapable.


                
