It is a hot sunny day in South America. We see a bunch of men, shot mostly from the back. They are walking deep into the forest. We see a tall dark figure. He is wearing an old leather jacket, he has the 5 o'clock shadow looking like it's closer to midnight, he wears a fedora and he carries a bull-whip ( yes a bull-whip ). Finally, two of the men enter a cave and we hear about some guy named Forstall, who was good, very, very good, but he never came out of the place alive. But they enter anyway. They are confronted with tarantulas, spears that are triggered by blocking out the light, a pit that they must swing over and then more tiny poisonous darts that come out of the wall. All this to protect an ancient gold statue. They recover it. One guy dies and the other barely makes it out of the room before it all falls on him. Then he has to get out of the cave and a giant boulder chases him. Finally he makes it out of the cave only to be surrounded by Hovitos and his arch enemy named Belloq. He takes the gold statue that this guy worked so hard for and then the guy runs and makes it to the plane where he is in the passenger seat and there is big snake in the plane. He hates snakes. This mans name? Indiana Jones!Whhhoooooo!! I'm left breathless just describing that opening. But is there a better beginning of a movie ever? Absolutely not. Does the beginning have anything to do with the rest of the film. No. It is all decoration for what the movie is going to put you through in the 90 minutes to come.Indiana Jones is the best character to ever hit the screens. And he better be. He is created by George, Steven and played by Harrison Ford. That may seem normal now that we have lived with him for 20 years, but can you imagine what that must have been like back in 1981. That would be like Tom Hanks or Will Smith joining forces with James Cameron and Steven Spielberg for a completely original idea in today's terms.Raiders took a simple idea and maybe an idea that the guys had from watching Saturday afternoon movies and made it larger than life. This film never stops for you to take your breath. It is filled with rich characters from Indy himself to Marion to Belloq and even to Marcus Brody. Each has their own personality that shines through in certain scenes. Some of my faves were when we first meet Marion having a shot contest in her bar in Nepal. Then there is her scene with Belloq and they get drunk together and she tries to leave using only a butter knife. And of course who can forget Indy's battle with the swordsman and his unrivaled determination to get the ark. " Indy, there is not time. If you still want the truck it is being loaded on a truck for Cairo. " ( a battered and bloody Indy ) " Truck? What truck?" ( and then later ) "Get some transport back to England, boat, plane, anything. Meet me at Omar's. I'm going after that truck. "Sola ) " How? " ( Indy ) I don't know I'm making this up as I go."Raiders has more energy than three action films. And that is what makes it the classic that it is. If you like movies, then Raiders is a movie that will not let you down. It is pure entertainment and that is indisputable. It finds the youngster in all of us and bombards us with this silly, whip-cracking, average, incredibly determined archaeologist and only asks us to have fun. And that we do. And to me, the only reason that Chariots of Fire won best picture that year is because it is a serious film. Raiders was heads and shoulders above Chariots and it should have cleaned up at the Oscars in 81. But more politics with the academy.Raiders of the Lost Ark is the epitome of entertainment. What more can be said about it. If you haven't seen this movie in a while or if you haven't seen it at all ( gasp ) then do yourself a favour and rent it tonight. It is awesome.TRUST ME


                
I remember seeing this movie when I was young, and it may well have been in the cinema with my Father, I can't quite remember (if he does, then please post the answer), anyway I do remember seeing it and being thoroughly entertained and that feeling of excitement and total fun staying with me to this very day as that is the feeling that the movie conjures up whenever I think of it.I think a part of that is down to the fact it's a complete retake on the old serial movies combined with obvious comic book style, and that is just perfect for kids and appeals to them no end, or rather it did then! So it was with excitement that I opened my presents on my birthday and found the boxset for the Indiana Jones Trilogy, and with even more excitement when I finally watched the first in the trilogy, Raiders of the lost Ark.It was just as I remembered, fun, excitement, wise cracks, a tiny splattering of romance but with a manliness that kids would allow, and lots of stunts and action. It's a superb movie and captures that style of serials, adventure stories and comic books perfectly, how I know that for sure is only through repeats since I wasn't alive during those times.The set pieces are fantastic, and although some of the wilder end sequences are slightly dated now, it hasn't lost the excitement factor. It's a perfectly crafted movie as well, moving from location to location without any distraction or superfluous scenes, it just feels like it's all there for a reason and that it belongs there.Harrison Ford is excellent in the role, and I'm inclined to think he was more Indy than he was Solo, but that's a personal opinion. He has many more facial movements and voice inclinations in this early movie than he does nowadays, now he belongs to the moody, quiet school of acting, then he was dynamic, adventurous, strong and as wisecracking as the best of them.There are some excellent movie making moments in this with George Lucas and Steven Spielberg showing talent galore just oozing out of every pore (where did all that go for Star Wars I to III Mr Lucas?), and they end up making an excellently entertaining movie.Some could argue that there could be a bit more depth or seriousness to the story, but come on, it's a ripping adventure yarn, you don't need depth. Saving the Ark from the Nazi's, surely that's enough! An excellent movie and great fun too, without a doubt one of my favourite of all time.


                
If you've seen this movie and heard the score, then my one line summary won't read like a mating call for sheep, but rather the absolutely exhilarating "Raider's March" which stirs my blood and makes me think of an unforgettable hero, Indiana Jones. If not, see it now.I love going to movies. I always have. I remember when this film came out. My friends had seen it before I had. They boasted it was great, the best film ever. Some even said it was better than Star Wars (utter blasphemy to a devout 10 year old Jedi-wannabe). I thought no way is this film better than Star Wars, but I was still curious and began the begging of my father to take me.When I was young, almost all of the films that I had seen, I saw with my Dad. He would take me and my mother would stay at home with my siblings. We saw a number of films that failed to generate a reaction with him as they did with me, but this one was different. This one, my Dad might've enjoyed just as much.Who can forget the scene where Indy faces bandits in the marketplace, fighting swords with his wits and fists, only to be finally challenged by a dark robed adversary brandishing a heavy, dismembering type of sabre as he swings the impressive blade about his head menacingly?Indiana looks his opponent up and down briefly and draws his pistol casually and shoots the villain dead as if his patience had been tested a moment longer than he could tolerate.My father, and the entire audience for that matter, laughed and cheered at this incredible scene. And it was the first time I'd actually been aware of his enjoyment of the film. Usually I'm so transfixed that I wouldn't notice if my legs were on fire. He enjoyed it so much, that he still tends to bring up that scene, even today.My father and I shared a great moment in movie history, and I will never forget it for as long as I live. I will always be grateful for the time we spent together and the films that I otherwise would have been unable to see without him taking me.Just a side note about the scene I've described above. It wasn't meant to go that  way at all. As Steven Spielberg explained in a television interview, the scene was meant to have an elaborate fight sequence, but Harrison Ford was suffering from diarrhea and couldn't go through with the elaborate set-up required. Someone said, "the only way we can finish this scene today is if he shoots him". Steven said, "Wait a minute, we might have something there."As for where it ranks with Star Wars, it's hard for me to say, so I won't. Star Wars was the first film I ever saw, and there's a story in that as well. Thanks again, Dad.


                
This film had a huge impact on my life. It (as well as Aliens) really introduced me to the films I love. The 80s and 90s were amazing for film while I was growing up. I love all the practical effects and wish they were still used a lot more than they are but cgi has taken over. Oh well. At least it has improved drastically over the years. Anyway, I feel like everyone should see this in their life and if you haven't....get on it


                
This movie has everything: action, a good cast, humor, a wonderful soundtrack (John Williams) a good pace and a good script. I watch this movie like 2 or 3 times a year and it still fascinates me. Thank you for this masterpiece mr. Spielberg! They don't make movies like this anymore!


                
There are few movies I can watch over and over again, but this is one of them.  This movie has it all: action, romance, comedy, and suspense. Harrison Ford is at his best as Dr. Jones, one of the most exciting archeologist ever.  From the start to the end you are hooked to this movie. I love the opening when he as to dodge traps as he tries to get this treasure, I love it when he is running through the streets trying to save the girl, I just love every bit of it.  Spielburg said he wanted a b-type movie like he remembered from his youth, but this far surpasses any b movie and any a movie as far as I am concerned.


                
This movie is just about perfect in every way. Simple, but true.


                
What can I possibly add to what has already been written? This film is a "masterpiece". It's placed in quotations because that word is bandied about on here for films that aren't fit to lace this movies' boots. This movie should be preserved for all eternity as a template on how to make an incredibly entertaining and wonderful film, and as I said earlier, there isn't much I can add to what has already been said about Raiders. Let's just say that there are only so many films I plan on introducing to my children when they get old enough and this film is amongst that list.
Harrison Ford was amazing in the titular role, and the supporting cast added immense scale and brevity to the work HF was doing as Indy.
Spielberg and Lucas created a character and movie for the ages.Keep an eye out for one of the most iconic film sequences of all time as well!Make sure that you give this film the rating and love it deserves. Thank you for reading!


                
There are only so many films in history that I can watch again and again, gaining new appreciation for, one of them is this film. I went from the movies to VHS, and finally to DVD. The availability and quality of this film keep raising the bar of what I can get from it.I read someone posted that this is the king of B movies or something of that sort, while I honestly think in some scenes like when Indy is running from the Hovitos and he rises over the hill, the film had a really strange documentary feeling, like if a comic actually came to life and like in the Twilight Zone, you were stuck in it. It is great to see this film, now that I edit and produce small independent films, and have worked in post production in Los Angeles. I honestly think almost every scene in this film is better than what's coming out today in sci-fi/adventure. I might pull back that comment in regards to some nice visuals in Riddick, and maybe the new Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith, but I'm not certain.The amount of time and effort put into the comedy, adventure, and depth of each character dazzles me because I really can't tell it was filmed the same year Fame was. It really has a unique look to it. The key lighting in the piece is amazing, almost everything looks like it was perfectly worked out.My only complaint is the attempt to visualize the opening of the Ark, as most of the other scenes don't deal with the supernatural except maybe a burning crate with a nazi symbol on it. George should redo that last scene in my opinion, and tighten it up, because I really think it wasn't coming together, however when I was a child it was so amazing and scary realistic. It's all perspective, but my point it that now in this modern filming era, the acting and film production is holding tight to this day.I forward you to just enjoy this film and look for things like formulas on chalkboards, skeletons in classrooms, proper patches on Nazi gear, gun accuracy. Research the film's era and background, and it only gets better. That's the ability that Spielberg and Lucas have, attention to detail and clever twists on most of their bodies of work.Watch this film again, it's worth it, I promise you.


                
The Indiana Jones series was the best series ever made, in my opinion. It was extremely fun and enjoyable to watch and it can be watched repeatedly, with no lesser joy. Harrison Ford as Indy is extremely charismatic, like Han Solo, but the character of Indiana for me has an essence that creates a more likable character (modesty, I think) and by doing that, it creates a better trilogy for me, indeed surpassing the Original Star Wars Tilogy (don't get me wrong I love Star Wars as well).Raiders is such a great film, containing some great action scenes (the Truck scene) and creating Indiana Jones, which is the best adventure hero ever made, partly I think due to Harrison Ford (I don't think these movies would have been as good with Tom Selleck).


                
Rating: **** out of ****There is no doubt in my mind that Indiana Jones is the best movie series in the history of cinema. And the one start it all was Raiders of the Lost Ark, a fast-paced adventure packed with one death-defying cliff-hanger situation after another. To this day, Raiders remains one of the best action movies, holding up better than most of today's rapid-cut, MTV-style "thrill rides." Raiders relied on no CGI, no flashy editing, just pure, exhilarating film-making and storytelling, a combo of its kind that has only been surpassed by its second sequel, Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade.Harrison Ford stars as Jones, an archaeologist who dresses in a brown coat and fedora, armed with a revolver and lion-taming whip. A delightful opening involving elaborate booby traps informs us he's used to these adventures (especially his even closer brushes with death in Temple of Doom, which was a prequel). When he returns to the states from his latest "excavation," he's informed by the military that the Nazis are after the ark of the covenant, an artifact that could possess the power to make the Nazis an invincible army. So Jones sets out to retrieve the ark first, in what will prove to be one of his greatest adventures.There's probably little doubt that Raiders is the fan/critical favorite of the trilogy, but there are a few things that I actually have to gripe about, blasphemous as it may be. For one, even though the story is excellent, it's not without its holes. Most perplexing is in the film's opening scenes, when we wonder why Jones bothered to bring along potentially traitorous porters when it's such a short distance from the river to the cave temple. Also (spoilers), one needs only to see the film once to realize that if Indy had never tried to intercept the Ark, the Nazis would a) have never found it or b) still would have suffered the same horrible fate regardless.The action sequences are superb, though an early bar shootout isn't quite as adrenaline-pumping as it could be and looks quite bland compared to the film's other action scenes. Thankfully, the following street chase is playful and exciting and keeps the joyous momentum flowing. Overall, I'd still argue that both Temple of Doom and The Last Crusade boast more inventive action but there's no questioning that the action scenes in Raiders are fantastic and likely superior to any film you may have seen the last few years.As bitchy as I may sound, I'm not trying to harp on Raiders, at least not too much. The movie does feature the famous (and deservedly so) truck chase, one of the most unbelievably thrilling and exhilarating action setpieces I've ever seen (and given an extra boost by John Williams' beautifully rousing score). To this day, even with the recent chase scenes in The Matrix Reloaded and Terminator 3, this sequence has yet to be surpassed.Other standout sequences include a sarcophagus almost entirely decorated with snakes, imposing statues, and well-preserved mummies, and Jones' mano-a-mano battle with a seemingly impervious Nazi mechanic. The finale takes the film dangerously close to the horror genre, climaxing things with a truly memorable (and quite frightening) light show for the ages. Every Indiana Jones film has a scene that scarred me as a kid and I think every one who's seen Raiders knows what I'm referring to (as well as its sequels)I've said it before, Harrison Ford is wonderful as Jones, embodying a hero that's cool beyond words, yet still entirely human and believable. The supporting cast isn't as up to par: Paul Freeman makes for a decent but not particularly menacing villain as Belloq and Karen Allen is somewhat annoying as Indy's love interest, but there are an equal share in gems, particularly Denholm Elliot as Marcus Brody and John Rhys-Davies as Sallah (The Last Crusade wisely gave these actors/characters more screen time).Raiders of the Lost Ark was revolutionary cinema, paving way for summer blockbusters that would attempt for the same winning mix of thrills and humor. Only its sequels matched and/or surpassed it, but some have actually come close (The Mummy). If you haven't seen Raiders yet, put it on the top of your list.


                
Raiders of the Lost Ark, the first of the Indiana Jones trilogy and definitely the best. This movie redefined what an action adventure movie could and should be. After the epic Horror Adventure that is Jaws comes the epic action adventure, Indiana Jones and the Raiders of the Lost Ark. This movie easily deserves 10 stars for it's sheer innovation, directing, visuals, and entertainment ability. Here's why. Harrison Ford is a perfect choice for the awesome hero, Indiana Jones. An archaeologist who dreams of fortune and glory, he embarks on an adventure to find the Ark of the Covanent and save it from the Nazis. Harrison Ford is perfect in this role and it's so refreshing to see a badass hero that everybody can root for simply because he's awesome and embodies everything we want from an adventurer. Every moment of him is simply cinematic gold and it makes him shine against everyone else, even himself as Han Solo. That's not to say that the supporting actors aren't great, they are, but he's the main character and he steals the show which he should. Steven Spielberg really went out of his way with this masterpiece. The practical effects and stuntwork isn't just phenomenal, it's almost godlike! The action is jaw dropping in its awesomeness to the point where it almost doesn't even look like a movie, it looks like a portal into somebody else's universe: Spielberg's universe. What visual effects that are used are so good that it makes modern day action flicks look like stupid college projects that got F's. Michael Bay ain't got nothing on Golden Age Spielberg! Every scene screams with action and it just gets better and better all the way through but it never forsakes the story in place of action. Modern day directors need to take notes from this movie. Once somebody watches this movie, you soon find yourself in a trance in which you can never get sick of it. Nobody can get sick of Indiana Jones, it's not possible. Go watch this movie and you will be very pleased. Or just listen to the Golden John Williams music, that works too.


                
There are so many ways in which this film is perfect, most notably is the brilliant re-packaging of old-school action and war films; away from the James-Bond style of the late 60s; away from the Cold-War suspense and intrigue. One of the most endearing features of the picture is that the movie opens with the main character,Indiana Jones' at the close of his current adventure. The technique generates an immediate sense of personal history and intimacy with the main character, and in effect, serves the audience dessert twice.The atmosphere of equal parts impending danger and chronic screw ups is set right from the start, with a lit-fuse pace throughout the movie. Every scene is tight. The sound, the lighting, the dialog,the music, the performances. Every character actor is well-chosen. So many ingredients to enjoy: adventure, humor, mysterious locations, romance, explosions. Only a Nazi could not enjoy this film!


                
Inspired by the movies and serials enjoyed by Steven Spielberg and George Lucas in their youth, Raiders Of The Lost Ark is a relentless roller-coaster of a film that sees the bearded movie moguls expertly combining action, romance, horror, adventure, fantasy and comedy; as far as pure entertainment value goes, it doesn't get much better than this.Unlike in their later adventures for Harrison Ford's heroic archaeologist, the pair pitch the level of escapism perfectly, stretching believability to the limits occasionally, but never exceeding them (there's no flying fridges or death defying falls over a cliff in a rubber dinghy in this one). Apart from seriously underestimating the weight of gold (Indy even takes some sand out of the bag he uses to replace a solid gold idol) and expecting the audience to accept that a U-Boat would travel hundreds of miles without submerging, the film is pretty flawless, with classic scene after classic scene brilliantly executed by a Spielberg in his prime.Not yet in his forties, Harrison Ford is still young enough to give the character his all (mind you, being well into his sixties today doesn't seem to have stopped him trying), and he is given able support by a solid cast that includes John Rhys-Davies as brave Egyptian Sallah, Denholm Elliott as fellow history nut Dr. Marcus Brody, Paul Freeman as reprehensible archaeologist Dr. René Belloq, and Karen Allen as Jones's spunky sidekick Marion Ravenwood. As well as terrific performances, the film also boasts superb old-school stunts (ie., pre-CGI), excellent visual effects from Richard Edlund, and even some delightfully gruesome moments that might prove too much for some little ones: a man is impaled on spears, a German soldier is reduced to a red mist by propeller blades, faces are melted, and there is even an exploding head!!! Now that's what I call quality family entertainment!


                
All three Indiana Jones stories were entertaining but this first one was still the best. I would think most people would agree with me on that. They would also agree this film has some very memorable scenes, famous scenes - like the opening one with the gigantic boulder chasing Harrison Ford - to the ending scene with the Ark of the Convenant opened - that will be Hollywood classics for years. In fact, to sum it all up: hundreds of years from now, I wouldn't be surprised if this is still considered one of the great adventure films of all time.The action scenes are varied, which means a lot. You don't get the same kind of jolt of adventure. You get fist fights, battles with snakes, with airplane propellers, guns, knives, poison dates, fires, supernatural plague-type winds, chases through city streets, caves, mountains....you name it, it's all in here. This movie can wear you out, which is almost a negative. The music can get too loud, the action too much, Karen Allen's mouth too profane; the credibility too much to believe, the theology too weird, etc, but no one can deny this is a fun ride all the way through. You take none of it seriously and just enjoy the adventure.Coming on the heels of Star Wars, this really made Harrison Ford a mega-star. It didn't do much for the rest of the cast but it sure boosted Ford's stock.After a long wait, this finally came out on DVD in October of 2003 and it looks great!


                
There are critics who point fingers at Raiders - and Jaws, and Star Wars - because, regardless of their quality, these movies kickstarted the new wave of setpiece-focused blockbusters, with a detrimental effect on Hollywood. However, Raiders is no more responsible for The Mummy: Tomb of the Dragon Emperor than J.R.R. Tolkien is to blame for The Sword of Truth, Bram Stoker for Twilight, or Isaac Asimov for Transformers. There is a main factor which makes Raiders a timeless masterpiece and Kingdom of the Crystal Skull a piece of garbage: RESTRAINT. Consider the elegance of action scenes. Spielberg's setpieces here are stylish, kinetic, with attention to spatial relationships, cause and effect. Every action by the hero has a direct result on his surroundings, and vice versa (see the legendary prologue, the iconic truck scene). Practical effects and stunts allow for a realistic, gritty feel... which is lost when you indulge in absurd acrobatics and frames cluttered by CGI stuff (hello, Star Wars prequels!).In Raiders, the protagonist gets dusty, bloody, beaten up: every battle takes a PHYSICAL TOLL on him, much like in the first Die Hard (while in the last ones John McClaneis essentially a superhero, which DEFIES THE WHOLE POINT of it). If action has visible consequences, it's compelling. On the other hand, show our hero slamming on a hard surface after a fifty feet fall and walking away without a bruise (hello, Hobbit trilogy!), and everything INSTANTLY becomes boring. And then we have the "Grandpa Syndrome", which pushes aged directors to film movies their grandchildren "can watch too" - laudable for family comedies, often disastrous for other genres (hello, Greedo shooting first!).The plot shows restraint as well. Everything is trimmed down, elegantly simple. A clear goal (find the Ark). High stakes (if the Nazis find it first, they will gain terrible powers). Non-stop tension: Indy and Marion are constantly chased, on the run, at disadvantage, out of time (much like Han and Leia in The Empire Strikes Back and unlike in the SW prequels). Every scene advances the plot, every dialogue defines characters; there is not a single wasted frame or line.Of course, credits goes also to the fantastic script by Kasdan, with its quotable lines and the most wickedly ironic ending in action cinema; to Ford's effortlessly charismatic turn; to John Williams' soundtrack, which is the stuff of legends.A classic all directors and scriptwriters should revisit before inflating their blockbusters with useless bloat. Raiders works as well now as it did thirty years ago... while Kingdom of the Crystal Skull, Attack of the Clones, The Desolation of Smaug and A Good Day to Die Hard feel already stale.10/10
In 1975, George Lucas and Philip Kaufman came up with the concept of a film that would pay homage to the action serials of the 1930's and 40's like "The Adventures of Captain Marvel" or "Dick Tracy" - you know, the one's were they'd always end in a cliffhanger? However, this idea was put on hold so that Lucas could concentrate on "Star Wars" in 1977. After the surprise success of that film, Lucas then embarked on the proposal and enlisted the help of Lawrence Kasdan on the screenplay and gave his friend Steven Spielberg the chance to direct and prove the studio bosses wrong after the star-studded, monumental failure of his World War II comedy "1941", a couple of years previously. This meeting of minds resulted in "Raiders of the Lost Ark" and has since became one of cinema's most revered and iconic film's. Dr. Indiana Jones (Harrison Ford) is a renowned archaeologist who is hired by the U.S. Government to find the Ark of the Covenant - a chest the Hebrews carried around containing the Ten Commandments. Indy is not the only one after the Ark, though, as he soon crosses paths with Hitler's Nazi's, also intent in getting their hands on the artifact. Classic Adventure film of the very highest caliber. In fact, it's hard to argue that this isn't the one to beat in terms of sheer indulgence and escapist entertainment. I grew up with Indiana Jones and there are very few characters or films who have had such a direct or major influence on my love for the cinematic art-form. It's difficult to find the words for Raiders that haven't already been said. Quite simply, it's a true action spectacle that's unparalleled and stands as one of Steven Spielberg's finest moments. He's a director that's, rightly, regarded as one of Hollywood finest filmmakers and you don't have to look much further than this film to see why. With one hair raising set-piece after another, Spielberg keeps the action relentless and fully realizes a romanticize pastiche of the aforementioned serials' clichÃ©d plot elements and devices. Of course, what aides immeasurably in bringing it all together, is a perfectly committed and physical performance from the leading man. Contrary to popular belief, Harrison Ford was the first choice for Indy. Well... it was in Spielberg's eyes, anyway. It was Lucas who wanted to cast someone else as he wanted to create a little distance from Ford having already worked with him on "American Graffiti" and "Star Wars" and as common knowledge would have it, Lucas preferred Tom Selleck. Unfortunately for him, though, he was already committed to the television series "Magnum P.I." which resulted in Ford securing, what would become, his signature role. I think it's fair to say that Ford has never exactly been praised for his acting range. Sure, he's certainly able to deliver some wonderful work; his powerful turn in "The Mosquito Coast" and his Oscar nominated performance in "Witness" are proof of this but his portrayal of Indiana Jones is absolutely spot on. He captures the requisite charm, wit and smarts to win you over. He exaggerates his facial expressions to the point of parody and completely sweeps the audience up in his heroic adventures. Even though he's the hero of the story, Ford never let's you think for a second that he's infallible or indestructible. Every scrape, punch or altercation still feels like it could be Indy's last and that's a fabulous achievement when you pretty much get the gist of the film's formula or structure. Considered one of the best films ever made and, to this day, remains one of the highest grossing. It went on to win four Academy Awards out of nine nominations and these accolades alone speak for themselves. I, for one, couldn't argue with any of them.


                
There are no set qualities for a great film. Some movies like Citizen Kane are towering Cathedrals, crowned with outstanding lead performances, their every shot awash with gravitas and innovation, two hour pieces of high art with relatively simple stories. Other films are great stories, superbly told, like The Shawshank Redemption, Braveheart and Slumdog Milllionaire. And then there are films like this one which are a joyous, fun celebration of all the things we love about movies and film making.Every scene of this is fun and enjoyable. A rollicking chase between two rival archaeologists as they travel all over the world (the film using world maps so we can keep track of the action) in search of the mystical "ark of the covenant." Throw in some Nazis, snake phobia, cutting edge (for the time) special effects, a damsel in distress and the Saturday matinée feel and you have an adventure film like no other to that point in time.For star Harrison Ford, this film, on the back of his turn as Han Solo in an expanded role in 1980's The Empire Strikes Back confirmed his status as the pre eminent leading man of his time, and from the start, this is his movie. We follow his adventures for an inordinate number of minutes before the director shows us his face, we see him fearlessly tackle big hairy spiders, leaps of doom, deadly arrows and rolling stone balls before the film is 15 minutes old. We also see him lose his first big battle on screen with his rival Belloq. And in those first 15 minutes we learn everything we need to about his character and the film. Indy is fearless, principled, a bit of a screw up and not a particularly good archaeologist. No wonder he has to work as a teacher to pay the bills. From that point on he becomes all things to all people. The film rarely lets up on the action, with chase after chase, and usually ending in Indy being outwitted by his smarter, better resourced rival.Ford is absolutely superb. While I personally believe that the film still would have been a success had Spielberg's original choice for the role, Tom Selleck, been available, it is now impossible to see anyone else in the role. Spielberg has also surrounded Ford with a great supporting cast including Denholm Elliott, John Rhys Davies, Paul Freeman, Karen Allen and Ronald Lacey, as well as a very young Alfred Molina. Allen in particular is great as the love interest/ damsel in distress.The effects, for the time were breathtaking, bringing the settings alive and nearly making us believe that the Nazis faces are melting at the film's end. Some of the blue screen shots leave a little to be desired, but it was still fairly early in the evolution of that film making technology, and so these are forgivable. The set pieces are expertly realized and the fight scenes well choreographed.In the end Raiders is the finest example of the adventure genre, made the more entertaining for the fact that our protagonist is not a particularly successful adventurer. It has enough silly to be fun, without being stupid and remains, more than 30 years on, as one of the most entertaining films not just of its era, but in all of American cinema.


                
Raiders of the Lost Ark is directed by Steven Spielberg and collectively written by Lawrence Kasdan (screenplay), George Lucas (story) and Philip Kaufman (story). It stars Harrison Ford, Karen Allen, Paul Freeman, Ronald Lacey, John Rhys-Davies and Denholm Elliott. Music is scored by John Williams and cinematography by Douglas Slocombe.What can you say about Raiders of the Lost Ark that hasn't been said before? It has been analysed, deconstructed, praised and written about at length by everyone from the highest of film critics to the man of the street film lover and his dog. Truth is, is that nothing new can be added to the millions of tomes written about what Spielberg coyly announced was his B movie homage to adventure serials of the 30s and 40s.In simple factoid terms it was roughly made for $20 million and went on to make nearly $400 million! It quickly pulled Spielberg out of a depressive rut after the critical mauling of his period comedy movie 1941. It announced Harrison Ford as a superstar actor whilst simultaneously introducing pop culture references that still thrive today. It won four Oscars and was nominated for a further four, and as it made archaeology sexy it heralded the opening of a new era for the summer blockbuster. The whole production (apart from Spielberg) were taken ill whilst filming in Tunisia and it was the start of a franchise that still brings great GREAT pleasures to millions of fans.Why is Raiders so adored? That it is a film that still entertains royally today, where once loved in 1981 is still loved by the very same older and wiser people in the new millennium? The answer is it gets everything right, it transcends its basic source to reveal one of the most exhilarating action/adventure movies ever made. It's packed with outstanding action set-pieces (amazing stunt-work), the special effects stunning, the locations are sumptuous, the cinematography gorgeous and Williams' score stirs the blood and raises the gooseflesh. The narrative is smooth and appealing in its good versus bad race against time simplicity, yet the pace is frenetic. From the establishment of the kinetic pleasures with its iconic opening section, to the gloriously gruesome finale, it's breakneck stuff that is by turns intense but played with considerable wit and playfulness.Casting is also spot on, with Ford leading the way. Ford's performance as Indiana Jones - part time teacher, part time lovable rogue who lurches from one perilous situation to another - is note perfect. It's a performance of style and substance that is often wrongly ignored by the stuffy, purely because of the genre of film it sits in. That Ford oozes comic book heroics without falling into campy cliché is a great achievement, while of course he gave us iconography unbound that still exists today. The supporting performances are also outstanding, with Allen's spunky hard drinking Marion and Freeman's weasel Nazi stooge Belloq particularly hitting the heights. While on the other side of the camera and at the writing table, the trio of Spielberg, Kasdan and Lucas prove to be a meeting of classical adventure loving heart and minds, for the film is crafted with humour, energy and skill. It undoubtedly owes a debt to olde Hollywood fare like Gunga Din, Secret of The Incas and Valley of the Kings (and more), while some stereotyping of natives exists because the film harks back to olde Hollywood adventure movies! And undeniably it's a teeny–tiny bit annoying that as we enter the home straight Allen's character arc has her shift from tough dame to "save me Indy" fodder, but small complaints be damned. This is top line genre film making, where true love is proved to always last a lifetime, because, quite simply, Raiders of the Lost Ark is still the modern day template for action/adventure movies. 10/10


                
This is one of Steven Spielberg's all time classic movies!! "Raiders of the Lost Ark" is an unbelievably remarkable and adventuresome comedy flick that is synonymous with Harrison Ford!! The enormous popularity of "Raiders of the Lost Ark" evoked a charisma that the American movie audience took to instantaneously!! This website ranks "Raiders of the Lost Ark" as the 17th best film out of the top 250 films ever made, this is very impressive!! The audience research report on this movie has it at an 8.7 rating out of a possible 10... Also very impressive!! AFI (American Film Institue) ranks this film as one of the top 100 American films ever made!! The comedic suspense to this film is extremely well developed and overall, "Raiders of the Lost Ark" is entertaining with a capital E from start to finish!! The famous machete scene is the most identifiable scene in this movie...IT IS UTTERLY HILARIOUS!! I found this movie to be one of the stellar trademarks in the American cinema!! "Raiders of the Lost Ark" was a harbinger of things to come with the happy go lucky disposition of the 1980's!! The ending was irksome, yet also very comical, and Harrison Ford is a well deserved recipient of many accolades for his acting performance in this movie!! Throughout all of this movie's flippant demeanor, the dubious societal nemesis of bureaucracy reared it's ugly head!! Oh well!! Such as life!! I have not seen "Raiders of the Lost Ark" in quite some time, and I am very tempted to see it again in the very near future!! I give this movie a resounding five star approval for directing and acting excellence!! YOU MUST SEE THIS FILM!!


                
I confess, in all the ruckus and commotion over Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull I lost sight of what really mattered and what really brought out my inner child. Raiders of the Lost Ark is one of the finest films ever made and do I dare say Spielberg's masterpiece? Yes I'm aware that Schindler's List is the better film but quality can be measured in so many different ways. Harrison Ford first dons the fedora here and at first glance we can tell that this is his prized role and the one he will forever be loved for. Indiana Jones is a superhero but he is a superhero who can captures the movie goer's imaginations and hearts in a way that Tobey Maguire's Spider-Man could only do in his wildest dreams. The audience admires Indiana Jones because is brave, he's intelligent, he is the personification of the ideal romantic hero and most of all he is human in ways we can identify with. There's just something that all fits together about this picture. It is one of the few films that has truly grasped onto my inner child and imagination. Never has an adventure been as grand as it is Raiders. Karen Allen is as important to this film's success as Ford's. She is the perfect love interest for Indiana Jones because she brings out the best qualities in him. She like Jones is spunky and full of the adventurous ambition. She isn't baggage and she quite often gives our hero a run for his money. She like Indy is also very human and likable. The romance here is real. It's hard to imagine real love and romance in an adventure film but it is real. We liked Marion Ravenwood as Indy's love interest because the scenes between her and Indiana Jones showed love in all the deepness and emotional conviction it has, and it didn't show us James Bond's make love and throw away love. The love in Raiders is as close to the real emotion as your going to get to in these types of films..I really think the plot here is the best of the series of Jones films, all though it really isn't fair comparing the sequels to this simply because "This IS history". Hitler wanting the most sacred of Jewish artifacts to conquer the world is one of the most inspired premises of well, any film. We have the romantic hero in Indiana Jones but we also have evil in the form of the Nazis. The cult of personality surrounding Hitler stays with you. I consider myself to be smart and sensible and I don't get afraid much but the stock footage of Nazi rallies really scare the hell out of me. The Nazis were one of the must vile cults to ever exist and if any thing could embody modern day evil it would be them. Like Indy the villains are to be taken very seriously. By no means are the Nazis in Raiders cut out villains. Even our chief antagonist Rene Belloq is hesitant to ally himself to them, he says it is a necessary evil.Execution is key to Raider's success. The script is intelligent but it also shows that it's roots where planted by the serials of the 30's. Spielberg and company take the material as serious as the grave. Nothing is played for laughs or shock value for the sake of laughs or shock value. In creating a homage to the classic serials, Spielberg actually outdid them and set a new unreachable high standard for the adventure/action flick.I love the story of Indiana Jones' humble origins. Say what you will about George Lucas but steering Spielberg away from doing a James Bond film and pointing him toward this direction is one of the defining moments of cinematic history. Before you take the kids to see fun popcorn film Crystal Skull show them the cinematic master piece Raiders of the Lost Ark.
I must have seen this movie between 50-100 times. My parents passed the Indy trilogy down to me as a kid and they blew my mind. They were just so immensely enjoyable with the big action set pieces and in my opinion the best action hero in Indiana Jones fighting against evil to protect the good. There wasn't green screen overuse or a crazy amount of gore, just this professor who had the requisite set of skills to take on the Nazis and recover this artifact of unimaginable power. I loved Raiders immediately and even over 30 years later it stands the test of time.*Minor Spoilers Ahead* In the year 1936 a group of men hike through the jungle in Peru. They find a dead body that has been hit with a poison dart and they estimate he's been there for 3 days. One of the men tries to attack one of the others but in shadow he pulls out his whip and uses it to disarm him. The attacker runs off and the man with the whip steps out of shadow. He's wearing a fedora and a leather jacket, he's later introduced as Indiana Jones (Harrison Ford).They arrive at the temple and his friend urges him not to go in. Indy mentions that one of his competitors disappeared in there. They go in and the place is covered in cobwebs and insects and they are both covered in tarantulas. They brush them off and keep going. They are about to continue when they spring a trap activated by the light in the room. Spikes shoot out of the walls and hanging off one of them is Indy's competitor. They make their way past a couple of more traps when they reach the artifact. It's on a trigger that is activated by the object's weight. Indy seemingly makes the switch but activates another trap which lowers a giant boulder. After his friend tries to betray him and dies himself, Indy escapes the temple but he's intercepted by another archaeologist named Rene Belloq (Paul Freeman). Belloq has bent the native tribe to his will and uses them to steal the artifact from Indy. Indy is able to slip away while Belloq is commanding the tribe and a chase begins. There's a seaplane waiting on the river and Indy is able to evade the tribe and hop aboard. While they're flying away, a snake crawls into the seat and Indy freaks out. He's afraid of snakes but his pilot tells him to show a little backbone.There's so much I could say about Raiders of the Lost Ark. But what makes this movie so special to me is that it's the best integration of really cool action scenes with hilarious comedic moments that I've ever seen. I'll talk about the characters more later but with this movie Indy will get into some intense gunfights or fistfights, or he'll be trying to escape a trap and he'll trip or get socked in the jaw or slip up on the weight of an artifact and set off another trap. It's kind of beautiful to watch how seamless it is and I laugh a lot every time I watch this movie. I think every action/adventure movie tries to do that and most of them succeed but I feel like this is by far the movie that does it best.Moving to the characters, I mentioned in the opening paragraph that Indy is my favourite action hero of all time. For me this is true because his character works on many levels. Of course he's a professor first and he always comes across as knowledgeable of his surroundings but he also works as a badass action hero. He overcomes odds through work with his gun, his whip and more importantly his fists. Lastly, he's not perfect like a James Bond type spy, he's constantly screwing up or almost dying, only getting by through a combination of luck and help from his friends. Marion is absolutely no slouch either. She's fully capable, she owns a bar and is a drinking champ, she greets Indy by punching him in the face and she's responsible for getting him out of a couple of jams. They feel organic together and the romance between them is played just right. Sallah is really underrated, he's a funny and helpful sidekick and John Rhys-Davies is so great playing him. Denholm Elliot is good in his brief appearance. Speaking quickly about the villains, Belloq is actually a solid adversary. He strikes the balance of villainous yet understated perfectly. I find him to be less maniacally evil and more just an @$$%^*& who piggybacks off of Indy's success.The Indy trilogy really shows how great of an actor Harrison Ford is. He's one of the better actors of his generation and I think he's the template for the blockbuster action hero. He can perform in any genre and he quietly helps make the movie as awesome as it is. Without him, I don't know if these movies would work as well as they do.With this being an adventure/action movie the set pieces are exciting and provide the thrills that you're looking for in this genre. From dodging dangerous traps to dealing with some frightening parts of the animal kingdom, all of the action scenes are fun to watch and are extremely entertaining. I would also add that the entire trilogy travels to some cool locations and add to the mystery surrounding some of the supernatural elements of this franchise.Some people consider Raiders to be the movie that helped define the modern action/adventure movie. I would agree, I don't have a ton of experience with older adventure movies but you can see touches of this movie in films even today. Even with some of the theories about the plot today, to me this movie is perfect and I can't recommend it highly enough.
I think that this movie is TRULY better than most of the big movies coming out now. I haven't seen Ender's Game either, but from the looks of the trailer it didn't seem too appealing (most of the shots being actors in front of CGI backgrounds). Raiders of the Lost Ark is a bit of a miracle for a couple of reasons. It features a dazzling number of practical effects that work better than any post-production trickery: the shooting arrows, the boulder, the truck chase, the explosions, the snakes... you can see and feel that they are real, even if the boulder is plastic and some of the snakes are rubber. The final Ark sequence is somewhat cheesy with the optical printing effects, but the ghosts being added are still real bits of cloth that were filmed being pulled about in water. So, it's real and it has a human handprint on it instead of being disconnected like so many of the pixellated effects we see today. Also, the editing is terrific. It's so easy to ignore it because you are too caught up in what is going on, but that's exactly the point: The editing follows a specific train of thought in each scene as we can see what the characters are literally thinking. Take the opening scene where Indiana hears the gun cock behind him... we see the his head turn slightly with the silhouette of his ear clearly outlined. In a couple of rapid-fire shots, we see him take out his whip and knock the gun out of the man's hand. Watch it in slow-motion, seriously. I prefer watching movies like this as opposed to the James Bond movies where Bond always knows exactly what to do but they never really show how... "Raiders" follows the thought process every step of the way. A lot of people say that cinematography in movies is boring today, but you might not exactly know what that means. There is a "correct" way most movies are shot that is actually quite boring. Use close-ups for dialogue (often with the listener out of focus in the foreground), use wide shots for action, and shake the camera a lot. "Raiders" refuses to do that. The cinematography makes sure that we can see what is going on, but also makes sure to keep it interesting. We look at the actors from above and below. We see them through dense forests, candle flames, and lattice walls. It's a brilliant variety that often goes unnoticed. Anyhow, all of the technical feats somehow step out of the way so you can enjoy the ultimate roller coaster ride. This is no average Hollywood movie as we see characters get dirtied up and beat up and even looking pretty ugly sometimes... It's a throwback to when movies didn't take themselves so seriously and instead focused on being fun. Years later when people forget "Gravity" and even "12 Years a Slave" they will still remember this one.
If you have not seen this film, this is it. The top. This is the most exciting and entertaining film that has ever been made. Harrison Ford creates a truly iconic character named Indiana Jones. Conceived by George Lucas and molded by Spielberg, Raiders of the Lost Ark is truly a sight to be seen. Inspired by many of the 1930's serial films like its cousin Star Wars, Raiders keeps you on the edge of your toes. The whip, the leather jacket and of course the hat have become iconic with film lore. Indiana Jones is the all American hero, the American James Bond. The sequels were all great and highly entertaining films thanks to Lucas, Spielberg and Ford, but Raiders is truly a masterpiece to behold.


                
Raiders of the Lost Ark is an example of a perfect movie.Quite a bold statement I hear you cry, but I'll do my best to quantify it!Put very simply, this film delivers on everything it promises. The poster and artwork for the movie tell you that it is a 1940s adventure with Nazi villains and a dashing male hero who uses a whip! Not to mention the pursuit of an artifact of "actual" biblical proportions. There's a girl in there too so a bit of romance as well. It is a perfect realisation of character and story. Every component fits together like a well made suit, from the sweeping soundtrack that elevates your emotions and fills you with awe, to the perfect casting choices. All of the people involved in this film clearly loved both every moment making and working together on it. This film is compelling to watch and carries you from the very first opening scene right through to the end with a rewarding, fitting conclusion to the story. Quite honestly I am really struggling to think of a single criticism. Oh some might say the effects look dated in places, but it simply doesn't matter because you are enjoying the ride too much. Furthermore, It can be watched many times without losing any value. I believe that this is because every component of the film is being steered by people in their prime and at the top of their game. If you're not appreciating the music, then it's the cinematography. If you're not rooting for the very likable characters, then you're noticing the amazing sound design. Every department; stunts, makeup, wardrobe, writing... all of them, they all gave everything and achieved what they set out to create. Thus a perfect film.If for some reason you haven't seen it... then make sure you close the curtains, dim the lights, turn the volume right up... and enjoy every moment of this cinematic delight in its fullest capacity!


                
