Most people give this movie a 10 out of 10 because they don't consider the movie but rather how happy they were to discover it as a child but now, in 2005, it has become obviously outdated, the script is quite bad and the acting is even worse. Harrisson Ford obviously should have worked his acting better, which he happily did since that movie. I am sorry I cannot just keep on lying about this movie: this is for your kids but in now way should it be put among masterpieces. IMDb is a web site about movies, not about cult and self-proclaimed nerds or geeks. You have to determine how good is a movie according to artistical criteria, neither to your gregarious instinct nor to your "attitude".


                
About a couple of years back I started renting movies from IMDb top 250 and ROLA certainly doesn't belong there. It's just an average movie with a thin plot and some comic element thrown here and there. I'm not a big James Bond fan, but this is still nowhere near James Bond movies. The hero practically does nothing in the movie except chasing around treasures and losing them to people. He started with the golden thing in the beginning and lost it to Belloq. He couldn't save the girl from the blast in the truck and yet she is falling for him. He discovered the ark but lost it to the Nazis, tried to gain it back in a lame chase sequence but all in vain because .... guess what ... he lost it to the Nazis again. The Germans after recapturing it, opened it up out of curiosity only to be killed by the powers within the ark. All this while our Mr. Indiana Jones and his girlfriend were tied to a pole avoiding "looking" at anything that happened.Apart from finding the ark Mr. Jones had no major role to play in the entire movie other than the fact that it had to last for two hours. And being a prominent historian he was helped by some local guy to solve the mystery of the location of the ark by reading stuff off a medallion. Not to mention, he was about to eat a poisoned 'date' only to be saved by Sallah. So the only powers our great Mr. Jones had include - a sense of timing, dressing up in a rugged style (including a beard which he grew all of a sudden even though he landed in Nepal clean shaved) and a funny bone which popped up occasionally but far too spread out.The only positive part of the movie was its opening which was strong but then they lost it.Sure it paved ways for future adventure movies and it was one of its kind, but it was plain average.
To state the obvious strengths of the movie right off the top: it's a good action-adventure movie, light-hearted even when managing to deal with sinister Nazis, with a fun lead character. Those things in and of themselves score this movie a few points, and one has to give credit for the fact that it really did set the pattern for the modern genre of action-adventure movies. It also established Harrison Ford (who was primarily known for his supporting role as Han Solo from "Star Wars" at the time this was made) as an action-adventure leading man (he does these parts well; I find him perhaps a bit dry when he takes on more substantive roles) although it may not establish him as an "actor" per se, since the part of Indiana Jones really isn't a dramatic part that would stretch or test an actor's ability. It required "presence" rather than "talent" and Ford brought that presence to the part very well. So, yes, there's a lot of good material here, and yet I can't say that I really enjoyed this, in spite of the obvious fun contained within it.The action-adventure elements are the key to this movie, and that being the case there's not enough, quite honestly. Between them, there are long stretches in which the story is told in a largely unconvincing and uninteresting manner - appropriate, I suppose, since the story itself is quite unconvincing. It might make for a good yarn, but someone still has to explain to me why Hitler would have been interested in finding the Jewish "Ark of the Covenant." I know it was explained at the outset that the Nazis wanted it because it contained great power and would make an army invincible, but one would have to believe the Jewish stories about it to believe that - and Hitler obviously didn't. Then as the movie reaches its climax, the power of the Ark is revealed in ridiculously supernatural terms. That aside, I found the romance between Indi and Marion (Karen Allen) uninteresting and largely unnecessary to the story, and the story itself to be such a wild ride that at times it just didn't seem to make sense to me.Maybe I'm taking this too seriously. It is fun on a regular basis - even if it is somewhat preposterous. But I still just didn't really enjoy it. 4/10


                
Raiders Of The Lost Ark is widely regarded as the quintessence of the adventure-action movie. However, there is so much to say about it is hard to understand how it can be such highly considered.Everything isn't bad. There are, in particular, very good actions scenes such as the opening scene or the one in the temple with the snakes, and some well thought-out touches of humour. But we are under the impression that the plot is secondary, in fact you forget about it after some time, and that it is just a pretext for blowing us away with those action scenes, like blockbusters do nowadays.The flaws are obvious, from the shallow characters to the choppy rhythm or the mediocre editing with a lot of jump cuts or continuity errors. A few extremely far-fetched scenes also discredit the movie.Raiders Of The Lost Ark is therefore far from perfect and certainly cannot pretend to the rank of masterpiece some give it.


                
It starts with a scene that would have us believe that an ancient civilization implemented a high-tech security system to safeguard an idol. Yes, the movie is exciting but the action is so utterly ridiculous that it makes James Bond films and "The Road Runner" cartoons look realistic. While it's understandable that one has to suspend disbelief when watching a film, the level of stupidity suggests that Spielberg has no respect for the viewer's intelligence. Scenes such as Jones's stunt under the moving vehicle and the revelation of the contents of the ark are sure to have any adult viewer rolling his eyes so often that there's danger of collapsing from dizziness.


                
I watched this famous film expecting it will so much more but I was disappointed instead.The story is beyond absurd, the plot is weak and there was hardly any logic present. Indiana Jones was doing a lot of things in the film: explaining, exploring, running, fighting but what he was not doing is thinking. Often there was no rational explanations for his actions which made the film uninteresting. Every time he is in trouble, he gets out of it is the most absurd and unrealistic way possible. The performance of the actors and actresses was mediocre. As the story was not that good there was nothing much to be done by them either. On top of that the action scenes were not well crafted, in fact they were pretty clumsy. Also the editing of those scenes was less than good.If you are expecting an amazing movie then I will not recommend it but if you are seeking an average type action film to watch then you can watch this.


                
After hearing so much about this and seeing a high imdb rating and directed by Steven, I had huge hopes. But alas!!!The movie has a very dull plot and little unlikeable character, but credit where its due, Harrison Ford plays it really well, it's the writing which makes Jones unlikable.And the way movie ends is so disappointing. I was like that's it, will that's a dudMy favourite part was the opening scene where Jones solves the hidden challenges (I wish the movie had more of those) and its awesome theme music.Overall, watch James Bond or Bourne Series, instead of wasting time on this overrated movie, which people are supposed to like because it had big names bind it like Lucas, Spielberg, Ford


                
This film is so bad it could pass for a James Bond movie of the Roger Moore era. But without the beautiful girls. A puerile script, detestable characters and zero credibility. And that's before I get to the action sequences which were quite risible. I'm perfectly cool with the notion of killing a bunch of Nazi soldiers but when the said Nazi soldiers are shown to be a bunch of half-wits then just what is the point?Shame, I liked the first ten minutes or so, when he's dodging the booby traps, stealing the stuff and outwitting the savages. But it was all downhill once Denholm Elliott showed up. Not his fault of course, he didn't write this tripe. Two hours of completely wasted time. It seemed longer.


                
