This incredibly overrated anime television series (26 episodes, 25 minutes each) is about a 14-year-old boy (and two of his girl classmates) who pilots a giant robot to defend Japan against invading beings called Angels. There is very little explanation given to the Angels or why their numbers have increased in recent times, and they just seem to pop out of nowhere for no apparent reason (why not attack all at once instead of at spaced out intervals that are convenient for the humans you're attempting to destroy?). The robot fight scenes attempt to employ a variety of obstacles, but the action itself is poorly executed and boring to watch. Almost every episode seems like a waste of space where nothing of interest occurs.Some might be intrigued by fans who mention the (very few) symbolic references herein, but that's all they are - shallow one-liners to religious or philosophical concepts that are randomly tossed in with zero craftsmanship. As a whole the series is incredibly tedious due to the superficiality of the characters, who are really nothing more than self-pitying crybabies. The psychology is pathetic, with hopelessly simplistic conflicts like "I hate my father" repeated over and over and over and over again with no progression beyond their face value. It's no understatement to say that these characters plunge this series from time-wasting mediocrity to anger-inducing garbage during the final episodes with their endless, angst-ridden diatribes of excessively repetitive psychobabble (some of which is totally meaningless).I'm not kidding when I say that this series just got worse and worse as it progressed. Every day I'd look at the DVD set sitting on my living room table and say to myself, "Damn, I've gotta watch the next episode at some point. (sigh) I may as well slug through another one tonight." The real kicker was that the episodes were only 25 minutes long, yet they were somehow able to digress into a completely uninteresting borefest within the opening 10 minutes. This is coming from a guy who will happily sit through 150-minute films with glacial pacing, so my criticism of this series is most damning indeed.Never in my entire life have I despised watching a series as much as "Evangelion." I had already purchased it based off of all the fanatical comments on IMDb, and I certainly wasn't going to let it collect dust after spending my hard-earned money. What followed was 10 hours of pure, unmitigated torture. My love/hate relationship with anime is turning into a hate/love relationship after this highly acclaimed disaster."Evangelion" represents everything anime should NOT be - massive quantities of dull, pretentious tripe under the guise of intelligent cinema. The universal acclaim for this piece of crap is simply unbelievable; and the ridiculous assertions by fans that this series as "one of mankind's greatest achievements" is probably the most stupifying comment I've ever heard on IMDb - and I've seen some doozies.


                
This has to be one of the top overrated anime shows ever made. And yes, I was even shown the "End of Evangelion" and that still made me hate it even more. Not to mention the countless rip-offs of this show!I don't mind psychological and philosophy untertones, but Evangelion drags it out into the mud like nothing else! Not many of the characters seemed to be very interesting. The only ones that seemed to be interesting were Asuka, Misato and Pen-Pen. Other than that, mostly everyone else were a bunch of whiny crybaby losers. They need to go to a psyciatric center, not piloting giant robots against aliens called "Angels".Even the mecha and alien fights did not help at all. Goes something like this:"Well, there are these robots, and they are really cool because they bleed(!) when they get hurt, but they are not really mecha, but captured angels, so sometimes they go insane and don't do what the underaged pilots want, and they have to be controlled better...blah blah blah!"I am so sorry, but I just cannot recommend Evangelion to anyone, anime otakus or not. To those who love this series greatly, fine you're entitled to that opinion, I respect you. But to thoses that have a "out of your mind" obsession to think that every one will like this series, you are more of an egotist.I prefer "Macross", "Mospeada", "Run-Dim" and "Robot Taekwon V" myself.
This review is for both the series and two movies.First is the story. It begins in the year 2000 when a disaster nearly destroys Antarctica and kills billions of people. It's first thought to be a natural disaster, but was actually a experiment sponsored by a organization called SEELE and carried out by GEHIRN. Fast forward to t...he year 2010 GEHIRN has changed into NERV a military organization. NERV's primary mission is to locate creatures called Angles and destroy them. The primary story follows Shinji Ikari who decides to join NERV and his father is the head of NERV.Now onto all the problems with this show.First is the story: I'm not sure what the creators of this series/movies were trying to do, but they failed miserably. The story as it went on from episode to episode and movie to movie just got worse and worse as it went a long. The story was incoherent and didn't make any sense. I don't mind series that try to have a higher meaning, but at least make some kind of sense at the end, express something even if it's that everyone dies.Second the characters: I think this might have been my biggest problem with the series. The characters brought nothing to the series. The main character Shinji has to be one of the worst if not the worst anime character ever. He had no depth, emotion, and didn't try me in. He was just annoying, and I wanted him to die almost from the beginning, the same with most of the other ones. I can't think of on character I actually liked.Third the animation: The animation done by GAINAX is terrible it looks like something done by in the 60s or 70s. Hell I think Speed Racer looks better than this series.Overall this is the worst anime series ever and most overrated series I've seen. I really don't understand why people like it. If they want to see a great anime series with meaning then you should check out series like Saikano, RahXephon, and Now and Then, Here and There just for example. Just skip this series and movie, you'll life will be much better off.
Contrary to most other commentators, I deeply hate this series.It starts out looking interesting, with mysterious aliens and giant robots, and I kept my hopes up until the very last episode. At the end of it, I still didn't understand what the alien attacks were all about (maybe I missed something, who knows?), and realized that I had sat through 26 episodes consisting mainly of the characters' own self-hating, selfishness and self-pitying. It actually flips between alien/robot fights and these dark, depressing blinking-on-and-off scenes where one or more characters shouts "I hate me/you/it" 10-12 times in a row.I can't really see either Shinji or Asuka (two of the main characters) showing growth or change. (Nor can I see any of the other characters learning or growing either, for that matter.) I wanted to kick them and tell them to get a bloody life during the first episodes, and the feeling didn't change during the last ones. Shinji truly possesses the kind of helpless hopelessness that makes people angry rather than charitable, and Asuka is such an infuriating know-it-all that I wanted to smash the TV screen every time she came into view. Oh, and more than anyone else, these two hate everything, and say it veeeeeeeery often. Shinji even makes a half-assed attempt at suicide. Please, explain to me why I should give a rat's ass about this animé, when even it's characters are trying to off themselves to get out of it.I'm otherwise a big fan of animé and manga, and never before have I disliked one so much. I read that the series creator/writer wrote this while suffering from a depression, and I can believe that; it made me depressed to watch it. Is that the aim of this series? I'm honestly asking. Is it designed to make the viewer confused and annoyed? And if suffering from a depression, why just not write a book or biography about it, instead of mixing it up with aliens and mecha's? This alien war plot, as far as I could tell, lead to absolutely nowhere.Finally, since I'm truly fascinated by how many people claim to love this patchwork of dead-end plots, I can't help but wonder how many of them actually find it good, and how many say they do because they've been told it is.


                
A trip to Shinji mind, his considerations, his feelings, his fears, somehow trying to show his ego and pushing you to understand or empathize with him or this idea of alter ego. It's even hard to explain. A raw resume: Problematic characters with broken families and/or relationships living the rest of they young lives doing things wihout a clear sense of objective or motivation.They don't work their problems out, nor find a way out, neither shows the direction to a better live. They simply carry on the way life is the whole time.I dislike the absence of no constructive thinking like Gundam (00, SEED) or even Zega Pain.There's an awkward concept of angels, manipulating machines made of zombie-angels, to fight other angels that appears from nowhere in space to kill mankind.... that's too much nonsense.The last 3 episodes are completely psychological and irritating.Personally I was expecting a logical ending, which explains everything else.To you related with psicology, you gonna like this. Other people, my sugestion is: don't wast your time.
...then switched to the last ones, hoping to find out something great, as so many reviewers here wrote. Well... nope! Just some pompous nonsense masquerading as deep and profound moral philosophy and nothing more. Absolutely unsatisfactory - even for a preteen. Don't waste your time.


                
The only thing I liked about this show were the visuals.
Overall, a HUGE waste of time: -Pseudo-intellectual, symbolism and references are superficial, I found no coherence or interesting deeper meaning-Super uninteresting characters. In particular, the main character is one of the most annoying and uninspiring characters I've ever seen.-No plot. The whole thing could easily have been condensed into a 1-hour movie. The same things are happening in most of the episodes.I really tried to like this anime. I really can't understand why people can stand this show, let alone call it a masterpiece.


                
I watched this on the high rating, and general praise from every corner. Sat through every minute. I waited until the last second of the last episode, thinking, "It must be about to get good now." "It's all going to pay off somehow."It never came.The characters are *awful*. Annoying, one-dimensional, poorly constructed, crying hipsters, with only one complex exception. The plot is haphazard. The pacing is horrendous. The storytelling oscillates between robot fighting, teenage drama, and poorly done ennui on the nature of existence. Maybe it's trying to be a statement on depression or the meaning of life, but even that misses so badly it hurts. Even the animations - even for 1995 - are subpar.Maybe I'm an idiot, or crazy. But there are *great* anime and films out there. But this isn't one of them. I'm staggered and confused how it got its reputation.Honestly, my two cents- save 9 hours of your one precious life, and give this one a miss. No matter what you do, it'll be time better spent.


                
In no human form of communication can I convey how much I hate this series. I hate everything this series has to offer, everything it represents, everything it was, still is and will ever be.Its not clever its not thoughtful its not insightful. All it is is someone telling you to give up die, succumb, surrender, give in. It preys upon the weakness of human ego and it tries to convince you that its okay to be pathetic.As long as I have lived their has always been films and shows which have tried to bring about something positive. Something telling me to reach higher, to push myself to be the best that I can be.All this anime has to offer the world is the sad bleak vision distorted into a disgusting vague medium with absolutely no sound message whatsoever.Firstly the characters are all bland, gormless exhibitions of the human condition. Shinji is by far the worst character in anime hands down. He's a selfish, weak, subservient coward who would rather wallow in his own woes then face up to the world and his responsibility. There are people in the world far worse of then him and yet he finds that his problems are all important. Even when he is given the opportunity to do good he cowers away rather than step up and make a difference. Rei is a girl who is a mobile manikin, who's purpose is to stand blankly looking into nothing whilst delivering generic monologues just like the rest of this forsaken cast. Asuka acts almost remotely human at first but when stuck with these inwardly dead humanoids she also finds herself suffering from the mental angst. As you can expect from most animes the people here are all form the same generic character molds.The plot is a throwaway one involving using giant mechas to fight aliens. But believe me that simplest of descriptions provides all the entertainment you can glean from this husk of a show. As most of their filler slot time is filled with still shots accompanied by limited character interaction along with redundant recycled audio sound such as those bird sounds that are heard every episode.The themes shown in the haziest of details are psychological concepts such as the hedgehog syndrome, but you would only know this if you were to actually read about the synopsis of the show and know about the syndrome in the first place. This means adding these concepts in the show is little more than referencing since the only way as to fully understand this would be to know through an outside source. Even then the conceptual ideas are on the instabilities of the human mind and other ailments to the psyche with no true understanding on what they are or how to deal with them in the show. It doesn't ask the questions or give the answers it whispers monotonously trying to lull you into a poor man's hypnosis.The last few episodes even the movie are notable for their lack of any coherent plot despite what the fans chanter. It's not a matter of a deep intricate philosophical debate more a psychedelic yonder into the realms of insanity, in other words its what to expect in hell.This series is the worst human nature has to offer its every bit as dystopian as can be, every bit depraved and vulgar.For all you fans who would blindly follow this series its a hell you deserve.
