This is probably the best anime and is a must see for any fans. It is such a good series because of it's drama. Most anime fans will say think that this is just another giant robot story, but it is so much deeper than that.The start of the series is quite misleading compared to the rest of the series because it seems like, as I've said, another giant robot story, but as the series progresses things become deeper and deeper. The more you watch of the series the more you will want of it. By the end of the series you will be dying because you don't want it to end.The story follows a 14 year old boy who has been abandoned by his father only to be invited to see him. When he does see him all his father wants is for him to pilot the evangelion. Evangelions are not actually giant robots rather giant creature that have been created to protect earth against the Angels which are also giant organisms.I won't give too much away but this is a series which you must see. It has to be watched more than once to be underdtood because it is so deep.
"Shin seiki evangelion" is the most famous anime of all times. Almost 10 years before this anime was released(until today) is considered to be the most perfect and outstanding anime series of all. The soundtrack is amazing(with the famous ending theme song being "Fly Me to the Moon" as well as the classic Beethoven),the names of the characters and many of the things has a reason or a deep meaning behind it, like the three MAGI Supercomputers, Melchior, Balthasar and Casper (Gaspar),that are the names of the three wise men (also known as "magi") who, according to Christian legend, followed the guiding star to Bethlehem in order to give praise and gifts to the newborn Christ,the plot is very well written and full of meanings that can be open to discussion. I am not an Evangelion nerd, but I can understand why it was a winner of the'' Best TV Animation Award". I am just waiting to be released in DVD here in Brazil to buy them.
I admire Stanley Kubrick's sci-fi "2001-a space odyssey", but compared to Hideaki Anno's anime "Shin Seiki Evangelion" that movie is just a child's play. Because this anime is, and I can say this it without any exaggeration, a masterpiece. Although, when I watched the first episodes, I thought I was going to give "Evangelion" only a 6/10. But the more I saw, the more I was astonished. And that was very clever from Anno who lured audience into this anime by making at the beginning a sci-fi action comedy, but then slowly turning it into an existential drama. The first 10 episodes were quite funny; we learned how Shinji was ashamed when Misato picked him up in her car wearing a seductive skirt. Then, after she heard that he must stay alone in some sort of a motel, she talked him into staying at her place ( she is so sweet ). Sharing an apartment with her made Shinji even more embarrassed when he saw a dozen of her bra's in the bathroom. And when he meet a penguin called Pen-Pen he run out of the bathroom naked ( an amusing scene in which his intimate part is cowered by a can of Misato's beer ).The main plot revolves around Shinji, Rei and Asuka fighting mysterious "Angels" with the help of 100 feet tall robots called Eva's. Many have asked ; what are the "Angels" anyway? There are many theories but I have my own. They are a symbol of Shinji's low self-esteem. That's why the more of them he beats, the more self confidence he gets.--------------- "Evangelion" is nothing more than a symbolic drama about growing up. Just look at Shinji. He is a shy 14 year old boy. He thinks he is worthless and not worthy of living. He thinks that every person around him is more important than him and that's why he is often passive. That's why the appearance of "Angels" is almost like a Divine intervention in his life ( loosely based on Enoch's apocryphal scripts ), making him almost the most important person on Earth that can save man kind. For the first time in his life, Shinji realized that he is worthy of living in the society.Anno once said he put everything he knows about life into this story and that is really visible. Almost every scene, no matter if its epic ( giant chalked outlines of "Angels"on the "scene of the crime" that cower the whole hill ), dramatic ( robot fights )or humorous ( Toji accidentally looks under Asuka's skirt and she slaps him. He asks why, she says because of a pervert tax. He puts his pants down in front of her and she slaps him again ) are brilliant. And the ending is genius, simply genius. In it the whole real world is replaced by a dream and Shinji, drawn just by black lines in front of a white background, starts floating. That end is hard to explain, but beautiful to feel. It expands the frontiers of our reason. Anno amazed me with his romance "His and her circumstances", but "Evangelion" is his greatest life achievement. The most touching thing for me was finding out that Rei was actually Shinji's cloned mother. I should have known that sooner when I read that Megumi Hayshibara gave her voice to both Rei and Shinji's mother. "Evangelion" didn't win any Oscars or Golden Globes just because it was an anime. But it won something more important, the award of time, making it an anime that will never become outdated.Grade: 10/10


                
What else is there to say that hasn't been said about this show? It isn't just 26 episodes of animated drama...its an experience in its own right. There aren't many stories in the world that never leave your conscience ever, and this just happens to be one of those stories for me. It NEVER disappoints at any point in the show. I watched the whole thing in a span of 2 days (of course, I had to eat and sleep). I swear, while I was watching this thing, Carmen Electra could've called and asked me on a date that night and that night only and I'd still have to say that I was busy at the moment.The beginning of the show starts off as an entertaining Mech with a conventional light-hearted feel typical of many shonen titles. But as the show continues, you get more and more clues to the characters as well as the conspiracies revolving around their missions. It eventually gets to a point after 14 episodes or so where things become really intense. The commanders begin to reveal themselves for who they really are, and the main characters are on the brink of insanity. Shinji especially, goes into an extreme state of depression, which is so amazingly depicted that you'd feel you where feeling the same things he was feeling.Towards the end of the series, I began to get so drawn into one episode that I'd have to take a 15 minute break before watching the next episode because everything I was beginning to love about the NGE world was falling apart. No conventional Hollywood happy, everythings great, go home and eat dinner endings here. Nope. You have to end up questioning everything about your life and your existence in society. And it doesn't make your life seem terrible and meaningless like it leads you to believe most of the time. It gives me one tiny shred of truth that is bound to stay with me for a long time...that without pain there can be no joy. If a story can leave that much of an impact on you, then you know you didn't waste 13 hours of your life seeing it unfold.To sum it all up for you...this is an incredible story. If you like to have your emotions screwed with until going into a borderline nihilistic void, then Evangelion is for you. Many comments on this series may seem very sensationalist at times, but trust me, we aren't lying.
1995's Hideaki Anno's masterpiece release Neon Genesis Evangelion is widely regarded as one of the most important and influential anime of all time.It was one of the first anime to gain a wider audience of adult viewer's as the subjects and themes of this anime was very dark and mature.It is also one of the 5 founding pillars of anime with Cowboy Bebop,Akira,Ghost in the Shell and The Late 80's and Early 90's Studio Ghibli Works(Only Yesterday,Grave of The Fireflies,Laputa Castle in The Sky,Kiki's Delivery Service,Princess Mononoke)I wanted to review this anime as this is one of my most favorite anime of all time and also in my opinion one of the few anime that truly deserves to be called a masterpiece along with LOGH,Monster,The Tatami Galaxy and Cowboy Bebop.It's surprising to see that not too many people in this group talks about it.Neon Genesis Evangelion is one of the most complex,complicated and intricately well detailed series to ever come out of anime industry.Filled with vivid religious symbolism,cryptic hidden messages and thought provoking philosophies.No wonder why this series has such huge cult following and a massive devoted fanbase.This series is so complex that when I searched it's explanation on youtube I got results of over 1000 videos about this series's interpretation.This series is filled with gorgeously well animated Mech Battles between Eva's and mystical creatures named Angels.Although the animation cuts corners on every turn,they didn't hold anything back when it came to the battles.Resulting in some of the best anime battles ever made.Evangelion is a show that takes the best of everything and puts it all in one basket.Dark themes,Deep complexity,Lush Cinematography and Atmosphere,Progressively Haunting Story,Well Detailed Mystery,Self analytical understanding, This anime had it all.Every great anime is built around a great cast of characters and Neon Genesis Evangelion is no different.It's very easy to judge the characters on the first view saying that Shinji is a whiny bitch,Asuka is a massive c*** or Kawori is gay but there are reasons for them to be that way.All the characters in this series is emotionally complex and has complicated motivation.Their broken past has led them to be the way they are.Shinji and Asuka are in my opinion two of the most complex,complicated and brilliantly well written high school characters to ever come out of an anime. Now if you have seen the anime or heard about it than you probably already know about the infamous last two episodes.Probably the most ambiguous,controversial and cryptic last two episodes in any anime.The final two episodes of this anime is a very interesting take on all the characters perception and their motives.It's brilliantly well portrayed with trippy images that questions if everything is a one big dream or not.You need to watch End of Evangelion after completing the show to get the full understanding of the plot.I think the final two episodes are nothing short of brilliance.And the opening track "A Cruel Angel's Thesis" is one of my top 3 favorite anime opening


                
I cannot stress enough how much I appreciate this work of art. And that is just what it is, art. It is an iterpretation, a point of view on various aspects of society.The creator of this, shows his views on military issues, human emotion, what makes a human human, human relationship, science, and much much more. All of those topics are beatufiully developed throughout the story. The character development and interaction makes you think that these are not cartoons, but real people.The main story itself: Humans fighting against Angels...is interesting and very symbolic in itself. The sub-plots and sub themes are just as materfully done as the main theme.I highly recommend this to absolutely anyone who wants to think about what they are watching.


                
Without doubt Neon Genseis Evangelion is probably the best anime show EVER! Probably the best show ever made(next to Band of Brothers). Everything about this show is simply amazing, from the animation to the story(more on that later).Plot wise Neon Genseis begins with aliens called Angels that invade Earth and the EVA project is the only line of defense against them. What starts out as a story about a boy named Shinji who must learn to pilot the EVA's and fight against the Angels eventually becomes a story of life, death, government conspiracy, and pop psycho babble.I will say that if you think that this just a happy Saturday morning cartoon not filled with dark subject material, thats where you would be wrong. By about episode 16 the show becomes rather dark and violent (e.x In episode 19 Unit 01 goes berserk and rips an Angels face off, blood and brains splatter everywhere, then Unit 01 eats the Angels face), not a show for the kids as you can tell, but don't let this turn you off from watching it.Overall, this is easily one of my favourite shows EVER!! It will rip your heart out and may never give it back.9.8/10


                
What is the stuff masterpieces are made of? Are they made up of the engaging characters that follow the plot laid before them? The visual feasts that treat the audience's eyes? Well-told stories that unfolds the plot? One might guess that it's all of the above, but sometimes, a true masterpiece can transcend technicalities and become more than a mere movie or show; it can become an unforgettable experience.The plot at first seems to be simple enough. In the year 2000, a catastrophic event known as Second Impact nearly destroyed the world, killing millions of people. Fast forward several years, it is now 2015 and 14-year old Shinji Ikari is just your ordinary teenage boy at first glance. Suddenly called to come to Tokyo-3 by his estranged father, Commander Gendo Ikari of the famous organization NERV, Shinji comes to realize that Gendo wishes for him to work under NERV to combat gigantic alien creatures known as "Angels," utilizing a giant weapon called Evangelion Unit-01. Reluctantly, he agrees, and along the way, he will encounter many enigmatic characters, like fellow pilots Rei Ayanami and Asuka Langley Sohryu, NERV employees Misato Katsuragi and Ritsuko Akagi, and many more. But not everything is as it seems. Things will get complicated for Shinji as he is forced to confront his insecurities, the internal problems of those around him, and the mysterious organization SELEE.The characters are realistic and well-written. Just about every character is damaged in their own way, developing many different mindsets and self-doubts as a result of their tragic back stories. They are not written off to be deliberately likable though; they are made to represent humanity's worst, and they do a good job at doing so. They make excuses, blame others, push others away, etc. Essentially, they're well-written characters because they're horrible people. They are flawed, or rather, a better word would be "human." And of course, there's a point to all the madness and suffering the characters go through, but you'll have to see to find out why. Studio Gainax also does a good job in the visuals department, sporting nice eye-candy during the action scenes between the Evangelions and the hostile Angels. The designs for both are inspired and obviously have had thought put into them. They are creative and distinguishable, as well as monstrous and dare one say even horrifying at times. The sound is also great, with memorable performances from both the Japanese and English voice actors, as well as a varied soundtrack composed of a combination of classical, campy '70s-80s style, and more which illustrate many different emotions including loneliness, adrenaline, naivety, and desperation.However, from a technical standpoint, Evangelion is not without flaws. As Studio Gainax lost their budget rather quickly, they had to cut corners here and there, covering mouths to avoid having to animate it moving when a character is talking, having still pictures of characters simply standing there for a minute or two, and the infamous last two episodes which heavily rely on stock footage. There's also the usage of Christian symbolism that ultimately don't mean anything. Shining crosses exist as eye-candy, but terms like "Angels" and "Adam" may come off as pretentious to some people.Overall, however, along with the true ending, the sequel movie The End of Evangelion, Neon Genesis Evangelion massively impacted the anime industry and through its unforgettable narrative, has marked itself as one of the crowning achievements of anime and one of the most influential works in the medium, creating public interest in anime for both adolescents and adults alike, as well as inspiring many future shows, notably RahXephon and more. Its impact is undeniable and most definitely a must-see not just for anime fans, but for fans of great stories in general.


                
The anime Neon Genesis Evangelion is a 26 episode anime that revolves around the main character Shinji Ikari, a 14 year old boy who is quickly put into the role as the pilot of EVA unit 01, a giant humanoid robot. As the pilot of unit 01 he must fight off aliens known as Angels, whose only goal is to end mankind's existence. As the series progresses he gains help from fellow EVA pilots Rei Ayanami and Asuka Langely Soryu., who respectively pilot EVA unit 00 and unit 02, in defending NERV, the organization created to fight off the Angels.Evangelion is my favorite anime for various reasons, from the plot, to the characters and personally being a fan of anime that have giant robots. Evangelion shows how Shinji changes as a person while dealing with the stress of having to defend earth from constantly invading Angels, and trying to gain the approval of his father Gendo Ikari, who abandoned him to be the head of the creation of the EVAs, and seeing how the other characters deal with the Angels as they wreak havoc trying to destroy NERV HQ. I believe that everyone should watch through Evangelion at least once, it arguably one of the most influential anime ever. While some people may be put off because they may not be a fan of anime, they should just ignore this and appreciate it as a great TV show. The only negative thing I could say about the anime is that the last two episodes are very "abstract" and could alienate the audience or ruin the entire show for some, but the creators had found this out and released a stand- alone movie titled "End of Evangelion" which makes the last episode understandable and personally helps you enjoy the entire series. If you decide to purchase and watch Evangelion I hope you enjoy it as much as I have.


                
I can't recall watching anything else that delves so deeply into the psyches of its characters. Before long, the fact that this is animation becomes meaningless. You are watching painstakingly-crafted, flawed humans whose internal struggles out-shadow anything happening in their physical world. People turn inward on themselves, their relationships, their purpose in life, their usefulness/value, almost to their ruin. They fall victim to the relativity built up by their experiences. Is a sunny day happy? Is a rainy day gloomy? Is a dawn depressing? Nature has taken a backseat to human mind and will, and those in turn are ruled by emotion; sentiment and nostalgia.Yes, we have three teenagers battling in giant robots, but this is just the tip of the iceberg. They pilot dolls, but they are dolls to a higher authority, and that authority is furthermore a doll to a higher one and so on. Humans at the top hop over nature and strive to accomplish godlike feats to take control of humanity's future. The series is rife with macrocosms and microcosms playing off one another, and the scale portrayed is dizzying. I had no idea what kind of metaphysical and psychological odyssey i would be undertaking by watching this series and the companion movies that wrap it up. NGE makes so many other shows, anime or live-action, seem so hopelessly shallow and trivial.A powerful, visceral, thought-provoking masterpiece. By far the finest, most complete-package anime I've seen to date. My recommendation: keep an open mind, and watch it. It might depress you, but it's so worth it.10 out of 10 (A superiority complex?)


                
People who go into this expecting a giant robot show or looking for typical anime (or any genre) clichés will miss Evangelion's point entirely. You must enter into this story forgetting any of the stereotypes and other commonalities from any other story. Those who call the characters wooden, one-dimensional, or otherwise falling short of expectations haven't appreciated the impact and/or haven't considered the characters in the depth they were meant to be. Despite being the title "characters", the Evangelions have less to do with the story than a typical anime's plot would have you expect. Instead of one central point of interest, everything has a purpose in Evangelion, and is crucial to the story. Misato's troubled and less-than-perfect life has a meaning, as do the events from Ritsuko's past. All the elements of the story work together to the final conclusion.Finally, regarding that conclusion. People dislike either the last two episodes or the End of Evangelion movie, or both, because of the ambiguous ending. The fact of the matter is, I believe, that Anno meant for people to take from it what they want. I don't think there's meant to be a wrong answer for what it "means", including the cryptic final lines. Like the point of the entire story, we're meant to have a limitless amount of options for what we take away from EoE.I count this among some of the best storytelling I have ever experienced, anime or otherwise. If I could give it about a 14 out of 10, I would.
Ah, if only Anno-san would quit milking his cash cow with the umteenth revision, remake, and repackaging. Anyway, this was the first anime to fuel my kindling Inner Otaku. The alternate endings are a bit weird...and I'd rather not get into a psychoanalytic cathexis about Anno's personal breakdown, etc. The art and animation are exquisite, considering when they were made. The American voice actors are great...not a turkey in the bunch. The series is a weird combination of "mecha" and "ecchi," fortunately without overt lolicon references. Yoko Takahashi does an excellent rendition of the main theme, "Cruel Angel Thesis"...although the powerful lyrics don't translate into English smoothly...I mean, when is the last time you heard an English lyric containing the phrase "ardent pathos?" The end theme starts out straight, but is changed slightly for each episode, until a beautiful jazz rendition of "Fly Me To The Moon" is reduced into a JapEnglish "Fry me to da moo." (No, I am not kidding!) Plot is solid and logical. Characters are great, especially Misato and Asuka. For the life of me, I simply do not understand why people find Rei attractive or sexy. Shinji is a straight man...a foil for the comedic barbs of those around him. Be forewarned, this is NOT a series that you can watch once and figure out. You need to see it several times and DO NOT see any of the movies, until you have seen the series; you will be hopelessly confused. My favorite character (with a superficial lack of character) is the oft pickled (besotted with beer) Misato Katsuragi. How can you not love a girl who drives a bright blue Renault Alpine A310 and also carries an H&K USP .40 S&W as a sidearm. Anta Baka?!


                
Many people like to compare Neon Genesis Evangelion to modern culture, whether it be religious, philosophical or what have you. But ultimately, the best comparison I feel is back to around 500BC and the birth of Greek Tragedy, where theoretically EVA would've won several awards at the Theatre of Dionysus at the foothill of the Acropolis.EVA contains absolutely everything that makes Greek Tragedy so god-damn epic, the plot composition including twists and turns that you either don't see coming at all (unlike most mainstream anime today) or adapted in such a way where you feel real -athy's (emp/symp) for the characters at hand. It contains the superb Oedipal Complex notion, and with many hints towards the Bacchae and The Oresteia as well as countless others.If you don't know what i'm on about then don't worry, you'll still be witnessing the same damn EVA awesomeness we've come to love. One of word of warning, if you think this is a mecha-anime along the lines of Gundam or Zone of The Enders, then you may not consider EVA to be your cup of tea. EVA is not about visual flair (although it certainly has it) and well choreographed fight scenes (yet it has those as well), what it's really about is the symbolism that ensues with more than a few nods to sexuality (and its perversity, a la Greek Tragedy)and religion. The humour is there as well, sure it may not be apparent first time round but it's the subtle breakdown of EVA that makes it such a lighthearted, but massively strong headed anime.And to be honest, I wouldn't want it anyway else (and yes that includes the highly controversial original ending)


                
Neon Genesis Evangelion is a series that will probably never get the accolades it deserves. In Japan, it's all but forgotten. In the western world, the mainstream don't know of it's existence, and wouldn't care if it did. Which leaves only those who care enough to look into anime's history as those who will pick up on it. Fortunately I am one such person, and upon finishing it (Twenty-six episodes and a movie later), as surely anyone would be, I was...well, this won't do much for my writing credentials, but the magnitude of what is achieved within this series is beyond description, for no words can do this justice.Every character is compelling, gripping and complex, with Fruedian psychological theorems referenced to fill characters out to a disturbing degree. The story is clever and explores some interesting subjects without losing the viewer. The action is surprisingly good, and has enough energy to challenge Akira in the engaging visuals department. I wasn't expecting the quality of action, not normally being a mecha manga fan, but it was surprisingly good. The imagery portrays exactly what it needs to, and at times is incredibly disturbing. The score is stunning, the voices are well done (In the Japanese, at least, I watch all my anime subbed as a preference), and the series, if you include End Of Evangelion, the feature-length sequel, begins and ends in a place which, while not satisfying per se, shows that it has achieved everything it set out to do.Overall, the series evolves as it goes on; the first fifteen or so episodes are comparatively lightweight compared the sudden increase in the emotional brutality of the later episodes. The script portrays the thoughts, feelings and psychological turmoils of the protagonists perfectly, when it's scary, thoughtful or sad, this is portrayed, and when the script is funny it is genuinely laugh-out-loud hilarious. The animation, while now a little outdated, is great in portraying characters. But most of all, Anno, as a writer and a director, is damn near flawless; even in the last two episodes, where budget plummeted, he managed to turn the final to episodes into psychological analysis sessions, giving vital insight into character psyche.There are no flaws to this series, and the things it does are all exceptional. Myazaki or Toriyama will never be able to top this. No-one will top this. Everything about this series is perfect, and it will never be bettered.BTW get the platinum edition DVDs, although box sets of the platinum ore only available in region 1.


                
**=SPOLIER DANGERSo what to say about this show. Well it's fantastic. Now despite some frightful spoilers provided to my friend, who dislikes (not hate) the show, I've found this to be a rather good show. Seeing as I'm only seeing it in syndication, and some of you have seen the whole thing, you might know more than me, and that's okay. So anyway what makes this show good, is the interesting story. It's almost old school Sci-Fi, but it works nicely in the Anime Sense. But that old school serial like adventure, makes it worth the watch. It really feels like an old Serial Adventure Sci-fi. The music, the rather colorful characters, and the action. Now as for characters, despite Shinji being a bit of a wuss (again based from spoilers) he's a likable character. He's also a very interesting character, very different from the typical Mecah Hero. He's a foil character and he's flawed. I don't understand why people hate that, yes he wusses out in the end but still. All the characters in this are really colorful, and mostly like able. That one dude with the silver hair, looks like Peter Cushing/Moff Tarkin (Star Wars) Misato is a fun and interesting character that has the sort of laid back side to her. Asuka although a loud mouth, is pretty funny. But her acting in the dub is something else to be said. And Rei is an interesting and ambiguous character. She's almost robotic like, though I can guess why. Again, spoilers. Asuka although a loud mouth, is pretty funny, but at the same time unusuall with her links But her acting in the dub is something else to be said. And their are some really frightful and intense moments. moments. **DANGER** **DANGER** Like when Com. Ikagi forcefully rips that Eva apart. My gosh! ***END Spoilers***Now with Acting for the Dubed Version, okay not the best, but not the worst either. It features notables such as Spike Spencer,(GANTZ) Amanda Win Lee,(.hack//SIGN) and Tiffany Grant, (D.N. Angel) as our leading heroes. But Grant has a problem with Asuka. She can't hold a German Accent. She occasionally breaks out into one, and says German Phrases, but she's rather bad. Though she brings out the loud mouthed Asuka well. Now Amanda Lee as Rei, does very superbious. As is expected. Lee has also appeared in R.O.D. The OAV as Nancy, and that was when I learned how superbious of an actress she is. As for Spike Spencer, he's not too bad. I've heard worse. Certainly the Animation quality is a little pale in comparison by today's standards. However Yoshiyuki Sadamoto makes a realistic and horrofying post-apocolyptic Tokyo. And to maintain the amazing effects and combat amongst the Eva's till the very end, after having your budget slashed showed incredible effort and the ability to bounce backOriginal Music, I love. It's very classy Symphonic Adventure. Very John Williams. It really provides for the adventurous feel to the show. And I really like that. A powerful original score, makes a good percent in shows like these. Sometimes in other action Anime their is seemingly no music at all, but not in this show. So overall this proves to be an enjoyable show for me to watch.
This is the greatest thing I've ever watched in my entire life. Anno out did himself with this, although I hear he killed himself. Which is completely understandable after witnessing this and it's alternate ending Neon Genesis Evangelion: The End of Evangelion. Shinji is the most complex character ever created. Rei (who I hate to admit I am in love with) is the most mysterious character ever created. And Asuka is the most competitive character ever created. Add in religion, psychology, and conspiracy and this is what you get. Neon Genesis Evangelion the mother of all animes, and mangas as well. The majority of the series fixates itself around battling the Angels and the mystery of Second Impact. The story has so many layers to it, to go into it would exceed my limit so I'll make this short. THIS IS THE GREATEST THING EVER CREATED. That should do it for you. Go now, give up you're money and receive this gift that Anno has left for us.


                
A lot has changed since Neon Genesis Evangelion was first broadcast on Japanese television from October 4, 1995-March 27, 1996. It's influence can be felt throughout the world and is universally regarded as one of the greatest works of fiction in film and television. Many people can relate to the struggles faced by Shinji & the other characters in the cast; with the show itself being a perfect reflection of its time: the 1990's was known as the Lost Generation of Japan; a time of economic recession, unemployment, and uncertainty. Several youths started to give up hope on their lives and became shut ins too afraid to deal with reality (hikikomori as the phenomenon has been termed). With the internet age we live in now, it's hardly surprising that NGE is just as emotionally resonant now as it was back then, because the lessons that these characters learn is that you must not run away from reality or the responsibilities associated with adulthood; instead you must face it head on, endure any difficulties in order to forge new friendships and find some sort of happiness.Neon Genesis Evangelion follows Shinji Ikari, who has been recruited by a paramilitary organization known as Nerv by the order of his father, Commander Gendo Ikari. Alongside Rei Ayanami and Asuka Langley Soryu, they must pilot giant, biomechanical Evangelions in the battle against extraterrestrial Kaiju codenamed Angels, in order to prevent the destruction of humanity; while Seele, a global secret society, plots to execute the Human Instrumentality Project.Most TV writers/creators would kill to have a cast of characters as rich, nuanced and multifaceted as NGE. When we first meet Shinji, it's pretty clear that he doesn't have any friends; which has negatively affected his self esteem. His own father has neglected & completely abandoned him, additionally he lost his mother to a Contact experiment. It's not until he arrives at Nerv that he starts to form connections with people; that doesn't solve all of his problems though, with each passing battle, his insecurities and fears are brought to the surface. By the series end, he comes to the realization that self acceptance is the key to finding happiness. Rei Ayanami is a mysterious, unusual, and artificial person who has very little regard for her own existence. As Asuka said in Ep. 22, she is nothing more than a doll created to achieve Gendo's objective to initiate Instrumentality to retrieve his wife Yui. As the series progresses, she begins to discover a sense of agency and independence, eventually defying Gendo's machinations. We are not introduced to Asuka Langley Soryu until episode 8; she is an aggressive, overconfident girl who takes an extremely unhealthy pride in piloting her Eva to the point it's the only thing that defines her, with her very existence being dependent on the Eva. Her backstory is wrapped in mystery (there are subtle clues dropped here and there); as the series progresses, her synch ratio plummets, and her pride falls with it. All of this comes to a head by episode 22, where the Angel invades her mind; we learn that her mother, Kyoko lost her sanity after a Contact experiment & she cannot differentiate between her own daughter and a doll, all of this builds to a dark conclusion. Asuka never felt loved by her mother, so she put on this tough facade to mask her pain and closed off her heart to other people. Nevertheless, her arc does have a satisfying outcome (more detail in my review of The End of Evangelion).The show explores several themes such as facing reality, anti-escapism, death and rebirth, identity, collectivism and individuality and isolation. These themes are further reinforced by numerous symbols: electric power poles, birth imagery, water, octagonal and hexagonal patterns, wired fences and trains are perfectly incorporated and juxtaposed to the themes.Hideaki Anno is a master of his craft, the series cinematic voice is characterized by uncomfortable close ups, lingering static shots, superimposed images, and rapidly edited sequences among others are used to great effect. The animation by studio Gainax is remarkable, the fight scenes are incredibly fluid and have a believable sense of scale. Shiro Sagisu's versatile soundtrack perfectly complements the series, ranging from silly & fun to dramatic & emotionally resonant.For anyone who hasn't seen Neon Genesis Evangelion, it's well worth the investment for having amazing characters, a humanistic message and superb filmmaking craftsmanship. I just wanted to post my review before the show came out on Netflix, so I will modify my review to improve it further.
Neon Genesis Evangelion. One of the most controversial and influential sci-fi anime of all time. Even more than 15 years after its release in Japan and at least a decade since it was released and dubbed in English in America, it still manages to resonate and astound anime audiences with its story, characters and the impact that its had on multiple genres outside of anime.Now this is a difficult anime series to review because of how complicated the story gets as it goes on. I'll make the basic synopsis as simple as I can without spoiling: The year is 2015 and the world is invaded by celestial beings known as "Angels", 15 years prior to the beginning of the series, an event caused by the Angels known as "Second Impact" devastated the world and reduced the human population by half. In order to combat the Angels, the Japanese government created NERV to combat the Angels. NERV fights the Angels with the Evangelion Units AKA EVA Units who are piloted by select few teenagers.The basic synopsis sounds like any other mech anime and it is for at least the first 14 episodes but after that, it gets more complicated and the plot takes many twists and turns deconstructing the tropes and conventions for the mech anime genre becoming something new and refreshing which is what this series is well known for. The characters are very well written and three dimensional making them all the more relatable.This series is written and directed by Hideaki Anno who suffered depression when he made this series and it shows in the psychology of his characters. His direction is epic for an animated TV show and has some great shots that make for good cinematography even though its animated. Also it has one of the best anime opening theme songs ever done.Unfortunately, there was a outcry in Japan for this series being too violent for television which resulted in budget cuts which in turn resulted in the infamous final two episodes that don't end the series properly.In my opinion, watch the first 24 episodes, then watch End of Evangelion which is the proper ending to the series which is why I only give this series a 9 out of 10 stars.


                
Like Anno said himself: "Evangelion is my life and I have put everything I know into this work. This is my entire life. My life itself." -Hideaki Anno"Evangelion is like a puzzle, you know. Any person can see it and give his/her own answer. In other words, we're offering viewers to think by themselves, so that each person can imagine his/her own world. We will never offer the answers, even in the theatrical version. As for many Evangelion viewers, they may expect us to provide the 'all-about Eva' manuals, but there is no such thing. Don't expect to get answers by someone. Don't expect to be catered to all the time. We all have to find our own answers."Asked about the violence and uncharacteristic sex scene in episodes 18 and 19, Anno said that the scenes were necessary to develop the story and "to understand real life." He felt that children should be exposed early to the realities of life so that they do not grow up weak and sheltered and so that they will become immune to some of the harsh situations they will eventually experience.And its all true, if you haven't saw this, then you missed a big thing. This is a great thing for kids(as young as possible) because it shows them how real life is, and teaches them how to communicate with others, most of all not to hate others. When you watch it, you wont need psychology books anymore. And your kid wont grow up into a jerk and violent foul, what is represented in most other cartoons/animes. This is not another mecha-anime, with awesome fights and meaningless bullshit. If you searched only for those turn back and go away. This is a life experience with characters that suffer anxiety, hatred, denying, depression and many more, and all the time they are trying to find a cure. Don't be scared(I don't know how to say it) of the religious symbols in this anime, Anno just needed to write a story plot based on the genesis from the bible, they don't mean anything heretic, if you analyze good, you will see that their meaning in the story is a choice between a dream or real life. Adams first wife was Lilith, but she didn't wanted to listen to him and she ran away(they fought who will be on the top, Adam wanted to be on top, so as she did). God sent 3 angels to bring her back but she said no, and she was punished with death of 100,000 her children (demons) per day. Later she was known as sickness that comes with the wind. None of this has connection in the anime. The second wife was Eva that God made from Adams rib, to serve him. She listened and respected Adam even if she didn't love him. But they were happy together? Thats the connection with anime. Lilith was a dream, a perfect woman, but she wasn't obedient. While Eva was.A great story, psychology, drama, realism and a happy ending 10/10P.S. Those that don't understand this story 100% suffer from one of the "mind" sickness(I more like to call it denial of reality) that the characters in the anime have. What am I talking... they are same like them. And they often escape from real life.


                
There are things witch no one should miss, things that for a reason or another are above the rest. Evangelion is one of those things.There are two sides in Evangelion. One that refers to the human condition and other that refers to the plot. The first part (human condition part) is extremely well made. Although it may be considered confusing, that confusion makes part of the human condition, the contradictions we find inside our minds and the differences between "What we think" and "what we do", or even "the idea that we have about ourselves" and "who we truly are" are very well explored and clear as we discover the characters. The relationships between characters are as well explored as the introspections. To summarize, the characters and the relations between them are natural and extremely interesting. In the end you'll probably be asking yourself "who you truly are", "what are you doing here" and another full hand of "existential" question. The plot line is incredible. In this part i must agree with who said it is very confusing, i have watched it 3 times and still i get to discover new things every time i see it. But this fact is not a jailbreak, in fact, even if you don't know exactly whats going on, your mind will have a lot explanations and when you reach the the point and understand everything, you will say - This IS the work of a genius!I recommend everyone to watch this series and the movie.


                
This is a great show and definitely an anime ahead of its time.First I want to clarify something: This show is not about religion or religious beliefs, even through the name sounds like it. I am Christian and find nothing offensive on the show.Hideaki Anno, the creator of Evangelion stated he used Judeo-Christian symbols and names because they sounded cool and because Christianity is little known in Japan, so it would give an air of mystery to the show. Christian names and symbols in the show have little to do with their real meaning and the Bible. For example in the show: Eva (Evangelion)= A giant biomechanical mecha.Angel= Monster that attacks Japan.Casper, Melchior and Balthazar (Magi)= 3 supercomputers.There other names and symbols used in the show but they have nothing to do with the Biblical use of them.With that clarified, the show is great. At first it seems like your run of the mill anime: "young kid has to pilot a mecha to save japan from giant monsters." But after a while tings get interesting, there are many plot twists and nothing is at it seems. Characters are developed to a great extend and their complex psychology becomes the main plot of the anime and not the mecha.All in all a must see, even for non anime fans.


                
I have seen a lot of anime, and this one still remains one of my all time favorites. The show starts off as this sort of robots-and-fighting-for-humanity type scenario, but as it progresses, it becomes more of a cerebral experience, diving into the existential depression and mentality of teenagers. It is a beautiful anime and an experience in itself. For a mid-nineties anime, the show is very well made, and it blew away my expectations. I recommend this to anyone.


                
Everyone talks about EVA. And I'm here, helping to clutter the world with my view of it, and the only way to make it unique is to be really personal.
Now I see it was the moment I watched Evangelion that made everything so special, when every character felt like looking on a mirror, and those twisted reflections made me rethink a lot of stuff about myself and people around me as well. Before EVA, I never thought that not knowing yourself was a real thing, until it made me delve and notice I knew nothing about my own brain. The difference on my attitude on the following months was very noticeable, and even many years later I still think there wasn't anything I could've watched, or even done on that moment to make such a difference.
If you want to watch Neon Genesis Evangelion, don't do it on a happy day to chill, or expecting something to watch with your friends. But, above all things, don't watch it looking for a hero, cause you'll only find yourself.


                
It's very hard to categorize an anime like Evangelion. We could say is a Mecha action story, or we could say is a psychological thriller, or we could speak about a deeply philosophical argument. But also we couldn't say that and anybody could object anything. The secret to enjoy and, barely, understand Evangelion it's not to try to categorize or apply any kind of narrative preconception, but just accept the polyphonic way how the series show us the actions, and just process all that apparently nonsense by your personal experience and sensibility. Try to understand all the possible interpretations and messages in an objective way it's more appropriate for an academic deconstruction task than an delicious and personal experience of enjoy a anime.So, my recommendation is just get carried away by the animation, the music, the dialogues and the plot of this outstanding anime and after seeing it, get your own conclusions.


                
Neon Genesis Evangelion a solid execution of the alien invasion science fiction archetype. Evangelion messes with the story of spirituality of our catholic western society at the same time as explicitly showing us a credible approach of mankind's extinction with a naturalistic eye.(SEVERE SPOILERS)An astronomic event wipes out 80% of the human population, and mankind faces the arrival hostile extra-solar beings. Humanity gathers to form a private international-military-coalition: NERV which contracted by the UN sets the planet in state of site. An ultra-high-tech-project lead by the last scientists develops the ultimate weapon of human-civilization. Evangelion: Gigantic-humanoid-tanks controlled by brainwaves, with superhuman strength, armor against, artillery, missile and nuclear weapons, and a psycho-spiritual-shield of amplified life energy: AT-Fields which renders them almost-unbeatable.The aliens called angels are of unknown origins and intentions,and seen as messengers of God sent to punish humanity for their sins. Putting myth before science at the forthcoming of the apocalypse, a religious approach overshadows the empiric one. Spectators are witness the last days of the desperate resistance.In the flooded estuary of Tokyo a fortress-city has been built over the ruins of the former, to hold the military task-force for the Asia-pacific sector of Earth. All the assets left in the whole are focused on up-keeping the population of workers maintaining the military effort.Fourteen-year-old Shinji Ikari, son of Gendo Ikari the commander-in-chief of the local division of NERV is recruited for test-piloting the Evangelion-unit-01 after reactivation following a long maintenance-run. Suposedly capable of maintaining the required level of neurological-synchronization to be an appropriate pilot, shinji is relocated from the outskirts to a new school and an apartment near the Headquarters and taken care of by a NERV Officer.He is soon taken into the base to begin with his harsh training. After briefing he is boarded into the Evangelion-unit-01 on a capsule which is injected inside the Eva's spinal-chord linking the neuronal-nets of the pilot and the machine. As the unit is activated Shinji achieves an expected exceptional level of synchronization.He can control the Eva as if his own enhanced body, but everything the machine feels he will too. Introduced to other pilots which share his position, Shinji realizes the severe physical and psychological trauma caused by the extremely stressful task which overwhelms their emotionally sensitive teenage minds. Way too early he is taken into action on a mission due to the unforeseen arrival of an Angel after a long peace window which the military isn't able to control with regular firepower. Frightened by the situation he is forced to face the Hostile creature in combat. As he fails to overcome his fierce opponent due to flimsy training, the vicious alien abuses the unit-01 breaking its arm and painfully piercing its skull. Thought to be put down with Shinji dead, the unit-01 suddenly reactivates itself and acts alone, obliterating the invader with a high cost to the integrity of the city and its inhabitants.The story develops showing the psychological efforts the characters are forced to cope with to keep struggling under the immense stress of war and depicting the complex and risky operations NERV has to pull-off with limited resources as further Angels keep coming from the unknown depths of space in relentless waves. All comes at a fair pace to a dramatic climax and the deserved unraveling of the mystery behind the unethical genesis of the Evangelion, to the origin of Angels and the "Human-Instrumentality-Project" lead secretly by NERV's inner circle.Angels are alien creatures sent by ancient Godlike extraterrestrial beings to make contact with and activate "seeds" placed in the moon and Earth long time before humans were planted on the planet. The seeds gave birth to two alien-semi-deities known by NERV as ADAM and LILITH. LILITH is being contained in the lower layers of the earth's crust under Tokyo in a special armored facility. While Adam's genetic material extracted from its dead body was used to clone him onto the Evangelions. Once Adam and Lilith make physical contact, a sacred instance is triggered forcing an evolutionary step towards making humanity a more advanced race in the cosmos. Every human being alive is chemically dissolved into a liquid-primal-substance which flows into the ocean. Using this substance, the being born of ADAM and LILITH unite all humans into one single-entity and harnesses it to Earth to make a planetary-collective-consciousness.As Shinji and his partner pilot Asuka Langley were both inside Evangelion with AT-Fields while this events took place, they didn't join the Grand Fusion, and become the last human couple capable of reproduction. Shinji's utter desperation, fear and anger make him strangle his partner thus becoming the single last human alive in the universe. All of this is shown in majestic hand drawn cell animation technique as only the artist in japan can do. The backgrounds are gorgeous depicting destroyed yet beautiful rural landscapes, and credible futuristic urban and military architecture. All the technical assets are exquisitely drawn with detailed technical accuracy in the case of real machinery, and credible creativity in the science fiction elements.The characters are all credible as they show their frail humanity searching for courage in harsh times. Some may find certain scenes melodramatic, but you need to understand this is Japanese storytelling and thus have different narrative standards are used on cathartic evocations. The alien creatures are varied in shapes ranging from microscopic to kilo-metric and shows different behaviors, as brutal very-hostile-beast-like-creatures or intelligent a-moral schemers capable of communicating and empathizing with humans. The design of the Evangelion is unique, making them an instant reference in the culture of the 90's genre.Evangelion is a true feat of animation and an unequaled masterpiece in the science-fiction genre which will give to speak and re-watch for decades to come. 10/10
