This series is disguised as an adult series but it's not. Sure, it had explicit content and many sexual jokes, but when it comes to plot line it's simply childish. There are a lot of illogical things happening there and I'm not talking about the genre. Maybe I could have overlooked them in my teen but as it is, it strikes me as one big fault. The "Angels" were never truly explained, their powers, their motives. Those questions were never even raised in the series except of once or twice. People are dying and risking their lives and no one thought it's strange that those creatures are called "Angels", and no one really talks about their origin. And what happened to the boy-angel Shinji killed? What was he trying to do? Things I couldn't ignore no matter what my age is:1) The series is simply dull. All of it could have been summarized in 5 or 6 chapters. An angel attacks, the pilots attack the angel, they kill him (and of course they win, no matter how low their chanced were) and then some talk in the middle. I found myself watching it for the occasional joke and skipping the fight scenes because they were all the same in a way with the same predictable ending – the good guys win. How they managed to drag it for 26 chapters is beyond me.2) So after the boring chapters that kept simply going on and on and on I hoped the ending will make everything clear and make this series have SOME point at least. Boy, was I wrong. Not only did it explain nothing, it didn't even end the series. There was nothing there that could be considered an "ending", it was just a bunch of incomprehensible scenarios trying desperately to be philosophical. It wasn't even connected to the events in the series, only to the self-perception of the main character. With that said, it was a big waste of time that discouraged me from watching more anime. Too bad, I was motivated after watching "Attack on titan". I thought that two Animes that have a similar rating will be of approximately the same quality. They did not.
