Gainax's staggeringly ambitious, 26-episode series NEON GENESIS EVANGELION is declared as one of the most compelling Anime productions of all time. It also happens to be one of most controversial. On one side of the coin are a bunch of loyal, unbending followers that idolize the show. On the other are a group of naysayers who say otherwise. As far as my views of EVANGELION are concerned, I fall somewhere in the middle. In many ways, the show is indeed brilliant and thought provoking--something rarely seen in any animated production, American or Japanese. At the same time, however, there are elements of EVANGELION that rub me the wrong way.The show, set in post-apocalyptic Tokyo-3, involves alien-like monsters known as "Angels" that continually threaten the metropolis. Only psychologically messed up teenagers -- who include introverted Shinji Ikari, enigmatic Rei Ayanami, and mean-spirited Asuka Langley Sohryu -- stand a chance against them. They do this by piloting their Evangelions -- giant, superpowerful, robot-like fighters. In charge of the whole thing is Misato Katsuragi, a tough, no-nonsense woman who cares for the children while dealing with her own issues. Also calling the shots is Shinji's cold, unsympathetic father, Gendo Ikari, Shinji's cold, unlovable father, who seems to have an agenda of his own, although we're not entirely clear about what it is. And then there is the matter over whether the real threat in Tokyo-3 is in the presence of the Angels or an even more ominous organization, known as SEELE, which is occasionally seen as a group of tabloids with numbers.As mentioned, there are many aspects of EVANGELION that are good and bad. The technical aspects of this show are impressive -- particularly the dramatic and emotionally charged battles between the EVAs and the grotesquely designed angels; a sense of mystery and intrigue exudes from its complex storyline. As a matter of fact, the show is at its best when it focuses on the conflict between the Angels and the human race. Furthermore, even though a majority of the characters are basically unlikable (save perhaps, for Misato), director Anno does dedicate some episodes delving into their tormented pasts. This is often done in surreal, bizarre, "dream" like sequences involving kaleidoscopic imagery and inner thoughts. Also interesting (and sometimes disorienting) is the use of classical music for several episodes toward the end, notably Handel's "Messiah" and Beethoven's "Choral" Symphony.It has been widely touted that the characters of EVANGELION are some of the most complex, socially washed out beings ever committed to Anime. On one level, it provides for some intriguing interactions, from Shinji's estranged relationships with both his father and the bitchy Asuka to Misato's own fractured love affair with her off again on again beau, Kaji. The character development becomes gradually less intriguing, however, as each episode exorcises the same angst-ridden issues over and over again, with little to no resolution. In the surprisingly grim and violent latter half of the series, the characters all head into a downward spiral. At the same time, EVANGELION starts to become less intriguing (if sometimes confusing) and turns messy, almost to the point of being totally incomprehensible. Questions that viewers are likely to have about the plot are never answered, and some later episodes have scenes in which absolutely nothing happens that last too long.Another problem with EVANGELION is its ending or rather, lack thereof. While Gainax's previous TV show, NADIA, took a wrong turn at the midpoint, it did get recover for its last episodes and delivered a strong, if too short conclusion. Here, however, the story simply falls apart. The final two episodes, which are very much played out like extensive therapy sessions, eschew both action and coherency in favor of deconstructing the protagonists' minds. In doing so, it makes the mistake of underwhelming the audience. There are some interesting artistic styles, like Shinji being drawn as a sketch in deep space, but even this potentially experimental approach is compromised by the lack of a structure for a compelling conclusion.In spite of its faults, NEON GENESIS EVANGELION is still worth watching for many reasons. Its impressively directed action sequences, intriguing mysteries, and in-depth character studies have been seldom matched in others of its kind.The English dub, provided by Industrial Smoke & Mirrors in the mid '90s, like the show, tends to receive polarized reaction. The dub follows the script fairly well, and the acting is mostly emotionally sound (if at times too melodramatic). On the flipside, it is somewhat disappointing that the young protagonists don't sound like children--especially after ADV's dub for NADIA impressed me with their use of actual child actors. Fortunately, the whole dub is carried by Alison Keith's terrific turn as Misato--she brings a lot of sassiness and instant likability to the character. Her performance *sells* the dub as a whole even when the script becomes confusing in places.NEON GENESIS EVANGELION will certainly not win over converts beyond a certain age -- as mentioned, its complicated and sometimes too angst-ridden plot is more likely to appeal to adolescents. As an ambitious and daring exercise in bringing Anime to wider audiences, however, its remarkable in how it achieved that goal.
Neon Genesis Evangelion is, without a doubt, the most popular anime of all time. People can't go two sentences without praising how profound and impacting it is, how deep and well thought out it is, how painfully realistic the characters are and what a religious experience it was for them... ... ... Shut up! Please! I can clearly see why this anime is popular, but that doesn't make the reason any less stupid. Now don't get me wrong, I like this anime. Really, I do. But it's so overrated the ''Matrix''-trilogy fails in comparison. And that says a lot.This anime is not ''profound'', ''intelligent'', ''deep'' or any other word of praise ever given to it. Nor is it realistic. The characters were all two-dimensional and oftentimes annoying, not to mention boring. The plot is supposed to be intelligent, but is nothing more than a bunch of incomprehensible blabber. The animation is nothing special, the music is mediocre and the ending is simply not fulfilling.Then why is it so popular? Simple... This anime might not be deep or profound or anything, nor are the characters realistic... But the creators did a damn good job making it SEEM like it is. Simply by creating an anime almost opposite of what you've seen before. You can't deny Evangelion's plot and characters were completely different as anything seen in most anime, at that time. Therefore people immediately embraced it as ''realistic'', because of the simple fact that most of these other anime weren't, and this one had to be. The creators pull it further by throwing in countless of pointless religious references and cliched psycho-babble, and it was immediately dubbed brilliant.But none of these religious references mean anything, or stand for anything. None of these characters are realistic... Unless you call people suffering in the worst ways imaginable, with the exact same behaviour at all times, without the slightest sign of development nor change in speech or mood, realistic. I know I don't. I admit the characters are original, at least, but realistic or ''deep'', my ass.What does this psycho-babble mean? Nothing. It all sounds like phrases taken from one of Freud's textbooks and randomly scattered throughout the series, once again seemingly meaning something, while it doesn't even serve a purpose. (Despite reminding us once again how unrealistic these characters are)Quite frankly, there's nothing deep, profound, intelligent or realistic about Evangelion. When it comes down to it, it's a gigantic show of vagueness. Then why do I like it? I love vague stuff. I really enjoy watching EVA and then trying to fill in the pieces for myself. I like it gives me something to think about. But it's so horribly overrated it's annoying to hear people praise it again, in the exact same way as everyone else does, with the exact same tone and words. This almost ruins it for me.Guys... Get a grip, please. It doesn't interest me anymore to hear how ''deep'' you thought this series, because it's quite clear to me now that it isn't. Stop praising this series in the same, bland way, over and over again. We got the picture. You were fooled by the creators to believe something that wasn't there. Along with all the other thousands. It means nothing.


                
Okay, this anime was very weird.... I saw it and got hooked to it and basically, it has this boring character who cries like a wimp sometimes and he's the protagonist. I like Asuka better she was very entertaining with her boisterous attitude and very funny and pretty, too. Sometimes she did get annoying like how she whined when he didn't hug her or something while she was kissing and her outgoingness. But I think it would've been better if Asuka came on earlier, I skipped to that episode where she first came on so I won't get bored.There is a lot of nudity in it and language and I just didn't like it very much.Well, the characters did grow and change a bit, they got a little better but still pretty mediocre. They all had deep pasts. The earlier episodes were silly like generic anime.I watched the mediocre English dub and I don't know if this is true but I thought that the characters weren't distinct and Asuka's voice was very whiny, her emotions were a little off probably. Though, it was good.I don't consider this anime one of the best ones. About all of the characters in there were disappointingly flawed and the last few episodes were the worst.
Well the series was so amazing as I was watching it. The psychological trauma it portrayed as well as the emotion it held with the characters and the excellent voice acting and just crazily mysterious plot was so good! It almost overthrew my current favourite series!But then it got to episode 24. I mean, it was getting a little bit shabby throughout 21-24 anyway, but then 24 was just absolutely out-of- the-blue pointless... Kaworu just appears out of nowhere, is amazing at piloting the Eva and Shinji falls in love with him because he talks a lot and gets in a bath with him. It's such a rush and there's literally no point to it. But then suddenly he's an angel and he starts destroying everything and acting like it's all so deep. I understand that they referenced many things to do with the Bible, but just dropping things from another story doesn't make yours amazing. Especially since Ep 24 was such a shambles that it just didn't follow up to what I was actually watching previously: Neon Genesis Evangelion. Throughout the series I had been posed with so many mysteries that I was so keen to discover the meanings of but so many things were just cut off after Ep 24 ended. Then Ep 25 and 26 were just Shinji screaming at himself over and over in his head and other people talking complete nonsense in his head. I mean, I know you have psychological trauma, and some people may actually experience such in their head, but no viewer wants to watch 40 minutes of looped trauma. That's literally what it is. Then Shinji tells himself he can live as himself and suddenly all the darkness goes and everyone - EVEN HIS DEAD MUM - is standing around clapping for him, almost as if it was all some dream or test?Then it ends. I was so disappointed. So many things had to been answered. So much potential was just thrown in the bin. I hear that NGE ran out their budget coming to the end of the series and so it was rushed and turned out crappy, but that doesn't excuse the fact that it was actually crappy. I'm just fresh from finishing the series and so my disappointment makes it seem like it was so terrible, and i give a rating of 7 out of 10 stars because of that cancerous ending. However, the series was truly amazing. But I think for the sake of the viewer, they should watch up until the point where Rei dies from the N2 bomb explosion, turn off the series and just imagine that humanity failed and the bad guys won.HOWEVER: there is hope. 2 years later, The End of Evangelion aired, two 45 minute episodes to replace the horrendous ending of the original series. It takes place after Ep 24, and I haven't seen it yet, so I'm looking forward to it so much but I'm also a little bit scared after such a terrible ending but oh well. It's NGE's last hope to redeem itself in my eyes.
Neon Genesis Evangelion is a coming of age, sci-fi, psychological drama. There is absolutely no parts of this anime that are bad, except the steady decrease of animation quality over the course of the anime. The best parts of this anime are the story and characters. The story is believable, original and engaging- the names of the Angels are based of mythology (I'm pretty sure?) which is extremely clever and adds to the shows dark mood. While the premise is simple enough, the story is highly character based. It's the characters that spice it up.Shinji, Asuka, Misato and Rei Ayanami seem at first stereotypical bimbos, but have an incredible amount of back-story and depth to them. All of them are memorable and original. In a way their complicated psychology seems like something out of an Alfred Hitchcock film (forgive the comparison). The setting makes the story interesting- it gives it an eerie feel.The artwork is fantastic and the animation can be better at points (the amount the characters move around) but otherwise satisfactory (colors are great). 6/10 My only complaint would have to be the background music. If they improved the soundtrack it would have brought a lot more to the scenes. Otherwise the opening and endings are awesome! Oh, and the scripts are tight, and almost every scene adds something to the story, so that's a thumbs up!


                
