Moralising narratives are at the heart of many "outsider" biopics as a means of exposing the flawed logic of a "civilized" yet inherently inhumane society. This approach is exemplified to the extreme in David Lynch's The Elephant Man. The famous biography of John Merrick is presented as a horror film in which the viewer is repeatedly subjected to scenes of violence against a helpless and cripplingly deformed man. Historical documentation reveals that Merrick indeed suffered a great many injustices but testament to his survival is his industriousness and independence, qualities not explored in the film. The intelligent and gentle nature of Merrick is emphasized not to explicate his strength of character but rather to expose the stupidity and brutality of his tormentors. Fictionalized abuses such as a kidnapping, a violent manager, and a psychopathic night-guard supplement an already grotesque vision of 19th century England as an era of absolute inhumanity. The industrial nightmare which is the basis of Lynch's earlier experimental film Eraserhead is recycled and juxtaposed with the world of etiquette and bourgeois finery of the self-righteous Victorian upper classes. The system of capitalism is exposed for its inability to acknowledge the worth of human life outside of productive capacity. Those without labour power are dehumanized and stripped of all dignity in order to survive, fuelling the prevalence of prostitution, child exploitation, and freak shows. The treatment of John Merrick in The Elephant Man is yet another exploitation of sorts as it reduces an extraordinary life to a moral tale. When Dr. Treves says, "Mr.Bytes, I'm sorry but all you do is profit from another man's misery", one has to wonder at the hypocrisy of a film which replicates the spectacle of the freak show and exaggerates victimization in order to drive home an unsubtle misanthropic narrative.


                
I come to write this review because on having read one or two others that have been put up, both by the lay-people as you and I and by the 'professionals' such as Ebert (a man whose reviews are consistently poor!); I believe that a serious disservice has been done. Both by those who have praised the film and by those who have condemned it.The film appears to have been assessed almost unanimously on its portrayal of Merrick and its message regarding his strength of character. I however feel that the more nuanced and more praiseworthy element of the feature is how it addresses the ethics of exploitation. A theme which is opened within the first ten minutes of the film with Treves mention of how terrible are these new machines. These machines being the steam powered machines of the workhouses and factories. That means of capitalist exploitation from which England was birthed and that exploitation which was practised by every strata of society.What I took the film to be is a very subtle exploration of who might be in a position to call the other morally reprehensible, who it is that might condemn the actions of others. In just the same way as Treves asks who might be more of a monster; Merrick or his 'owner' (or rather in the film Trevers actually charges Merrick's owner of being a monster, but his character this moral question of the audience). As for the opening scene of the movie at which Ebert takes such offence; besides David Lynch simply being David Lynch (and we might all be thankful that he is), the opening scene might readily be interpreted as Lynch having us imagine all by ourselves that the woman was raped by an Elephant. It is never made explicit that this is what happens and in fact, when Merrick is first being introduced as The Elephant Man his back-story is given as being the result of an elephant trampling his mother whilst in her fourth month of pregnancy.Who is perverse here, Lynch or us? Who is the exploiter here, Treves, the 'owner', society - us?As for the sermon which Lynch is giving on Merrick I don't believe that it is quite so patronising as Ebert suggests. In the final scene it is quite clear that Merrick is choosing to sleep in a way that will end his life (as explained earlier in the film). And again there is a subtlety about this. Is suicide an escape from something unbearable (is it weakness?), or is it the fruition of Merrick's realisation that he is a man - for he is choosing to sleep as 'normal people' do.With that said the film can certainly be taken on a(n extremely) sentimental level. But this is surely only something that we should Praise Lynch for. He has succeeded in making a film on many levels. One that your mother can watch and merely gloss the surface of, or, that you can analyse and discover something deeper. Moreover he has also facilitated some brilliant performances and crafted a brilliant aesthetic.He's also thrown in a few wonderfully 'Lynch' elements such as the scene with Elephant and Merrick's rescue by the 'freaks' of the circus from a baboon cage.So go and watch the film. It will not be the greatest film you ever see, but it will certainly be one of the better ones and it will test your subtlety of appreciation.
"The Elephant Man" has its faults(historical inaccuracies, at times overly sentimental), but it is one of those films where the good things manage to outweigh the bad . The excellent acting(esp. by John Hurt in the title role), inventive cinematography and an emotionally involving story would be the good things. Indeed, there were moments during the film when I was nearly moved to tears; the vision it presents is of a gentle, intelligent man who is ostracized and abused because of his appearance, and his struggle for dignity had me mesmerized. "The Elephant Man" may have flaws, but it is never the less a troubling, moving film that shows how hideous humanity can be--and how beautiful.


                
Great performances by Hopkins, Gielgud and Hurt. Also look out for small roles from some famous British faces, including a young Pauline Quirke!Beautifully shot and a heart rendering tale that thankfully doesn't get too soppy or sentimental. A lot can be taken from the film about the way we treat people in general, not just the Elephant Man.I wonder if anyone else saw a clear link between Merrick making a model of a cathedral and the story of Quasimodo in Hugo's The Hunchback of Notre Dame? Was this intentional by Lynch or just a happy coincidence. Worth thinking about!


                
In 1980, Playboy Playmate Dorothy Stratten was killed by Paul Snider, a Canadian pimp. Snider tortured and disfigured Dorothy's body, before shooting her in the face with a shotgun. Prior to her death, film director Peter Bogdanovich had planned to marry Stratten. As a tribute to his dead lover he published "The Killing of the Unicorn", a book in which he holds not just Snider responsible for Dorothy's death, but the entire Playboy empire, and states that, far from a dopey sex object, Dorothy was an intelligent and scholarly woman who had a fondness for the biography of John Merrick, otherwise known as The Elephant Man.Bogdanovich believed that Dorothy identified with Merrick precisely because they were both judged primarily on externals: Dorothy as a one dimensional sex object, Merrick as a hideous beast. Both their inner selves were buried beneath society's perceptions of their physicality.It is this event which lead to Bogdanovich directing "Mask", a film about a boy called Rocky Dennis. Rocky suffered from a sclerotic bone disorder, an ailment which caused severe deformations of his skull. Like David Lynch's "The Elephant Man", Bogdanovich's film thus attempts to portray the inner beauty of a character who is hideous on the outside.But what makes "Mask" important is that Bogdanovich has inserted into his film all the historical episodes that were missing from Lynch's. Merrick's desire to visit a home for the blind, a real-life subplot missing from "The Elephant Man", is turned into Rocky's budding sexuality and romance with a blind girl. Lynch's omittance of Merrick's father (a man who abandoned Merrick due to the ordeal of raising such an ill boy), becomes the caring but often absent father of "Mask". Similarly, while the "outcasts" of Elephant Man were all nasty circus owners and ridiculously caricatural thugs, Bogdanovich surrounds Rocky with gangs of bikers and drug users who, because they are outcasts themselves, are able to identify, empathise and care for Rocky.The result is that, through these reversals, Rocky Dennis slowly emerges as a believable three-dimensional character, whilst Lynch's John Merrick never develops beyond a superficial object designed to illicit our pity. Scene after scene, like Jesus in Mel Gibson's "The Passion of The Christ", we watch as Merrick is abused by cartoonish villains who exist solely to beat him up. Such bullying is the cheapest way to garner pity.Taunted by crowds at a train station, abused by his circus owner, and constantly harassed by a lecherous mob of ugly lower class rascals, "The Elephant Man" amounts to nothing more than one of those slick advertisements by UNICEF or PETA. Look at these starving Somalian children, why not donate a dollar? Look at those abused and abandoned pets, why not offer your support? Look at John Merrick being beaten, why not shed a tear? While Rocky goes out into the world every day, struggling to survive, Merrick is an entirely passive character, hidden in a hospital room. While Rocky uses wit, humour and perseverance to overcome his handicaps, Merrick seems to magically acquire his intellectual and artistic abilities from nowhere. In short, Rocky actively schemes to obtain a life whilst Merrick is entirely passive, always accepting gifts and donations from others. Rocky is a fighter, Merrick is a charity case who just wants to be tolerated for who he is.But the true connection between all men is one of empathy born of mutual suffering, rather than a compassion born of freedom from the virtual hold of an absolute Other. Why then are so many problems perceived as problems of intolerance and not as problems of inequality, exploitation and injustice? Why is the proposed remedy always tolerance and sympathy, rather than emancipation, political struggle, even armed struggle? Tolerance, by definition, builds walls between people. The act of tolerating is itself an act of admittance that there is some difference, some wrongness, present, which is why modern life is increasingly compartmentalised. In contrast, compassion borne of mutual struggle is an act of deep connection. Of tearing down walls.Actual universality is not the feeling that, above all differences, different people share the same basic values, rather, actual universality appears as the experience of negativity, of the inadequacy of a particular identity. A better formula would thus be: in spite of our differences, we can identify the basic antagonism or antagonistic struggle in which we are both caught, so let us share our intolerance and join forces in the same struggle.By removing the personal struggle, Lynch has turned Merrick into a unicorn: a beautiful myth. Lynch overstates Merrick's inner beauty, treating him as a metaphysical object (he memorises the Bible, builds model cathedrals, is polite, well spoken and absorbed into heaven when he dies), refusing to show how he thinks, how he copes, what motivates him or why he behaves the way he does. Merrick is a one-dimensional character, almost like Jesus, floating through the film, absorbing the sins of all the nasty humans and then dying. The real "Elephant Man" committed suicide. Why reduce all these interesting existential struggles down to run ins with gangs of ugly thugs? The differences between "Mask" and "Man" can best be seen in how the "caretakers" are treated in each film. Rocky is cared for by his mother, a woman who is viewed as a slut, druggie and whore by both family and society, but who is revealed to be beautiful through her struggles. In contrast, see how Lynch has Hopkins identify with the gangs and circus owners who prey on Merrick; one film mythologizes, the other demythologises.7.5/10 - Pure sentimentalism. Despite its beautiful cinematography "The Elephant Man" is a predictable film which telegraphs its intentions, emotions and plot at every turn. It's a middlebrow "it's what's inside that counts" message movie with nothing narrative-wise to separate it from similar fare like "The Mighty" or "Simon Birch". Watch "The Wild Child" or Bogdanovich's "Mask" instead.
Filmmaker David Lynch sees the beauty in misfits, whether it be a disfigured saint such as David Merrick in "The Elephant Man" or the bizarre carny folk who make up the traveling sideshows, though he shows no interest in plucking our heart-strings over them, or in being emotionally prodding. While this is often a big plus, Lynch's non-sentimental take on Merrick's story keeps the movie grounded when it should soar. True story of a horribly disfigured British man at the turn of the century who is rescued from a freak show by a sympathetic doctor is layered with a dreamy atmosphere but also anchored by serious, intelligent performances by John Hurt as Merrick and Anthony Hopkins. However, once Merrick is brought out into a curious high society, one feels that the director's dramatic resources have been tapped out, and the last act plays like an afterthought. Certainly this is a fine piece of cinema, adapted by Lynch and others from two books on Merrick; it is graceful and deliberately downbeat (appropriately so), though its technical finesse ultimately presses out the emotion. *** from ****


                
I am 15 years of age and have studied the 'Elephant Man' in drama as a GCSE subject. I was compelled, yet disgusted with myself because I stare at people with abnormalities even though I know it is wrong of me to do so.I fell that this film teaches they are people as well.I hope agree with because they have human rights as wellthe world has become a very spiteful place to live for ordinary people I can not even begin the daily struggle for people with disabilities BUT REMEMBER DISABILITIES OPEN DOORS TO ENHANING OTHER SENSES always take note of the three wise monkeys.If you would care to comment on my comment please e-mail at peeps69@hotmail.co.uk and thank you for reading my views on the film 'The Elephant Man'
I loved the cinematography of this film, the lighting and the stark, crisp black and white image seemed apt for the environment; the dark cold streets of the 1880's East End, streets filled with the unfortunate, the dirty, the poor. In fact, Jack the Ripper was plying his trade at the same time John Merrick was being subjected to horrified stares from folk as the Elephant Man. the cinematography by Freddie Francis was truly the hero of the film for me.The acting as well, was of a very high caliber. of course with acting royalty on screen, your always going to get great performances. Gielgud, Hopkins, Hurt, and Bancroft all give wonderful performances. Gielgud, so measured and precise in his delivery of every syllable, Hopkins too, reflect the upper class doctor of the time. Bancroft, is just luminescent in her genuine desire to accept john as her friend. Hurt is very good as well, many may argue but i feel this is not his greatest acting role by any means though. he stammers platitudes "ohhh, that is wonderful, beautiful, lovely" etc etc. it is a very one dimensional performance. the grotesque makeup masks this lack of diversity in his acting to a great extent i feel.The emotional simplicity of the film is its major downfall in my opinion. it feels as emotionally manipulative as a Disney film at times, with its very black and white depiction of Merricks existence. he is treated as animal, then he is treated as an honored guest, everybody treating him as a child almost in their fawning over him. every new experience is met with Merrick's stammered breathless replies "oh how wonderful, how lovely, how beautiful". there are about 10 scenes with this scenario. Merrick getting a standing ovation by the crowd of upper crust theatre-goers, whilst he sheds a tear (for what reason, for the simple fact he is deformed?) is about as emotionally manipulative as it gets. i can say i was moved, but i felt manipulated afterwards by this feel-good moment.this does put a damper on what is otherwise an exquisitely crafted film. visuals and performances are wonderful, but the actual story and its simplistic portrayal of Merrick's emotional state mean its not a film i will be re-watching many times in the future. a very good film, but with its faults not a great one in my opinion. 7/10.
The movie tells the tragic story of Joseph (John) Merrick who lived in Victorian England. As a biopic, it is focused on the relation between Merrick and Dr. Frederic Treves who saves him from freak shows and arranges a permanent room in London hospital where Merrick spends rest of his life. Except some deviations which probably don't affect the main theme, the movie in general sticks to the historical facts. Anthony Hopkins displays a superb performance as Dr. Treves who finds himself in a moral dilemma: his humane approach to help Merrick from the cruelties of outside world is counterbalanced by his scientific curiosity which drives him to study Merrick's abnormal physical condition and exhibit him in conferences reminiscent of despicable freak shows. In comparison to the pictures of actual J. Merrick of his time, the makeup artist does a phenomenal job on John Hurt to recreate Merrick's disfigured appearance. The fact that all this happens in a pre-CGI era further adds to the value of the work. Finally, John Hurt delivers a top notch performance in a difficult acting job where he successfully plays Merrick's physical impediments along with his mental and psychological state. On the negative side, the pace of the movie is a bit slow and the narrative is quite depressing which is deliberately aided by the black and white shooting of the movie. Merrick's physical condition and the resulting mental burden on himself get us all moving but can't carry the movie for 2 hrs alone. The surrounding stories involving his abuse by his "manager" and others, the curiosity he evokes in London high society lack in human drama and tension. The subplots of these stories are bland and too weak to pick up the crawling tempo. Finally, the movie is very categorical in displaying the attitude of people towards Merrick. Overall, we are exposed to three types of people of the time: those living underground and suffer silently due to their freakish appearance sympathize with him; the general public react very cruelly on streets and pubs towards Merrick; the concert going, educated, higher class elites on the other hand are benevolent and behave more accommodating.


                
The movie "The Elephant Man" is one of David Lynch's first experiences and one of his classic works. This is a form of admiration. Fine, fancy and thoughtful framing.The film process is slow, but the slowdown is accurate and accurate.The actors have all come out well and everything is in place. The content of the screenplay is also very nice. He speaks of isolation that exists in all people. An elephant man in all of us humans.


                
A pleasant film lifted to new heights by the exceptional performance of John Hurt and the beautifully crafted make-up of Christopher Tucker. One should watch it simply for those two aspects alone. Hopkins puts in an average performance as his character feels far two dimensional even with the depth they try to give him. Lynch does Lynch things when it is unneeded, though at the time they would have looked avant-garde today they are Lynch things meaning someone who tries to be different but ultimately keeps doing the same thing. Thankfully he did not do too many of them and the movie keeps a steady grasp on reality. The script seems a little heavy handed in its sentimentality, it also feels like it was punched up so that the audience does not "get bored" which ultimately leaves a piece meant to discuss the nature of humanity but a brief glimpse at the strength of the human spirit.


                
This movie touches upon many issues discussed in Academia by Michel Foucault, and I highly doubt it was coincidental. The Elephant Man is a character that could only come from the Victorian era and the rich duality that comes with it. The double personality of John Merrich, who goes from a gentle and refined man in the day to a poor beast that can only scream in the night, reflects the tension and evolutions of the power relations of that time. The oppressed goes from being a silent subject suffering from a brutal circus to being part of a much more subtle, scientific and bourgeois circus. Power structures are sharpened, but this comes together with an improvement of the objective welfare of the subject, who is now eternally grateful for this new form of control.David Lynch is a very clever guy, and he manages to really convey the feeling of the time, with the use of sounds, black and white, and dialogs. You feel the sadness of the Elephant Man, you share it. What does it say of us that we are so interested in these Victorian characters, that we can relate so much to somebody like the Elephant Man?


                
"The Elephant Man" is certainly an above average biographic movie about Joseph "John" Merrick, better known as the elephant man. The movie takes lots of liberties and of course over-dramatizes at times. I never have anything against altering a true story, as long as the movie and its storytelling benefits from it. In this case however, the truth was better than the fiction of this movie.As a movie it is well constructed and it's atmospheric. The black & white cinematography makes this movie feel like a 'horror-monster' movie from the '30's and early '40's, like for instance "Frankenstein". Through its style it makes us realize and aware of it, that we look same upon John Merrick, as we do on the Frankenstein creature. We're disgust and frightened. At first sight we don't bother and fail to really see the wonderful personality and qualities of the person. In a way it makes us more monsters than Joseph Merrick ever was.It's especially the cinematography and way of storytelling that contributes to the movie its style and quality. Director of photography Freddie Francis is a well known name in the horror business so his style and experience is notable and adds to the good of the atmosphere. If you really didn't knew any better you would really think that the movie was made in the '30's or '40's of the last century. Also the sets and costumes and of course make-up, add to the 'feeling' of the movie.But now the negative aspects of the movie. Main problem for me was that I didn't really got emotionally involved with the movie and its characters. The explanation for this is however simple I think. I personally was already quite familiar with the true story of Joseph Merrick, his life and his condition. So nothing in the movie came as a real surprise to me and I already knew how it would end and most of what happened in between. Still I felt that the character lacked real depth and were perhaps even a bit underdeveloped. For instance we never really get to fully understand what drove Dr. Frederick Treves, or what went on in John Merrick's head (especially in the beginning of the movie.).The movie truly could had been a more powerful one if it had sticked more closely to the truth. For instance the interesting aspect of Merrick being a suspect in the Jack the Ripper case was left entirely out of the movie. If they had put it in the movie it would had been more and better shown how the general public, in that time period, thought and felt about Merrick. It really is a movie filled with some missed opportunities and that is the reason for me why I regard this movie not as a perfect or emotional one. But I'm convinced of it that persons without too much knowledge about the story and appearance of Merrick will find this movie a satisfying and emotional moving one. In that case I would advice you to just ignore this comment and simply go and watch this movie for yourself, because it almost most certainly will be worth your time.It's a good looking, well acted and nicely constructed movie but honestly, if you want to learn about Joseph Merrick's life and condition I still recommend you watch a good documentary about him instead.7/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
In the film, it appears that Treves has to walk a long way to see Joseph for the first time. In the film, Treves leaves the Hospital and appears to walk for ever. This is incorrect. The dark, damp and filthy abandoned premises where Joseph was displayed, was on the opposite side of the road from the hospital. The building is still there. The Whitechapel area hasn't changed much at all during these hundred years or so.Gas lamps have been replaced with electric ones, horse-drawn trams have been replaced by the London Red Bus, but it doesn't take much imagination to see the place as it used to be.... dark.......dangerous......and e-x-t-r-e-m-e-l-y mysterious. If you listen carefully you are able to make out the sound of hooves on the cobble stones. (Some Whitechapel back streets and allies still have them).The nurses who attended Joseph were very frightened at first. In the film, a nurse runs screaming from Joseph's room in the attic. This is absolutely true., the nurse wasn't prepared for what she saw. and she did scream very loudly. After not too long though, people came to love and respect Joseph.Joseph's cap has survived. The author of this site has seen it close up - it's very daunting. The circumferance of Joseph's head was 3ft and the curtain at the front of the cap was intended to hide his face. He was often tormented by children and adults alike, who attempted to lift up the curtain and peek inside.This is the part of the film where Joseph is on his way back home from Ostende (Belgium). Freak shows had become increasingly unpopular in the UK towards the latter part of the 19th century, and so Joseph was forced to make a living elsewhere. Hence, he went to the continent. His companion (and owner) the Showman, who incidentally didn't mal treat him as the film depicts, ended by robbing Joseph of his life savings. Stranded in Belgium and with no money, Joseph had to rely on the charity of the skipper of the cross-channel ferry.


                
The subject of the Elephant Man has always been something that has interested me, and spotting the Elephant Man on TV recently I decided to record it. Physical deformities aside, I knew very little about John Merrick and thought it would enlighten me and help me to understand more about him. Whilst I learnt a lot about John Merrick, I couldn't help being a little disappointed by the film. Before I go into the minor negatives of the film, I will talk through the positive aspects of 'The Elephant Man'First and foremost is the acting and John Hurt (who is unrecognisable) as The Elephant was exceptional. Although he didn't speak for pretty much the first half of the film, we feel his pain at the beginning and start to warm towards The Elephant Man later in the film when we discover an articulate and gentle 'human being' and this is a testament to Hurt's acting as he makes us 'feel for' and 'relate' to the 'Elephant Man' and also feel sympathy for him. Anthony Hopkins also puts in a good performance - although it is far from his best performance in my opinion (I felt he was much better in Silence of the Lambs and more recently in Fracture). Michael Elphick also stars in a supporting role as a night porter who taunts Merrick and ends up humiliating him by charging people to see 'The Elephant Man'. Freddie Jones also stars as the evil 'Bytes' who parades Merrick around as a freak taking him on circus tours and profiting from Merrick's misery.The other impressive aspect is the story itself which is both heart wrenching (particularly in the beginning) where everyone shuns Merrick deeming him 'a freak' and an imbecile - even Frederick Treves (Anthony Hopkins) initially calls him an 'imbecile' to the uplifting - Merrick eventually wins people over when they come to realise that he is an articulate, gentle man (although he is ugly on the outside he is pure and wholesome on the inside) and has been treated with intolerable cruelty.All of the above aspects made this film great, but there are a few aspects of the film that I didn't like i.e the implausibilities in the story - like how Merrick's room isn't guarded at the hospital making it easy for Bytes to kidnap Merrick (which also allowed the Night Porter to allow all his 'friends' to see the Elephant Man and taunt and mock him after taking money from them for the privilege of seeing him. Aside from the above gripes this is still an excellent film and if you look beyond the minor flaws you've got yourself a beautiful story with some wonderful acting and a central character who you'll really end up warming to.
I love The Elephant Man.Because The Elephant Man is sad and his story is wonderful.My favorite character is Dr.Treves.Because he is very helpful.He helped to John Merrick.Merrick's left hand is beautiful and like o woman's hand but his right hand is ugly and bad. In my opinion it was realist but some parts was absurd.In example his kind of die wad absurd.I did not like that part.I was reading to story. I didn't like this part.In contrast, The Queen's visited him.I think it was nice and kindly.Everyone understood.he was good and friendly.The Elephant Man died at the end of the story. I think it was so bad and this emotion is so sadly.The shopkeeper is very nasty.Because he earned money through to Merrick.Nice story, but it could have been nicer.
"The Elephant Man", rather than being all around great, is actually a mixture of good and bad. The good is that  , well, first of all, the cinematography is nothing less than amazing, feeling like a series of cutting edge paintings. For example, all the dark passage ways utilized really do seem scary and mysterious, the extended shot of the pipework is art at its finest, and the dream sequences are some of the most disturbing ever committed to film. Otherwise, the film has all around excellent acting (Hopkins as Dr. Treves is especially memorable, presenting the character as a gentle but realistic hero with self conscious doubts about his own virtues) and no punches are pulled in presenting the deformed main character being abused or making others feel uneasy. Indeed, in most of the scenes where Merrick tries to interact with people in a normal way, you can just sense how awkward the "normal" characters feel in spite of trying to act like his deformity does not matter. And when he gets bullied, he REALLY gets bullied (you´ll probably cheer when Dr.  Treves gives the abusive hospital worker a serious a-kicking in return). Otherwise, though, the problem with the movie is that Merrick is not really a well fleshed out character (no pun intended). The basic recipe for him is "take a deformed person and make him stereotypically innocent and slightly socially retarded to show how isolated he was". John Hurt conveys this quality well under a heavy makeup job but that´s pretty much the beginning and end of the character. Also, David Lynch, being David Lynch, usually focuses on getting the most violent shock value, absurdity, surrealist weirdness, or odd awkwardness out of most scenes. Plus, 1940s style melodrama and "Eraserhead" style surrealism, as good as they are on their own terms, are uncomfortably combined here. Hence, it sometimes even feels as if Lynch is making fun of the screenplay. All in all, though, it´s worth a look if you want to see something different.


                
This was on my watch list for long time and last weekend finally got the time to see this heart touching story.Movie tells us the story of heavily disfigured man & his sufferings and how one man struggle to rescue this person and make a name for himself. But still few questions are left unanswered at the end of the story.Screenplay is crisp and movie moves swiftly. There are few loopholes in the story and few character are not clearly defined e.g. Mr. Treves motive to save elephant man is not clearly defined.Anthony Hopkins is good in surgeon role. In spite of heavy makeup John has delivered an excellent performance and his body language reflects his emotion. Watch the scene between him and the crowd on railway platform.Overall a good watch and worth your time.


                
