Man, this is a powerful and great movie. We are all moved different degrees by different things, but to witness sincerely nice people being treated cruelly always bothers me big- time....so this film is tough to watch in spots. Some scenes are just painful and depressing to view. Whatever your sensitivity, the movie is very involving and hauntingly shown with eerie black-and-white photography. Eerie, and downright beautiful camera-work in here, so kudos to cinematographer Freddie Francis, one of the best in the business.A young Anthony Hopkins is very likable and John Hurt is, well, someone you won't soon forget as John Merrick, "The Elephant Man."This is an uplifting movie at times, too, not just a tear-jerker or horrific in showing man's cruelty to man. Be prepared for an emotional experience and an amazing story.


                
In memory of Joseph Carey Merrick (5 August 1862 – 11 April 1890).The movie is Joseph Merrick's story who became known as The Elephant Man. This is one of the saddest movies I have ever seen and yet it is so good. My heart goes out to Merrick - he had to endure so much in his life.The Elephant Man is filmed in black and white - which is perfect for the film. The black and white gives the viewer a feeling of being a much older film than it actually is. It also has a feeling of being a classic horror movie - which works perfectly for the story because Joseph Merrick's condition is horrifying yet his story is so beautiful, touching and sad.A great film.9/10


                
I haven't read or heard anything about the story of Joseph Carey Merrick, aka John Merrick, aka The Elephant Man before seeing this movie, so I can't say if it's accurate or not. However, from everything I've heard, it seems to be as close to the original story as it can get. I hadn't seen any other films by David Lynch when I sat down to watch this, so I was quite excited to see if it really lived up to all the hype surrounding it. It does. The film is excellent and nearly perfect. However, there are small imperfections that pull it just below a perfect rating, but it's very close. The plot is very good, and the way we learn of The Elephant Man is great. The way Lynch builds up suspense for the first few minutes, luring us with the promise of seeing something bizarre. When that promise is not kept, we are only more interested in seeing this, this creature that they speak of. But Lynch drags this even further... in fact, we don't get a good look at The Elephant Man for the first half hour... and even then, it's just in a flash. From there, we slowly see more and more of him, but somehow we never manage to truly get used to him. This is brilliant directing from one of the best directors out there, because obviously he would lose effect should we ever actually get used to his looks. The acting is great. I don't think I found one single character to be poorly performed. However, those that stand out the most are definitely Anthony Hopkins and John Hurt. Hopkins is great as the doctor who is amazed at this new phenomenon and is instantly intrigued in the physique of this man. Hurt is astounding as John Merrick, The Elephant Man. He brings such an innocence and purity to his character that we can't help but feel sorry for this man, as he is treated horribly by the majority of those he meet or who see him. I didn't cry during this film, but it was more close than I thought possible. For a film that deals with such a delicate subject, it has no actual sap or sentimentality... only sadness. Pure sadness. Near the ending, there is a powerful scene that shows, in a non-preachy fashion, the point of the film; it is not his looks that make him an animal, if he ever was one... it was the reactions of other men. The ending is beautiful. No other way to put it. Simply beautiful. As for those small imperfections I mentioned... I can't quite put my finger on what it is, specifically, but it just seems like something was missing... maybe I just felt that the film was too sad, maybe it was that the few attempts at lightening the mood fell flat and seemed out of place... maybe I just wasn't prepared for this moving experience. I don't know. I am honestly not sure. But while I found this movie to be great, excellent even, I have to say that there are better films. Not far better, no... but slightly better. There are films where all of the elements come together more perfectly and create a better movie overall. This one is worth watching, though, and should be seen by anyone who feels they would benefit from it on a personal or emotional level. It's a masterpiece. I recommend this movie to anyone mature enough to understand it. Yes. There is no 'definite' group of people that will get more out of this film than any other... except those that are intelligent and mature enough to understand and appreciate it. If you are one of those, and you have not yet seen this movie, go out and get it. You won't regret it. 9/10


                
The Elephant Man is truly a moving story that is earnest and throughout the film, it makes the point that humans are not animals, no matter the dysfunctions or handicaps. In the case of John Merrick, he is revolting to look at because of an terrible accident, but he makes clear to all the people wanting to use him or gape at him, he is a human just like the rest of them. No matter who you are, it will be impossible not to cry at some point. That's how emotionally-affecting this film is.Directed by David Lynch, this is one of his more conventional films, but the subject matter is still very intense. This film is about a surgeon at a London hospital named Frederick Treves who discovers a "freak" named John Merrick and he rescues Merrick from a freakshow, thus allowing Merrick to live at the hospital and have a life of his own.The acting is excellent. John Hurt delivers a stirring performance as Merrick. I was not able to recognize underneath all that makeup, but he delivers a tour de force performance. Anthony Hopkins also does a really good job as the first man to have truly shown Merrick kindness.Overall, The Elephant Man is a film that believe that all people should be treated equally, no matter what he or she looks like. From a technical standpoint, this film is excellent. I liked how it was filmed in black and white because it captures the essence of the Victorian era. A really emotional film and while it's really sad, there are glimmers of hope here shown by Merrick. This is very fine filmmaking. I rate this film 9/10.


                
Spoilers herein.Some films are effective because they competently push all the buttons. Some work because they effectively transport you an unfamiliar place. And some reveal some new way of folding your imagination. This film shifts among these three excellent qualities, depending who is making the decisions.Of these three, only the last really matters. Oh, a good empathetic cry is worthwhile, especially if I can congratulate myself on my understanding, charitable nature. But that's cheap. What really matters in this film are the few places where the producers let David Lynch do his thing. There are two:--The first is the sequence in France where Bytes has taken up with the freak show that seemingly is the original one visited by Treves. This sequence is clearly patterned on the amazing `Freaks,' elaborating and extending many of the images first invented there. Leading up to the escape by the edge of the water, which is the single image that permanently rests in mind and anchors this whole film. Lynch (and most other intelligent filmmakers) is obsessed with what it means to make a show. Except for the obvious (Trevers is much like Bytes but with clean sheets), there isn't much exploration of what society accepts as a `show' except for this and the next mentioned:--The freak show is mirrored by the other show Lynch is allowed to mess with, the play. This is also a show, but this time Merrick is a spectator. There are also wonders; also natural and societal forces at play; also an imprisoned ogre who presumably is shown to have a heart of gold. By 1980, it is already a hard rule that the abstraction `distance' between a film and the film or play within the film must be the same as between the film and `real' life. And so it is here.These two sequences of the freak show and the play, clearly siblings, are the two places Lynch has been allowed to be Lynch, and they are inventive, trenchant and lasting. But where Brooks and company constrained Lynch, we have a failure: all that stuff about clouds and smoke and boilers. I suppose (knowing his later work) that he was going for the industrialization as a Victorian template (mapped to the hospital's rigid rules: `we only help patients who can be cured'). Going for the `hey, that's me struggling against the machine of society,' and linking that machine to machine of show business. (The name : `Bytes' was designed to further that notion.) Constraining him thus certainly was a wise decision given the goals of the film, and the emphasis on the actors. But I dare say that it would have been a better, more important and visceral experience if there had been less mawkish sentimentality and more image; fewer gems of actors' effects and more cinematic structure.Lynch and Freddy Francis were to team up again for `The Straight Story' where it is all about what they couldn't do here.Elsewhere, I have come down pretty hard on Anthony Hopkins' acting style, which is mannered, lazy, and completely uninterested in the director's intent. That comes from being constantly celebrated. But here, we have none of that. He is focused, committed, new in the character's skin. It is not really fine acting, where the doctor's skin itself would be worn and mannered, but there is no room in this film for such stuff. All the actors have to be abstractly sharp, and they are (except the boss's wife, who is dreadful). And he is the sharpest.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4: Worth watching.
The Elephant Man is the only David Lynch film so far that I have seen that is completely straight-forward, and his only really heart-breaking film. The film is simple, but it is written and directed with the highest level of skill. The film is a very sad story of a man who was mistreated, and of course, such a film will be criticized as manipulative. I am not a big fan of 'sad' films that play with emotions. I prefer the dark, edgy mystery/crime films or thrillers that play with your head and not your heart, but I cannot deny that The Elephant Man is the best you can do without pushing me over the edge. It is honest, and that is a quality to be admired these days. Overall, I very much respect that Lynch made a film like this, because I know that this is not his personal preference of film to make, but he managed to make the best of a story like this, and it definitely strung a chord in both my head and my heart.


                
People who haven't seen this movie yet, but who are familiar with the work of David Lynch, might think that they know what to expect. But the man can surprise you. He does not only make movies like "Lost Highway" or "Mulholland Drive", which demand from the viewer that he or she remains focused from the very first second until the last, not for 100% but for 200%. The man is also an excellent story teller, as he proved with the movie "The Straight Story" and with this "The Elephant Man".This movie has been based upon the true story of John Merrick, a man who lived in Victorian England and who suffered from an awful disease which disfigured him completely. Not only was he physically in an awful state, because he was seen as an attraction and treated as an animal by several people, the man also had lost all self esteem. He doesn't even speak anymore and lets all the torture and abuse come over him. But than Dr. Frederick Treves hears about him and decides to pay the man a visit. At first he sees him as a medical curiosity, but as soon as he gets to know him better, he sees that John Merrick too is an ordinary human being with normal feelings...I don't think that I have to explain to you how original the story is. For as far as I know there has never been a movie that has talked about this Proteous Syndrome or shown someone who had it. And yes, at first you are shocked and disgusted by this strange person. But that shock is necessary, because from that moment on you are completely sucked into the movie and you start to feel one with the man. You're happy and sad when he is and as soon as you start to see the world through his eyes, you can only feel admiration for this brave man.But not only David Lynch did a wonderful job, although I want to add that his choice of filming this movie in black and white is absolutely brilliant (it gives you even more that feeling that this is a man from another era, a time in which such people couldn't be treated, but were seen as an attraction). Anthony Hopkins, John Hurt, Anne Bancroft and all the other actors, all did a wonderful job in this movie too. Without their excellent performances (and I really can't say who was the best or who was the least), this movie wouldn't have been the masterpiece that it is now. This movie doesn't deserve any less than a 9/10. But even when you give this movie the full 10/10. I can understand it without any problem. This is definitely a must-see.


                
David Lynch surprise a lot of us with the story of John Merrick (a great John Hurt), a Circus freak of the XIX century which has his face and body totally deformed, to the point that people frightens when they see him. He lives with his "owner", Bytes (Freddie Jones), a really mean man, who gets paid for showing him in a cage, in a vulgar and horrid spectacle. But one successful Doctor (Anthony Hopkins, sober and good as always) in London finds John in a Carnival and he wants to help him.At the beginning, the only thing he wants is to show the man (just like the other man used to do) in an anatomy class for doctors, but once he get to know John a little bit, he gets a room for him at the Hospital and he protect him from Bytes, from whom he had been stolen.At first, John seemed to be dumb and stupid, but after a while, we noticed that he wasn't any of those things: he can talk (he has some difficulties but he can) and he can also read (not a common skill at the time). But what really shocks Doctor Treeves and us is the fact that John is the most pure and gentle man we could ever imagine. He is incredibly kind and sensitive, and he feels that he had found a friend in the Doc.The fact is that John became very famous in the city just for being deformed and living at the Hospital, and with him became Doctor Treeves very popular.And here is one of the keys of the whole film: Dr. Treeves ask himself whether he's good or bad, because he understands that he made the same that Bytes, he won something by showing the monster.But what I think is the most important element is the fact that John could be the purest person in the world, gentle, kind and polite, but he is so extremely ugly, that people can't really love him. I know this could sound crazy in some way, but I beg you to be honest and ask yourself if you could. Remember this scene in which an old couple visit him in his isolated room: remember the expression in their faces... he can be the best man ever, but he's still a monster and we suffer every time we see him.So, we get to see that there are good people (like Merrick or Treeves or the other freaks from Circus), there are bad people (Bytes and some that I rather not mention) and there is also ugly people. But maybe we are some kind of a mix of all this...The plot is very good. The acting is good as well (it is really funny how a lot of us, including me, say that John Hurt performance is great, in spite he is wearing a mask and a lot of make up from the beginning to the end, and he has almost no expression in it!) and this is until now, the best movie i've seen made by David's Lynch peculiar brain.


                
This is a more or less true story, from what I understand. It is the sad story of a man named John Merrick who was horribly deformed by a disease. He spent a large part of his life as a circus or sideshow freak attraction. Shunned by nearly everybody, he was beaten and mistreated in nearly every imaginable way. Merrick is masterfully played by John Hurt. He is eventually discovered and rescued from that awful existence by a physician named Dr. Frederick Treves, played beautifully by Anthony Hopkins. The film deals partly with deformity but also partly with Merrick struggling to regain some sort of identity as a man instead of just a freak. Dr. Treves is a great ally. However, even as a man who can now move among an abbreviated clique of people, Merrick discovers that his disease is still a terrible affliction. That it was produced in black and white adds to the sad ambiance of the film and helps draw powerful emotions out. IMDb users have voted this film a spot in the top 250 films of all time and it certainly belongs to be in that company. This is Director David Lynch's finest work to date. The Elephant Man is a film that has and will continue to stand the test of time.
There are movies that take you away into a realm of their own,into a world that existed in London-if you lived in London this is even more poignant. John Hurt is John Merrick the Elephant man-may be john Merrick reincarnated as John Hurt since no one could have a personified a disfigured,downtrodden human being that was the Elephant Man. If this movie does't bring tears then you lack the tear glands. David Lynch takes you into the life and times of John Merrick so much you want to meet him and hear him say "My na--me-is-Jo--hn". This is a masterpiece of movie-one of the best movies made and made anywhere that will never cease to amaze at the talent of an actor in the caliber of John Hurt. The metamorphosis of this actor is just amazing just considering the amount of time it took for this actor to transform and imitate the gait and the speech. Suffice to say this movie made more impact on me than any movie that I can remember.


                
Many of David Lynch's films leave you wondering if you're watching a pantomime by mistake - splice the overacting of Dennis Hopper with the bizarre facial contortions and howlings of Laura Dern and you have one of the Ugly Sisters from Cinderella.But the combination of Lynch's dream-like style of story-telling and the moving, yet restrained, performances of John Hurt, Anthony Hopkins and Freddie Jones works exceptionally well. The Elephant Man is a truly moving study of human dignity told not only with style but with compassion and understanding too.David Lynch should work with British actors more often.9/10


                
I absolutely adore this film. The actors, the director,  the camera men and everyone did their utmost best to make this film and they succeeded 110%.
Anthony Hopkins is marvellous as Sir Frederick Treves. He clearly shows his concern and friendship for the misshapen John (Joseph) Merrick. The scene were he defends John against the evil porter is magnificent.Freddie Jones (who plays the evil circus owner) is marvellous! Clearly brilliant acting.But the praise mostly should go to the man himself, John Hurt. He's brilliant and shows us the real John Merrick as he would have been. And his acting brought me to tears the whole time.This movie is magnificent and I am shocked it didn't win any Oscars, cause it should have!Bravo! And well done to the actors and director and the people behind the scenes!I rate this 10 but if I could, I'd give it a 12!


                
I remember that I saw this movie when I was only 16 years old. It touched me so much that I kept on thinking about it for at least a week. The movie is very well directed and the acting is very sincere. It is a kind of movie that keeps attached to it and takes you to its world. I have been told that the story is true. I do not know if it is. Regardless of it being a true story, it is an emotional film that gives you insight to the meaning of life and to the essence of human beings. The wonders of that movie are within its wonderful cast and due to the ingenuity if its director who had his "ups and downs" but excelled in this one.


                
_The Elephant Man_ is an immensely powerful and moving film. As a biography of Joseph Merrick, it's somewhat inaccurate, and events have been juggled around chronologically, presumably for dramatic effect.  However, this takes little, if anything, away from the impact of the film.The black and white photography is excellent, as is the cinematography; a very real sense of Victorian England is evoked.  As in other Lynch pictures, such as _Eraserhead_, sound is used skillfully in the creation of mood and a sense of place.  Anthony Hopkins, John Hurt and a host of others offer a sense of their characters that is almost palpable.I found _The Elephant Man_ to be, at times, very uplifting and positive; at other times, it was almost unbearably sad.  Scenes of great joy and happiness are contrasted almost immediately with scenes of mindless brutality and infuriating ignorance.  For anyone that has never quite fit in, or felt an outsider, Hurt's portrayal of Joseph Merrick will be something that will strike a very, very deep chord, and leave a lasting impression, as it did with me


                
I wish I had as much time to comment on this movie as some of they put into this movie. I will try to make a sensible comment in a short space of time.It's not my favorite film, there are some problems with it. I'm not sure of the life of John Merrick (sp?) other than what is related by this film, but I would imagine the film would have been more challenging (to us, the viewers) if the deformed man wasn't so sweet, contrite, and appreciative. Perhaps the meanness of his treatment should have been reflected in his behavior. This would have presented us with a more difficult dilemma, of having to penetrate not only the visual aura of this sick man, but also a barbed personality.However, they took the easy way out of making John Merrick a wholly sympathetic character. The film delivers something of the black and white industrial age austerity of David Lynch's preceding film Eraserhead (which is sadly becoming hard to find). I thought Eraserhead was a more tightly focused on advancing those kinds of atmospheres.The acting in this film as one would expect, considering the quality of the actors involved, a stellar British cast. Just look at all the names. These are great actors and actresses.This film could have been better, but measuring it against the other films I know (including most of the films in the IMDb top 250), this definitely deserves a place even higher than it's been rated. I would have liked more time spent on the John Merrick's personal character.


                
I first saw this film at the age of 15,and many things about it have remained with me over the years.Firstly,I admire any film maker who is bold enough to use black and white film in the day and age of color.Somehow black and white film seems to get the point across better when used in the right situations,and this is definitely a film that calls for it.This is an excellent film about inner beauty and about how we as a society all too often fail to see it.There are a lot of ignorant people in this world who think that outer beauty is the only thing that matters.This movie exposes that ignorance and does it very well.John Hurt gave an Oscar caliber performance,and he not only deserved a nomination,he deserved a win as well.See this film and see if it doesn't make you take a long look at what kind of person you are.


                
..for taking a break from making Laura Dern movies to create this masterpiece that is heartbreakingly beautiful and sometimes just heartbreaking.  It turns out that Lynch is the perfect director for this movie.  He assembles one of the best casts in any movie, starting with a ground-breaking performance by John Hurt in the leading role.  Anthony Hopkins is just as good; he can say more with a glance, do more with a moment, then most actors can do with ten pages of script.  When he first sees John Merrick, he cries one tear and its perfection.  When you have a supporting cast that includes Oscar winners Anne Bancroft, Sir John Geilgud and Dame Wendy Hiller, you know you're covered in that department.The black and white cinematography adds a lot to the mood of the movie.
All in all, a must see.


                
The Elephant Man is a drama film based on the life of Joseph Merrick and starring John Hurt and Anthony Hopkins. Directed by David Lynch (Eraserhead, Blue Velvet), it is a compassionate, tragic look into the life of one unfortunate yet fascinating intellectual.In 1880s London, surgeon Frederick Treves (Anthony Hopkins) visits a carnival in his local area and stumbles upon a freak show as its most popular attraction. While there he discovers that the show's main exhibit is "The Elephant Man" (John Hurt), a man with hideous birth deformities giving him an almost elephant-like appearance. Intrigued by this poor man's plight, Frederick rescues the so-called Elephant Man to learn more about his condition, only to discover that he is far more intelligent than his monstrous appearance suggests.Easily one of David Lynch's best films, The Elephant Man effectively paints a human portrait of the titular character and showcases him in the positive light he most certainly deserves. Despite being more linear than most of Lynch's work, the film still contains many of his directorial trademarks, including close-ups on eyes and flashes of surreal imagery. John Hurt gives a terrific performance in the title role and the makeup effects applied to his face were fantastic. Interestingly enough, this film helped serve as a catalyst for Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences to introduce the "Best Makeup" category at the Academy Awards.I rate it a solid 9/10


                
"I am not an animal. I am a human being." These are the heartbreaking words that John Merrick says when he gets fed up with people gawking at him and comparing him to an animal. David Lynch's The Elephant Man is a hard-hitting story about a real-life person who is an outcast due to his deformities. However, Lynch who also wrote the script, portrays this subject matter in a more positive light. Themes of courage, and the fact that everyone is human no matter the circumstances are brought to light here. Prepare to bring the tissues, because this story is an emotional story and I can guarantee no one will have a dry eye when the end credits appear on screen.I will go right into the thick of the story. John Merrick (John Hurt), nicknamed "The Elephant Man" is a man with a wonderful personality, but is hated by the English society because of his deformed body. He was discovered at a freak show by a kind doctor named Frederick Treves (Anthony Hopkins), and Treves gives Merrick the life and the treatment that he has never received before.The true story is a tragic and a heartwarming story. It makes you lose your faith in humanity, but then you believe not all hope is lost. There are caring people out in the world and the film gives you prime examples of these people. In addition to Treves, we have Carr Gomm (John Gielgud) who is Treve's understanding superior, Mrs. Kendal (Anne Bancroft) who became a wonderful lady friend to Merrick, and Mothershead (Wendy Hiller) who took good care of Merrick in the hospital.David Lynch is a great director who is known for directing very strange films. When the film opened, and the disturbing montage of elephants and Merrick's mom giving birth appeared, I became worried that the movie would end up being some odd take on this story. Fortunately, this turned out to be one of Lynch's more straightforward stories he told on the big screen. He took a difficult and odd subject matter, and turned it into one of the most emotional stories I have seen.The performances are fantastic up and down the board. The one standout is John Hurt's mesmerizing performance as John Merrick that garnered him an Academy Award nomination. He was always a committed actor, and that really shows in this film. In addition to his wonderfully horrifying makeup work, you believe that you are watching "The Elephant Man." You feel his pain and his emotions as he tries to live with his deformities in an era where people like him are not accepted. Anthony Hopkins also delivers a strong performance as Frederick Treves. He came across as aloof, but kind-hearted enough to help Merrick. The film does a good job highlighting the relationship between these two characters.If there are any criticisms I had to make, it would be with pacing. The film portrays Merrick as a man who can hardly speak then in the next instant, he would be quoting Shakespeare with exact precision. I had difficulty keeping up with the timeline, and it caused some confusion at times.The Elephant Man also made some history. People in the industry were angered because the film didn't get the proper recognition for its makeup. That caused the Academy, in the following year, to create a category for makeup. The makeup artist, Christopher Tucker did an amazing job creating the real, authentic look of John Merrick. The work put into the makeup was grueling, and John Hurt has been quoted saying this is the film that made him "hate" acting. That hard effort paid off! This movie is a wonderful, emotional true story about the man named John Merrick who went from a freak show performer to a man being recognized for the person he is with the help of some very good individuals. John Hurt's performance is one for the ages, and he has a bunch of wonderful supporting performances to work with. I liked Lynch's idea to film the movie in black-and-white. Freddie Francis's camera work is put to fine use in the movie. In a world with increasing darkness, The Elephant Man gave me a little hope.My Grade: A-


                
This is a very early film in Lynch's professional career, his 1st major studio production following his much more personal, intimate and outrageously bizarre masterpiece, Eraserhead. That freshman effort is perhaps Lynch's most pure expression of cinematic artistry—a fiercely idiosyncratic, absurdly inscrutable gesture of audio/visual mischievous of the most masterful kind. Contained within Lynch's debut feature length movie can be found the bulk of the sublime ideas and ingenious cinematic techniques which infused all his later films with such shockingly vivid & visceral emotionalism. Eraserhead is such a powerfully effective bit of cinematic wizardry that upon witnessing it—no, upon being assaulted by it!—Mel Brooks was convinced that its mad genius creator had to be the director of the unusually odd film which he was producing, and thus David Lynch was hurled into the gaping, yawning, voracious orifice that is Hollywood film-making. Luckily, David Lynch had a magnificently talented cast (Anthony Hopkins, John Gielgud, Anne Bancroft, Freddie Jones, and of course a brilliant John Hurt) as well as a superb script (Christopher De Vore, Eric Bergren & David Lynch) with which to fashion his quaint Victorian period piece/archly Gothic nightmare monster movie. The narrative is strikingly concise and terse, almost bleak in its unadorned simplicity, yet more than ample to support the gargantuan mass of barely tolerable pathos which burdens nearly every scene. That's not to say it's a tortuous slog—no, not hardly. The Elephant Man is only as emotionally crushing as David Lynch has astutely calculated we can endure, and it regularly assumes a surprisingly delicate & buoyant demeanor. In other words, it's an intensely disturbing, wonderfully rich & rewarding emotional roller coaster. Lynch's monster is a ghastly creature dwelling in the darkest, dankest recesses of the human psyche, and it's by dragging us kicking & screaming down to those formidably threatening depths that he's able to then kindly usher us to the shimmering splendor of an equally remote but welcoming inner realm where resides compassion, empathy & genuine humanity. It seems it's only by directly facing life's most daunting, most ugly, most horrific truths can we hope for any real joy, or at least any relief. That's heavy, isn't it?


                
A thought provoking story - the original trailer says something along the lines of it being part love story, part horror story, but not quite either, and that is true. It is a moving story of the strength of the human spirit. You see this strength in many of the characters, specifically John (Joseph) Merrick, but also the doctor, Merrick's high society friends, his caring nurses, and his sideshow mates. The sadness in this film is overpowered by the strength of the people in it, and the love and friendship introduced into Merrick's life. A wonderful film. See the wikipedia page on Joseph Merrick after watching to get the complete story of his life as the film takes a couple of liberties with the truth and to understand why his name was mistakenly thought to be John.
The elephant man is a subtly and fantastically realized allegory to our society and the way we personify the fear of the Unknown. In this movie John Merrick suffers from a horribly disfiguring disease that makes him look and seem like a monster, but beneath his seemingly repulsive figure lies a man of genuine knowledge and sensitivity. In this movie a young spry Anthony Hopkins plays a doctor seeking to better the living conditions of John Merrick but also discover the reasons behind his baffling medical condition. Though he is most likely the most redeemable character in the movie, one must question if he shows hospitality to Mr.Merrick merely out of kindness or wish to further his career in the medical field. This constant looming question functions as the dominating theme for the movie and makes us question ourselves and look at society in a different light, which is what superb movie making should be all about. a fantastic story from beginning to end, well acted, superbly shot, and overall a 9/10


                
David Lynch's finest film, alongside with perhaps Mulholland Drive. John Hurt, under tons of makeup, stars as David Merrick, the real-life grotesquely deformed individual of Victorian England that was better known as The Elephant Man. Merrick is the virtual slave of a brutish man (a great performance of Freddie Jones) that parades him as a carnival freak until he is rescued by the sensitive doctor Frederick Treves (Anthony Hopkins). Treves decides to put Merrick in a hospital room, winning over the initial skepticism of its director, John Gielgud. In the hospital, Merrick will start to talk for the first time, begin to regain his dignity, and eventually will become a curiosity of high society before his premature death. Shot in a delicate and expressionist black and white, the only flaw in the movie might be the performance of Ann Bancroft (producer Mel Brooks's wife) as a stage actress interested in Merrick's life. Except for the surreal opening and closing scenes (in which Merrick is born and dies, respectively), here Lynch is relatively restrained, opting for a style that could be called poetic realism. The film earned eight Oscar nominations in all, but left that race empty-handed, an earlier indication that Lynch's films would not be the typical Academy material.


                
The Elephant Man is a simply beautiful movie. Everything about it is done with such a subtle, frank beauty and honesty that it is a truly difficult quality to put into words. It is an exceptional film.These qualities are truly remarkable given what the movie could have been. With such a topic, The Elephant Man could have been anywhere from pretentious drivel to an exploitation film, or could have simply missed the mark. True, the writings on which the movie was based are quite venerable, but the possibility that this could have been an absolutely awful film was certainly still there.One of the major reasons The Elephant Man works the way it does is that everything about it feels, well, right. Natural. Take the movie's most obvious characteristic: it's filmed in black and white. Now, there are a million little reasons why this works so well, each is too small to get into properly. The fact, however, is that it works. It works marvelously, actually. Another 'right' thing about The Elephat Man is David Lynch's direction. Every scene is important, every one with a purpose. The film never once becomes boring or starts to drag. Not a second is erroneous. However, the audience also gets 'the full story,' so to speak. When the movie ends with Merrick's death, the audience is sadly and strangely satisfied with this conclusion, and all the prior events that build up to it.John (in reality, Joseph) Merrick himself is a lovely character. Lynch's presentation of him to the audience is brilliant. John is grotesquely disfigured, but we aren't repulsed by him. By that same merit, we don't automatically feel sorry for him because of his condition. Instead, the audience simply accepts John Merrick. We come to know him not as an elephant man, but simply as a man. The compassion the audience feels for John is for him as a man. When he is harassed and beaten, we feel his indignation. When he is accepted and respected, we feel his joy.John Hurt's performance as the title character is great, and is probably one of the greatest and most underrated portrayals of all time. Everything from the voice to the body language is completely convincing and sincere. The subtleties of his performance are something that is often overlooked. From the nervous confidence in all of his actions to the frankness in some of his reactions (when he is forced to view himself in a mirror, the startled scream he emits conveys about a dozen different things, each one of them feeling genuine), everything about the title performance is done so perfectly and fits so well that we don't even notice most of the time.All in all, The Elephant Man is a great movie, and is certainly deserving of its place on the Top 250.
