This isn't an easy watch, but it's one that I would highly recommend nonetheless. I watch many documentaries, but I have only rarely seen such an insightful and comprehensive portrait of a chapter in history.Over the course of 16.5 hours this docu series takes the viewer from the earliest roots of the conflict in Vietnam and the country's sad colonial history to its modern-day reality after the war. Along the way, it tells a mesmerizing, shocking, appalling, tragic - but most of all: incredibly immersive and informative - story from the perspective of the people who were affected by this man-made tragedy. Unlike most other documentaries on the subject, we also get to hear first hand accounts from North- and South Vietnamese officers, ARVN and Vietcong fighters, civilians from both the South and the North, in addition to learning more about the American experience and about the profound effect the conflict had on US society.What Ken Burns and Lynn Novick have accomplished here can hardly be overstated; this is more than "just" an in-depth look at the Vietnam War: this is nothing less than the portrait of an era. A masterful work. 10 stars out of 10Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: imdb.com/list/ls075552387/Favorite films: IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-Known Masterpieces: imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-Movies: imdb.com/list/ls054808375/.


                
I love documentaries, I'm incredibly interested in wars and I'm biased towards Ken Burns' Docs. So I may be skewed in that regard when I say that The Vietnam War was the most moving thing I have seen on my television set in years, maybe decades. It is an investment. 10 episodes, most of them 2 hours long, at times admittedly redundant, but packed with incredible insight, astounding footage, and all kinds of juicy political revelations. I have heard some criticisms that this documentary leans favorably towards Communism and does not celebrate American soldiers enough. I would beg of anybody to watch this to put aside their political views when watching this beautiful documentary. Many times during my viewings, I thought I had a firm stance on something that occurred during the war and then somebody would come on and share their view on the subject. Immediately, my view was shaken, if not changed altogether. I can't say that the film looks favorably or unfavorably on any particular political party or 'side' if you will. All I can tell you is that everybody, from VietCong farmer, anti-war protesters, prisoners of wars to ambassadors all have plenty of screen time to share their perspective. And in a nutshell, that's what blew me away about this documentary. The different perspectives that arose. I am only convinced of one thing after seeing this documentary, there simply is no answers on this war. And certainly no obvious truths. War is complex, war is hell, war wounds and war heals. You can go into this thing looking to vilify Nixon, slander the VietCong, lambaste antiwar protesters, but I assure you you will walk away having learnt something and fostered a new outlook. Incredibly highly recommended but this is not popcorn and beer viewing. Serious, graphic and powerful stuff. Amazing.


                
Heartbreaking. Deeply moving and beautiful film about a great tragedy. Many of the 18 hours made me want to cry. I've watched every minute of every film Ken Burns ever made. I couldn't be a bigger fan. I know not everyone is, but I don't understand how. (Too emotional? Emotions are the greatest truths. And that's never more the case than in this film "The Vietnam War".) (Too liberal? No, objective, moderate.)It's common for Burns's works to contain important tangential sub-themes. (A primary sub-theme of "Baseball" was race in America.)"The Vietnam War" only had minor tangential sub-themes. It's story is so important that it didn't need major ones. Burns's "The Civil War" (about the only more-divisive war in American history) told the story of a nation growing up, coming together. "The Vietnam War" tells the story of America becoming it's modern, highly polarized, ungovernable/chaotic present. As such this film could not be more current, relevant, and important.


                
Over the years I have soaked up every film and documentary I could find on the subject of the Vietnam war, and I can say this series is by far the most profoundly complete I have seen. It uses insights from the individuals caught up in it - the Viet Cong & North Vietnamese Army, the US Military & South Vietnamese army, civilians from both sides, politicians and journalists alike, to explain, account and report from the early circumstances causing the build up and outbreak of the war through the fierce intensity at the height of the conflict to the final withdrawal and legacies.It explores and reports the socio-political aspects, the strategies and technologies, the cultural contrasts of the belligerents and most of all the people fighting it. It gets across the absolute sacrificial determined tenacity of the north Vietnamese and Viet Cong people - hand made IEDs and mind boggling hard graft versus the richest most technically advanced, but often disillusioned, army in the world (not the last time this would happen). It covers every angle - it's the most complete and compelling telling of this tragic yet fascinating landmark in our history that I've come across.If you have an interest in this significant piece of modern history - the first rock n roll war - which became an unmitigated disaster, this brilliant, powerful and compelling series is absolutely unmissable.


                
This is overwhelming. This documentary had me riveted through all 10 episodes.I recorded it, but could never proceed directly to the next episode because so much emotion was packed into each one. I had to give at least a day between each viewing. After viewing an episode I would shut the TV off. Watching anything after would have been anti-climatic compared to the intensity of what I had just absorbed.Among many excellent passages from the documentary, this is one of my favourite commentaries: "It is very, very difficult to dispel ignorance if you retain arrogance".We are provided with the full panoply of the Vietnam War, with many different viewpoints and opinions. From start to finish this is visually engrossing. Full congratulations go to the makers of this unforgettable documentary.


                
I'm honestly shocked at some of the negative reviews. This is quite comprehensive and almost seems appropriate that there are so many personal accounts intertwined. It's actually a blessing to have so many people from that generation (I was a baby and young child over those years) able to share their insight.From the beginning, we get the history of France's involvement in the region starting in the mid 19th century and it leads through the political history of Vietnam along with some of their key leaders.I think for many who think Vietnam was a mistake, its true but perhaps not for the reasons many assume. But there is a lot of overlap over administrations from Truman to Nixon back then to what's happening now starting with Iraq and likely even before then. We never learned the lessons of Vietnam and to this day over both democratic and republican controlled leadership, we have made the same mistakes in the Middle East. This's should be must TV for people today to see how much we and our leaders haven't learned.


                
Every episode is an extraordinary lesson and the teachers are not trying to convert us but enlighten us. One side, both sides, all sides.To me, personally, the most shocking aspect of it all is its absurdity. As more troops are sent back to Afghanistan by the Trump administration, one wonders. Haven't we learned anything? Watching and listening to American vets, listening to Vietcong veterans saying, "We saw the American crying for their deaths and I though, they are just like us" The fact that something like that can be a revelation is part of the mystery of it all. Don't we know from day one that we're all the same? Humans. To Ken Burns and all of his partners and collaborators, thank you, thank you very much.


                
Well, I thought that was an amazing documentary. I think Ken Burns does an epic and moving job covering the events from a big picture political perspective. You really get a sense of the weight of history, and the scale of tragedy, particularly how decisions made by presidents and governments set in motion forces that led to catastrophic suffering. Millions of deaths and unhealed emotional wounds. I also thought the documentary was very good at the military level, describing battles and engagements that I had never heard of, in a reasonable detail. And the music and photography was epic. Seeing those pictures of old-time American life juxtaposed with the chaos of Vietnam was so moving. I also thought the reconciliation part at the end was really beautiful. There were three things about the documentary that I did think were weaknesses.1. There was such a focus on the protests, and starting so early on in the series, it kind of overwhelmed the narrative in some ways. I have read that the vast majority of veterans were proud of their service in Vietnam, and did not have this tortured sense of regret and shame that you see with those interviewed in the series. Some did but not most. (for evidence see this article - https://www.wsj.com/amp/articles/ken- burnss-vietnam-is-fair-to-the-troops-but-not-the-cause-1507324058)2. I wonder about the conspiratorial angle of things. This documentary portrays the North Vietnamese as almost magically destined to win, as if it was inevitable, as if nothing the Americans could have done would have made any ultimate difference. I just wonder if part of the reason the Americans lost is because they weren't allowed to win. I mean, had the Americans occupied Hanoi and Haiphong Harbour, would not the North Vietnamese have been unable to prosecute the war? Surely if the Ho Chi Minh trail was permanently occupied in several places there wouldn't be the communist resupply into South Vietnam? But perhaps none of this would have been possible without China directly entering the conflict. Who knows.3.Because the documentary is so long, and also attempts to cover the bigger historical events, I don't think it captures the day to day experience of the Vietnamese villagers that well. I mean, what made someone turn to the VietCong? What was daily life like? There is another, Vietnamese documentary "the face of the enemy" which I think does a better job of this.Overall, a fascinating time spent watching this, and I recommend it to all with caveats.


                
Burns, Novick, and their team committed years of research to this worthwhile project, expressed in 10 episodes. If I had to sum up my experience in watching 5 episodes thus far, I would say that this program is casting a glaring light at how little I knew about this war. Just as bracing as the war imagery is the multiplicity of interviews... Burns and Novick wisely feature all sides to speak forth. The recall of combat experience is expressed by soldiers (both sides), families, POWs, journalists, and activists. As might be expected, some of what the soldiers express is horrific.The tape recordings of several US Presidents and their war advisors are an essential part "The Vietnam War". Can a film like this be presented in a genuinely objective manner?" For many years now, the wide majority of people would agree that this war should not have happened, and it's a difficult task for any director to not infuse a film with their personal viewpoints. As another reviewer noted, it's obvious that the sentiment of this film is most assuredly against the war. Finally, I'll leave you with a quote:"It is only those who have neither fired a shot nor heard the shrieks and groans of the wounded who cry aloud for blood, more vengeance, more desolation. War is hell." - General William Tecumseh Sherman (1820-91)


                
To exclude the views of the victorious NVA or VC would truly be rewriting history. Like or not, this is a robust accounting of a long, dreadful chapter in VN and US history. Nobody was truly victorious, as stated in the documentary, everyone lost. To politicize the telling of the story would have demonstrated the simple mindset that sucked us foolishly into the conflict to begin with. As I understand it, this film is largely the product of Kovich, who skillfully interviewed so many people across cultures. I've spent a great deal of time in Vietnam, and I'm likely more informed than the average viewer. I especially enjoyed hearing new stories, and appreciated the telling of the colonial period as well as recent history. Vietnam has largely moved on and I could have watched a dozen more hours on perspectives and details not covered in this already lengthy film. I devoured it, unable to slowly savor, and I'll watch again. Cheers to Kovich for a brilliant film.
First a disclaimer of sorts.My dad (now deceased) served with the Australian Army from 1953 through to 1983, and did 3 Tours in Vietnam as a regular soldier. His first was with the AATTV (Australian Army Training Team Vietnam), as an Military Adviser to Vietnamese Forces, and his other two Tours took place after Australia Committed Regular Army units to Vietnam, with SASR.He died of cancer at 65.With this in mind My review of this excellent start to what looks like being an informative and educational program now follows.My chief gripe in the introduction to the main body of the work was the lack of mention of any effort by their Allies such as Australia or New Zealand, also the bit on Korea made it sound wholly a US War which it wasn't - it was a UN operation, involving everyone from Turkey and Greece through to British Commenwealth Forces. Australia for example deployed everything from an Aircraft Carrier (HMAS Sydney),Naval Frigates and Fighter Squadrons through to Ground Forces, with all 3 services (RAN,RAAF and RAR) seeing extensive service and being involved in large scale battles such as Kapyong.Now to the good bits.Seeing it from the viewpoint of the Vietnamese was brilliant, both north and south. Talking about the French and American efforts early in the build up to the war was also great.The musical score, be it the opening by Bob Dylan, or the instrumental work done by Yo Yo Ma and Atticus Ross And Trent Reznor is as usual spot on and not overpowering or taking away from the story its backgrounding.All in all a great start which I look forward to seeing more of.


                
I remember as a child watching the World at war. Till this day it remains the best and most conclusive documentary series of WW2. And in years to come The Vietnam War will have the same effect. This long overdue series takes us right back to the start when the French had colonial rule and how North And South Vietnam came to being. Using archive footage and interviews with troops and political figures from both sides of the conflict this is compulsive viewing, especially for those like me who grew up whilst this war was happening but never really understood what all this meaningless killing was for. At times hard to watch this programme does not shy away from the facts. This was a brutal pointless war and like all wars nobody wins. 10/10


                
Trying the cram a conflict as complicated and divisive as the Vietnam War into a single documentary cannot have been easy. At 10 hours in length, you get the feeling that it could have been double that and still not have covered it all. Whats been made though is comprehensive, remarkable, fascinating, frightening, saddening, humbling and utterly unmissable. This was the first war to be shown in detail live on TV and there is no softening it, nor is there any glamorising of what really was a brutal conflict. This should be part of any world leaders induction package, that they watch this and World at War. It really is that good and that important.


                
Thus far it is mesmerizing and overflowing with information.I never realized how absolutely complicated it was. With each episode I find myself having to reconsider what I thought I knew. What I would like to Ken Burns do a documentary on is him doing a documentary. It is incomprehensible the process and the research done to achieve such a fine documentary.


                
As much of a fan I am of Burns Civil War, as well as his (underrated?) Jazz documentary, it's hard to not notice how there is due to the period its about that there's a distinct lack of footage to drawn upon. The Vietnam War is the opposite, as Burns and Lynn Novick draw upon a massive plethora of footage from all sides, from the combat bolex 16mm photographers to footage from the Vietcong and in Hanoi to the protesters and (thank goodness) lots and lots of juicy never-before-heard (or little heard) audio tapes from Johnson and Kennedy and so on. But at the same time if it was just that it would make for some compelling viewing and still only be as far as that, some good footage showing us things about Vietnam most of us don't know about or may have forgotten since school (or if one does know a lot about, like I've seen in social media, there may be holes to poke, but I digress).No, what gets this the full 5-stars is that its master storytellers at a peak: this is the story of Vietnam from all of the conceivable angles: the hundred year or so lead-up to how the French were finally driven out of Vietnam by Ho Chi Minh (who quoted from US *the Declaration of Independence* in his speech after the French were gone to his people) to the years in the 50's when that divide between North and South sewed the seeds of all the problems that were to come, and then how the very first Americans died in *1959*, and then all of the perspectives: the US Military; the presidencies; the anti-war protesters; the soldiers recounting back on the US side AND the Vietnamese (especially the Vietnamese); the parents and family members of service members; locals and civilians in Vietnam, north and south. Every step of the way we are drawn in through the step-by-step process and how it was kind of inexorable; the US could have gotten out at multiple points, but due to the Cold War, Communism, a gargantuan sense of pride as WW2 and Korea had come in the recent consciousness, they were stuck in a civil war that they should have not been a part of.In other words, Burns/Novick are charting all of the history that can fit into ten hours, and I'm sure if there are Vietnam war buffs they'll say this or that is missing. For those who only know so much they lay it all out in such a way that is harrowing and achingly personal (look at episode 3 with the story of the teenage boy who feels it's his duty so much to get into combat that he runs away for four months until his parents say it's okay... and you realize this is not going to turn out well, but you try not to think of that while his story is told), through all of the interviews with real guys who fought and came back and the stare is still there after over forty/fifty years. There's regret, there's trying to put things into context, there's more regret, there's footage that shows more than one might expect about the trepidation of the soldiers then (a hard-assed marine captain who admitted in an interview he wished he could have 200 of the Vietcong as they were "good soldiers").There's so much to wrestle with here about American Imperialism - if not the beginning of it, then the crystallization of it - the entrenchment of politics through combat (Johnson doomed himself through not going more for peace and instead digging in to his advisors - and then of course Nixon, good lord that walking-talking curse word) - and then how real people, citizens being fed from the trough of anti-Communism (and on the flip-side how the Americans were exactly like the French, like there were no differences at all, as Western-European invaders), and it's both dense and easy to follow. I'm not even done with it yet and I'm tempted to say it's the best thing Burns has done.


                
Described by the show's official website as "an immersive 360-degree narrative," The Vietnam War is a behemoth in every sense of the word; written by historian Geoffrey C. Ward and directed by celebrated documentarians Ken Burns and Lynn Novick, the series cost $30 million to make, and was in production for over ten years, with the ten episodes running to a gargantuan eighteen hours. Assembled from over 24,000 photos and 1,500 hours of archive footage, the show features interviews with 79 people, including analysts, bureaucrats, journalists, artists, anti-war protestors, draft dodgers, conscientious objectors, deserters, Gold Star family members, and American, South Vietnamese, and North Vietnamese troops. Deliberately eschewing interviews with historians and major polarising figures such as Jane Fonda, John Kerry, or Oliver Stone, the series features what Burns and Novick define as a "ground up" approach; concentrating almost exclusively on the experiences of ordinary people and soldiers from every side.Telling the story of a conflict, to quote the film itself, "begun in good faith by decent people, out of fateful misunderstandings, and prolonged because it seemed easier to muddle through than admit that it had been caused by tragic decisions," the show begins in reverse; following a brief introduction, scenes of well-known archival footage literally begin to run backwards. It's an unusually stylistic opening for a documentary, especially a multi-part documentary on public television, but there is an important conceptual point in this aesthetic decision; reversing such familiar images works as an opening thematic statement - yes, we all know these pictures, we've all seen them before, but this series is going to show them to us anew.Beginning with the French invasion of Indochina in 1858 and concluding with the opening of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in 1982 (although some brief postscript material goes up to President Barak Obama's visit to Vietnam in 2016), the series hits all the beats you'd expect within this timeframe - the rise of Hô Chí Minh and the formation of the Viet Minh; the Korean War; the Battle of Diên Biên Phu, and subsequent French withdrawal from Indochina; the rise of Lê Duan and the formation of the Viet Cong; Thích Quang Duc's self-immolation; the Gulf of Tonkin incident; the Têt Offensive; the Moratorium to End the War in Vietnam; the Kent State shootings; the Pentagon Papers; the Easter Offensive; the Watergate scandal; Nixon's resignation; and the Fall/Liberation of Saigon.However, where The Vietnam War excels is not in trying to present an all-inclusive encyclopaedic summary of everything that happened in the war, but in its mixture of the macro and the micro - intercut into the larger framework of political analysis and military assessment are more relatable and personalised interviews, which serve to reinforce what the war was like for the people who actually fought it and their families back home. These human stories serve as Burns and Novick's "ground up" material, helping to contextualise the wide-ranging and less personal socio-political canvas against which they are set, never allowing the audience to view the conflict as a statistical abstraction or a dry chronological list of battles. Indeed, in relation to this, one of the most immediately and consistently obvious aspects of the series is its respect for the individual combatants on all sides.If the micro is the show's heart and soul, however, the macro makes up the bulk of its content, and in this sense, perhaps the central-most theme is how the Kennedy, Johnson, and Nixon administrations each got deeper and deeper into the conflict despite knowing it was a mistake to do so and that the war was either unwinnable, or could only be won with unacceptable losses. Although they continually assured the press and public that things were going well, and the North Vietnamese would soon surrender, behind the scenes all three presidents knew the situation was dire.A major theme throughout the series is the effect the war had on the American psyche. Whilst the first episode outlines how the US emerged from World War II as world leaders, convinced of its own irrefutable morality and righteousness, proud of its self-appointed role as global law enforcer, the later episodes detail, often through the personal experiences of returning Vets, how all of this changed during the war. Fought in a country few Americans had even heard of, and fewer still knew anything about, the war was a conflict whose ultimate futility at so great a cost was unlike anything any living American had seen. The stain of the war lingered for decades, and lingers still. As the documentary lays bare, Vietnam fundamentally redefined the notion of American patriotism, altered the constitution of the American zeitgeist, and undermined the concept of American exceptionalism, which was so vital a component of how the US conducted itself on the international stage.Another vital theme, but one which remains unsaid, left for the viewer to provide the connective tissue, is how the domestic events of the war are mirrored in contemporary American society. For example, as the government continued to insist that things were going well, journalists began to report a very different story, leading to the rise of the "credibility gap" - the disparity between the claims made by the government in regards to a situation, and the actual facts of that situation. It doesn't take a genius to see the relevance here - the credibility gap is a direct progenitor of "fake news" and, even more directly, "alternative facts", both of which are specifically associated with the Trump administration. Although Burns and Novick ensure the viewer understands the empirical message that the war destroyed lives and minds, and eviscerated the trust the American people had for their government, they never explicitly state that the socio-political fabric of the 60s and 70s finds echoes in the present day. However, evidence of such is seen time and again throughout the documentary.Undoubtedly, the war was the most divisive period in the US since the Civil War. However, the most divisive period since the war is right now; the US is currently in the seventeenth year of a war begun under dubious circumstances; there are accusations of foreign collusion in a US election; the president has threatened to use force against an Asian nation; there are mass demonstrations across the country; the White House is obsessed with leaks; Johnson and Nixon's attempts to undermine the media, and Nixon's attempts to delegitimise any and all opposition are echoed in Trump's unfounded accusations that the Democrats, for example, paid Dr. Christine Blasey Ford to testify against Brett Kavanaugh, and falsely inflated the death toll in Puerto Rico in the wake of Hurricane Florence.From an aesthetic point of view, one of the most impressive aspects of the documentary is the soundscape. The soundtrack features songs from over 120 contemporary artists. Some of the songs are a little too obvious, but the score more than makes up for that, with the harsh metallic sounds of Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross, contrasting with the Vietnamese folk songs performed by Yo-Yo Ma and the Silk Road Ensemble. Also worth mentioning is something that rarely stands out in a documentary - the foley. Listening to the series on a good sound system, the whirls of rotor blades rise from the surround speakers, the effects of napalm suck the sound into the TV before blasting it back out, bullets whizz past the viewer's head, far off artillery rumbles deeply in the subwoofer. It really is an immersive experience, as impressive as any big-budget film.However, the series is not perfect. Easily the most obvious criticism is that despite their claims that all sides are represented equally, there is a real imbalance between the anti-war movement (represented by three interviewees and dozens of Vets), and those who supported the war (represented by a few comments here and there from people who admit they were conflicted). This imbalance is also present, although less conspicuous, in the number of North Vietnamese combatants (14) weighed against the number of South Vietnamese combatants (7).There are also some notable, and oftentimes bizarre, omissions. For example, there is no mention whatsoever of Maj Gen Edward Lansdale, who was pivotal in Ngô Dình Diem's victory in the rigged 1955 presidential election, and who famously stated, "there is only one means of defeating an insurgent people who will not surrender, and that is extermination." Likewise, there are no references to LTC John Paul Vann who was publicly critical of how the US was conducting the war, at a time when the vast majority of Americans and most of the press were happy with how things were going. Also absent is Lê Van Vien (aka Bay Vien), commander of the Bình Xuyên, an autonomous criminal organisation within the Vietnamese National Army during the years of French occupationNevertheless, The Vietnam War is an undeniably epic achievement. Burns and Novick have distilled down a massively complex canvas of competing ideologies, whilst at the same time refusing to placate either side. This refusal leaves the series open to criticism from both sides, but it may also be the show's greatest strength. Rather than submitting to partisan politics, the series follows its own path, irrespective of how it appears to those with preconceived notions. As harrowing as it is insightful, as informative as it is disturbing, conciliatory rather than condemnatory, The Vietnam War is a masterpiece, and surely one of the finest documentaries ever made.


                
I loved the entire series and will leave out one important STAR of the ten only because the $$$ cost $$$ of this historical disaster is not allowed an important part or perhaps the "Part 11" to sum up what this war was really all about.The political football of any great tragedy has a clear tie to greed and corruption of power. While it is certainly hinted at and quite exposed in actual audio tapes, the lack of that important "green" paper trail to the military contractors supplying this atrocity left a giant hole in this entire series. Surely while presidents wrestle with their "moral conscience" in some parts, left out is the political pressure from contractors to further line their pockets in exchange for votes and support.I wish a real Part 11 existed to show the public, especially kids how important money will drive us down a terrible path of mass killing and destruction in the name of an unwinnable cause known since 1964.The commentary was compelling and unimaginable (in hindsight) how anybody thought this was a good cause or even heroic. The US and South Vietnam clearly lost the war. The Marines retreated. And the childish banter about how the President could "win" somehow while thousands died or got injured is reprehensible. Especially Nixon postponing peace talks to leverage the 68 election...for this Watergate Ford pardons this criminal.


                
Previously, I have always advocated the Canadian documentary series "The Ten Thousand Day War" as the best, most even handed, of the documentaries of the Vietnam War. And it still has the benefit of being done early, when many of the players were still alive and available for interview. But the passage of time has given Ken Burns several advantages. People are now more willing to talk about their experience without self editing, the historical perspective of the conflict is now clearer now that the Cold War has been over for some time, and the disclosure of new information from sources as diverse as the White House recordings of President Johnson through to new information from the Hanoi Politburo provide a fresh understanding. Plus, Ken Burns has an oft-cited and valuable ability to create a compelling narrative out of interviews, narration, photos, footage, and music in a way no other doc producer comes close to. And - it is not without it's own POV - which seems to be a somber sense of the near inevitable. The story unfolds like a Shakespearean tragedy, compelling and appalling. Excellent film.


                
Ken Burns and Lyn Novic's "Vietnam" is a 10 part documentary on the Vietnam War shown on PBS. This is one of the most complete, fairly treated, historically accurate documentaries I have ever seen on the Vietnam War as only the great Ken Burns can do it. This one is done with Lynn Novick and possesses the gift for combining the realities of the Vietnam war from Eisenhower through the Ford administrations comprising five presidencies for nearly 20 years and includes the historical, sociological, and psychological aspects of the war with background music from that era of conflict. It is a brilliant work. No matter where one falls on the scale of opinion of the war this documentary will not fail to present a complete and balanced chronology of one our nation's most divisive eras and a war that evokes controversy to this day. One might say this nation really never got over its effects and that our nation has never been the same since it.The work brought back to me the issues from that era. Both the anti-war movements and those who supported the war are most fairly reflected. There was almost no one who experienced the war who was not conflicted by it. As one who was involved in the anti-war movement of that time it brought back memories I have stored for all these years and it does it through the eyes of the soldiers who fought it, thought it was worth fighting, as well as those soldiers who joined veterans against the war groups opposed to it. It also touches on figures we remember today such as John McCain a tortured and beaten for six years POW as well as others who fought it and eventually opposed it like Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts. It includes the famous opposition to the war such as Jane Fonda, Tom Hayden, Jerry Rubin, Rennie Davis, Oliver Stone who fought in the war and groups such as Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) and other groups who were sometimes violently against it. It includes the Kent State massacre as well. It is the fullest most complete rendition of the the historical events leading up to the American involvement in the war and also includes interviews of North Vietnam vets and their perspective on it. It brings you through the present era which shows a relaxed Communist state employing some capitalist enterprise to propel Vietnam economically into the 21st century. The end of the series will captivate and includes the fleeing of the South Vietnamese trying to get away from the north who ultimately won the war and the creation of the Vietnam memorial in Washington which has one of my own friend's name on it. "Vietnam" is a beautiful, poignant remembrance of the war and the names on the Vietnam Memorial who died for this controversial cause. I highly recommend viewing it.
The first episode of this ten-episode documentary by Ken Burns and Lynn Novick sets the table with a history lesson spanning 1858 to 1961. A comprehensive and insightful accounting, it begins with the French conquest of Indochina and ends about the time that JFK is elected. Viewers are led through the complexities of Vietnamese history in a way that highlights the pivot points that resulted in the conflict we call the Vietnam War. This includes the partitioning of the territory into northern and southern states separated by a demilitarized zone.Episode two details developments through the Kennedy presidency. Numerous American failures are iterated. At this point, the death of 47 Americans (total) was considered a failure.It remains to be seen how subsequent episodes will present the war and fracturing American sentiments at home, but so far the narrative feels fairly objective and without political agenda. I will return to update this review as the series continues.I am looking forward to more first hand accounts and evocative period music.


                
To put it simply Ken Burns and Lynn Novick's Vietnam is a masterpiece.Longer than Wagner's Ring cycle (and more dramatic) this 18-hour documentary, finally, explains the Vietnam nightmare comprehensively, fairly, visually, personally, majestically.I was a teenager during much of the war. Vietnam was in my face from the time I was in 8th grade until I was out of college. It was always there simmering, occasionally boiling, usually tasteless during that part of my life. I had a high school buddy killed over there. I had other friends come back and tell of horrible and exciting things they witnessed and did there. I saw the new stories, the TV reports, the magazines, the radio news. I was flooded with information, but there was no singular narrative that could link it all together. The Presidents said one thing, our soldiers said another, news reporters another and our enemies something completely different. What was the truth about that catastrophe?Well, Ken Burns and Lynn Novick really did their homework. After decades of mastering how to tell a long story through the documentary process, they used their collective knowledge (and you can tell a passion) to finally get to the bottom of Vietnam. But they professionally decided, as always, not to tell their story. No, they captured all the elements then aligned them, in a time- tested way, in which the truth finally comes through. Including many shameful truths I was never aware of.I'm sure with all the footage from news networks, presidential libraries, international sources, enemy footage, and personal media— they had more material than ever to go through. Yet every segment of the eighteen hours seems essential. They tell the big story, the military story, the political story, the cultural stories, the generational story, the secret story, the personal stories and the follow up story—all brilliantly.If I had to be critical about anything, well, maybe it's a bit too long. They methodically look at each year of the war. By the time you get to Nixon, you feel like you've seen enough of the jungles, the treachery of the enemy, the American firepower, the same futility many times before. Oh, there's always a new fact, or a different person interviewed who shares their view and pain. But truthfully, after a while, I found myself a little restless.But, perhaps that tedium is part of the deep thinking, the intelligence behind this monumental documentary. The war was long, painful tedious, and it morphed into different entities as it dragged on. You could read that in a book, someone can tell you, but through ten nights you can almost feel the weight, the plague of that awful mess.I'm convinced this Vietnam documentary will be and should be a course in schools; an essential opus of study and discovery for one of the most complicated, expensive and divisive periods of our history.


                
We can all debate whether or not a certain cause is worth going to war over, but a basic rule is indisputable: don't fight, unless you have a plan to win. With hindsight, it's regrettable that the Vietnamese independence movement was grounded in communist ideology; but the America attempt to contain it was inevitable doomed. While the U.S. propped up a corrupt government in the south of the country, the other side was fighting less for communism, and more for the freedom of their homeland. They were always going to win, precisely because they could not go home to somewhere else. And the amazing thing is, that the American government to a large extent shared this analysis; and nonetheless, sent thousands of their people to die in a lost cause. Many times that number of Vietnamese perished in 30 years of conflict.Ken Burns and Lynn Novick have made a superb documentary about this war. Occasionally sentimental, it's nonetheless unflinching in its portrayal of the essential stupidity of the American involvement, and with numerous eye-witnesses on both sides giving testimony alongside a remarkable amount of historic footage: this was perhaps the first war truly fought on camera. The saddest thing is that the U.S. continues to this day to blunder into conflicts it can't win, convinced of its own exceptionalism. To those with power, it seems, some lessons cannot be taught.


                
I love Ken Burns and his documentary style. He has the rare gift of balance in his presentations, with cinematography, script, survivors and tempo. In the first episode I have watched, we are treated to an observer style history of the treacle that was the Vietnam War.We find out how the involvement became a morass for the US and how ideologies overran the original purpose. That purpose was by no means honourable, with the French Colonialists trying to re- establish their elitist rule over Indo- China with brutal intensity. To the occupiers, the Vietnamese were only one step above beasts of burden (this was, however, the attitude of all colonialists AND the attitude of the US elite towards what they felt were "lesser" races in their own country) Of course we didn't know anything about the Vietnamese struggle to guide their own destiny and by the time it made the mainstream media it had morphed into a fight against communism. Mr Burns does a great job of explaining this history to us in emotional scenes that only he can create. It's hard not to cry at the harrowing experiences recalling families being wiped out or parents shot dead in front of their kids. The way in which he displays the stupidity and callousness of carpet bombing villages and forests shows how easy it became for the US troops to run out of control. I mean what use is it to send a group of twenty or thirty men through a rice paddy field to destroy mostly innocent bystanders in a bamboo hut village? It just builds more hate yet it carried on unchecked for many years. And that's why I like Ken Burns' and Lynn Novick's approach, they are non-judgmental and have you asking yourself questions as to how things like this happen in the world. The leaders are usually at the mercy of their advisors and their advisors are quite often a group of ideological nutters who know nothing about world affairs, I don't have to elaborate on the outcome of decisions coming from meetings of these types of minds! So in the first episode, one of those fateful decisions is made (and by one of the Presidents I admire the most.. Harry Truman)and we're immediately in that treacle.We're in a war we can't win and it's a war we shouldn't be involved with.... how do you get out? Well, getting out is the easy part, it's getting out AND saving face that we're going to learn about as we get to the end of this marvellous documentaryI'll try and review each episode onwards from my own peculiar point of view ... check 'em out , they'll get you thinking!


                
I remember seeing news reports on the television when I was a child. Vietnam was one of those places my parents didn't want me to see. So off went the television during the six o'clock news reports. I was to remain sterile to the death.Ken Burns has made some very important documentaries and one of my favorites was about Baseball. He is a thoroughly complete producer of his projects and his team of researchers try to leave no stones unturned. The efforts are not always perfect but they are more often very detailed.The Vietnam war has been a long and blood road of destruction for all of those who attempted to control the land from southern China to the S. China Sea. It was invaded by the French over one hundred years ago and in 1986 underwent reforms to unify the country.Ken Burns covers a lot of pre-political subjects showing how mistakes on both sides eventually leads to the deaths of millions of people. A war which is not needed but is desired by those who seek power and control with their greed.America is eventually brought in to the fight under false pretenses of trying to stop Communism. How many times would this war have been avoided if underlings of the US Government would have passed along letters of intent from one leader to another? Simple acts of ignorance and stupidity by CIA agents or secretaries who make decisions for an entire nation?While some might find this series less than desirable, it attempts to bring forth the reality of a situation with open eyes. It attempts to show a timeline of events with all the different contributors of chaos. Viewers need to step aside from thinking of any nation as being the justified. Even the Vietnamese killed Vietnamese and destroyed their land and murdered their people in an attempt for complete control.


                
Another Ken Burns masterpiece (and his great crew). Brought back a lot of memories from my high school and university years. A great argument about the futility of war. Eloquently expressed by John Kerry to Congress... I'm sure it motivated him to join the system in hopes of changing it for the better. (without forgetting the lessons of Hitler and Pearl Harbor)


                
