This isn't an easy watch, but it's one that I would highly recommend nonetheless. I watch many documentaries, but I have only rarely seen such an insightful and comprehensive portrait of a chapter in history.Over the course of 16.5 hours this docu series takes the viewer from the earliest roots of the conflict in Vietnam and the country's sad colonial history to its modern-day reality after the war. Along the way, it tells a mesmerizing, shocking, appalling, tragic - but most of all: incredibly immersive and informative - story from the perspective of the people who were affected by this man-made tragedy. Unlike most other documentaries on the subject, we also get to hear first hand accounts from North- and South Vietnamese officers, ARVN and Vietcong fighters, civilians from both the South and the North, in addition to learning more about the American experience and about the profound effect the conflict had on US society.What Ken Burns and Lynn Novick have accomplished here can hardly be overstated; this is more than "just" an in-depth look at the Vietnam War: this is nothing less than the portrait of an era. A masterful work. 10 stars out of 10Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: imdb.com/list/ls075552387/Favorite films: IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-Known Masterpieces: imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-Movies: imdb.com/list/ls054808375/.


                
I love documentaries, I'm incredibly interested in wars and I'm biased towards Ken Burns' Docs. So I may be skewed in that regard when I say that The Vietnam War was the most moving thing I have seen on my television set in years, maybe decades. It is an investment. 10 episodes, most of them 2 hours long, at times admittedly redundant, but packed with incredible insight, astounding footage, and all kinds of juicy political revelations. I have heard some criticisms that this documentary leans favorably towards Communism and does not celebrate American soldiers enough. I would beg of anybody to watch this to put aside their political views when watching this beautiful documentary. Many times during my viewings, I thought I had a firm stance on something that occurred during the war and then somebody would come on and share their view on the subject. Immediately, my view was shaken, if not changed altogether. I can't say that the film looks favorably or unfavorably on any particular political party or 'side' if you will. All I can tell you is that everybody, from VietCong farmer, anti-war protesters, prisoners of wars to ambassadors all have plenty of screen time to share their perspective. And in a nutshell, that's what blew me away about this documentary. The different perspectives that arose. I am only convinced of one thing after seeing this documentary, there simply is no answers on this war. And certainly no obvious truths. War is complex, war is hell, war wounds and war heals. You can go into this thing looking to vilify Nixon, slander the VietCong, lambaste antiwar protesters, but I assure you you will walk away having learnt something and fostered a new outlook. Incredibly highly recommended but this is not popcorn and beer viewing. Serious, graphic and powerful stuff. Amazing.


                
Heartbreaking. Deeply moving and beautiful film about a great tragedy. Many of the 18 hours made me want to cry. I've watched every minute of every film Ken Burns ever made. I couldn't be a bigger fan. I know not everyone is, but I don't understand how. (Too emotional? Emotions are the greatest truths. And that's never more the case than in this film "The Vietnam War".) (Too liberal? No, objective, moderate.)It's common for Burns's works to contain important tangential sub-themes. (A primary sub-theme of "Baseball" was race in America.)"The Vietnam War" only had minor tangential sub-themes. It's story is so important that it didn't need major ones. Burns's "The Civil War" (about the only more-divisive war in American history) told the story of a nation growing up, coming together. "The Vietnam War" tells the story of America becoming it's modern, highly polarized, ungovernable/chaotic present. As such this film could not be more current, relevant, and important.


                
This is overwhelming. This documentary had me riveted through all 10 episodes.I recorded it, but could never proceed directly to the next episode because so much emotion was packed into each one. I had to give at least a day between each viewing. After viewing an episode I would shut the TV off. Watching anything after would have been anti-climatic compared to the intensity of what I had just absorbed.Among many excellent passages from the documentary, this is one of my favourite commentaries: "It is very, very difficult to dispel ignorance if you retain arrogance".We are provided with the full panoply of the Vietnam War, with many different viewpoints and opinions. From start to finish this is visually engrossing. Full congratulations go to the makers of this unforgettable documentary.


                
I'm honestly shocked at some of the negative reviews. This is quite comprehensive and almost seems appropriate that there are so many personal accounts intertwined. It's actually a blessing to have so many people from that generation (I was a baby and young child over those years) able to share their insight.From the beginning, we get the history of France's involvement in the region starting in the mid 19th century and it leads through the political history of Vietnam along with some of their key leaders.I think for many who think Vietnam was a mistake, its true but perhaps not for the reasons many assume. But there is a lot of overlap over administrations from Truman to Nixon back then to what's happening now starting with Iraq and likely even before then. We never learned the lessons of Vietnam and to this day over both democratic and republican controlled leadership, we have made the same mistakes in the Middle East. This's should be must TV for people today to see how much we and our leaders haven't learned.


                
Every episode is an extraordinary lesson and the teachers are not trying to convert us but enlighten us. One side, both sides, all sides.To me, personally, the most shocking aspect of it all is its absurdity. As more troops are sent back to Afghanistan by the Trump administration, one wonders. Haven't we learned anything? Watching and listening to American vets, listening to Vietcong veterans saying, "We saw the American crying for their deaths and I though, they are just like us" The fact that something like that can be a revelation is part of the mystery of it all. Don't we know from day one that we're all the same? Humans. To Ken Burns and all of his partners and collaborators, thank you, thank you very much.


                
To exclude the views of the victorious NVA or VC would truly be rewriting history. Like or not, this is a robust accounting of a long, dreadful chapter in VN and US history. Nobody was truly victorious, as stated in the documentary, everyone lost. To politicize the telling of the story would have demonstrated the simple mindset that sucked us foolishly into the conflict to begin with. As I understand it, this film is largely the product of Kovich, who skillfully interviewed so many people across cultures. I've spent a great deal of time in Vietnam, and I'm likely more informed than the average viewer. I especially enjoyed hearing new stories, and appreciated the telling of the colonial period as well as recent history. Vietnam has largely moved on and I could have watched a dozen more hours on perspectives and details not covered in this already lengthy film. I devoured it, unable to slowly savor, and I'll watch again. Cheers to Kovich for a brilliant film.
First a disclaimer of sorts.My dad (now deceased) served with the Australian Army from 1953 through to 1983, and did 3 Tours in Vietnam as a regular soldier. His first was with the AATTV (Australian Army Training Team Vietnam), as an Military Adviser to Vietnamese Forces, and his other two Tours took place after Australia Committed Regular Army units to Vietnam, with SASR.He died of cancer at 65.With this in mind My review of this excellent start to what looks like being an informative and educational program now follows.My chief gripe in the introduction to the main body of the work was the lack of mention of any effort by their Allies such as Australia or New Zealand, also the bit on Korea made it sound wholly a US War which it wasn't - it was a UN operation, involving everyone from Turkey and Greece through to British Commenwealth Forces. Australia for example deployed everything from an Aircraft Carrier (HMAS Sydney),Naval Frigates and Fighter Squadrons through to Ground Forces, with all 3 services (RAN,RAAF and RAR) seeing extensive service and being involved in large scale battles such as Kapyong.Now to the good bits.Seeing it from the viewpoint of the Vietnamese was brilliant, both north and south. Talking about the French and American efforts early in the build up to the war was also great.The musical score, be it the opening by Bob Dylan, or the instrumental work done by Yo Yo Ma and Atticus Ross And Trent Reznor is as usual spot on and not overpowering or taking away from the story its backgrounding.All in all a great start which I look forward to seeing more of.


                
I remember as a child watching the World at war. Till this day it remains the best and most conclusive documentary series of WW2. And in years to come The Vietnam War will have the same effect. This long overdue series takes us right back to the start when the French had colonial rule and how North And South Vietnam came to being. Using archive footage and interviews with troops and political figures from both sides of the conflict this is compulsive viewing, especially for those like me who grew up whilst this war was happening but never really understood what all this meaningless killing was for. At times hard to watch this programme does not shy away from the facts. This was a brutal pointless war and like all wars nobody wins. 10/10


                
Trying the cram a conflict as complicated and divisive as the Vietnam War into a single documentary cannot have been easy. At 10 hours in length, you get the feeling that it could have been double that and still not have covered it all. Whats been made though is comprehensive, remarkable, fascinating, frightening, saddening, humbling and utterly unmissable. This was the first war to be shown in detail live on TV and there is no softening it, nor is there any glamorising of what really was a brutal conflict. This should be part of any world leaders induction package, that they watch this and World at War. It really is that good and that important.


                
Thus far it is mesmerizing and overflowing with information.I never realized how absolutely complicated it was. With each episode I find myself having to reconsider what I thought I knew. What I would like to Ken Burns do a documentary on is him doing a documentary. It is incomprehensible the process and the research done to achieve such a fine documentary.


                
As much of a fan I am of Burns Civil War, as well as his (underrated?) Jazz documentary, it's hard to not notice how there is due to the period its about that there's a distinct lack of footage to drawn upon. The Vietnam War is the opposite, as Burns and Lynn Novick draw upon a massive plethora of footage from all sides, from the combat bolex 16mm photographers to footage from the Vietcong and in Hanoi to the protesters and (thank goodness) lots and lots of juicy never-before-heard (or little heard) audio tapes from Johnson and Kennedy and so on. But at the same time if it was just that it would make for some compelling viewing and still only be as far as that, some good footage showing us things about Vietnam most of us don't know about or may have forgotten since school (or if one does know a lot about, like I've seen in social media, there may be holes to poke, but I digress).No, what gets this the full 5-stars is that its master storytellers at a peak: this is the story of Vietnam from all of the conceivable angles: the hundred year or so lead-up to how the French were finally driven out of Vietnam by Ho Chi Minh (who quoted from US *the Declaration of Independence* in his speech after the French were gone to his people) to the years in the 50's when that divide between North and South sewed the seeds of all the problems that were to come, and then how the very first Americans died in *1959*, and then all of the perspectives: the US Military; the presidencies; the anti-war protesters; the soldiers recounting back on the US side AND the Vietnamese (especially the Vietnamese); the parents and family members of service members; locals and civilians in Vietnam, north and south. Every step of the way we are drawn in through the step-by-step process and how it was kind of inexorable; the US could have gotten out at multiple points, but due to the Cold War, Communism, a gargantuan sense of pride as WW2 and Korea had come in the recent consciousness, they were stuck in a civil war that they should have not been a part of.In other words, Burns/Novick are charting all of the history that can fit into ten hours, and I'm sure if there are Vietnam war buffs they'll say this or that is missing. For those who only know so much they lay it all out in such a way that is harrowing and achingly personal (look at episode 3 with the story of the teenage boy who feels it's his duty so much to get into combat that he runs away for four months until his parents say it's okay... and you realize this is not going to turn out well, but you try not to think of that while his story is told), through all of the interviews with real guys who fought and came back and the stare is still there after over forty/fifty years. There's regret, there's trying to put things into context, there's more regret, there's footage that shows more than one might expect about the trepidation of the soldiers then (a hard-assed marine captain who admitted in an interview he wished he could have 200 of the Vietcong as they were "good soldiers").There's so much to wrestle with here about American Imperialism - if not the beginning of it, then the crystallization of it - the entrenchment of politics through combat (Johnson doomed himself through not going more for peace and instead digging in to his advisors - and then of course Nixon, good lord that walking-talking curse word) - and then how real people, citizens being fed from the trough of anti-Communism (and on the flip-side how the Americans were exactly like the French, like there were no differences at all, as Western-European invaders), and it's both dense and easy to follow. I'm not even done with it yet and I'm tempted to say it's the best thing Burns has done.


                
Ken Burns and Lyn Novic's "Vietnam" is a 10 part documentary on the Vietnam War shown on PBS. This is one of the most complete, fairly treated, historically accurate documentaries I have ever seen on the Vietnam War as only the great Ken Burns can do it. This one is done with Lynn Novick and possesses the gift for combining the realities of the Vietnam war from Eisenhower through the Ford administrations comprising five presidencies for nearly 20 years and includes the historical, sociological, and psychological aspects of the war with background music from that era of conflict. It is a brilliant work. No matter where one falls on the scale of opinion of the war this documentary will not fail to present a complete and balanced chronology of one our nation's most divisive eras and a war that evokes controversy to this day. One might say this nation really never got over its effects and that our nation has never been the same since it.The work brought back to me the issues from that era. Both the anti-war movements and those who supported the war are most fairly reflected. There was almost no one who experienced the war who was not conflicted by it. As one who was involved in the anti-war movement of that time it brought back memories I have stored for all these years and it does it through the eyes of the soldiers who fought it, thought it was worth fighting, as well as those soldiers who joined veterans against the war groups opposed to it. It also touches on figures we remember today such as John McCain a tortured and beaten for six years POW as well as others who fought it and eventually opposed it like Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts. It includes the famous opposition to the war such as Jane Fonda, Tom Hayden, Jerry Rubin, Rennie Davis, Oliver Stone who fought in the war and groups such as Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) and other groups who were sometimes violently against it. It includes the Kent State massacre as well. It is the fullest most complete rendition of the the historical events leading up to the American involvement in the war and also includes interviews of North Vietnam vets and their perspective on it. It brings you through the present era which shows a relaxed Communist state employing some capitalist enterprise to propel Vietnam economically into the 21st century. The end of the series will captivate and includes the fleeing of the South Vietnamese trying to get away from the north who ultimately won the war and the creation of the Vietnam memorial in Washington which has one of my own friend's name on it. "Vietnam" is a beautiful, poignant remembrance of the war and the names on the Vietnam Memorial who died for this controversial cause. I highly recommend viewing it.
Another Ken Burns masterpiece (and his great crew). Brought back a lot of memories from my high school and university years. A great argument about the futility of war. Eloquently expressed by John Kerry to Congress... I'm sure it motivated him to join the system in hopes of changing it for the better. (without forgetting the lessons of Hitler and Pearl Harbor)


                
THE VIETNAM WAR is another exemplary documentary series from producer Ken Burns; I would call it his best yet, but when he's done so many good ones - including the Roosevelts and WW2 - it's difficult to say that. Certainly this is a moving, engaging piece of filmmaking that had me in tears more than once. It's a lengthy, thorough chronological account of the war in Vietnam, from French colonial times through to the fall of Saigon and beyond, and it's told by the men who were there fighting in the front line, from the American, South Vietnamese, and North Vietnamese perspectives. Given that this was a modern war, there's a whole wealth of filmed footage to accompany the interviews and Peter Coyote's splendid narration; the end result can't be bettered and really does tell you everything you could ever need to know.
Watching the Gulf war unfold (the FIRST one), I had the uneasy feeling that I was witnessing something that I'd seen somewhere before; the sense of deja vu was overwhelming. THE Vietnam WAR (which should've been titled THE AMERIKAN WAR IN Vietnam) brings into sharper focus our current military morass(es). This time around, ameriKan taxpayers are footing the bill for at least a dozen wars around the world- a dozen Vietnams- to the tune of more than a TRILLION DOLLARS a year. We've heard about the Pentagon's inability to account for the recent disappearance of a Billion dollars, yet our "elected" officials (most of whom seem to have jerry-mandered their way into office) still insist on adding yet more fuel to the fire. When will they learn...? THE Vietnam WAR (this documentary) was partially financed by one of the kooky Libertarian Koch brothers and it delves deeper than ever into the incompetence and duplicity- and outright arrogant ignorance- of ameriKan government officials throughout the never-ending 30-year war. What better example of poor leadership than this?
According to Ken Burns, 'shortsightedness is one of the major human themes. We live for the moment. No one's willing to do the necessary rolling up the sleeves until the catastrophe happens.' The massive made for television epic THE Vietnam WAR is the work of Ken Burns, the celebrated American documentarian who gradually amassed a considerable reputation and a devoted audience with a series of reassuringly traditional meditations on Americana. Burns' works are treasure troves of archival materials; he skillfully utilizes period music and footage, photographs, periodicals and ordinary people's correspondence, the latter often movingly read by seasoned professional actors in a deliberate attempt to get away from a "Great Man" approach to history. Like most non-fiction filmmakers, Burns wears many hats on his projects, often serving as writer, cinematographer, editor and music director in addition to producing and directing. His co-partner in this project is the equally impressive Lynn Novick.The ten-part, 18-hour documentary series, THE Vietnam WAR, tells the epic story of one of the most consequential, divisive, and controversial events in American history as it has never before been told on film. Visceral and immersive, the series explores the human dimensions of the war through revelatory testimony of nearly 80 witnesses from all sides-Americans who fought in the war and others who opposed it, as well as combatants and civilians from North and South Vietnam. Ten years in the making, the series includes rarely seen and digitally re-mastered archival footage from sources around the globe, photographs taken by some of the most celebrated photojournalists of the 20th Century, historic television broadcasts, evocative home movies, and secret audio recordings from inside the Kennedy, Johnson, and Nixon administrations. THE Vietnam WAR features more than 100 iconic musical recordings from greatest artists of the era and haunting original music from Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross as well as the Silk Road Ensemble featuring Yo-Yo Ma.Though especially difficult to watch as a veteran of that war, likely it is as difficult for those whose family members didn't return. The horrendous error made by America in attempting to impose democracy on a country that cared more about living than politics is outlined by both sides – Vietnamese and American – and to hear the tapes of the Presidents' foul language of hate and pompous superiority and ignorance, disregarding truth and reality for the sake of gaining re-election is devastating. But it should be seen, remembered, digested and become part of our mentality that war is wrong, especially as we continue that same Vietnam War mentality in the Middle East. This series is cathartic and hopefully healing and engaging in altered thinking about man's inhumanity to man.


                
Ken Burns always does a spectacular job of portraying historical subjects, and "The Vietnam War" is no different. It might actually be his greatest achievement yet!What I really like about this series is the sheer scope of the project. It is 16+ hours long, for one thing. That may strike fear into some viewers, but it shouldn't...as every moment is relevant and worthwhile. It certainly will not "feel that long" when watching. I know for me, any and all other movie/TV watching was basically put on hold until this entire series was finished. I found it that gripping.Besides covering the main arc of the Vietnam conflict, the first and last episodes are a bit different (and unique). Episode #1 is all about the history of Vietnam and the many wars/conflicts in that land before any U.S. soldier ever set foot there. The last episode is all about what happened after the war was officially concluded. I really liked these bookends, as they gave historical context to the entire arc of Vietnam as a country, not just a war zone.Another interesting touch this time around for Burns was his inclusion of interviews with North Vietnamese soldiers. This was a gutsy move (it would be somewhat akin to, say, interviewing German soldiers in "The War" documentary about WWII), but one that really pays off. Because Vietnam was such a controversial conflict, it really takes an understanding of both sides to truly grasp what was going on. Burns' willingness to go that extra length is what makes his products special.Finally, this doc (through only being the most recent event Burns has profiled) is made so much more emotional by the inclusion of Vietnam vets and their stories. These men and women are not "that old" yet, so to speak, and thus are able to tell their stories clearly, crisply, and with a presence of mind that indicates they all deeply thought about these issues since their service. Looking at this from my perspective, it is always a bit easier, I think, to relate to generations that are closer to one's own. I enjoyed "The War", but that was the more distant generation of my grandparents. "The Vietnam War" tells the story of my parents' generation, which is just that much easier to relate to.Overall, this is a must-watch for scholars or just "fans" of historical material in general. It is practically a-political (Burns has an almost uncanny knack for that) and can be enjoyed by all ages and political affiliations. On numerous occasions, I was moved to tears by stories of veterans, their families, and just the senselessness of the entire ordeal. I came out the other side feeling like I now even have a better understanding of what that time in American history was really like.


                
Don't see many others mentioning the brilliant editing...the music cues, the pauses, the sound editing of effects underneath the interviews, the multi-narrative threads so beautifully woven together...anyhow, just thought it was worth a shoutout as Ive seen pretty much everything else seems to have been said by others. Brilliant editing team.


                
This documentary is incredibly well put together. The chronological approach introduces you to the origins of the war, the key characters, and the influences and biases. It draws on the history and testimonies of an array of individuals on both sides of the conflict. The editing and close camera work is superb in bringing human emotion into the room.This series really opened my eyes to the Vietnam war. It made the events, mistakes, and perspectives understandable. Really super piece of work.


                
I don't understand the comments citing bias. There are testimonials from literally every side.


                
When I started watching this I wanted to try and better understand my father and what he went through during his years in the army. It did bring us closer but at a cost. It was the most difficult docu/movie I've put myself through. I'm sure it wasn't easy for the filmmakers either. The soundtrack by NIN is amazing, btw. It fits perfectly.


                
My Englisch is to bad to discripe the impact this documentary made. Watched it in 3 days left me deeply emotional. Watch this is al i can say. 10 out of 10


                
When I first saw that Ken Burns had taken on the Vietnam War as a topic, two things happened. First, I felt eager to see it, and then I dreaded it. I knew I could trust Burns with this sensitive topic; and I knew he would leave no stone unturned. He creates, for my taste, the best documentary possible of every topic he engages.Then a third thing happened: I learned things I had never heard before. I am sixty years of age, I've been having conversations, reading news, listening to radio, watching television, for decades in America, and there are certain facts revealed in this series that shocked me. I thought I knew everything I needed to know about the Vietnam War. I was wrong.Wow.


                
I've absorbed much of what's been offered to date including books, other documentaries, and the films detailing this time of terrible struggle for our troops, the Amount erican people, and those who fought on both sides or were caught in the crossfire in Viet Nam. This collection of ten episodes is the most comprehensive description of what happened including insightful commentary from those who were there. For those who think the content is politicized, that battle was fought long ago. You only have to listen to those who were there to know the truth and this collection of their moving testimonies at times brought me to tears. If you want to know what happened or if you want to grant the wish of many who lived through that time and learn from our mistakes so we don't repeat them, this is required viewing.


                
