All episodes are very well made, although they try to relativize the responsibility of the United States to invade a country in the other end of the planet.There are no explicit mentions that the war was to establish business profits over the general welfare (aka capitalism).Also the resistance and victory of the army of the people against the French are not seriously treated, for those who want to read first hand, without propaganda, "Voices of War People's Army: The Viet Cong Insurrection Manual for Underdeveloped Countries" by Vo Nguyen Giap is highly recommended.I insist, they avoid to talk of the economics reasons of the war and relativize the responsibility of the United States in the massacre suffered by the troops of both sides, at all times the documentary tries to share blame.


                
I am so sick of new generations re-writing history. Yes, much of this is true. But it is just slanted enough to warp opinions. Just the fact that they keep showing the Viet Cong man gleefully express the triumph, excitement and joy over the victories of North Vietnam.I lived through all the evening news broadcasts of the sixties and seventies. It was a grim grueling time of extreme polarization in the U.S. Nothing was clear. History is so easy to see in hindsight. It is so easy to condemn and blacken one side. Nothing is that clear and especially not the Vietnam war.This is worth watching for the history, but please take some of it with a bit of insight and wisdom.


                
I've watched the first 4 episodes, and I'm disappointed in how narrow is the depiction of my generation. I was born in 1951, and I struggled to avoid "serving" in the war. I was college-deferred until the draft lottery allowed me to gamble on giving up my deferment. I've watched several documentaries on this abominable war, and I had high hopes that Ken Burns would shed new light on it. He has not! This is a retread of every recent documentary that has gone before, albeit with his usual grace. Mr. Burns has shed truth for his own glory on this one. I'll continue watching as a refresher course on what happened, but I won't watch any more of his "documentaries" again!
A new way to tell comunism did nothing wrong with a left wing biased documentary. The way north vietnamese are represented in the documentary is just astonishing... You see their faces and i´m thinking that they are about to burst in tears of joy and laughs, with emphasis in the words; brave, guts, unity, pride, and so forth. They are just mocking the deaths of more than one thousand people. Then they put a bunch of antiwar activist to criticize the goverment, which is just silly and ironic.


                
As all of Ken Burns' work, this is a beautiful and vast undertaking in documentary film. It's well done on so many levels. However, did I fail to see the episode with the Pentagon Papers? Their release was a turning point for US involvement in Southeast Asia. There was a time in the not too distant past that lying to the American public, as well as Congress, about policy and military action got an administration in a world of hurt. The release of the Pentagon Papers by Daniel Ellsberg rated at least a passing mention.


                
If this series was made a couple of decades a go a would say that it was a product of its time and that it hasn't aged well. But it was made in 2017 and has no excuses. The portrayal of the north Vietnamese is mostly propaganda. Painting all Vietnamese as victims is wrong and very patronizing. they can act independently of US internal politics.Spend your time on something else.


                
