As with all of Ken Burns doc's, this one has miles of fantastic footage, minutia of unknown little details, great editing, splendid narration and cherry picking of the facts which glosses over some controversial information on a subject which the controversatial aspect is the entire theme of that horrible conflict.
I have watched all Ken Burns previous docs and they are amazing, but I have also noticed a "template" of sorts being used over and over again. Mr. Burns loves his Mr. Smith all American type folks that still embrace the Norman Rockwell version of their country but in this particular subject matter... it treads a dangerous line, historically speaking. 
I am an amateur student of history and my knowledge of Vietnam and other connecting aspects of 20th century history are pretty abundant therefore I knew certain facts going in and was for good or ill waiting for certain "facts" to be revealed. Here is the main problem: for the first 4 episodes every country's negative aspects of its own involvement is shown; it's viciousness, ruthlessness, brutality, etc. Countries like China, France, East Germany, North and South Vietnam, the Viet-Cong, ARVN, Russia and especially Communism in general... "everybody" except the US, which is handled with kid gloves. Whenever a person from the Pentagon or in some higher up government position is talking, present day interviews, they seem to be saying they had knowledge and passed it along to the right channels and it was either ignored or buried. The US side is presented as mis-informed, mis-guided, mis-lead, mis-read, mis-taken, mis-communicated to, etc. etc..... basically a victim dragged into a situation and trying to rise above it to fight for freedom the world round. None of the sinister tactics of US foreign policy is shown which led up to its involvement and when it does show some sort of negative aspect towards that notion, it is so down played as to supposedly arouse sympathy in the viewer. 
There are many important focal points in history and as far as the Cold War is concerned it is Truman which can be blamed for starting that war and successive administrations for keeping the fear alive. All the good will FDR had slowly built up with Russia over the years while in office, Truman shot down in almost a blink of the eye with trying to get tough with the Russians. Churchill nailed the coffin shut with his famous Fulton Missouri "iron curtain" speech which scared everyone in the western world with the perceived Communist bogey-man wanting to invade small town USA. Churchill admitted that the Russian's, and Stalin, always stood by their word and never broke it, unlike the Western powers that turned their backs on Russia before the end of the pacific war. I am no way endorsing Soviet Russia under Stalin, he was a ruthless dictator who slaughtered millions of his own people in the purges in the 30's, but if Truman had not listened to the hardliners and his own little-boy inferiority complex, the Cold War might not have even happened at all, saving thousands of lives and billions of wasted dollars and denying the world a save environment to life. The Military gained by the Commie-bogeyman fear with increased budgets, corporate American benefitted and Politian's played the fear card to win votes. Everybody wins, except everyone loses in the end. This same bogey-man fear comes to bite the Government in the butt years later; Truman regrets forming the CIA, Ike warned the country about the military industrial complex, Kennedy gets his head blown off because he wants to pull the reigns back in regard to the Russians and LBJ's ego won't allow him to cut his losses and pull out of the Nam and hard line, overzealous voters won't let him because of that over-stoked fear about Communism drilled into them since 1945. 
When all is said and done many facts were still not presented which is unforgivable being the doc is 16 hrs. 30 minutes long. It totally ignores the CIA's deep involvement, which is only glossed over a few times and treated like they had very little input in the thing overall. The Agency nurtured that conflict for decades and when it was the right time, handed it over the military to mop-up in 1965.
Plainly put, Vietnam was used a platform for the US and Russia to trade blows without direct confrontation and it getting out of hand with one side or the other pushing the nuclear button.


                
A 10-part documentary series on the Vietnam War, from its origins in 1945, to the French-Vietnam war, to the US involvement and beyond. Includes interviews with people involved: US combatants, North and South Vietnamese soldiers, Vietnamese civilians, journalists and anti-war protesters.Produced and directed by master-documentarian Ken Burns, this is probably the most comprehensive, in-depth documentary ever made on the Vietnam War. It not only covers the US's war in Vietnam but also the previous history with the French but also the aftermath of the war. Broad, and deep: the detail covered is quite amazing, including rare taped conversations involving US presidents. Not in the same league as Burns's best works though, The Civil War (especially) and The War. In those he stuck to the facts , stayed away from editorialising and was objective. There were some emotive devices but this did not impact on the objectivity.In The Vietnam War he gets sucked into the new and unnecessary fad of revisionist history, in order to appeal to the ignorant younger generation. Instead of just being presented with the facts we have this anti-US bias, generally making the Americans to be the bad guys and lionising the North Vietnamese. This is most prevalent in Peter Coyote's narration, leaning very much to making the VC / NVA the "good guys". For example, whenever the US kills VC / NVA soldiers we see the effects and get told how ghastly the weaponry and destruction are. Hardly anything similar when US combatants are killed. In fact, when US soldiers are killed, it is not the VC / NVA's doing, but the US government's, according to the narration.The bias also extends to the choice of interviewees. Yes, VC / NVA soldiers are interviewed but that's not a problem. On the contrary, it provides balance. Well, it should have, except that all the US interviewees are against the war too. Every single American interviewed, including former combatants, harps on about how bad it was and that they shouldn't have been there. I'm sure that there are plenty of Americans who supported the US involvement in Vietnam - couldn't any of these be found?Could have been brilliant but set back by the lack of objectivity.


                
U.S. Military Won Almost Every Battle, Democrat Politicians Lost the War.U.S. Democrats demanded the Save the Democracy of South Korea War. When the U.S. Democrats felt the U.S. was losing the Democrats of U.S. Congress preemptively cut the Funding, resulting the Unnecessary Deaths of U.S. Citizens of the U.S. Military. U.S. Democrats demanded the Save the Democracy of South Vietnam War. When the U.S. Democrats felt the U.S. was losing the Democrats of U.S. Congress preemptively cut the Funding (Ammunition, Fuel, Food), resulting the Unnecessary Deaths of U.S. Citizens of the U.S. Military, and of Course the Loss of South Vietnam. By 1973 due to the Democrats Budget Cuts, the U.S. Military was rationing Ammunition, Fuel and Food, most U.S. Aid to the South Vietnamese was non existent. By the time I got there U.S. Army Soldiers were wearing rags, rationing ammunition, food was Combat Rations "C Rations", even basic things like toilet paper were nearly non existent. That's Correct the U.S. Military Won All The Battles, while the Democrat Politicians Lost the Save the Democracy of South Vietnam War. 1973 President Nixon demanded U.S. Aid to the Republic of (South) Vietnam as he had promised the President of The Republic of (South) Vietnam, instead 1973 the Democrats of U.S. Congress Stopped All Funding to the Republic of (South) Vietnam, the Republic of (South) Vietnam was being attacked by Huge North Vietnamese Army and Vietcong Divisions all over South Vietnam, because of the Democrats cuts of Funds, most of our U.S. Ally South Vietnamese Army only had 85 bullets and one handgrenade, to fight off 1000s of Fully Armed, Fully Equipped Vietcong 5 Divisions and North Vietnamese Army 13 Divisions, that also had T-62 Tanks and lots of Armored Infantry Fighting Vehicles, and PT-76s. The North Vietnamese Army then flash flooded across the 17th Parallel DMZ, and from Laos and Cambodia, one by one the Republic of (South) Vietnamese Cities Collapsed.Regrettably, Today's Kids will Not Learn anything from this Series nor the Actual History of Anything. As Filled Full of Democrat Feel Good Politically Correct Propaganda from the Democrats U.S. Labor Union Owned Teachers and Professors (that were those that refused to do their U.S. Citizen's Civic Duty and Obligations when asked by the U.S. Government). August 2017 an 18 year old upon finding out I was a Vietnam Veteran, and still a Reserve Military Officer, 18 year old asked "Was President Lincoln a good President during Vietnam?".When asked who taught him that he and the 15 year old replied "That's what our Teachers taught us at School".I do the same level of Research into the Subjects that I am interested in as the U.S. Congressional Research Agency, and Authors like Cornelius Ryan, so that is why I am "Giving Credit (Blame) were Credit (Blame) is long overdue", the Democrat U.S. Labor Union Owned Teachers and Professors that only have Education Degrees and Not Degrees in the Subjects that they Teach, meaning they have no real Passion for the Subjects that they Teach nor do they have the Knowledge of the Subjects they Teach. I was a Teacher before, then as a U.S. Military Reserve Officer, I got Recalled to Active Duty U.S. Military, I was paying 1/3rd of my Paycheck to Three Democrat U.S. Labor Unions, then there were State and Federal Income Taxes, so did not matter how many Pay Raises We (Teachers) got the 3 Democrat U.S. Labor Unions raised the Labor Union Member Dues immediately, so throwing money at the problem means nothing. So I was not surprised about that question, "Was President Lincoln a Good President during Vietnam?".This Outstanding 10 Episode The Vietnam War Must be shown at U.S. Public Schools. As long as the Unknowing Teachers can provide the many Answers to the many Questions the Students will ask.
As with all of Ken Burns doc's, this one has miles of fantastic footage, minutia of unknown little details, great editing, splendid narration and cherry picking of the facts which glosses over some controversial information on a subject which the controversatial aspect is the entire theme of that horrible conflict. 
I am an amateur student of history and my knowledge of Vietnam and other connecting aspects of 20th century history are pretty abundant therefore I knew certain facts going in and was for good or ill. Here is the main problem: for the first 4 episodes every country's negative aspects of its own involvement is shown; it's viciousness, ruthlessness, brutality, etc. Countries like China, France, East Germany, North and South Vietnam, the Viet-Cong, A.R.V.N., Russia and especially Communism in general... everybody except the U.S., which is handled with kid gloves. Whenever a person from the Pentagon or in some higher up government position is talking, present day interviews, they seem to be saying they had knowledge and passed it along to the right channels and it was either ignored or buried. The U.S. side is presented as mis-informed, mis-guided, mis-lead, mis-read, mis-taken, mis-communicated to, etc. etc..... basically a victim dragged into a situation and trying to rise above it to fight for freedom the world round. None of the sinister tactics of US foreign policy is shown which led up to its involvement and when it does show some sort of negative aspect towards that notion, it is so down played as to supposedly arouse sympathy in the viewer. 
There are many important focal points in history and as far as the Cold War is concerned it is Truman which can be blamed for starting that war and successive administrations for keeping the fear alive. All the good will Roosevelt had slowly built up with Russia over the years while in office, Truman shot down in almost a blink of the eye with trying to get tough with the Russians. Churchill nailed the coffin shut with his famous Fulton Missouri Iron Curtain speech which scared everyone in the western world with the perceived Communist bogey-man wanting to invade small town USA. Churchill admitted that the Russian's, and Stalin, always stood by their word and never broke it, unlike the Western powers that turned their backs on Russia before the end of the pacific war. I am no way endorsing Soviet Russia under Stalin, he was a ruthless dictator who slaughtered millions of his own people in the purges in the 30's, but if Truman had not listened to the hardliners and his own little-boy inferiority complex, the Cold War might not have even happened at all, saving thousands of lives and billions of wasted dollars and denying the world a save environment to life. The Military gained by the Commie-bogeyman fear with increased budgets, corporate American benefitted and Politian's played the fear card to win votes. Everybody wins, except everyone loses in the end. This same bogey-man fear comes to bite the Government in the butt years later; Truman regrets forming the C.I.A., Ike warned the country about the military industrial complex, Kennedy gets his head blown off because he wants to pull the reigns back in regard to the Russians and Johnson's ego won't allow him to cut his losses and pull out of the Nam and hard line, overzealous voters won't let him because of that over-stoked fear about Communism drilled into them since 1945. 
When all is said and done many facts were still not presented which is unforgivable being the doc is 16 hrs. 30 minutes long. It totally ignores the C.I.A.'s deep involvement, which is only glossed over a few times and treated like they had very little input in the thing overall. The Agency nurtured that conflict for decades and when it was the right time, handed it over the military to mop-up in 1965.
Plainly put, Vietnam was used a platform for the U.S. and Russia to trade blows without direct confrontation and it getting out of hand with one side or the other pushing the nuclear button.


                
This is an excellent, well put together documentary, which succeeds at providing a balanced account of the war from both sides during the period of American involvement. It is however a bit surprising that this documentary is being marketed as a 'comprehensive' historical account. It isn't. It does not make reference to the ANZAC involvement, which although much smaller than the US contingent was still a significant contribution, and the ANZAC troops were by and large far more effective in the S.V. areas that they targeted. At best it maybe only briefly mentions the fact that South Korea were a South Vietnamese ally - the South Koreans lost over 5,000 combatants in the conflict. This may not be of interest to the American audience, but then perhaps the documentary should be rebranded as something like 'America in Vietnam', to avoid causing offence to the sacrifice of other nations involved. This should not wholly detract from the great footage, interviews and the clear endeavours of the producers to provide an unbiased account of the war as seen from both sides. It is a masterpiece in that regard.


                
