Previously, I have always advocated the Canadian documentary series "The Ten Thousand Day War" as the best, most even handed, of the documentaries of the Vietnam War. And it still has the benefit of being done early, when many of the players were still alive and available for interview. But the passage of time has given Ken Burns several advantages. People are now more willing to talk about their experience without self editing, the historical perspective of the conflict is now clearer now that the Cold War has been over for some time, and the disclosure of new information from sources as diverse as the White House recordings of President Johnson through to new information from the Hanoi Politburo provide a fresh understanding. Plus, Ken Burns has an oft-cited and valuable ability to create a compelling narrative out of interviews, narration, photos, footage, and music in a way no other doc producer comes close to. And - it is not without it's own POV - which seems to be a somber sense of the near inevitable. The story unfolds like a Shakespearean tragedy, compelling and appalling. Excellent film.


                
I've read about a dozen magazine reviews of the series and they generally breakdown into two categories - Those that were against the war and Nixon say the series wasn't harsh enough about the evils of both, and a somewhat smaller group that feels the series was anti-America and anti-veteran. I tried hard not watch the episodes with an overt bias, but was unable to. I remember the weekly body count on the evening news each Friday. I remember the protesters. I remember at first being prepared to enlist and then deciding to see if I was drafted instead. I also remember listening to the lottery and finding out my number had been called and the thrill of the pre- induction physical...and the immense relief when the final draft cut below my birthday and I didn't have to go...but I had friends that went and didn't return. The series brought it all back, so I can't be objective about the "honesty" of the series.I can say the video and audio clips were extremely effective, as were the interviews. The narration was excellent and the story flowed. Beyond that, it'll take me a few years to figure the rest out.


                
This is a comment on "The Vietnam War" TV series' first episode: "Déjà Vu (1858-1961)"."The Vietnam War" is epic and fascinating. The complete documentary tremendously updated what I thought I knew about the Vietnam War (basically from movies, from "Apocalypse Now" to "We Were Soldiers"). However, I noticed some omissions if not falsehoods in the first episode, probably because it deals with my own country's history, which I know better.The First Indochina War is little known and often misunderstood, even by my fellow French. It's a blind spot in our modern history. Maybe because it took place 6,000 miles away, was a shape-shifting conflict (first an extend of WWII, then a colonial war, and from 1950 onward a fight against communism as part of the Cold War) and ended as both a military and political defeat for France.In this first episode, Ken Burns and Lynn Novick reduce France as a colonial power to an occupying force, in the like of Germany in France between 1940 and 1944 or Japan in Indochina between 1940 and 1945. Indeed, Indochina was under French domination for almost a century. But colonization can't be reduced to its dark side. It certainly was accompanied with human tragedy and humiliation. It also left behind roads, schools, hospitals, cities, factories, trained administrative staff. It's still widely believed that colonial powers looted their colonies' wealth. Working on this premise, French historian Jacques Marseille demonstrated that the French colonies always were a millstone for the homeland economy ("Empire colonial et capitalisme français - Histoire d'un divorce", Albin Michel, 1984).In "Déjà Vu", former members of the Viet Minh assure that all Vietnamese hated the French and wanted to join the VM. Actually, many Vietnamese fought on the French side as auxiliary forces, members of the French army or the Vietnamese army (AVN). For sure, some came for food, some for fear (many Viet Minh prisoners were forced into collaboration by spreading the news they had defected; they had no choice than to go along with the French or be killed if captured by the VM), some for revenge, etc. But some came with conviction too, including former Viet Minh.What did French soldiers do in Indochina for 8 years? According to the authors, in reaction to the VM guerrilla, they burnt villages, raped women and killed men suspect of helping the VM. Later on, it's said that a part of the public opinion in France began to be horrified with the French expeditionary force's abuses. Is that all that must be known and remembered? GIs raped French women in Normandy in 1944. It happened, but I wouldn't dare say it reflects and sums up the Battle of Normandy.The three examples above derive from the black legend of colonialism. Were colonies a bad thing or a good thing? In my opinion, it isn't an issue. They "were". Other times, other customs. History can't be judged. It only can be recorded.There's a sense of failure to accomplish a relevant account, although inevitably short, of the FIW in this first episode. Maybe because no French witness of this conflict is introduced. The only "first hand" report is an excerpt of a letter from a French soldier expressing his deep dejection in face of the war he's doing. How about the dozens of enlisted drivers, cooks or secretaries who volunteered to reinforce the defense of Dien Bien Phu when the battle was already lost, and made their maiden parachute jump perfectly knowing it was a one-way to hell?How about the Battle of the RC4 (Colonial Road 4) fought in 1950 in northern Tonkin? If the FIW is a forgotten war, the RC4 is its forgotten battle. The outcome was as disastrous as Dien Bien Phu for the French forces, and maybe even more considering the strategic implications (actually, it paved the way to Dien Bien Phu). How about the VM prison camps, where 45,000 French soldiers were detained, of whom 30,000 died of malnutrition or mistreatment or were executed? Those who were eventually released weighted less than 90 pounds.France fought in Indochina the first unconventional war in modern history. Along with their Vietnamese allies, the French soldiers fought, suffered and died without the support of their country. In France, 19 governments came one after another during the 8 years of the FIW! And the French people was too keen to forget the deprivation and humiliation of German occupation and rebuild their lives.Although under-manned, ill-equipped and ill-commanded at senior levels, the French soldiers did their job and somehow contained the Viet Minh. But the VM was never destroyed and gained strength over time. The FIW was lost, the French army learned the lessons and put them into practice during the Algerian War (1954-1962). Incidentally, they made an extensive use of helicopters to conduct successful anti-guerrilla operations in Algeria. This didn't go unnoticed by US army staff before the real thing began in Vietnam.Sadly, the US government didn't learn from the FIW and played it again in the Vietnam War. With four times more men and ten times more equipment on half the same territory, they didn't do better than the French. Sadly, the French government didn't learn from their mistakes neither, and signed for another 8-year conflict in Algeria. Although it was won from a military point of view, it was a political failure which led to the independence of Algeria. This goal could have been achieved without a war which cost about 280,000 lives.Worth seeing movies on the FIW include "The 317th Platoon" (1965) and "Dien Bien Phu" (1992), both from French filmmaker Pierre Schoendoerffer, who directed an Academy Award-winning documentary on the Vietnam War: "The Anderson Platoon" (1967).


                
This series provides a lot of info on the background of the conflict in Vietnam. It shows the complete failure to understand the political issues in a foreign country. Then covering up these errors with new ones. An error that sadly has been repeated ever winde.


                
This is a truly excellent film. I was two years too young to go to Vietnam but my draft number was 028, which means I would definitely have gone. Even so, as my father was recently retired career Air Force at the time, so I was deeply immersed in the whole Stateside experience.The only caveat is something that shows an uncharacteristic lack of attention for a Ken Burns film, which was the music. Most of it was spot-on; with the music being contemporary with the images and narration at any given time, but some of it was ridiculous. Examples include using a 1975 Led Zeppelin song for events taking place in 1969, and alternate takes of Beatles tunes that were completely unknown to the public until their Anthology release in 1995. It is not a big deal, except no soldier in Vietnam would have heard any of this. In this case, to the filmmaker it was nothing more than music, but to the people dealing with day-to-day life during the Vietnam war it mattered. To me it seems as disrespectful as if they had included Scott Joplin rags in The Civil War.With the above exception, it is a great miniseries. From the telling of the Hal Wallace story (the subject of We Were Soldiers Once and Young) to the ignorance and naivete of Jane Fonda, and everything else, this covers the range. This series takes everything in a strictly chronological order, which is great, but sometimes the mixing in of things tends to frequently change the pace. A contrasting approach might have been the combination of chronological order and arrangement by topic, such as that used in From the Earth to the Moon, would have made things soak in a bit deeper.The uncredited George Santayana quote about repeating the mistakes of history is a key yet understated theme in this series. The irresponsible attitude towards Afghanistan after the Russians were driven out is a repeat of the Vietnam story - the opportunity to make things right early on that was ignored by shortsighed and self-centered politicians which led us to the present unresolvable situation - same thing. We are also seeing this in the Trump administration - a voluminous number of issues that are repeats of the mistakes of short-sighted and self-centered politicians of multiple generations in the past. It is like the certitude of McNamara and his peers in the past, except their conclusions were based on massive data and not on seat-of-the pants-thinking.The mistakes of the U.S. regarding Vietnam will continue to be repeated over and over until the people in power start taking seriously the deep moral truths behind the Consitution and Declaration of Independence. As long as our leaders have no humility and are driven by power and ego, we will have many Vietnams in the future - Vietnams in every facet of our national activities, causing endlessly increasing headaches and crises that will burden future generations. It's tragic, but it is the inevitable product of the combination of the ignorance and arrogance that characterize the vast majority of our leaders.


                
