Over the years I have soaked up every film and documentary I could find on the subject of the Vietnam war, and I can say this series is by far the most profoundly complete I have seen. It uses insights from the individuals caught up in it - the Viet Cong & North Vietnamese Army, the US Military & South Vietnamese army, civilians from both sides, politicians and journalists alike, to explain, account and report from the early circumstances causing the build up and outbreak of the war through the fierce intensity at the height of the conflict to the final withdrawal and legacies.It explores and reports the socio-political aspects, the strategies and technologies, the cultural contrasts of the belligerents and most of all the people fighting it. It gets across the absolute sacrificial determined tenacity of the north Vietnamese and Viet Cong people - hand made IEDs and mind boggling hard graft versus the richest most technically advanced, but often disillusioned, army in the world (not the last time this would happen). It covers every angle - it's the most complete and compelling telling of this tragic yet fascinating landmark in our history that I've come across.If you have an interest in this significant piece of modern history - the first rock n roll war - which became an unmitigated disaster, this brilliant, powerful and compelling series is absolutely unmissable.


                
Well, I thought that was an amazing documentary. I think Ken Burns does an epic and moving job covering the events from a big picture political perspective. You really get a sense of the weight of history, and the scale of tragedy, particularly how decisions made by presidents and governments set in motion forces that led to catastrophic suffering. Millions of deaths and unhealed emotional wounds. I also thought the documentary was very good at the military level, describing battles and engagements that I had never heard of, in a reasonable detail. And the music and photography was epic. Seeing those pictures of old-time American life juxtaposed with the chaos of Vietnam was so moving. I also thought the reconciliation part at the end was really beautiful. There were three things about the documentary that I did think were weaknesses.1. There was such a focus on the protests, and starting so early on in the series, it kind of overwhelmed the narrative in some ways. I have read that the vast majority of veterans were proud of their service in Vietnam, and did not have this tortured sense of regret and shame that you see with those interviewed in the series. Some did but not most. (for evidence see this article - https://www.wsj.com/amp/articles/ken- burnss-vietnam-is-fair-to-the-troops-but-not-the-cause-1507324058)2. I wonder about the conspiratorial angle of things. This documentary portrays the North Vietnamese as almost magically destined to win, as if it was inevitable, as if nothing the Americans could have done would have made any ultimate difference. I just wonder if part of the reason the Americans lost is because they weren't allowed to win. I mean, had the Americans occupied Hanoi and Haiphong Harbour, would not the North Vietnamese have been unable to prosecute the war? Surely if the Ho Chi Minh trail was permanently occupied in several places there wouldn't be the communist resupply into South Vietnam? But perhaps none of this would have been possible without China directly entering the conflict. Who knows.3.Because the documentary is so long, and also attempts to cover the bigger historical events, I don't think it captures the day to day experience of the Vietnamese villagers that well. I mean, what made someone turn to the VietCong? What was daily life like? There is another, Vietnamese documentary "the face of the enemy" which I think does a better job of this.Overall, a fascinating time spent watching this, and I recommend it to all with caveats.


                
Burns, Novick, and their team committed years of research to this worthwhile project, expressed in 10 episodes. If I had to sum up my experience in watching 5 episodes thus far, I would say that this program is casting a glaring light at how little I knew about this war. Just as bracing as the war imagery is the multiplicity of interviews... Burns and Novick wisely feature all sides to speak forth. The recall of combat experience is expressed by soldiers (both sides), families, POWs, journalists, and activists. As might be expected, some of what the soldiers express is horrific.The tape recordings of several US Presidents and their war advisors are an essential part "The Vietnam War". Can a film like this be presented in a genuinely objective manner?" For many years now, the wide majority of people would agree that this war should not have happened, and it's a difficult task for any director to not infuse a film with their personal viewpoints. As another reviewer noted, it's obvious that the sentiment of this film is most assuredly against the war. Finally, I'll leave you with a quote:"It is only those who have neither fired a shot nor heard the shrieks and groans of the wounded who cry aloud for blood, more vengeance, more desolation. War is hell." - General William Tecumseh Sherman (1820-91)


                
Described by the show's official website as "an immersive 360-degree narrative," The Vietnam War is a behemoth in every sense of the word; written by historian Geoffrey C. Ward and directed by celebrated documentarians Ken Burns and Lynn Novick, the series cost $30 million to make, and was in production for over ten years, with the ten episodes running to a gargantuan eighteen hours. Assembled from over 24,000 photos and 1,500 hours of archive footage, the show features interviews with 79 people, including analysts, bureaucrats, journalists, artists, anti-war protestors, draft dodgers, conscientious objectors, deserters, Gold Star family members, and American, South Vietnamese, and North Vietnamese troops. Deliberately eschewing interviews with historians and major polarising figures such as Jane Fonda, John Kerry, or Oliver Stone, the series features what Burns and Novick define as a "ground up" approach; concentrating almost exclusively on the experiences of ordinary people and soldiers from every side.Telling the story of a conflict, to quote the film itself, "begun in good faith by decent people, out of fateful misunderstandings, and prolonged because it seemed easier to muddle through than admit that it had been caused by tragic decisions," the show begins in reverse; following a brief introduction, scenes of well-known archival footage literally begin to run backwards. It's an unusually stylistic opening for a documentary, especially a multi-part documentary on public television, but there is an important conceptual point in this aesthetic decision; reversing such familiar images works as an opening thematic statement - yes, we all know these pictures, we've all seen them before, but this series is going to show them to us anew.Beginning with the French invasion of Indochina in 1858 and concluding with the opening of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in 1982 (although some brief postscript material goes up to President Barak Obama's visit to Vietnam in 2016), the series hits all the beats you'd expect within this timeframe - the rise of Hô Chí Minh and the formation of the Viet Minh; the Korean War; the Battle of Diên Biên Phu, and subsequent French withdrawal from Indochina; the rise of Lê Duan and the formation of the Viet Cong; Thích Quang Duc's self-immolation; the Gulf of Tonkin incident; the Têt Offensive; the Moratorium to End the War in Vietnam; the Kent State shootings; the Pentagon Papers; the Easter Offensive; the Watergate scandal; Nixon's resignation; and the Fall/Liberation of Saigon.However, where The Vietnam War excels is not in trying to present an all-inclusive encyclopaedic summary of everything that happened in the war, but in its mixture of the macro and the micro - intercut into the larger framework of political analysis and military assessment are more relatable and personalised interviews, which serve to reinforce what the war was like for the people who actually fought it and their families back home. These human stories serve as Burns and Novick's "ground up" material, helping to contextualise the wide-ranging and less personal socio-political canvas against which they are set, never allowing the audience to view the conflict as a statistical abstraction or a dry chronological list of battles. Indeed, in relation to this, one of the most immediately and consistently obvious aspects of the series is its respect for the individual combatants on all sides.If the micro is the show's heart and soul, however, the macro makes up the bulk of its content, and in this sense, perhaps the central-most theme is how the Kennedy, Johnson, and Nixon administrations each got deeper and deeper into the conflict despite knowing it was a mistake to do so and that the war was either unwinnable, or could only be won with unacceptable losses. Although they continually assured the press and public that things were going well, and the North Vietnamese would soon surrender, behind the scenes all three presidents knew the situation was dire.A major theme throughout the series is the effect the war had on the American psyche. Whilst the first episode outlines how the US emerged from World War II as world leaders, convinced of its own irrefutable morality and righteousness, proud of its self-appointed role as global law enforcer, the later episodes detail, often through the personal experiences of returning Vets, how all of this changed during the war. Fought in a country few Americans had even heard of, and fewer still knew anything about, the war was a conflict whose ultimate futility at so great a cost was unlike anything any living American had seen. The stain of the war lingered for decades, and lingers still. As the documentary lays bare, Vietnam fundamentally redefined the notion of American patriotism, altered the constitution of the American zeitgeist, and undermined the concept of American exceptionalism, which was so vital a component of how the US conducted itself on the international stage.Another vital theme, but one which remains unsaid, left for the viewer to provide the connective tissue, is how the domestic events of the war are mirrored in contemporary American society. For example, as the government continued to insist that things were going well, journalists began to report a very different story, leading to the rise of the "credibility gap" - the disparity between the claims made by the government in regards to a situation, and the actual facts of that situation. It doesn't take a genius to see the relevance here - the credibility gap is a direct progenitor of "fake news" and, even more directly, "alternative facts", both of which are specifically associated with the Trump administration. Although Burns and Novick ensure the viewer understands the empirical message that the war destroyed lives and minds, and eviscerated the trust the American people had for their government, they never explicitly state that the socio-political fabric of the 60s and 70s finds echoes in the present day. However, evidence of such is seen time and again throughout the documentary.Undoubtedly, the war was the most divisive period in the US since the Civil War. However, the most divisive period since the war is right now; the US is currently in the seventeenth year of a war begun under dubious circumstances; there are accusations of foreign collusion in a US election; the president has threatened to use force against an Asian nation; there are mass demonstrations across the country; the White House is obsessed with leaks; Johnson and Nixon's attempts to undermine the media, and Nixon's attempts to delegitimise any and all opposition are echoed in Trump's unfounded accusations that the Democrats, for example, paid Dr. Christine Blasey Ford to testify against Brett Kavanaugh, and falsely inflated the death toll in Puerto Rico in the wake of Hurricane Florence.From an aesthetic point of view, one of the most impressive aspects of the documentary is the soundscape. The soundtrack features songs from over 120 contemporary artists. Some of the songs are a little too obvious, but the score more than makes up for that, with the harsh metallic sounds of Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross, contrasting with the Vietnamese folk songs performed by Yo-Yo Ma and the Silk Road Ensemble. Also worth mentioning is something that rarely stands out in a documentary - the foley. Listening to the series on a good sound system, the whirls of rotor blades rise from the surround speakers, the effects of napalm suck the sound into the TV before blasting it back out, bullets whizz past the viewer's head, far off artillery rumbles deeply in the subwoofer. It really is an immersive experience, as impressive as any big-budget film.However, the series is not perfect. Easily the most obvious criticism is that despite their claims that all sides are represented equally, there is a real imbalance between the anti-war movement (represented by three interviewees and dozens of Vets), and those who supported the war (represented by a few comments here and there from people who admit they were conflicted). This imbalance is also present, although less conspicuous, in the number of North Vietnamese combatants (14) weighed against the number of South Vietnamese combatants (7).There are also some notable, and oftentimes bizarre, omissions. For example, there is no mention whatsoever of Maj Gen Edward Lansdale, who was pivotal in Ngô Dình Diem's victory in the rigged 1955 presidential election, and who famously stated, "there is only one means of defeating an insurgent people who will not surrender, and that is extermination." Likewise, there are no references to LTC John Paul Vann who was publicly critical of how the US was conducting the war, at a time when the vast majority of Americans and most of the press were happy with how things were going. Also absent is Lê Van Vien (aka Bay Vien), commander of the Bình Xuyên, an autonomous criminal organisation within the Vietnamese National Army during the years of French occupationNevertheless, The Vietnam War is an undeniably epic achievement. Burns and Novick have distilled down a massively complex canvas of competing ideologies, whilst at the same time refusing to placate either side. This refusal leaves the series open to criticism from both sides, but it may also be the show's greatest strength. Rather than submitting to partisan politics, the series follows its own path, irrespective of how it appears to those with preconceived notions. As harrowing as it is insightful, as informative as it is disturbing, conciliatory rather than condemnatory, The Vietnam War is a masterpiece, and surely one of the finest documentaries ever made.


                
I loved the entire series and will leave out one important STAR of the ten only because the $$$ cost $$$ of this historical disaster is not allowed an important part or perhaps the "Part 11" to sum up what this war was really all about.The political football of any great tragedy has a clear tie to greed and corruption of power. While it is certainly hinted at and quite exposed in actual audio tapes, the lack of that important "green" paper trail to the military contractors supplying this atrocity left a giant hole in this entire series. Surely while presidents wrestle with their "moral conscience" in some parts, left out is the political pressure from contractors to further line their pockets in exchange for votes and support.I wish a real Part 11 existed to show the public, especially kids how important money will drive us down a terrible path of mass killing and destruction in the name of an unwinnable cause known since 1964.The commentary was compelling and unimaginable (in hindsight) how anybody thought this was a good cause or even heroic. The US and South Vietnam clearly lost the war. The Marines retreated. And the childish banter about how the President could "win" somehow while thousands died or got injured is reprehensible. Especially Nixon postponing peace talks to leverage the 68 election...for this Watergate Ford pardons this criminal.


                
The first episode of this ten-episode documentary by Ken Burns and Lynn Novick sets the table with a history lesson spanning 1858 to 1961. A comprehensive and insightful accounting, it begins with the French conquest of Indochina and ends about the time that JFK is elected. Viewers are led through the complexities of Vietnamese history in a way that highlights the pivot points that resulted in the conflict we call the Vietnam War. This includes the partitioning of the territory into northern and southern states separated by a demilitarized zone.Episode two details developments through the Kennedy presidency. Numerous American failures are iterated. At this point, the death of 47 Americans (total) was considered a failure.It remains to be seen how subsequent episodes will present the war and fracturing American sentiments at home, but so far the narrative feels fairly objective and without political agenda. I will return to update this review as the series continues.I am looking forward to more first hand accounts and evocative period music.


                
To put it simply Ken Burns and Lynn Novick's Vietnam is a masterpiece.Longer than Wagner's Ring cycle (and more dramatic) this 18-hour documentary, finally, explains the Vietnam nightmare comprehensively, fairly, visually, personally, majestically.I was a teenager during much of the war. Vietnam was in my face from the time I was in 8th grade until I was out of college. It was always there simmering, occasionally boiling, usually tasteless during that part of my life. I had a high school buddy killed over there. I had other friends come back and tell of horrible and exciting things they witnessed and did there. I saw the new stories, the TV reports, the magazines, the radio news. I was flooded with information, but there was no singular narrative that could link it all together. The Presidents said one thing, our soldiers said another, news reporters another and our enemies something completely different. What was the truth about that catastrophe?Well, Ken Burns and Lynn Novick really did their homework. After decades of mastering how to tell a long story through the documentary process, they used their collective knowledge (and you can tell a passion) to finally get to the bottom of Vietnam. But they professionally decided, as always, not to tell their story. No, they captured all the elements then aligned them, in a time- tested way, in which the truth finally comes through. Including many shameful truths I was never aware of.I'm sure with all the footage from news networks, presidential libraries, international sources, enemy footage, and personal media— they had more material than ever to go through. Yet every segment of the eighteen hours seems essential. They tell the big story, the military story, the political story, the cultural stories, the generational story, the secret story, the personal stories and the follow up story—all brilliantly.If I had to be critical about anything, well, maybe it's a bit too long. They methodically look at each year of the war. By the time you get to Nixon, you feel like you've seen enough of the jungles, the treachery of the enemy, the American firepower, the same futility many times before. Oh, there's always a new fact, or a different person interviewed who shares their view and pain. But truthfully, after a while, I found myself a little restless.But, perhaps that tedium is part of the deep thinking, the intelligence behind this monumental documentary. The war was long, painful tedious, and it morphed into different entities as it dragged on. You could read that in a book, someone can tell you, but through ten nights you can almost feel the weight, the plague of that awful mess.I'm convinced this Vietnam documentary will be and should be a course in schools; an essential opus of study and discovery for one of the most complicated, expensive and divisive periods of our history.


                
We can all debate whether or not a certain cause is worth going to war over, but a basic rule is indisputable: don't fight, unless you have a plan to win. With hindsight, it's regrettable that the Vietnamese independence movement was grounded in communist ideology; but the America attempt to contain it was inevitable doomed. While the U.S. propped up a corrupt government in the south of the country, the other side was fighting less for communism, and more for the freedom of their homeland. They were always going to win, precisely because they could not go home to somewhere else. And the amazing thing is, that the American government to a large extent shared this analysis; and nonetheless, sent thousands of their people to die in a lost cause. Many times that number of Vietnamese perished in 30 years of conflict.Ken Burns and Lynn Novick have made a superb documentary about this war. Occasionally sentimental, it's nonetheless unflinching in its portrayal of the essential stupidity of the American involvement, and with numerous eye-witnesses on both sides giving testimony alongside a remarkable amount of historic footage: this was perhaps the first war truly fought on camera. The saddest thing is that the U.S. continues to this day to blunder into conflicts it can't win, convinced of its own exceptionalism. To those with power, it seems, some lessons cannot be taught.


                
I love Ken Burns and his documentary style. He has the rare gift of balance in his presentations, with cinematography, script, survivors and tempo. In the first episode I have watched, we are treated to an observer style history of the treacle that was the Vietnam War.We find out how the involvement became a morass for the US and how ideologies overran the original purpose. That purpose was by no means honourable, with the French Colonialists trying to re- establish their elitist rule over Indo- China with brutal intensity. To the occupiers, the Vietnamese were only one step above beasts of burden (this was, however, the attitude of all colonialists AND the attitude of the US elite towards what they felt were "lesser" races in their own country) Of course we didn't know anything about the Vietnamese struggle to guide their own destiny and by the time it made the mainstream media it had morphed into a fight against communism. Mr Burns does a great job of explaining this history to us in emotional scenes that only he can create. It's hard not to cry at the harrowing experiences recalling families being wiped out or parents shot dead in front of their kids. The way in which he displays the stupidity and callousness of carpet bombing villages and forests shows how easy it became for the US troops to run out of control. I mean what use is it to send a group of twenty or thirty men through a rice paddy field to destroy mostly innocent bystanders in a bamboo hut village? It just builds more hate yet it carried on unchecked for many years. And that's why I like Ken Burns' and Lynn Novick's approach, they are non-judgmental and have you asking yourself questions as to how things like this happen in the world. The leaders are usually at the mercy of their advisors and their advisors are quite often a group of ideological nutters who know nothing about world affairs, I don't have to elaborate on the outcome of decisions coming from meetings of these types of minds! So in the first episode, one of those fateful decisions is made (and by one of the Presidents I admire the most.. Harry Truman)and we're immediately in that treacle.We're in a war we can't win and it's a war we shouldn't be involved with.... how do you get out? Well, getting out is the easy part, it's getting out AND saving face that we're going to learn about as we get to the end of this marvellous documentaryI'll try and review each episode onwards from my own peculiar point of view ... check 'em out , they'll get you thinking!


                
I remember seeing news reports on the television when I was a child. Vietnam was one of those places my parents didn't want me to see. So off went the television during the six o'clock news reports. I was to remain sterile to the death.Ken Burns has made some very important documentaries and one of my favorites was about Baseball. He is a thoroughly complete producer of his projects and his team of researchers try to leave no stones unturned. The efforts are not always perfect but they are more often very detailed.The Vietnam war has been a long and blood road of destruction for all of those who attempted to control the land from southern China to the S. China Sea. It was invaded by the French over one hundred years ago and in 1986 underwent reforms to unify the country.Ken Burns covers a lot of pre-political subjects showing how mistakes on both sides eventually leads to the deaths of millions of people. A war which is not needed but is desired by those who seek power and control with their greed.America is eventually brought in to the fight under false pretenses of trying to stop Communism. How many times would this war have been avoided if underlings of the US Government would have passed along letters of intent from one leader to another? Simple acts of ignorance and stupidity by CIA agents or secretaries who make decisions for an entire nation?While some might find this series less than desirable, it attempts to bring forth the reality of a situation with open eyes. It attempts to show a timeline of events with all the different contributors of chaos. Viewers need to step aside from thinking of any nation as being the justified. Even the Vietnamese killed Vietnamese and destroyed their land and murdered their people in an attempt for complete control.


                
I'm going to keep this review short, there are plenty of people that have pointed out how good this documentary really is. And i have to agree, though i feel it was a bit "stretched" at times, it is none the less an insanely important documentary about some of the darkest periods of human history.I cannot recommend it enough, it is important to watch this, to learn from it, and to avoid making mistakes like this ever again. This is a history lesson the Americans wished we would not talk about, they would rather bury it and pretend it never happened.What i want to point out is what i did after i saw this documentary. i then saw Platoon, Apocalypse Now, Full Metal Jacket & The Deer Hunter and those films just became so important again, not that they never were. But now i saw some of these films again for the first time in 10+ years and i saw things i never noticed before.I also started to wonder why the My Lai massacre never had been made into a big Hollywood film, only to discover that Oliver Stone apparently has a script ready for it, and have had that for over 10 years already, but he feels the timing is not right to make such a film yet. And i have to strongly disagree, after this documentary, a film of that event is something i strongly recommend be told.What happened at My Lai (Pinkville) shook me to the core, i was not aware of this event before i saw this documentary, and i knew quite a bit about the Vietnam war before i saw it. I really hope someone makes a great movie about this horrible massacre, and how the aftermath was handled, it's a disgrace of the highest order, and cannot be forgiven, ever.So when i saw "Apocalypse now" again and then again heard the famous lines spoken by Captain Willard:-"How many people had I already killed? There were those six that I knew about for sure. Close enough to blow their last breath in my face. But this time, it was an American and an officer. That wasn't supposed to make any difference to me, but it did. Charging a man with murder in this place was like handing out speeding tickets in the Indy 500."It got me, i felt it this time, really felt it. Now i finally understood. Suddenly "Apocalypse Now" moved up from a great movie to one of the best movies i have ever seen, top 10 in fact, that's how good it is, and it took this documentary to really make me realize just how good it in fact is.Do what i did, you should, it will change you. See those films again.


                
I've only watched 3 episode due to other commitments on some evenings. Having served in the military in the '60s and '70s and having spent 7 months in Southeast Asia I've been watching this for the details and Burns is getting them right. I realize that a lot of what is being shown, particularly the back story about McNamara and Johnson and other politicians is coming a "breaking news" to some people but not to all of us. Another reviewer criticized the show for "rewriting" history. But there is no rewriting going on. The fact that the reviewer didn't know something, or that many people didn't know it doesn't make it "rewriting". Heck I have friends who still think Nixon didn't do anything wrong despite his admissions on TV and having heard the tape. But then there are probably still people that think Obama wasn't born in the US and that US school teachers and minorities caused the financial meltdown in 2007/2008.


                
Filled with lots of historic footage from decades, the series guides you - like an enciclopedia would - through the whole story of the conflict. Very solid narrative work along with personal stories from both sides, it brings the viewer an insightful and impartial perspective of the Vietnam War. It presents a remarkable ammount of narrated historical content together with great photography, editing and soundtrack. It is a very long take on the subject indeed, but it definitely doesn't fail to keep you interested throughout the ten episodes with more than one hour and a half of duration. Highly reccomended to history lovers.


                
Ken Burns knows what he's doing. This 18 hour documentary on the Vietnam war is the most information filled war documentary you'll see. You'll hear from both sides including citizens from both countries. Great watch


                
I very much enjoyed Ken Burns' recent effort "The Vietnam War." On such a subject it is very difficult to be perfectly balanced and this one was slightly left. I believe that the selection of the veterans who were interviewed could have been better balanced by a vet who did not eventually side against the war. Nevertheless, those who were selected were articulate, interesting, and very honest in depicting their war.The production of the documentary is excellent - with great utilization of the music of the 60's and 70's as a highlight of the production. In many situations, the music seemed to be written for the scenes being depicted.Peter Coyote is outstanding as the narrator. His calm, clear narration made the entire story very understandable and dramatic.I totally understand those veterans who fought in the war being outraged that they were not given "equal time." I have discovered that at times those people who are living through an event (like Vietnam or WWII) know what they experienced, but not necessarily what was going on beyond their experience, at least at the time. That was true of my Mom & Dad who lived thru the Blitz and D-Day in WWII England, but actually knew less than I did about the war as a whole. In no way am I minimizing what they or the Vietnam vets went through - I'm just trying to put it in perspective.One of the highpoints of the documentary were the interviews of family members whose boys had gone to war and the thoughts and conversations the Presidents had - where they expressed their beliefs about the war (particularly that it could not be won.) The Presidents demonstrated once again that conscience and morality and what is best for the county make rare appearances in the decision making of politicians. This just reinforced what I see every day from Congress - on both sides of the aisle.Finally, this documentary was very long. If it could have been shortened by 3 - 4 hours, it would have been better. In spite of all of this, Ken Burns' documentary is a good addition to the documentation and explanation of why Vietnam happened, and how it happened.


                
... About the Vietnam war. It was fascinating and shocking from the first minute to the last. In my European eyes there is too much emphasis on the USA. It could have been some more episodes about the situation in Vietnam and the war itself. But it is great anyway. I absolutely recommend.


                
I've been interested in the Vietnam conflict for such a long time. Monthly magazines collected back in the 80's and put into a binder. Then you have the movies that made it so real but glamorous and then I travelled to Vietnam twice to see what had become of the country. Vietnam is amazing, the love and friendship from the local people makes you take a step back and appreciate what went on. This series is brilliant and doesn't leave anything to the imagination. It happened, it was so wrong, we need to learn.


                
I thought I was tripping out, but they reused scenes from other episodes. Still interesting to watch.


                
I love documentaries, and I always enjoy Ken Burns' work. I have been looking forward to watching this series, because while I am well versed in the Civil War and WWII, I am not familiar with the Vietnam War.Having said all that, I found this documentary excellent, but lacking in balance. I also found it strange that some of those being interviewed contradicted themselves quite openly, without clarification or explanation.John Musgraves, for example, went from being a young Marine who served in Vietnam and left after being wounded in the chest. I found his story quite compelling and moving. Then, after coming home, he went from being a dedicated Marine to being a vehement anti-war demonstrator. The series displays a photo of him at the time with long, billowing curly hair, after which he states that he was "still living as a Marine," even though he was not in active duty or uniform. Sorry, no sale - not with that huge head of hair.Then, later, he was upset with Jane Fonda for her position supporting north Vietnam, apparently completely unaware that his own anti-war position was not to different from hers. Near the end of the documentary, he shares several statements being disgusted by those who seem to share his own anti-war view. I can understand mixed feelings among those that served, but subjects' open contradiction with their own statements lessens their reliability as presenters. This is not a topic to treat so lightly.There was a north Vietnamese soldier who went on a rant near the end of the documentary about how America's beliefs in their country following Marx or Communism was totally incorrect. This is really strange, since this was supposedly the entire reason for the whole war. This same person (sorry, I don't recall his name, but he is the one with solid while wavy hair) said in several different sections how their side was dedicated to freedom, etc., all completely in contrast to everything Communism stands for to this day. These statements were never challenged or explained in any way, either.The inclusion of John Kerry's testimony, and the views of several veterans who supported him, are without question imperative to include. The opposing view to this position, however, is barely mentioned.Nixon's lies are well exposed several times, and this is also important to include. Less clear are the lies Johnson told - even though he clearly lied several times as well, his prevarications are rarely labeled as such.I get it - Ken Burns is a liberal Democrat, and makes no secret of being one. I have no problem with that, either. Left to the viewer's determination is whether or not or how the Vietnam War was "won" or "lost," and this is not even mentioned. I was waiting to hear how and why historians call this war a loss for the US. I wanted an explanation. It never came. In my own mind, I am only able to guess that, although by numbers of those killed, the USA won; by weapon usage, the USA won; but by looking at what we originally set out to do, which was to prevent the country's conversion to Communism, in this we failed. How Nixon developed an exit strategy is discussed; how this evolved into a USA loss in history is not covered.As someone who was born in 1969, and a news/history junkie, I enjoy programs such as this, but I would have much preferred more balance to give a clearer view to the entire picture.
