Hollywood used to give Oscars to films of consequence, to films which ambitiously told stories of real people rising above strife and issues which touched the core of the world. But that was during the golden age of movie making when Andy Hardy's mother would smile simply because he asked for another piece of pie and Fred Astaire would gallantly guide Ginger Rogers around the dance floor. When movies about serious issues such as alcoholism, mental illness and anti-Semitism came in, one movie mogul apparently described it with the statement about realism, "So is diarrhea, but I don't want to see it on screen." Yes, we can see through our daily lives that "focus on the family" is an overstated attempt by certain groups to diminish the realism that families do fail, and not with the help of the groups they don't see eye to eye with. In theatrical drama, this evidence goes back to some of the classics of the American theater, particularly plays by Tennessee Williams and Edward Albee, and those plays hold up strongly today because the elements of why those families were failing were better detailed. Even the black comedy "The War of the Roses" showed us the motivations behind the hatred, but all "American Beauty" does is show us that men are sex starved pigs, that women are bitches, that teenagers are messed up because of their sex starved fathers and bitchy mothers and that there's no hope for the future generation.Certainly, this film is excellent as far as the acting is concerned, yet the characters are all extremely creepy and unlikable. Nobody plays creepy weirdos better than Kevin Spacey, and in spite of being that creepy weirdo, his character is actually somewhat understandable, albeit in a pathetic, you can't help but feel sorry for him sort of way. His lust for his nasty daughter's best friend is at first "ikky" to watch as is his obsession with getting out of the job that he hates with a high paid exit benefit package. Annette Bening is certainly great at playing neurotic bitches, and here she does so quite brilliantly with passive/aggressive gusto. She's quite sweet and somewhat phony with the gay couple next door, yet she turns on her husband with the venom of a cobra towards a mongoose. The sex scene she has with rival real estate agent Peter Gallagher is filmed with a lustful anger, as if what Gallagher is doing to her she is psychologically doing to her husband.Thora Birch expresses typical teenaged bitterness and insecurities with the violent thud of an anvil being dropped from a skyscraper. She not only hates her parents, but is totally embarrassed by having them around, especially after a basketball game for which she is a cheerleader. Birch's character certainly doesn't have the personality of a cheerleader; In fact, on the court, she can't even force herself to crack a smile and just goes through the routine as if she was being forced at gunpoint to do what most teenaged girls would give their I-Phone (well, maybe not...) to do.Mena Suvari, as her cheerleader pal, is probably the most complex character here, the typically self-centered supposedly perfect girl who actually is more insecure than she lets on. In one disturbing fight scene between Birch and Suvari, her vulnerability really explodes when Birch refers to her as ordinary. How many times has somebody longed to tell off the cheerleader type to try and break their spirit, and when it happens here, it really turns out to be sad. Wes Bentley is the new kid next door, the son of an ex-Marine (a truly scary Chris Cooper), forced by his dad to take a drug test every six months. But unbeknownst to the homophobic Cooper, Bentley has a secret life of his own, a hidden supply of drugs and an obsession with filming everyone around him without their knowledge.Cooper's angry Marine is instantly incensed to find out that the neighbors two doors down is a male gay couple, but this homophobia hides something truly disturbing. Not only is there his obsession with Nazi memorabilia but his own underlying sexuality and abuse of his fragile wife (played with quiet strength by the always excellent Allison Janney). The lives of these characters intertwine to the point of an exploding volcano, a sinking ship without lifeboats, and really, the best escape from this mess turns out to be Spacey's fate. At two hours, this is a depressing and exhausting view of the messed up lives of humans too stupid to realize that they are responsible in most part for their inner destruction. After this was over, I felt as if I had been shot with a taser gun all over my body and needed extensive therapy just to recover from watching these people whom I hope never to know become more and more pathetic.
I was looking at this film page a while ago and I've read most of the comments and saw the rating as well. Everybody was talking good about the film, and after I read the comments I was thinking about buying the film's DVD but lucky for me it was on t.v few days ago. What a terrible film it was!! I couldn't make myself believe that this film won best picture and that Kevin Spacey won Best Actor in Leading Role with his less than average performance. I thought the film was made just to show some of the cast getting naked! There is a scene where Chris Cooper kisses Kevin Spacey, this scene was so not necessary, there was just no point in it.Three other film were nominated for Best Picture the same year, and they all are way better then this film, take for example The Sixth Sense which should have won the Oscar instead of this film.There are also two great performances that were nominated for Best Actor, Denzel Washington for The Hurricane and Russel Crowe for the insider, they were both greater than Kevin Spacey's performance, and still they were ignored by the Academy Award.In the end , my rating for this film will be 4 out of 10. I think that what the film lives up to.
Good acting. Fun script. Some good lines and funny moments. Butit's just Hollywood garbage with  some slightly challengingthemes."Dad"  emerges from his middle-class suburban existence andachieves enlightenment and individuation--tells off the boss, hiswife, etc,--while his bitchy wife melts down. He's the only person inthe movie with any sense of humor. How satisfying! Okay, he dies at the end (which we knew would happen from theopening pre-credit scene), but that just allows him to remain theeternal shining self-actualized guy that every 40-something dadthinks he is (at least potentially), rather than dealing with messycomplexities.In typical academy fashion, it just slightly breaks the Hollywoodmold--enough for critics to rave about its "originality," but notenough to challenge the standard formula. So it scored. Just likePulp Fiction (which used the *wildly* original technique of achronology shift in an otherwise dumb tale to achieve its brilliantoriginality).Trivial. Trite. Pretentious in its attempts to surmount that. Vastlyoverrated. Kind of fun, but not much else.


                
It amuses me that comments from any user giving this film a rating of less than 8.5 (the weighted average) are classified as "Hated it"! '8' still looks like "thumbs-up" to me. I think "American Beauty" is criminally overrated, but whatever. I gave it a '5' years ago, based on its technical merits and some amusing moments. For the record, I am an unabashed liberal and left-winger, and, in my opinion, "AB" is pretty much the proverbial Emperor's New Clothes. There are no teeth in this satire: everyone has a warm place to sleep and plenty of food to eat. Let's see what Lester would do without the $60K. The various sexual idiosyncrasies are plot devices, not actual character traits. And who cast Mena Suvari as "the babe"? Puh-leez!Future film historians will have a good laugh over the Best Picture Oscar for this nonsense. Like someone else commented, there is no movie if these knuckleheads bothered to lower their window blinds occasionally. About as emotionally engaging and meaningful as a bag of Cheese Puffs.
This is a beautifully crafted *bad* film. On the plus side Sam Mendes seems to really understand actors and draws sympathetic, detailed performances from each actor. The film's problems are almost entirely attributable to the story and screenplay.The film attempts to support the premise that someone can reclaim their soul by regressing to an immature, selfish, essentially adolescent position in the world. What is amazing and fascinating is how convincing this message is being received by (a proportion of) audiences despite the lack of conviction in the writing.For example, a key line is the moment when Lester chastises his wife's materialism saying "This isn't life, this is just STUFF!". But only moments previously we have seen him enjoying his new remote-control toy car, and know that he has just indulged himself in a new car. It appears that it's only 'stuff' when it belongs to someone else.This contradiction and implied selfishness is passed over casually without notice or comment by director and author - apparently insensitive to the dynamic subtleties they encourage us to "look closer" at. Similarly moral boundaries are crossed indifferently. What kind of creative artist doesn't bother to acknowledge moral transgression as a device to generate an audience response? It doesn't matter whether the author approves or disapproves that boundaries are crossed - it's part of their craft to plot a course through the moral landscape it presents, because that's important to the audience. Yet Lester's blackmailing, inappropriate lust, and drug taking are presented as equivalents to playing loud rock-music whilst out driving. In what purports to be serious drama, that's just sloppy narration.None of the women characters are permitted any moral redemption. The closest being Lester's daughter who manages to find herself dependent on a psycho, drug-dealer to meet her need for liberation and esteem. Perhaps this is another clue that the author lacks the finer sentiments needed to set a moral lead for a generation."As Good as It Gets" more surely, convincingly and funnily tells a tale of moral redemption. "All About My Mother" startlingly vividly and more humanly shows people struggling to make meaning in a dysfunctional existence, and the standard for American suburban social satire is set by "The Simpsons".I enjoyed the texture of the film, but it amounted to nothing and I was all too glad to get back on the street, feel the sunshine, smell the air, and touch the pavement again.


                
Take the movie Office Space, expand it to the work-and-family-life setting, throw in some drama and depth, and sprinkle shallow metaphors on the top and you have American Beauty.  The film is not without its good points and charms, however, it's somewhat over hyped in reviews.  Certainly not award worthy, but then again, like the Oscars would know anything about award worthy material.It earns points for exploring a narrative angle I've never quite seen before in live action cinema (even if it does borrow heavily from the `let's-make-a-movie-about losers' film trend like with Clerks, Office Space, Straight Story.)  At least American Beauty is about fictitious characters and their portrayals remind of Tim Burton's Edward Scissorhands, that other-worldly, suburban-storybook-ish, caricature-or in other words: none of the characters in American Beauty are real, but we don't care.  It's not supposed to be.  I won't bash them for being unrealistic, but I will criticize them for boring me.I found Kevin Spacey's character the most entertaining, but then again I always like the characters who stop giving a damn and start speaking the thoughts we all want to say to the people around us.  Beyond Kevin Spacey's performance and his character, not a single character throughout the rest of the film managed to keep my interest.  Beyond that, none of the characters managed to acquire credibility in my mind.  So with a cast of one interesting character, I didn't feel like lending my imagination to this film, didn't feel like getting into this film's world or suspending my disbelief too terribly far for it (ie this film really did nothing to capture my interest.)The <U+0091>provocative' plot points came across as rhetorical and pseudo-philosophical instead of something genuinely worthy of discussion; the characters these provocative snippets come from seemed quite cliché and typical of what you'd expect to hear from them: the meaning, pleasures, and importance of life and beauty from a loser and a freak respectively.  `Don't judge a book by its cover.'  Lesson learned.  Moral earned.  How ironic! Been there.  Done that.  Bored me there too.I do appreciate American Beauty's lack of a serious attempt at a plot.  It moves along at its own pace, documenting the loose correlations of isolated events at key points in the timeline about these characters.  Like with Kevin Smith's Clerks, American Beauty proves how overrated plot is and attempts to build on the characters alone and their lives, trials, and tribulations.  The result is a quirky original film, which I love original and like quirky . . . but since I cared very little for the characters and the philosophy I didn't really like this quirky original film.


                
* A possible spoiler *This movie, I have to say, is as strange as ever.  I mean it is still good but the opening line by Kevin Spacey saying that his job in the shower is the greatest part of his day.  And how when Annette Benning showed the first people the new house she had like emotional distress times a million.  Thora Birch wants her father dead and Wes Bentley agrees to do the job.  Kevin Spacey watches mena Suvari open her clothes and let flowers come out in his dream.  Don't get me wrong this movie is very cool, but weird at times.Overall the acting was very cool and I enjoyed Kevin Spacey's freaky performance.  Rating 7 out of 10.
As a suburbanite, I found this movie offending. The exaggerated stereotypes are really unfunny, and the plot completely escapes me. Maybe I'm just happy with my life, but I didn't get this film at all, nor why some people enjoyed it so much ("Ummm...it was just a paper bag.") I was impressed with Annette Bening's performance, which was excellent. She's the only reason I would suggest anyone see this movie.


                
Not that dark, not that shocking, not that funny.  Potentially interesting characters (Peter Gallagher's and the wife next door)  were, unfortunately, underdeveloped. And the music was really lacking in effect or originality. Fairly unpredictable storyline, but overall the movie was very thin.


                
I heard all the hype.  I saw my friends go to the movie over and over. And yet as I sat in the theater and enjoyed another fine performance by Kevin Spacey, I wasn't blown away by this movie.  It was troubling and well acted, but it was disjointed and seemed to almost be a caricature.  I despise suburban living as well, but I really don't think that this movie spoke volumes about the 'burbs.  Nor do I think that just because there was a heavy influence of symbolism, that it was a good movie.  The best part was the acting, but overall I thought this movie was confusing and disturbing. And just because it disturbed me by bringing up feelings of kiddie porn does not make it artsy or intellectual.


                
The end speech kills the film.  The acting is great,  but I suspect the script was looking for an ending that would have done justice to some great ideas to explore in a movie.  Eyes Wide Shut was more 'personal',  with the focus on the characters' emotions rather than on situations.  American Beauty feels too much like a sitcom to be taken seriously.


                
Here in the UK there is a total consensus that American Beauty is everything you could ever wish for from a film. Utterly baffling, if you ask me. It's also being held up as an illustration of how Hollywood is tackling those anti-American Dream themes traditionally left to the more independent-minded film-makers. In fact it's a perfect demonstration of why Hollywood should keep it's nose out.American Beauty has it's moments: the plastic bag blowing in the wind begins a nice evocation of the banal beauty that surrounds us, but the rest of the film is either superfluous or has been done much better many times before. It's not profound in any sense, it's certainly not witty, it's implausible, the direction is stagey, and it's characters are, at best, updated stereotypes (so the film's sensitive, sympathetic figures are the two weird kids who dress in black? What a surprise).And as for that performance... Kevin Spacey looks like nothing more than a Big Hollywood Actor beamed into a low-key film to do his stuff. He twitches and grins and smirks and wisecracks like, erm, Kevin Spacey! They might as well have cast Al Pacino and let him loose to chew up the set. Annette Bening, however, is great. Small consolation.If it's valid for commentators to herald American Beauty as the epitome of a nebulous 'Suburban/Middle Class Underbelly' genre, then it's equally valid for me to say forget AB, see 'Happiness' instead.


                
Does anyone out there know what the phrase "navel gazing" means?Yes?Check out the poster.Got it?You're being had.


                
I thought the movie was boring.  I nodded off twice while watching it. Fortunately I could rewind the video and see what I missed.  I liked the neighbor with the video camera.  Kevin Spacey is ok, but not deserving of Best Actor.  It has a few humorous scenes with the best being the drive thru window scene & the King with the cheating wife.  It was too easy to guess who the shooter was.  I gave the movie a 4.


                
This movie so incredibly lacks subtlety, coherence... It is very, very handed, pounding it's "philosophy" whereas it could be delivered with many less words and much more Pictures. (This is cinema, not books).  It's plot is quite incoherent, and its end does nothing to help its thesis, nor indeed is justified.I find it difficult to find its originality, many, many movies have pointed to the superficiality of life according to social standards and some were much better (you guys should see "The rules of the game" by Renoir as an example of how good movies with this theme can be).All in all, although I can't rate the acting (I saw it in french dubbed version and the dubbing was appalling) this movie has some funny moments, but is really not a great one.


                
Emperor's new clothes.A film set in suburbia made by people who've never lived there.  A film that would love to be an early 70's Bob Rafelson movie with Jack Nicholson but it comes nowhere near.  If you don't know what I'm talking about watch "Five Easy Pieces".  Characters do things because the scriptwriter says so and to get a laugh. Does that look like a family to you?  These people look live they've never even met.  Kevin Spacey isn't very good.  This is a troubled man?  I don't think so. He brings nothing to the film (again compare with early Nicholson, whose characters looked like they had a past, even if you never knew the details). Spacey looks like a man who has just turned up for a few days shooting.  He plays a man who wants to be good at being mildly sarcastic to people.The end?  The message.  A guy's brains on a table can be beautiful.  A plastic bag blowing in the wind can be beautiful.  Look closer.  You've been had, sucker.


                
Inspired by the advance publicity for Sam Mendes' first outing as cinema director, I went in wanting to be impressed.  The let down makes my reaction all the harsher.Beautifully filmed, yes, but the arty shots were an excuse to let the camera linger lovingly on nasty scenes.  Maybe this works on the stage allowing taboo subjects and sexual attitudes to be raised and examined, but on the big screen in a "real life" family it was just pretentious, overblown and ultimately just plain unpleasant.I found myself looking for some themes underlying the various plot threads in the film and finding none. I found the characters difficult to like.  I found the camera work strained. The songs were nice (revealing my age here), and Kevin Spacey did himself some good, but this was not a film to recommend to friends.Keep on trying Sam.


                
I had reservations about seeing this movie when I first heard about it, thinking it would be little more than a twisted beauty pageant.  However, after reading some absolutely fantastic reviews and seeing that it had gotten a 9.2/10 (at the time) rating on this site, I figured I'd have to give it a try.I can't see what anyone saw in this film.  It didn't grab me emotionally, it wasn't a turn-on, it felt false, shallow and hollow.  I didn't buy what I consider to be the basic premise of the movie, the lusting of Spacey's character toward his daughter's teenaged friend.  It seemed like a minor plot device thrown in at the last minute, but the entire movie centred around it and Spacey's increasing disenchantment with his life.I laughed a few times, but those times were few and far between.  At least I made it through the entire movie, though.  A friend walked out of the theatre half-way through, completely bored and preferring to go for a walk instead.I found myself begging (silently) for at least a nude scene or two once I realized the movie wasn't going to be to my liking, but even those seemed contrived and added as afterthoughts to the screenplay.  Oh, look, breasts. Whee.Utterly forgettable movie in my books, although I definitely appear to be in the minority on this one.  4/10 (and a very kind 4 at that).


                
To enjoy this movie, you need to identify with one of the characters.  If you don't fall into one of the four overly defined typecasts, the movie becomes a conglomerate of self-centred fixations.  If, however, you are undergoing or anticipating undergoing a mid-life crisis, by all means, go see the show!


                
It's not funny and you can't take it seriously.  Okay, there were a couple humorous parts, but the characters were not likeable up until the last few minutes of the film.  Every character was stereotypical until the very end when we finally got a short glimpse of who they are really were.  I almost walked out of the theater. I'm glad I had discount tickets because it wasn't worth $7.50.


                
This won 5 Oscars including Best Picture????????????I must have missed something coz I really didn't think it was that good. Was I meant to come away with some kind of moral? Maybe it's an American thing!I don't know what other movies it was up against but they were ripped off!


                
American Beauty is not a good film.  Its premise, that American suburban life is stifling of aliveness, is very unoriginal.  And that kids sometimes have to find another way than their parents' lives.  But in this film, one good way is to sell drugs and lie to your parents.  There's also a good deal of fake profundity in the film. The boy finding a dead pigeon beautiful, and all he has to say about the plastic bag being blown around.  Not from the heart. Some good characters, some good caricatures, some enjoyable scenes, some very funny ones.  But not a serious movie.


                
American Beauty this and American Beauty that. All I kept hearing was how good this film was.  About the Oscars it was nominated for and won. I thought to myself, "I must really be missing something." So I rented the video.  I admit I did have a few good laughs and every now and then I wanted to know what was going to happen next but over all the movie wasn't anything extraordinary.Don't get me wrong, I really don't prefer $150 million action flicks.  This movie didn't stand up to the buzz it received. Again, I didn't think that the film was bad at all. It was enjoyable, the acting was flawless, and I may even watch it again but it fell short of what I expected.Good movie but totally overhyped if you ask me.


                
This movie was not good in any respect. It was, I'm guessing, an attempt to hold a mirror up to the faces of middle to upper-class America, and it failed terribly. I don't know anybody as stupid as the main characters, and I know some really dumb people. The reality of this movie was awful, I could not suspend reality when I was watching it, because it was so dumb. What sort of man leaves a great job and then works at a burger joint, none, it has never happened and it never will. I just could not believe what was going on, and I felt nothing for any of the characters. Why was this movie made?


                
After all of the awards and hype the only thing I found appealing about American Beauty is the screenplay by Alan Ball. I think this film is highly over-rated and other films more deserving of the Best Picture Oscar (perhaps Fight Club).Yes, yes, Annette Benning was excellent, in fact the whole cast was superb. But, this is no cinematic masterpiece.  The story of the dead, strange, suburban husband telling the story of his late/recent life is humorous and has some intriguing moments.  I enjoyed many of the scenes but it seemed the film lurched from good to bad in moments and lacked the continuity that it was pretending to enjoy.Spacy getting an Oscar for this performance is unacceptable.  He was good, he always seems to outshine the material, but please (again) this performance is highly overrated.Maybe I need to watch it again to fully understand the reason/reasons the film was so highly touted.


                
