Who says popular films are not and cannot be art? If anything is proof that popular films can be of a stunningly high quality, the beauty of the animation, writing, music, and sound design in "WALL·E" is it. "WALL·E" eclipses even Andrew Stanton's "Toy Story" and "Toy Story 2" in the Pixar pantheon, is perhaps Pixar's best film to date and, call me crazy as I've just seen it, a contender for the title of best animated film, period."WALL·E" is everything we've come to expect from Pixar and more- colorful, vibrant, imaginative, exciting, involving, beautiful, and most importantly a film with interesting, involving characters. Sure, WALL·E is adorable, and as much credit as the animators get for that, this film would be nothing without Stanton's screenplay, which features very little dialogue but is still notably intelligent and surprisingly subtle, making a refreshing change from the 'go green' campaigns we're all so used to. Does "WALL·E" have a message? Sure, but it's an important message and it is delivered subtly and beautifully."WALL·E" operates on two levels (and works spectacularly well on both). It is a majestic science fiction epic like we haven't seen in a couple of decades and it is a genuinely touching and never cheap romance. "WALL·E" will never get points for originality but it doesn't exactly need them because the homages to great films and figures of the past- Chaplin, Keaton, Tati, the Marx Brothers, "2001: A Space Odyssey" (this one is particularly spectacular), "Close Encounters of the Third Kind" are actually homages and not ripoffs. "WALL·E" is a wonderful tribute to a bygone cinematic tradition (well, two or three of them actually). The social commentary in "WALL·E" is sobering because it's never overbearing and most importantly because we see the world through machines, machines who feel more about Earth and life than the humans do. The depiction of humans on the ship could have been incredibly offensive, cheap, and tasteless in concept but the execution here is absolutely perfect.What is most surprising about "WALL·E" is how sad it is. Not even in the 'how will they get out of this, oh I feel so sorry for them' way "Finding Nemo", a previous Stanton effort, is, but in a truly melancholy sense. The early portion of the film maintains all the playfulness of a Jacques Tati film but also evokes a striking and powerful feeling of loneliness. It's a brilliant introduction to WALL·E, given that the rest of the film is too wacky to bother with long scenes focused entirely on character, and works beautifully with the ugly yet beautifully-rendered future Earth, a barren wasteland filled with nothing but garbage, a seriously resilient cockroach being WALL·E's only companion before EVE shows up, but I won't go into the story- it's best you see it unfold for yourself.From the entertaining shorts shown before the film to the memorable characters, locations, and animation we have come to expect, Pixar films are now event cinema, and they have outdone themselves with "WALL·E". This film is spectacular, majestic, touching, involving, and achingly beautiful. Most importantly, however, it is perfect entertainment. I may be saying this too soon, but I don't think I have ever seen an animated film that has satisfied me more than "WALL·E", and 2008 is going to have to work hard to keep this from being the top film of the year, which it most certainly is at the moment.9.5/10


                
I just returned from an advanced benefit screening of WALL*E, and I want to be careful not to spill too much regarding the movie. I had the added privilege of watching the film at Pixar, which in and of itself, was amazing.This picture is not a cartoon; it is a film. In fact, it even has the LOOK of film. One of my complaints of more recent 3-D/CG animated films (not from Pixar) is that they all seem to look the same... clean lines, crisp colors, and very "virtual", for lack of a better term. WALL*E transcends the typical look of CG animation, and has a true to life "grit." The creators at Pixar are true artists, and are indeed masters of their craft. Not only are they masters of the technology, they are masters of telling a story. WALL*E is no exception.The best way to describe the film is as a science fiction, comedy, dramatic love story. WALL*E, as a character, has dimension, personality, and heart... pretty impressive given that he is essentially a trash compactor. It is true that there is little dialogue in this feature, but I personally did not feel it detracted from the story at all.WALL*E is very much a different Pixar film from it's previous features. I will be curious to see how it is received by others, but in my opinion, I think Pixar has stayed true to itself, demonstrating a commitment to telling great stories and pushing the edge of technology to leave your jaw dropping! My most sincere compliments to Andrew Stanton, Jim Morris, John Lasseter, Ben Burtt, and all the creative forces at Pixar. Can't wait to see what the future brings...


                
I'm starting to wonder if there is bad Disney/Pixar film, I mean, normally when we think of the combo, it does equal gold, we automatically know that everyone is going to love this movie, it's just a matter of comparison to the other animation films. I'm not just saying this because I had a good time when I was watching this, I'm very serious, this is my favorite Disney/Pixar film. It's completely worth the ticket price, this couldn't have been a more perfect film. Everything about WALL·E is just beyond great: the characters, the story, and the incredible animation. But the thing that I loved about WALL·E is it's message, I know that it does go a little over board with the "jog or get fat", "throw your garbage away", and the "we've become too dependent on machines" message, but I felt this was the most charming way to present it to the children who have to grow up in a world where they're going to have to worry about global warming, this may open their eyes a little.WALL·E is a robot that is left all alone on Planet Earth, Earth is now covered with garbage. The humans have left onto a corporate ship and are living their lives care free and well, thought free. WALL·E has been collecting little human pieces here and there and making them into his treasures, but the one thing he really wants is a friend. One day a ship lands with a female robot, Eve, who WALL·E just adores, but Eve is on a mission to find a plant to bring back onto the human ship to show that Earth is safe. But when the ship grabs Eve, WALL·E follows her and discovers the mutiny that is afoot on the ship. Everyone is overweight, can't walk, can't think for themselves, and let's all the robots do all the work for them. But WALL·E and Eve are on the mission to get them back to Earth and give it a little love.WALL·E is seriously the best movie I have seen this summer, I just adored this movie, it has great laughs, cute jokes and is entertaining for the whole family. Like I said before, when it's Disney/Pixar you just can't go wrong. WALL·E is one of their most lovable characters ever and was like the robot version of Charlie Chaplin, he brought great slap stick to the story. This movie delivers everything you can imagine and much more, not to mention a great message. I highly recommend this movie for everyone, it's just a very wonderful movie that anyone can enjoy. The animation, I can't believe how far we've come, but this was a beautifully made movie and couldn't have been better. I loved WALL·E, this is a movie that will bring you plenty of laughs for your summer.10/10
We went to the San Francisco Film Institute's first public screening at their campus in Emeryville. Everyone's sworn to secrecy, but for a film with little dialog, it carries more of an emotional punch and has a richer story than any live-action movie this year. The tone and style of the film is completely different for Pixar, and Disney haven't tried to override the darker thematic elements at all, making the story surprisingly three-dimensional.This will end up being the animated film of the year and I had the same 'wow' feeling as after seeing Ratatouille. Considering that animated films have always played second-fiddle to live-action, and have been aimed at kids, it's ironic that once again Pixar produces a film that rivals any live action on every level. Bravo!


                
Wall-E is the movie experience I've been looking for. I haven't seen a new film this richly entertaining, thrilling, touching and satisfying since Spider-Man 2. It is truly the finest Pixar or animated CGI film to date. I can discuss it without spoilers easily because it's one of those films, like 2001: A Space Odyssey, that exists more as a pure experience of the heart and the senses than as a collection of events that we're supposed to keep track of intellectually. Wall-E rises above that kind of unnecessary complication into the same kind of space occupied by dreams and the imagination.This film is beautifully animated, of course, to that magical Pixar point where even piles of what should be disgusting trash somehow look breathtakingly gorgeous and even fairly realistic-looking roaches look cute. But much more importantly, the heart, the emotion in this movie is unlike anything I've experienced at the cinema since Forrest Gump. Certainly my tear ducts have not welled up while watching a movie this much since then. I fell in like with the character of Wall-E when I saw the trailer. Watching the movie, I fell in love with him within about 2 minutes. Shortly after that, I fell in love with the idea of Wall-E falling in love.My previous favorite movie romance is Superman and Lois Lane in the original Superman films. The love story, or the love experience of Wall-E and Eve is perhaps the first I've seen since then that operates at and succeeds on that same level. These couples create an uncomplicated, innocent, simple, yet deep and powerful bond. They capture the experience of love at first sight, writ large. They possess an instant chemistry that tells you they belong together from the first time they see one another and makes you root for their relationship throughout the film. Wall-E and Eve share moments together of real cinematic beauty, true hilarity, frightening sadness, frustrating difficulty and delightful satisfaction. It's a testament to the level of genius at which the Pixar storytellers are operating that we feel every beat of this relationship resonate every step of the way despite the fact that the characters are robots that are not modeled off of humans and speak no more than a handful of words throughout the movie (this animated movie is refreshingly free of obvious "guest star" voices or any over-the-top stand-up comedians trying to upstage the movie).Just like in the first Superman films, once you care about the characters as individuals and care about their relationship, it's almost impossible for the rest of the movie not to work. You're hooked at hello. Wall-E adds all the expected complications to keep the would-be lovers from getting together most of the time. There is a truly great "McGuffin" that keeps the heroes and villains busy for quite a while (the item in question is something outwardly simple that ends up holding the key to something more important than anything in the world). The pacing during most of these adventures is as breakneck as anything out of the Star Wars films and the action is always staged with crystal clarity. There are several scenes of peril for Wall-E that are reminiscent of that oddly powerful sequence in Short Circuit 2 when Johnny 5 is almost killed. The filmmakers pull absolutely no punches when it comes to running your heart through the ringer over characters you care about. It probably helps that you can do a lot more physical damage to a robot character than you can to a human character while keeping a G rating and still getting the audience dramatically worried about their survival.Even on top of the action, the emotion, the visuals and the humor, Wall-E goes the extra mile into thought-provoking thematic territory. The film never hits you over the head with anything preachy and doesn't really even outright tell you what its opinions on the subjects it raises are. It also doesn't explicitly lay out explanations for everything that exists in Wall-E's world (there are no "talking killer" scenes and very little verbal exposition). I think the bits of ambiguity work here because they add to the sense of mystery, helplessness and alienation that most of the characters in the movie feel to some degree.There are human characters in this movie too, quite a few. I think that's necessary because if humans aren't shown in a robot world, you have to wonder what purpose were the robots designed to serve? That was a curiosity of the earlier CGI movie, Robots. Most of the humans in Wall-E aren't as developed as the robots, but I think that's because they exist more to represent the whole of humanity rather than particular individuals. We're asked to ponder the consequences of the choices they make as though the whole society was moving in that direction, not just one person. Wall-E and Eve are the heart of this movie but the humans are used to add some intellectual gravity for the audience to chew on.Other choices made in the movie might also leave room for debate, such as the integration of some live-action footage into the film. But because the movie as a whole is so audaciously stimulating and brilliantly satisfying, it's a plus that they left us with a few unresolved or unusual things to think about and question after getting off of the great emotional and visual roller-coaster experience. Wall-E truly serves up everything that I think an audience could want in a movie experience. It will be very easy for me to watch this one over and over again. It is a modern-day classic that I believe should earn a place in cinema history as the "2001" of CGI animated films, both of them movies of indisputable brilliance, unyielding imagination and unending entertainment.Footnote: The pre-movie short is an awesome, violent Looney Tunes/Roger Rabbit-esquire toon. It wants only to entertain and does.


                
This truly is one beautiful, touching animated sci-fi film....I cannot stress this enough. It's a unique cinema experience that you must enjoy firsthand.The tale is set in the 22th century , Earth has become a lifeless wasteland full of garbage, that the human race evacuated nearly a millennium ago....Lifeless, that is with the two exceptions being the "artifical" life form "WALL-E" & his pet cockroach.WALL-E is a squat humble trash-compacting robot who while continuing to fulfill the duties he was programmed for ( even though it's pointless considering there are no more humans on the planet ) collects certain leftover nicknacks, novelty items and even old films that he can still play. He mentally stimulates himself and enjoys fragments of the culture that is now gone ( that of the human race ). Though, WALL-E has imprinted on his little cockroach & vice versa, the little robot longs for more companionship.He receives it in the form of a beautiful, sleek, defensive "fembot fatale" "EVE "....In their own little forms of robotic communication ( repeating each other's names in various connotations depending on moods ; "WAAAALLL-E," "EEEEEEEE-VAH!" ) and WALL-E's Chaplin-esquire clumsiness that amuses EVE, the pair imprint on each other and enjoy each other's company.Sadly, EVE has located a small plant and must return it to her mother ship and leave WALL-E forever...But WALLL-E hops aboard the ship in pursuit of his darling "EEEEEE-VAH".And yes this film has very little dialog, but guess what, IT DON'T NEED NO STINKIN' DIALIOUGUE!....The brilliance and beauty of the film is in the interactions and responses of the little robots : a great representation of what "artificial intelligence" really is and what it may actually be one day! And how ironic it is that in this film the organic HUMAN RACE has become soulless, mirthless, artless, jaded, self-centered cogs in a machine of blind consumerism, yet the mechanical artificial beings still respond to their surroundings like a toddler or pet : with curiosity, wonder, and delight in communication & learning.And yes there is plenty of comic relief ( albeit sans dialouge ) so no this movie is NOT BORING....It's beautiful, it even made me a little bit misty-eyed.So yeah if you're an a fan of animated films, sci-fi films, and romance you should definitely check out this movie.Obviously, it is going to win a very well-deserved Oscar for "Best Animated Film".
I can't say enough about how good this movie, that you probably haven't read, so I'm going to keep this short.This is the best thing out there in theater's right now, and might just be the best animated film of all time, whether you believe that or not, is your own opinion, but what Pixar has done here, can put companies like Dreamworks, Sony, and Blue sky to shame.Wall E also may go down as the most lovable character ever to grace the movie screen, I praise Ben Burtt and Andrew Stanton, and the people at Pixar for what they did, and will continue to do.This is why Pixar is the top studio in the world.10/10


                
Over the years I've become quite a sucker for Pixar movies and just love each and every one of them. While there are the states of the art animation and sound effects, the stories have heart. The characters are adorable yet real. It reminds one of those charming movies Disney used to make but Pixar films are very much a unique cinematic experience. 'WALL-E' is quite unusual compared to the previous Pixar movies. There's hardly any dialogue between the two protagonists other than saying each other's name. In fact, barely a word is spoken in the entire first half hour but WALL-E and Eve's silent and playful love story is such a joy to watch. Even though of few words, both characters have strong personalities and the character development is wonderfully done. The animation is colourful and vivid. Sound effect is amazing. The robot characters are cute and charming. The score deserve special mention as it's mesmerizing and beautiful. Andrew Stanton has done a terrific job as director and co-writer. The portrayal of WALL-E's loneliness and need for love is very well done and then the change that is brought within after the entrance of Eve and his eventual determination to rescue her is effectively shown. There are many genuinely funny and creative moments and it manages to stay away from being 'just plain silly'. The story is rich with humour, action, drama and adventure. Ben Burtt and Elissa Knight do a fabulous job with the voice acting for WALL-E and Eve. John Ratzenberger, Kathy Najimy and Sigourney Weaver lend great support. While 'WALL-E' tells a magnificent love story it reminds us that Earth is our home and nothing can replace it. It's a joyous magical experience and another sure winner from Pixar.


                
I just saw the screener in the theater and was amazed. I am the kind of person that has never liked science fiction movies. I have tried all the famous movies in this genre, like Star Wars, The Matrix and A Space Odyssey and hated all of them. Next to me in the theater were a couple of Sci-fi-lovers and they loved Wall-E beyond belief. I did too, however. Wall-E is: A) A great story B) Packed with fun and humor C) Built up with memorable characters D) Fun for all ages E) Revolutionary in animation techniques The world Pixar creates is so credible, you forget it is animation. Thumbs up for Wall-E as well, he is such a cute and adorable character, you will fall in love with him immediately. I loved EVE as well.


                
Not only it's Pixar's best film of all-time but it's the best movie of this year and one of the greatest imaginative, visually, moving & excellent animated films in years and surprisingly, one of the best sci-fi movies since E.T.!! Coming with high expectations, it definitely succeeded mines. It's so beautiful, moving, hilarious & sad at the same time. And for those who has been anticipating Thomas Newman's score for WALL-E, it's certainly one of his best right behind Finding Nemo in which I thought was his best score to date! Like I said it's Pixar best film so far, WALL-E knocked off Ratatouille of the top spot in which I thought it was their best film to date and officially, WALL-E is the best Pixar film i've ever seen with Ratatouille right behind and Finding Nemo, third. Pixar fan or non-Pixar fan, you'll definitely enjoy this one. WALL-E will forever be remembered as one of the most lovable characters ever created on film!!!


                
We live in a consumerist era. As any visit to a metropolitan area will prove, there is the unfaltering marriage of burgeoning commerce to a burgeoning population. Retail giants now provide services that would take more than a handful of independent stores to supply and this umbrella is continually widening. But how far can this consumerism go before it consumes us? This is where Wall-E begins, setting up the most scathing, yet perhaps most accurate futurist take on consumerism's affect on society in any animated film I've seen to date. In fact, I can't recall any film in the last several years that has taken this approach so seriously. Andrew Stanton once again throws us straight into a darkly themed film, but once again there are serious points to be had. At the outset of the film, we are introduced to a world where the skyscrapers that once housed the internal workings of business are dwarfed and surrounded by skyscrapers built of that very business' refuse. WALL-E spends his days continuously collecting and compacting the mountains of garbage that fill the streets of the city and adding it the trash skyscrapers, piece by piece. We learn very early on that this is the last functional bot of its kind, and perhaps, the only living machine on the planet. But there is something special about this surviving Wall-E; this robot performs its programmed tasks, but it has also become a curious being, collecting and organizing interesting items seen day by day. Wall-E is, essentially, the last bit of humanity left on Earth, since every other human being is either dead or living aboard the space cruise liner, the Axiom.But things change once EVE arrives on Earth. In true fashion with his curious nature, the sight of EVE is enthralling to Wall-E. Here is something new from humanity, not just the garbage and trinkets left behind for Wall-E to sift through and compact. What begins here is the most innocent yet basic of love stories I have seen or read in many years. There is a purity to Wall-E's almost hypnotic and naive interest in EVE. I don't mean this in any religious terms, but rather in the vein that neither robot has prior knowledge of love or adoration, apart from Wall-E's surviving betamax tape of Hello Dolly! as his primary source of inspiration. Everything else is rooted in simple curiosity, but it is amazing how far just that can develop one's character.Wall-E interacts with everything he finds in a very primal manner (the source of that curiosity), slowly learning about the things he finds by essentially playing with them until something happens. EVE is the dedicated but markedly emotional counterpart to Wall-E's primal self. She performs her tasks at the expense of taking notice of Wall-E. By the time she finally catches on to Wall-E's affection, the programmed side of herself sets off their exciting journey into space.Once things set into full-swing, this film does not let go of you. EVE and Wall-E are quite a dynamic duo, although not the romantic pair envisioned in Wall-E's mind for most of the film. I won't go into any further analysis here, lest I spoil the fun for anyone wishing to go see it. But I must say that the fact that we see two robots, two human creations, act as the primary humanizing force is entirely effective and what makes me love this film so much. The overall message of the film emerges from the dark outset and even darker conclusion... The ending credits are a must-view for anyone who sees the film. There is a very emotional sequence of progressions that twice put me to tears for its poignancy and in light of the beginning of the film. The way this movie ends is the same way it begins: at the core it's all about WALL-E and the things we recognize in him as inherently human: his funny personality, his compulsion toward the good, his child-like curiosity and naivety, his sense of loneliness that he tries (and fails) at anesthetizing with psychological comforts and companion place-holders.On other notes, the soundtrack is Newman's definitive work in cinema. I didn't think I would say this anytime post Finding Nemo, but it really is true. EVERY bit of music supports the film's imagery and tone while also helping shape it note by note. There is not a wasted note in this film.Also, the visual imagery is utterly beautiful and affecting. Skyscrapers of compacted garbage, the collections in Wall-E's trailer, the outer heavens, the POV's of EVE and Wall-E... All are fantastic. The cinematography is also top-notch. They might have used the back to foreground focus a bit much, but just the fact that they had Roger Deakins consult on their almost perfected simulation cinematography as well as Stanton's directorial 'mindprint' of the film speaks volumes for the studio. It is all found and spoken for in the final print.The thing about this movie is that is able to speak so much without much dialogue. Stanton has obviously learned a great deal in how to use the visual image as powerfully as possible.Verdict: Pixar gets another 10/10. They make films that speak to me in ways no other animation studio ever pulls off. The message may always be positive, but that doesn't mean the trials of Pixar characters are ever just plain and simple affairs. Stanton produced something very very special and endearing here. While the paint may be of a love story and two curious robots, he has captured nothing short of the core of our positive human nature in two inanimate objects. This is a meaningful and important film. How far can we let our lives be simplified before our own creations become more human than ourselves?
I thought that Pixar was one of the greater animation studios of the new millennium; after seeing Wall-E, I'm convinced that Pixar is the greatest modern animation studio, and perhaps one of the most talented and treasured film companies period. Writer-Director Andrew Stanton has not only managed to create a technical marvel with Wall-E, pushing the boundaries of computer animation technology to the limits, but also a work of pure art that's more intelligent, heartfelt, thought provoking, and flat-out masterful than any movie in years.The film start's off on a simultaneously sweet and sour note: The opening reveals the gorgeous backdrop of galaxies and stars, with music from the movie 'Hello-Dolly!' overlapping it all in a sugary visual treat. Not seconds later, the camera traverses space to slowly close in on the planet Earth which, 700 years in to the future, has gained a sickly green tint to it along with an orbital atmosphere of pure garbage. Further zooming reveals a desolated city (New York, maybe?) its buildings and bridges rotted way. The entire opening is very reminiscent of the recent I Am Legend, except much, much more ruined. It is however, technically beautiful; the images are so photo realistic that you're amazed that they've been generated by computer. The only remnants of humanity are monstrous skyscrapers of compacted trash and billboards aplenty advertising the bright and colorful, yet somehow ominous company known as Buy n' Large, a thinly veiled Wal-Mart clone. And, of course, Wall-E itself.Wall-E is far more than a mere 'it', however. Through hundreds of nuanced and heartfelt animation quirks, as well as the "voice" given by Ben Burtt, Star-Wars veteran and creator of another famed beeping robot named R2-D2, Wall-E has been imbued with enough life to fill three-dozen cheap summer kids flicks, all without ever saying more than two or three actual words.Wall-E has been operating for centuries, long after his other Waste Allocation Load Lifter Earth-Class counterparts have shut down or broken apart, scouring the wastelands of earth and compacting the land's garbage in to neat little cubes.It's a lonely job, with the little robot's only companion being a spunky little cockroach. Wall-E has over the years collected an impressive amount of junk with which he passes the time, including lighters, toys, spare parts, and an old VHS copy of Hello Dolly!, which is Wall-E's instructor in the ways of life, love, and keenly choreographed dance. Indeed, Wall-E gazes upon two lovers holding hands and the look in his binocular eyes is both heartbreaking and beautiful. It all changes however, when a beautiful robot from the human colony in space arrives; her name is EVE. Despite here tendencies to blow up anything that moves, Wall-E is smitten at first sight, and EVE comes to eventually share those feelings. After taking note of a very unique possession of Wall-E's however, EVE reports back to the Earth ship Axiom and is whisked away back in to space. Wall-E, being as devoted as he is, follows her into the unknown, and it is there that the movie really gets going, with Wall-E and EVE taking part in an adventure with the fate of humanity itself in the balance. Characters like the Captain of the Axiom (voiced by Jeff Garlin) appearing to flesh out the film's plot, as well as a gaggle of amusing "rogue" robots that aide Wall-E and EVE in their quest. As the movie develops, however, the leading characters' romance becomes the core of the movie, with Wall-E and EVE's love being one of the few genuinely lovely and convincing romances of recent cinema. The touching moments Wall-E shares with EVE in his workshop, as well as their first "kiss" preceding a marvelous dance through space highlight a relationship that tugs at the heartstrings and moistens the eyes far more than movies like Fool's Gold or What Happens in Vegas. The romance between the two leads is the very soul of the movie, and could not have been better executed. The film is gorgeous to boot: With colors and images that dazzle and linger long after the film is over. Films like No Country for Old Men and There Will Be Blood, as beautiful as they are, seem to revel in the gloom of browns and blacks. Wall-E, on the other is vibrant and alive, turning even the beginning's post-apocalyptic wasteland in to a marvel. The biggest surprise of Wall-E, however, would be its surprising amount of maturity. Wall-E deals with themes of pollution, rampant consumerism, societal complacency and obesity, media desensitization, and other themes that would frankly fly over a child's head. Kids will see a world full of people who are humorously fat and happy; older members of the audience, however, will see a society that tells of a future not centuries ahead of us but perhaps only decades. The overblown laziness and rampant consumerism is evident already today, and the notion of Wall-E's future being so similar is funny yes, but also a touch unnerving.It is for this reason that I hold Wall-E in such high esteem: It is a heartfelt work of inarguable art that not only entertains but holds enough conscience and commentary to get even the most casual of moviegoer thinking about the future. It is beautiful and it is heartbreaking. It is funny and it is also a tad scary. It has two supposedly life-less robots teaching humanity the very meaning of being human, as well as learning the meaning of true love themselves. It made me laugh, it made me (almost) cry. It has the distinction of being Pixar's best movie, as wells as the hands down best movie of the year (so far); an almost perfect, if not completely perfect summer movie that kids and adults will almost assuredly love.And it is also one of the greatest movies I have ever seen.
Wall-E is the film Pixar has been working toward ever since Toy Story first tested the boundaries of computer animation. It is without a doubt the best Pixar film, if not the best computer animated feature ever made, and it ranks with the rest of Disney's classics.The story is both timeless and timely. 700 years after Earth's citizens flew away from their dumpster-like planet, one robot, the dirty and old yet clever and plucky protagonist Wall-E, is still condensing the mountains of trash into nice little piles. He discovers many of the trappings of civilization, most notably an old VHS of "Hello Dolly!" which teaches him about true love.His simple life is thrown into disarray by the arrival of another robot, Eve, sent from the humans' ship on a top secret mission. For Wall-E, it is love at first sight. But when Eve is whisked back to the spaceship, Wall-E stows away as well. Soon not only is Wall-E's courage tested, but also the humanity of all the citizens who have now become fat lazy blobs who live gliding along an easy chair.To start, the film looks gorgeous. While that is something we have come to expect from computer animated films thanks to today's technology, yet again we truly see the wonders and mysteries of outer space. But the film is much more than beautiful: it is also hilarious. On one level it has many topical jokes concerning the humans on the ship. But on a higher plane the humor of the robots has the quality of silent comedy, particularly Charlie Chaplin's Modern Times (in fact, unlike most of today's very chatty animated films, there is very little dialogue). In addition, the visuals are accompanied by an excellent score by Thomas Newman (American Beauty). Songs from Hello, Dolly insterspersed in the movie also enhance the story. Finally the voices are skilfully done. The robots' sounds convey true character and emotion, and Jeff Garlingives a great performance as the main speaking role of the film, the ship's captain.There is a lot more to say about this film. For one, it owes a huge debt to Stanley Kubrick's 2001: A Space Odyssey, from the musical selection to the look of the ship. The amount of plunder from Kubrick's genius would be pathetic if the film itself was not brilliant or innovative in its own right. Wall-E is an experience to be seen, to be heard, and to be felt. It is a story of timeless love and a cautionary tale of where we may be going as a species and as a planet. But above all it is a masterpiece of cinema, and a work of art you must see.
I very rarely give ten out of ten to a movie, but I have no hesitation in giving that perfect score to WALL-E. It is sublime. Not just the best animation I've seen in a long time, but simply one of the best movies I've seen in many months in terms of coherent and effective story-telling and seamless editing. It's extremely well put together. The animation is in a class of its own. My only slightly negative comment might be that clearly this isn't a movie aimed at little kids, and perhaps the marketing strategy is showing too much of the 'cute funnies' and not enough of the sheer artistry of Pixar's vision. This is not a bright, sunny view of the world where everyone lives happily ever after, but quite clearly a message movie; if you agree with the message, you will love this film.Disney may own Pixar these days, but there is an artistic divide between the two production styles. If you want predictable sentimentality watch Disney. I loved Disney's older classics but some of their later offerings <U+0096> with the exception of Beauty and the Beast which was very good - made me wince when I took my kids along. But in contrast I have loved every single film that Pixar have made since Toy Story in 1995, and if you want something more wry, but still possessing humour and heart, then Pixar is probably going to be your choice.The story is simple enough. It's the year 2700 and the earth has become uninhabitable, not through some terrible cataclysmic event, but by a slow accumulation of suffocating junk. It's a wasteland devoid of living things. As the opening shots pan in, we see that the skyscrapers are actually tall mounds of compressed trash, and that the compressing is being done by WALL-E (Waste Allocation Load Lifter <U+0096> Earth class), a small, solitary robot which keeps itself going by scavenging parts from all his clapped out siblings. WALL-E's only companion is a cockroach, and he fills in the time in his trailer home during long dust storms by watching an old video of Hello Dolly. WALL-E is an unlikely hero, rusty but trusty. I hesitate to use the word cute, endearing works better. One day he finds a single plant growing. He doesn't appreciate its significance but takes it home anyway where he squirrels it away with his other treasures such as a Rubic's Cube, a lighter and a trash can lid.Then a space ship lands and EVE emerges (Extraterrestrial Vegetation Evaluator). Eve is in a whole different class to WALL-E. She can fly, he is earth bound, she is sleek, dangerous and single minded while he is bumbling and rather dowdy. They communicate with beeps and eye twitches, and WALL-E is hooked. When WALL-E gives EVE the plant he has found, she recognizes that her directive <U+0096> to find evidence of photosynthesis on earth <U+0096> is fulfilled and shuts down. The ship comes back to pick her up and WALL-E clings on, desperate not to lose her. Arriving at the mother ship, we find the last remaining humans (apparently all American!) who have fled the earth at the behest of the CEO of Buy N Large, a conglomerate who ended up running everything. The humans are pretty much big, obese babies, who have lost the use of their legs and are spoon fed artificial food and platitudinous slogans in equal measure. The rest of the movie involves a plot by the auto pilot to take over the ship and keep it on course away from earth, while the captain tries to take it home, aided by WALL-E and an entertaining array of quirky malfunctioning robots let loose from the repair bay.Some of the best moments are to be found in WALL-E's interaction with everyday objects; a fire extinguisher for example, enables him to zip around in space in a balletic dance with EVE, he uses a lid as a hat to imitate the dancers he sees on his video screen. The humans are not presented as wicked or evil, just unthinking, and the movie ends on a positive and upbeat note, when they recover the use of their legs and return to earth to reclaim it as their home. There are nods to many classic sci-fi movies, Pixar's ubiquitous pizza truck is there near the beginning, and they are not beyond a little self criticism; there's a discarded iPod among WALL-E's accumulated junk.I found myself caring far more about the animated characters in WALL-E than the supposedly human ones in many 'regular' movies. Director Andrew Stanton and everyone at Pixar deserve huge credit for this movie and I hope it is an enormous financial hit for them. I also hope it gets an Oscar nomination, not for best animated feature, but for best film.
WALL-E is a robot left on Earth to clean it up while the human race waits in space. Despite being a robot, however, WALL-E has developed a consciousness - he is curious and innocent as a child. Of course, being what seems like the only operational robot left, he also longs for companionship (...someone besides his pet cockroach).That's where EVE comes in, a robot probe sent from the humans in space to check whether or not Earth is again inhabitable. Once WALL-E sees EVE, he becomes smitten and will literally follower her anywhere on Earth... or even space.One can empathize with WALL-E, as he has been alone for what seems like the greater part of 700 years, toiling away at work with nothing but the comforts of his makeshift home to give him some small pleasures and distractions in life (although his morning sluggishness is due to his depleted power, we can't help but relate with those mornings WALL-E finds hard to get out of bed). When he sees the sleek, powerful EVE, it's quite understandable that he is captivated by her.EVE, on the other hand, is completely focused on work (her "directive"). While we can see her personality come through when she enjoys the freedom of flying around upon her arrival, she is determined to fulfill her mission.The real love story starts to kick in here. The scenes of WALL-E trying to gain EVE's affection are both lovable and laughable. And when WALL-E brings EVE to his home to shelter the storm, he shows EVE all of the various things he collected, much like how a child would show another companion his playthings. EVE's sense of humor comes to light, and we start to see a connection between WALL-E and EVE.Still, when WALL-E shows EVE a plant he picked up, she realizes that her mission is accomplished, so she then "hibernates" and beacons the spaceship to pick her up. WALL-E, though, doesn't realize what she has done when she shuts herself down - he is confused, and thinking that she's solar-powered like himself, he brings her outside to the sunlight. His concern and care for her in the rainstorms shine through, and he also dresses her up in lights when he shows her the beautiful sunset she can't see.When the spaceship picks up EVE, WALL-E follows suit, wanting to protect her but still not realizing what is going on. Once they dock on the AXIOM ship, WALL-E gets into more trouble, being a fish out of water.EVE initially looks down on WALL-E - he's, of course, an older model who's job is just a trash compactor. Her attitudes can be seen on Earth where she initially ignores his attempts to gain her attention. Her desire to protect WALL-E arises not from love but more from a sense of noblesse oblige - even though WALL-E would follow EVE anywhere, she tries to make WALL-E understand that he has to go back to Earth alone, echoing WALL-E's interaction with his ever-present pet cockroach back on Earth.When WALL-E is locked in a space capsule that is set to explode, EVE again tries to save WALL-E. Luckily, he was able to get out of the situation himself, and they meet in space. WALL-E used what he learned of a fire extinguisher on Earth (a hilarious scene) to propel him - here, we see EVE and WALL-E as equals in a beautiful dance of flight around the spaceship.More and more, we see EVE start to care deeply for EVE, and it's not only because he's cute and funny but also because he is unselfish and caring. When the captain asks EVE to show recordings of her time on Earth in order to see the state the planet is in, the recording is left on, and EVE then sees the care WALL-E has taken of her during her hibernation. Also, WALL-E risks his life to protect the plant, not because he cares so much the plant but because he knows how much fulfilling her directive means to EVE. He would do anything for EVE, and, in turn, EVE starts to develop the same feelings towards WALL-E.The two endure various calamity to help the spaceship return to Earth, but WALL-E becomes a casualty in the process. EVE finds replacement parts and fixes WALL-E, but he is not the same - he is only focused on his work, a reversal of roles from the beginning of the film. However, EVE holds WALL-E's hands and "kisses" him with a spark, and his memory awakens....It's just amazing to me how all of this is conveyed in the storytelling. The characters' expressions and actions are limited to their eyes and gestures of their hands, yet that seems to be more than enough for the artists of the film to express the character's emotions in a visual manner. Each robot can't but say each other's names, yet their bond comes through without any dialogue - in fact, just the tone of their voice when calling each other's names gives all of the information about their intent or feelings at that moment.In any love story, it's not a trivial task to express both sides - oftentimes, unrequited love 'magically' becomes true love after a single event, when the object of the affection suddenly has their eyes opened. On the other hand, WALL-E provides the viewer with a believable love story where both characters come alive and whisk you away in their universe. It's nothing short of extraordinary....Of course, to say that "WALL-E" is a perfect love story is a miscategorization, as it offers a perfect blend of comedy, action, and suspense, along with so many other interwoven messages and jewels - it's just a perfect story, period.
Well I don't even know where to begin there is so much in this one. Well maybe if i say i am usually cinical and disdainful towards love stories (at least those type of love stories you see nowadays...), and i usually see them only suitable for girls who wanna cry a few tissue full, and i prefer a Shakespeare-like ending, where every major character dies or loses something (sanity, beloved one etc) over an usual corny happy ending, and then i add, that i still LOVED this masterpiece so much i myself cried in the end, and i was cheering for Wall-E to remember to Eve, to get repaired and to see them "live happily ever after". I was browsing on a video-sharing channel some day and i stumbled upon a video where a guy says the following about Wall-E: "I am a cinical bastard, but even that little piece of rotten, black glass i call my heart was warmed by this movie" And i don't even get started on how delicate and clever the symbolism in this animation is. Or on how sarcastic, yet true all the scenes are, which ones are featuring the humans, who became more like a senseless pigs tied to their chair in front of their computer. The whole thing feels so gentle, so classy and uplifting i cant even tell. If humanity will extincts one day and some other intelligent species will find the ruins of our culture i want them to find this movie, and remember us as gentle, warm-hearted, intelligent beings, which we weren't most of the time. And i am not exaggerating. This was really truly this good. At least for me. Sayonara
In the Twentieth-Eighth Century, Earth is completely depleted and with the ecological system destroyed. The powerful corporation Buy N Large builds a huge spacecraft called Axiom and sends the entire civilization for a five-year cruise while trash collector robots called WALL-E (Waste Allocator Load Lifter <U+0096> Earth) would clean the planet. However, the equipment fail and seven-hundred year later, only a single robot WALL-E is performing his duty. His only companion is a cockroach and his great entertainment is watching an old "Hello Dolly" videotape. When a spaceship lands on Earth out of the blue and leaves the probe Eve, WALL-E follows her and falls in love for Eve. After a hostile initial contact, the dangerous Eve gets close to WALL-E and he gives a small plant to her. Eve gets the plant and automatically sends a signal to the spaceship that returns and takes Eve back. However, the desperate WALL-E grabs on the hull and travels through the space chasing Eve until they reach Axiom and find a full automated facility crowded by lazy and fat human beings unable even of walking with their legs. The expectation of life on Earth brings hope to the Captain against the will and prime direction of the auto-pilot that organizes a mutiny on board."WALL-E" is one of the best animations I have ever seen, with adorable characters and a deep story, showing a possible scenario of the depletion of our planet caused by the lack of concern from the big corporations with the environment. In addition, there is the beautiful love story of WALL-E, the importance of small and forgotten things; a great nostalgia of the old times among many other message. The story is very well developed in spite of having very few dialogs. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "WALL-E"


                
Pixar is one of the greatest studios ever in moviemaking, period. They strive for ambition and doing things no one has ever done before or even try to attempt. Wall-E was no exception. I remember that I first watched this movie when I was a dumb kid, at the time english was not my primary language so I had a hard time understanding anything about any story. But thats when I watched Wall-E. It still baffles me to this day that how much I understood and felt for the characters despite the main characters only being able to speak 1 or 2 words. That was the ambition of pixar, to create a absolute masterpiece with the main characters never speaking a word (I know there are other stories with main characters not speaking but still non of them are as heartfelt as Wall-E). I recently watch this movie again, and I could not stop crying. Wall-E and Eve are absolutely brilliant, they are two characters that were able to form such a heartwarming relationship without ever speaking their emotions. That is what good storytelling is. I could go on so the TLDR is Wall-E is a must watch.


                
I went in to this movie with very high expectations, having anticipated it since I saw the first previews. Pixar blew me through the roof. From the opening star-scape with "Put on Your Sunday Clothes" playing cheerily in the background, to the closing credits, this movie is in an utter masterpiece. There's never a dull moment in this beautiful film. The audience is taken through such a vast range of emotions, ranging from the pure joy of discovery, to the near-hopeless sense of defeat. Director Andrew Stanton has done it again, adding WALL-E on top of his previous Pixar success, Finding Nemo. Nemo was originally my favorite Pixar film. But then along came this little robot, who tore my heartstrings clear out of my chest and took his rightful place at the top of my favorite films list.
My favorite animated movie was, and still is The Nightmare Before Christmas, but Wall-E comes in at close second. Pixar outdid themselves in every possible way, and it seems that though they've done that with each of their films, this one stands above the others. It's cute, without those lame sappy moments that cause you to uncomfortably stare at the floor. It's emotional, with some scenes even leaving a lump in my throat. The animation is amazing and the story is both inventive and original (for the most part). Wall-E is the quintessential Pixar film...no, it's the quintessential animated movie.Wall-E (or Waste Allocation Load Lifter Earth class) is a lonely robot on futuristic Earth. The year is around 2800 and all the humans have "temporarily" been taken off of Earth into a space cruise where they are awaiting Earth to be cleaned up. Wall-E's only friend is a cockroach, and he lives in a little storage shelter where he keeps interesting items he finds in the trash he compacts. One day a spaceship drops off another robot, this one named EVE. Her mission is to find plant life on Earth, which would signal that the humans can return. Wall-E is fascinated by EVE, and more than anything just wants to hold her hand, like in his favorite musical, Hello Dolly. EVE sees a plant that Wall-E had previously found, and they both end up being taken up into space on the space cruise ship. All the humans on board have lost track of reality, don't walk or do any exercise, and they are all morbidly obese. Wall-E and EVE end up having to save the plant life they brought up to show to the ship's captain so they can go back to Earth, but the ship computer doesn't like that idea.I have no critiques for this film. As I've said, this is about as close to perfect as you can come, I'll just explain what I really liked. I enjoyed the romance between Wall-E and EVE, which was so sweet, sort of sad at times, and more real than the typical teen comedy romance. The human characters were great. Jeff Garlin plays the ship captain and does an excellent job. One of the best scenes in the movie has the captain studying up on Earth wide eyed, learning all the things humans (now adays) have known since we were infants. John Ratzenberger and Kathy Najimy voice two humans who face reality before the others and get off their fat rears to have some fun and take a moment to notice the stars. The animation is the best Pixar's ever done, and even with the cartoonish designs of the characters, sometimes I'd forget I was watching a cartoon. Wall-E, as a character, was an amazing lead. Amazing in that he carried the movie flawlessly, and made me truly feel for the poor guy, and amazing in that the only thing that he says in the movie, along with some grunts and squeals, is "EVE-a!". I have no clue how Pixar molds these likable characters, but they did a fantastic job. I'd see it 10 more times in the theaters, and I hope it makes a billion at the box office.Pixar's done it again! They hit gold, more so than any of their other pictures, and Wall-E ranks up there with one of the best animated pictures of all time. It was the first film in months to leave me 100% satisfied. I loved it! My rating: **** out of ****. 100 mins. Rated G.


                
DO NOT listen to those who say this is a bad movie because there's hardly any dialog. Everything in this movie is so perfect, it doesn't NEED dialog!! The animation was so REAL. Everything was perfect!! The landscapes were beautiful, the technology was creative, smooth, and incredibly flawless, the robots were great! I thought it was interesting how real humans were used in small parts of the movie, and the humans in the future were animated, shown as really large, lazy people we may become in the future, if we're not careful. As soon as the movie started, I fell in love with Wall-e. He was possible the most adorable thing I have ever seen! His character was so deep, you could forget he's not human. Wall-e has the biggest heart of any of the characters I've seen. You have to be insane to not love Wall-e. I really enjoyed seeing the chemistry develop between EVE and Wall-e. They are so different, EVE being a fast, powerful, advanced robot, and Wall-e being a sweet, simple, rusty little trash-compacting robot, and they work together PERFECTLY!!! They are the cutest couple in Pixar history. The messages in the story were very well-presented. It showed what could happen to our planet if we trashed it and took it for granted and what could happen if we all get too lazy. The perfect combination of humor, CGI, heart, and lessons to be learned, this is truly a Pixar triumph.


                
I just returned from a midnight showing of WALL-E, and all I can say is 'amazing'. Pixar have clearly outdone themselves, producing what is sure to be one of their best films ever. All the characters have personality, and there are no throwaway characters. Every character that is introduced in the story has their own unique personality, and it really shows how hard Pixar worked on the movie.The movie serves as both a sci-fi futuristic love comedy, and also a warning to humanity. We've got to take care of our planet now, because as charming as the movie was, I personally would not like to see those events transpire here, 700 years in the future or any other time.I would give this movie an 11 if I could. It is an absolutely brilliant piece of cinema and one that should not be missed. If you're a parent, take your kids. Even if you don't have kids, go see this movie, it's fun and lighthearted and will make you laugh out loud several times over.A+ Pixar, I can't wait to see what they cock up next.


                
My reaction to the early TV trailers for WALL-E was "ok, another Pixar movie. No biggie." Consider, though I've seen almost every Pixar movie (girlfriend renting them on DVD) my reactions ranged from "mildly amused" to "cute, but mostly CGI eye-candy". Of course, as a thirty-something male, I never assumed Pixar movies were targeted to my demographic in the first place. "Pixar is for kids", after all, right? Then one day a 5-minute sneak peak was shown on TV featuring WALL-E and Eve (scene where he gets stuck in space capsule with plant). During those 5 minutes, the essence of WALL-E's character took hold and never let go. My girlfriend and I decided we wouldn't be able to wait any longer than opening day to see it. Embarrassing to admit, but I go the theater twice in a year at most, and yet I actually bought our WALL-E tickets 2 weeks in advance.Having seen the movie today, he's honestly no less than the most adorable and brilliant animated character of all time. His personality and mannerisms spread themselves like sunlight - turning even the coldest of hearts to liquid, and bursting preconceptions to dust. Until now, no character (fictional or otherwise) ever managed to awaken the kid in me with the old notion "I wish this character was real so I could take it home with me". The way this movie ends is the same way it begins: at the core it's all about WALL-E and the things we recognize in him as inherently human: his funny personality, his compulsion toward the good, his child-like curiosity and naivety, his sense of loneliness that he tries (and fails) at anesthetizing with psychological comforts and companion place-holders. All of the film's characters other than WALL-E are really just props, like arrows pointing your attention back at him, and always when it's the last thing he would want. His plant also seems symbolic of him (and that will make sense after you've seen the movie).All that aside, the graphics are brilliant, especially the WALL-E character, in that it looks like a real physical robot shot on film. Great care was taken on subtleties like focus/defocus and depth perception to make him look real-world, all *within* a real-world (especially the scenes during which he's alone on earth).I wish it would've been longer, but only because like all great rides, it went by fast and eventually had to have an end. Can't wait to see it again.


                
No problem! Finally an animated movie that dares to be.... animated! Pixar has set a new standard in digital animation. I say digital, because I'd still like to see more traditional hand drawn films. You don't need recognizable voices coming out of animals that resemble them. You don't need cheesy jokes or failed one liners. No musical cues to band either. I don't think I'll be able to watch a computer animated movie for a long time, I'll compare to this for a while. Pixar was not in this for the cheap quick cash in, they made a movie, that I think, will stand the test of time. I can tell people will be watching this for years and years, like Fantasia.


                
I saw Wall E not too long ago, and It was one of the BEST Pixar animated films made.It takes animation to a whole new level. The fact that there are little to no words conveyed in the first half and the movie was still so amazing? Just dazzles me.This is a movie you can watch with family, a girlfriend, even alone, and still enjoy it undeniably.This is a movie that you can really feel the passion Pixar put in it. You can feel the emotion that all the characters are feeling. Wall E was also moved along very nicely. Not too rushed, not too slow. If you haven't watched Wall E cause you think It looks silly, you are wrong, and I suggest that you watch it as soon as you can, because this isn't a movie that is better to watch on DVD.
