I decided to add my voice because this film is highly rated and I have never found myself at such odds with the majority of the IMDb audience.Spoiler at end.I read enough to see that I have nothing to add concerning its technical achievement, obviously well done.I am an avid science fiction fan (books and film) so I agree with those who find this story weak. I went because I wanted to know why this film was so highly rated across all the demographic areas although I had my doubts based on the preview.Apparently many do not agree with me but I would like to caution others that if you look forward to thought provoking ideas and having your preconceived notions challenged you will be disappointed. Even younger audiences may become bored after 1/2 hour although the visual stimulation may be sufficient.My background includes special effects in film and computer program development so I naturally appreciate the films technical prowess. But I also know well almost all the science fiction films made to date including those with serious as well as comic presentations and WALL-E does not rate well for me when compared to them.WALL_E missed being sufficiently provocative or amusing so I found it bland. The film, however, was much better portraying the emotional connections between the two main characters which is quite an achievement considering WALL-E was a garbage disposal unit who apparently developed over a long period of time a more than human heart (think of your feelings for roaches).Spoiler follows: The ideas of planet ruin via garbage and humans becoming fat, technologically catered to, isolated in space, and thus unmotivated beings after 700 years is interesting but each of these is not original and I, at this time, cannot clearly describe why the film failed to engage me. Perhaps with such a future there should be more angst.
In lieu of a plot, this movie has a series of plot holes strung together, which all get overlooked on the premise if it being a kids' movie. This was not as great as everyone is making is out to be. I don't know why everyone has picked this particular Disney Pixar movie to make a stink about. The humor was nothing new; it's the same stuff they've been doing for years. They did start off with some good ideas. These ideas, unfortunately, were not developed nearly as thoroughly as they should have been. The first part of the movie features Wall-E rolling around doing nothing in particular, and some superfluous shots of a cockroach. When EVE's ship takes off, I was sitting in the theater, hoping and praying that Wall-E would get on it, as I watched everything that could be vaguely interesting in the movie try to fly away. What happened up in the ship wasn't much better though, so I don't know why I wasted time hoping. The focus was taken off of what could have been the real message of the movie: a commentary about how the corporate world and our increasingly leisure-filled lifestyle will one day destroy the planet and leave everyone in space. This is not a particularly new or original idea, and certainly not as brilliantly demonstrated as someone like Orwell or Huxley has already already done. The focus of the movie was taken off of this, and put onto a cutesy little romantic story about two robots who chase after the film's Macguffin (a plant). This really should have been more of a subplot. I felt like a lot of things could have been cut out without really changing the movie at all; a lot of mishaps the main characters face aren't really pertinent to the story at all. For example: the plant is taken away by a bad robot. The film's characters chase after it, invoking a lot of slap-stick comedy. And then, just when they get close to their goal, THE SAME THING HAPPENS. It's not needed. I felt like if they wanted to really make a point, they should have made their point and not tried to dumb it down. It works well as a kid's movie, but I really don't think it's any better than any of the other animated movies about robots, or fish, or animals that they've done before. Just my take on it.
This movie was nominated for Best Screenplay? What screenplay? WalllllEEEEEEE WallllllEEEEE beep beep cat sea he she me it. Is robot mambo jumbo a new language that is worthy of an Oscar nomination? It didn't win, but then it wasn't even in the top 100 screenplays What screenplay? plus the movie is boring. Robots in love; now that is a new concept; just like sharks in love and snakes in love some things are not able to love and to imagine them in love is not much entertainment. I seldom see an animated movie; some have been great. What is it about space and robots and science fiction that is somehow so entertaining? I can't figure that out. Doesn't grab my attention.


                
My granddaughters received this movie for Christmas. My husband and I watched it with them and right away I'm turned off because Wall-e looks a lot like No. 5 from the movie Short Circuit. No originality in creating a different looking robot. I could only watch the first half hour and then had to leave the room and let the kids watch it. I have read all the good and excellent reviews about it and I just don't get it. I haven't seen any good animated films over past few years and I think it's because the animation is being done by computers. The Looney Tune type (drawn) cartoons were and will always be the best type. I would not recommend the purchase of this movie. Just save your money and wait for it to come on cable.


                
We attended as a middle age couple and our teenage son. None of us enjoyed the movie much at all and we probably would have walked out if we had communicated better in the theater about how hard it was to sit through.Unlike previous Pixar films, which we have all enjoyed immensely, this was an extremely linear and slow moving story. There was little of the two levels of story for young and old that you see in other Pixar stories.The small children all around us in the theater seemed as bored by it all as we were.Particularly distracting was the one human character. It offended my animation sensibility for him to appear when that was totally unnecessary.Oh well, I've got to get back to my cupcake in a cup.


                
When I read the reviews stating that Wall-E was the best movie from Pixar yet, "a masterpiece", I got really anxious to see it! How could they beat "Monsters Inc" story, or "The Incredibles" graphics, or "Findind Nemo"'s magic? Well... they didn't. I really started watching this movie with an open mind, but from the tedious intro, to the completely forced romance, the boring non-existent story and up to the stupid final I was utterly and completely disappointed. I think the rave reviews come from the kind of people for whom whatever's new is the best thing ever.Wall-e falls in love in a second, with a robot the audience has never seen. Whenever I see this kind of romance in a live movie, I know I'm watching a bad romance.All the humans are extremely fat. All of them. They can't even walk. Men and women. So that means no one is having sex? It's just not realistic. Sex is a basic need. At least for men it is! ;)--- SPOILER ALERT ---Read the following sentence only if you've already seen the movie... When the humans get back to earth, at the end of this drivel, they are happy to find that earth is a complete dump?! There's no way to survive like this! One tiny plant doesn't mean the soil is ready to grow corn or potatoes!!! A stupid ending for a stupid movie.I give 3 out of 10 for the graphics and one or two jokes.Kung-Fu Panda eats this one for breakfast, on the strength of its intro alone.


                
Because nothing else about this movie is likable. I said it about Ratatouille and i'll say it again for this movie. After such amazing films as "Finding Nemo", "Monster's Inc." and "Cars", I thought I could depend on Pixar for a great story, engaging characters and top notch animation, here, as with Ratatouille only one third makes it....the animation!!After hearing all the hype about this for months and months, I rented it out. This has to be one of the dullest movies i've seen in a long time. Worker robot (Wall E) who trash compacts alone on the pollution scorched Earth(which by the way, how successful is he working by himself on a whole PLANET?!!) becomes lovestruck with robot scanner droid sent to find vegetation. He spends the duration of the movie in pursuit of said Scanner Droid (Eve). A ROBOT LOVE story? Give me a break! Robots do just what they're programmed to do, they lack emotions, or even the capacity to feel or develop them. At least offer me a reason why a robot would have emotions, especially a trash compacting worker bot.The movie is so dull, boring and repetitive that I was actually shocked. Aside from that the not so subtle hit you over the head concepts of "pollution is bad, and we need to act now." Humans are also fat lazy, slobs who look like large doddling infants having grown morbidly obese with lack of mobility. Aside from the herd of humans, the only other characters are the aforementioned robots and a couple of other late in the movie robot sidekicks. None of them manage to be interesting, and I honestly could care less what happened to ANY of them. Wall E himself, i'll have to admit is interesting looking. If "Johnny 5" from the "Short Circuit" series and "Herb" the dish-washing robot from the underrated "Robots" movie, had a child, it would look like Wall E. "Eve" reminds me of a Japanese toy robot. Overall I really can't complain animation wise.Both robots barely speak more than their own names, or each others names throughout the film. It really grates on your nerves after a while. Anyhow, I guess besides the not to subtle "green" plot, the whole point is for "Eve" to bring back a seedling/weed to a giant spaceship filled with the obese humans, so they can go and return to the now "clean" Earth. Wall E, of course inadvertently becomes part of this plot when his love sickness causes him to hitch a ride on the ship carrying Eve to the large spaceship. There's some crap about the "auto pilot" not wanting to return to the Earth despite the captain's orders (BTW-do any other 80's nerds think that the "auto pilot" looks like "Max" the pilot robot from "Flight of the Navigator?") Good of course triumphs as the human pilot and the robots win, and are taken back to Earth. Of course when they get there Earth is not renewed completely as it still is filled with cubes of scrap and some scattered weeds/seedlings. I felt like standing up and saying. "Yeah, you thought it was gonna be like in the pictures didn't you?!!" With how morbidly obese they appear it'd be a miracle if they were able to help with restoration at all! Besides, with all the mysterious dust storms that were seen over the course of the movie, how the hell did those vulnerable seedlings even survive?! Here are the things I liked about the movie: Sigourney Weaver's voice, John Ratzenberger's obligatory Pixar cameo, and Wall E's pet roach who believe it or not is the best character in the movie. The only time I laughed when it was something roach related. Kids are probably to young to appreciate the subtle humor "factoids" about the almost indestructibleness of the roach. This little guy is squashed or vaporized at least 3 times and just gets right back up, brushes off and continues like nothing happened (pretty much like a real roach.) Also, I didn't fail to notice that on apocalyptic Earth seemingly the only things to survive would be roaches and twinkies (both probably very true!) Giving 3/10 for animation, and the roach/twinkie thing. In the meantime i'll keep my fingers crossed for the old Pixar formula on their next venture.
Isn't it a standing theme of mainstream US production? Outstandingsd igital animation but poor in the soul department.I bought in on the local reviews. Usually they cut mainstream crap by the ankles so they make good measure for me, but after seeing this movie I felt very disappointed. It's nowhere near Shrek and Toy story 2 which were very witty and funny and are among the best I've seen of US digital animation. Technical prowess does not offset the requirement for an interesting plot, which in this movie is severely lacking and is at a level that probably would feel fresh to a pre-teen.A complete waste of time.


                
Never before has computer animation been so great. It is just a darn shame that they didn't spend anything on the writers.The picture is beautiful; the detail and work is astonishing. Why then, did the story have nothing of interest? This is really quite a shame (and hopefully not an example of what we can expect from Pixar/Disney going forward).However, adults held captive by their spawn in the theaters will manage to give up a few yucks, but very few. The lacking story is helped along by many wonderful sight-gags, too bad that the writers were plainly absent during the development and production of this movie.Wait until the DVD.


                
I didn't like this movie, and I think it's overrated. I expected a lot better from Pixar. I can't really explain why I didn't like this movie without sharing details about the film, so stop reading now if you don't want to be spoiled.Spoilers start here.First, this is a very boring movie for the first 45 minutes. As I've said in other reviews, I don't need constant action to be entertained. Some of my favorite films of all time are very heavy on dialog and very light on action - for example, 12 Angry Men, Vertigo, and Judgment at Nuremberg. These three films have virtually no action, but they do have intelligent dialog and realistic story lines. I'd rather watch any of those three films all day long than sit through even one more viewing of WALL-E. It has no intelligent dialog at all. Why should anyone want to see a movie with two robots repeating each other's names 100 times? Well, I certainly didn't. Besides, I couldn't figure out why these robots should have been programmed to speak in the first place.Second, it takes forever to find out that humans have completely wasted the Earth and turned it into a lifeless chunk of rock. Then we're supposed to be happy that humans want to return to Earth since it's safe to live there again. Humans created this mess in the first place, and I don't think they should deserve to come back. I'll say more about this alternate ending later. But if the point of the story was that the humans are lazy and ignorant, a better ending would have been for them to have returned to space in their cruise ship where they could live the life of ease they are used to living.Third, I was really turned off by the Robots in Love storyline - it was just ridiculous. What purpose would it serve for a trash compactor to have feelings? Sure, it's a kids' movie, but they'd love the robots anyway. And for me, there were just too many scenes showing WALL-E's emotions. It didn't make me care about the character - it just annoyed me.Fourth, the trash in orbit was insanely stupid. If humans go through all of the trouble to launch garbage into space, why would they go to the additional trouble of putting it into orbit? Sooner or later, all that trash would come crashing down onto the Earth. Why not launch trash into empty space or into the Sun? At least then it would burn up and never have the chance to return to Earth.Fifth, the names of the robots were so contrived, and that did nothing but bother me even more. Waste Allocation Load Lifter - Earth Class? Really? He doesn't allocate waste, nor does he lift loads of allocated waste. He compacts it, and then stacks it to make lovely skyscraper-sized piles of junk. His name should have been Waste Disposal Artist. But you can't make a nice name out of WDA. So we get some nonsensical contrived name that another robot can repeat until you go insane.Sixth, the ending was just stupid. So the humans all come back and rebuild the Earth and everyone is happy because we're all living an agrarian lifestyle. The ending I actually expected to see was all the humans getting back onto their cruise ship and going back into space because they couldn't handle the rigors of life on Earth. Then, WALL-E and EVE are left on Earth to take care of it and repopulate it with their robot-kids. I'm not sure I would have liked that ending either, but when one of the robots is named EVE, what would you expect to happen?I could go on and on, but there's no point to that. I just can't understand why this movie is rated so high. If I ever wanted to see a film about environmentalism and robots, I would watch Silent Running. At least that one is more interesting.
I find it extremely hard to digest all the over hyped praise this movie has received. Except the high quality animation, this movie has absolutely nothing to offer. The concept is very cliché.If you have seen Idiocracy, you will find Wall E to be a cheap rip off of the same concept. Wall-E completely flat on humor lacks drama and excruciating screenplay. Usually I enjoy animated movies but this time I was thoroughly disappointed. This the first time I am amazed to see that I am in such disagreement with most of the IMDb users. I think those who liked this movie have not seen Idiocracy and therefore think that this is a brand new concept, but its not.


                
What is up with all these glowing reviews for WALL-E? Does everyone just want to jump up on the "kid-friendly/meaningful-message-embedded-by-necessity" film bandwagon? I'm sorry, but Disney Pixar has GOT to do much better than WALL-E, with the Toy Story movies, Finding Nemo, and Monsters, Inc. (just to mention a few) to live up to. Yeah, this movie was safe to take my 8-year-old son to--so safe, in fact, that he nearly fell asleep! My son wanted to rate this movie a 1, but since we were able to sit through the whole movie (barely) and not walk out I thought we should be generous. I couldn't stand that feeling of "This is basically an excruciatingly long, detestable PSA on what we humans are all doing wrong." And robots having feelings? Please! How overdone is that?! What an incredible waste of resources and talent...the movie was so colorless and bland and BORING, not to mention that there is hardly any dialogue! And more annoyingly, most of the dialogue involved Eve wailing "WALL-EEEEEE!" throughout the film. The Axiom scenes were somewhat redeeming, but not enough to compensate for this flop. When I think of Pixar, I think of beautifully vivid colors and scenery, imaginative plots, and endearing characters. WALL-E came up short on all of the above. Hopefully their next flick will be worth watching.
I have absolutely adored every single Pixar movie to date. The Incredibles and Cars were extraordinarily entertaining to me and perhaps two of my favourite movies of all time. Consequently I was really looking forward to seeing this film. Unfortunately I was also extremely disappointed.The movie left me curious as to IMDBs rating and I'm even more disappointed that I'm such as odds with IMDb. Usually my opinion of films are pretty consistent with the IMDb crowd.So why didn't I like this film ? For starters, virtually every single scene had something extremely hard to swallow. First there's the plot. Humans fill the planet so full of garbage that we not only relocate to giant space ships but we send them way outside of our solar system. Not only that but we become so fat that we literally can't do anything, including stand up and walk. Yet for 700 years we somehow manage to reproduce and maintain the technology that keeps us alive. The main character is, obviously, Wall-E. A trash compactor that somehow has the full range of human emotion (fear, embarrassment, physical attachment etc.) yet he can't speak coherent English. Wall-E falls in love with EVA. EVA also develops feelings for Wall-E yet also can't say anything but "Wall-E" and "Directive". The two characters communicate only by reciting each other's names over and over again (which becomes very annoying after a while) and the movie is very light on dialogue. I didn't have a problem with the lack of dialogue (in fact I consider mime to be one of the most challenging forms of acting since we communicate via body language far more than verbally. If executed properly a character that never speaks can be far more powerful than one that does) but I did feel that the movie was extremely slow to develop and actually felt longer than it really was.There were a few "cute" scenes where the various robot characters would get into trouble and I did let out the occasional chuckle but after a while I was dying to see some kind of story develop. I will admit that the last 1/3 delivered a bit of relief in the story section but it was too little too late (I won't spoil the ending).Animation-wise the movie is a hit. Technically-speaking it is a visually-stunning piece. However, in my opinion story always comes first.I gave the movie a 3/10 for the animation. The story was extremely weak and was basically a love story with an environmental message. I have a feeling that most people loved this movie because love stories and "cute things" are always a hit (Wall-E was very cute and the movie was definitely a love story). The movie also came across as an attempt at an artistic piece and I think that hit home with some people. I can get into art films but if I judge Wall-E as an art piece it fails on every level except the aesthetics. It didn't challenge conventional thinking. It didn't offer an original story. It took the environmental message to the farthest extremes possible and the main characters were very hard to like.
We just watched Wall-E this evening. My husband and I were looking forward to it. I LOVED Ratatouille! I enjoyed other Pixar movies... Cars, Toy Story, Nemo, Monsters Inc.This one... well... my husband gave it a 3/10 and that's probably about my feeling too.The animation was fantastic. I can't deny that it was absolutely impressive. It wasn't "fun" though... not bright and colorful like Nemo, or artistic like Ratatouille - rather it was sci-fi which fit perfectly.The story, however, didn't grab us. I think the major reason is that you didn't know the goal/purpose of the plant, etc., until the near end... so there was "nothing to root for." Also, the characters produced VERY little dialogue and, consequently, VERY little character development. None of them were particularly funny or engaging to me. There was no "sidekick" or "quirky" one like Dory from Nemo, Dopey from Snow White, etc.I understood the point and statement, but the fat, lazy slobs and disastrous planet weren't "fun" at all. The story had a good lesson, but it wasn't particularly fun or entertaining and that is just what I hope for when I go to a Pixar movie. The whole point of Pixar, to me, is to see something fun, whimsical, unique, more light-hearted.Artistically, I was impressed. As for the story... it just didn't grab me at all. I don't care to see this one again.


                
I was expecting a thoroughly enjoyable film, and am sorry to say it is not even marginally enjoyable. What is all the hubbub about? Nothing about this movie charmed me. I can't submit a review with less than ten lines of text, but have no more to say; therefore, I will merely repeat myself. I can't submit a review with less than ten lines of text, but have no more to say; therefore, I will merely repeat myself. I can't submit a review with less than ten lines of text, but have no more to say; therefore, I will merely repeat myself. I can't submit a review with less than ten lines of text, but have no more to say; therefore, I will merely repeat myself. I can't submit a review with less than ten lines of text, but have no more to say; therefore, I will merely repeat myself. I can't submit a review with less than ten lines of text, but have no more to say; therefore, I will merely repeat myself. I can't submit a review with less than ten lines of text, but have no more to say; therefore, I will merely repeat myself. I can't submit a review with less than ten lines of text, but have no more to say; therefore, I will merely repeat myself. I can't submit a review with less than ten lines of text, but have no more to say; therefore, I will merely repeat myself.


                
I really thought that this would be a very good animated movie considering the 8.6 star rating on IMDb when I watched it. I'm glad I got the DVD from the library and didn't see it at the theater or paid money to rent it.It was all quite boring. I don't know what people are raving about. I feel that people are giving it high ratings because they have been brainwashed into thinking that it's a great movie from reading all the other comments. Maybe people see some deep meaning or profound message in this movie, but I thought the whole thing was quite shallow. I'm trying not to include any comments that might be considered "spoilers", but as far as I'm concerned, just watching spoiled it for me. How can you have one scene after another solely for the purpose of trying to make these characters seem cute and lovable and human? It was a real waste of my time watching this movie and I just don't feel like I want to join the rest of the flock of sheep on this one. Sorry, it's really not very good....at all.


                
This movie is so big disappointment...I really enjoy Finding Nemo, but Wall-E? This movie is definitely one big cliché. Wall-E looks like Number Five from John Badham movie Short Circuit, even the jokes are the same. And where is humor? Where is the story? Where is good action? I think, that big problem was with Eve, why she everything destroy? Wall-E looks like art movie, but in the worst meaning of this words. I really admire technology and work of animators from Pixar, but it's not enough for good movie. Last movies from Pixar Ratatouille and Wall-E are not for children and when someone make movies for children it's something wrong. Sorry, guys.


                
Wall-e is definitely worth a watch, but doesn't match some previous Pixar efforts in a few categories: strength of plot, interesting characters, or amusing asides. Toy Story, Finding Nemo, and The Incredibles were MUCH stronger movies in virtually all areas. Arguably Monster, Inc., Cars, and Ratatouille were as well.Still, you can't make those movies every time, nor re-watch them endlessly, so there is no harm in watching this movie, which is at times visually depressing but at other times a visual feast.It succeeds in being interesting even though very little about either the story or its backdrop makes any sense at all. (Why would a culture with hyper-space travel sit in the middle of space for hundreds of years instead of exploring for a new planet to live on? Why would a robot tasked with finding evidence of life on the former home world of its makers blast anything that moved or made a noise without first investigating for actual danger? Why would it immediately go into a shutdown mode after finding one small sample, instead of continuing its exploration to draw as complete a picture as possible, since its purpose was to invite a possible return to the planet? I could go on and one, but I'm not going to.) Even though the story had very little real thought put into it, it is a typical Pixar technical animation feast, and is worth watching for the images no matter how much you have to grind your teeth at the story.


                
I will stick my neck out here and go against the masses and can only give this movie a 3/10. Pixar Animation is 10/10 no question...sheer brilliance and no doubt Oscar worthy.But this sort of movie where there is hidden agenda, perhaps even an Al Gore motivational ad, disguised as a children's movie concerns me.Yes yes I know that if we continue to use, abuse, waste, soil and pillage the earth blah blah blah...'if you're not part of the solution then you're part of the problem' I GET IT!! But this message has no place in a movie made for children.Remember 2001's 'Artificial Intelligence: AI'?? A movie by Spielberg that was made supposedly for children...in fact I thought the subtitle name of 'AI' was a deliberate move to try and fit in with the 'ET' genre. Instead, it was nearly a horror movie...not for children...a good movie but it would have been scary for a child to see how human parents dealt with their robot,albeit human-looking, child.Leave kids movies for kids. There were no kids at the showing I was at. This show was about garbage--plain and simple--fat lazy humans and garbage. No message, no earth shattering insights. Just 1986's 'Johnny Five' from 'Short Circuit' with a girlfriend. Boring stuff.
Nothing like hitting you over the head with the ecology message. Nothing subtle about the message in this movie. Granted, most movies, especially kids movies, have an underlying message but this is to blatant. Without dialog it was mostly this wheeled machine whizzing around. That is cute for a few minutes and for the first few minutes the CGI holds your attention but with no plot you can only watch a cute CGI robot for so long. Young children will probably like this because of the cute robot but adults are going to get bored real soon. It would have made a nice 30 minute TV special but as a full length movie it was just too long. I especially could not get into the animated humans. They did not seem in anyway realistic. I would have preferred a mixture of live humans and CGI. The love story in the beginning was OK. The way Wall-E "stalked" EVA, but once the story left earth and got to the spaceship the plot vanished and it became dull. I did not really care that much about Wall-E. He was not cute enough to really get to like and without a voice their was no way to really get to know him. All in all, I think if they had stayed with Wall-E and EVA having a love affair on Earth and forgotten the spaceship it could have been an OK movie. But as is, like I said before, very young children will probably like it but beyond that I think it falls flat.
Stunning visuals aside, I have to admit to not liking the character Wall-E the robot. Or his love interest; I might as well log on to a porn site to watch a dustbin humping a dalek for all the pleasure it might give me. Wall-E seemed too desperate the whole time, like a stray cat you might feed but then kind of wish he'd go away. The newer white robot seemed a stupid cow, like a bossy sort showing up at the office one day and ordering people about. Naturally Wall-E falls in love, and when she laughs it's like one of the Flinstones wives, all tee-hee shaking shoulders.I got bored watching them go about their business and found the 2001 Space Odyssey reference a bit of an annoying rip-off rather than a homage. I found it all a real grind, still it's mainly two characters and if you don't like 'em, that's gonna be that. I can't convey how unhappy and depressing I found this film, though I'll admit the idea is charming enough.


                
While the animation was very good, the best that Pixar has done to date, the story line was poor at best. It must have taken all of a lunch to some up with that story line.While it is a fantasy, there is no reason to distort reality. A plant survives in a discarded refrigerator? What does that tell our children?Other issues: What economic model is this based on? Who in the heck does any work? Robots with feelings? We have little idea were ours come from, much less creating them in a robot.With the ease of turning out movies there seems to be fewer folks that can write a good story. Don't spend your money at the theater. Wait to rent the DVD.


                
Every person that I know, and i can see all say how the movie is well. SO CUTE! or just ADORABLE! But in my opinion it was more like horrible. I don't think I have the attention span to follow this slow moving movie. The best part of this movie was definitely the ending for me. I couldn't wait for it to finish. The only reason I didn't just get up, and leave was because I paid money for it I might as well sit, and hope it gets better. Well ladies and gentlemen.. would you ever guess that it never did get better. I'm not heartless, I'm not dead of emotion, and no I'm not a ***** that thinks this movie is cute.. I can say when something is cute. I'm very comfortable with it. That just wasn't it. Save your time and don't bother watching it.Not worth the time.


                
I agree that the animations were fantastic and all that. But I am not a movie criticist - I do not judge movies that way. I went to see the film along with my four children ranging in age between 4 and 12 - none of them was thrilled by the experience. Were was the witty dialog? The humor? The small portions of action contained in the film seemed misplaced (not that I demand action, but if the robots prefer not to speak, they might instead do something funny). The possible sens moral were so vaguely stated that no child would ever have to bother about making a second thought about it. There were obvious openings - "a robot arriving from earth teaches humanity to humans", or simply "do not waste the planet" - but Pixar did not take the time to spell them out properly. We left the theater speaking about other matters - the movie had left no impression whatsoever.


                
Technically, this is one of the best animations I've seen. As a story, I found it quite boring. We had visitors when we were 60 minutes into the DVD, and it was only two days later that we remembered that we hadn't seen the complete DVD. So, no thanks. You see this more often in SF-movies : technical superiority, but a lousy plot. Eh, Mr. Lucas ? Moreover, we didn't like the "nervous" way the story was shown. It reminded me of some video clips of modern "music". Perhaps an attempt to mask the weakness of the story ? What Pixar and Disney need, is to re-learn the art of story-telling. This DVD was a waste of money. I would advise people to compare this bit of "fantasy" with Mr. Miyazaki's animations. It's Warhol compared to Van der Weyden. Well, looking at auction prices, some people really seem to like Mr. Warhol....


                
