Pixar has produced some of the best animation in the past decade with its computer-generated features (Toy Story, Monsters Inc., and Finding Nemo) that have been marked by strong story lines and vivid characters. The tradition continues in an impressive way with Wall-E. This deceptively simple tale is transformed by the emotional content told almost entirely through visuals. A polluted Earth has become uninhabitable for 700 years, and one of its only residents is Wall-E, a small robot whose solitary mission is to be a mobile, trash compactor. In his work, he also finds and collects trivial, odd artifacts of mankind's past such as a Rubik's cube. He comforts himself with an old video, Hello Dolly, and as he learns about humans and his yearning for love, it becomes his idyllic vision of happiness amid an insulated, dull existence. Along his travels, he comes across a unique find, a live plant! One day a spaceship lands and deposits a robot probe. Fascinated by this kindred machine, Wall-E follows and eventually befriends this unit known as Eve. Eve has a directive that will hopefully return humans to Earth if only it can sustain life, and Wall-E's plant figures immeasurably. Eve is returned to her mother ship with Wall-E frantically chasing after his newly found love. On a spaceship acting as a living city for its machine-dependent, overweight humans, little robots are not only the caregivers, but in control. Wall-E and Eve must figure a way to return the humans to earth and find happiness even if it means making the ultimate sacrifice.Wall-E's innocence and childlike wonder (think E.T.), as exemplified by how he introduces himself to everyone he meets, could almost have sprung from Steven Spielberg's imagination. It's in the small details that enrich Wall-E as a character. He brings to mind an amalgam of past robots like Star Wars' R2-D2 and the little robots in Silent Running, and his fears and joys are expressed through body language and squeals. When he shuts down each night to sleep, he rocks himself as a child would. He is clumsy around Eve, and when he takes her to his makeshift home of robot parts and paraphernalia, he is like a little kid. Ironically, he is the catalyst to bring the humans back home. Writer and director, Andrew Stanton (Finding Nemo), takes a huge risk by basing the film's premise almost entirely on a song from Hello Dolly. I can't think of an animated film that relied so much on visual storytelling. Even Fantasia and Allegro Non Troppo were collections of musical sequences not narrative features. In a way, this film is almost too sophisticated in its display and execution for little kids but is just right for adults. Remarkably, this is a tale with nary a spoken word by the principals. One has to think of silent films to approach this achievement. The operative word here is pathos like the best of Charlie Chaplin's little tramp and, amazingly, this film earns its stripes by emoting body language, action, and sound effects. Yet most of the characters aren't even human! Fred Willard has an amusing small role as the corporate president. Sigourney Weaver, as the ship's computer voice, is an inspired choice since, like Eve, she was a female hero (in the Alien movies) and had to deal with computer voices in those films. The animation is almost 3-D in its rich detail and simulated, fluid camera-work. The interior of the mother ship, the Axiom, is a futuristic view of a commercialized (think Blade Runner) city in space. Yes, it is a thinly veiled message for all those 'save the earth' and 'think green' people, but that never detracts from the main theme of saving humanity amid a touching love story. There are moments when you think a scene could have played out a bit better, but that is minor. It is likely that Wall-E's reputation will grow over time as a shining example of stretching the art form by challenging and trusting its audience. Bravo to the folks at Pixar for taking a chance and for entertaining and moving us.
When it comes to animated films, Pixar are masters of the craft. Ever since their feature film debut, the magnificent 'Toy Story', the animation studio have brought us such instant classics as 'Monsters Inc.', 'The Incredibles' and 'Finding Nemo', a film which remains as one of the biggest selling DVDs of all time. Surely it's about time that they delivered us a bad film? Well, sorry to disappoint, but Pixar's 'WALL-E' is among not only their greatest work, but among the greatest animations ever produced.The film opens with some astonishing shots of a desolate, rubbish-laden, polluted Earth; a boldly dark opening for a family oriented feature. It is amidst these dystopian surroundings, however, that our hero - arguably more adorable than a basket full of puppies and kittens - is first introduced to us. WALL-E is a character of genius; combining elements of Johnny 5, Charlie Chaplin and Mr. Bean, Andrew Stanton (Director) and crew have created something that will no doubt go down in history with R2-D2 as one as the screen's most memorable machines.It is the 22nd Century, and mankind have left Earth in giant Space Cruisers waiting for the surface of their planet to finally become habitable again. 700 years have past, and WALL-E (Waste Allocation Load Lifter Earth-Class), is the last of a group of robots left to clean up the planet. In a disturbing sequence, our hero ventures home through trash heaps laden with 'dead' WALL-E's... another sign that this is not the usually Pixar fare, but something more meaningful, more bold, more... adult in theme. And this is what the first act of the film is. WALL-E, accompanied by his pet cockroach (who, as a testament to Pixar's genius, we grow to care for just as much as the metal man himself), goes about his daily routine. It is in this mostly silent section of the film that we grow to love WALL-E. As he rumages through human garbage, finding interest in things that seem mundane to us, we discover that after all these years, this little robot has developed something that makes him seem more to us than an animated clunk of cogs and rust... a personality. His incredibly curious nature make for some of the most adorable moments depicted in film (including moments such as WALL-E meets car keys and WALL-E meets... bra). We delve further into this intriguing personality when we invited into the little guy's 'house', a storage space for all his collected junk. Whilst WALL-E watches a VCR of the musical 'Hello, Dolly!", we see from his large, emotional eyes and clasping hands that he is, heartbreakingly, all alone on this immense world.Then, the following day, as WALL-E goes about his trash-cube-making business, something extraordinary, both to us and WALL-E, occurs. A space ship touches down on the surface, holding within it EVE, a futuristic, Ipod-resembling droid here to scout the earth for plant-life... and WALL-E's one true love (aww).This love story eventually leaps from Earth into space and onto The Axiom, an immense Space Ship on which a large number of the American population - depicted as lazy, obese, consumerist slobs - go about the same mundane routine day in, day out. Message heavy, but never preachy. In the end, through WALL-E, everyone learns the true meanings of life: Love and the relationships with those around us. Oh, and to take care of the planet, of course.Beautiful visuals, astonishing characterisation and a sequence with WALL-E and EVE floating through space that is more romantic than anything your likely to see this year, make 'WALL-E' an outstanding achievement that proudly stands among Pixar's finest work. WALL-E is a completely realised character, and one which I am sure we have not seen the last of. Although, some would argue, not as accessible as other films in the genre (some children may grow resteless during the film's earlier, dialogue-free sequences), 'WALL-E' will leave a lasting impression on cinema goers of all ages.And that is the genius of Pixar. The only studio ever to create films that are, truly, 'for all the family'. -Dan Henry, 20th July 2008


                
I join the gushing majority and say this is one amazingly done, very touching and important film. 1. A Masterpiece of Computer Graphics & Story TellingWhen computers were still in training pants 25 years ago, I studied, worked with and taught computer graphics. I've often watched an animated film (or live film with injected animation) with knowing appreciation at some use of or advance in computer graphics technology. I have a friend who had been involved managing computer graphics projects for some of the previous Star Wars movies. We have previously discussed the "state of the art" and where it's going. The surprise to me in this film wasn't that they could do graphics of this quality now. It was amazement at the scope, effort, skill and creative genius I know it takes to make something so beautiful and moving.Watching the film, my feelings went from astonishment at the graphics to deep empathy and feeling for the main characters. The people around me gasped and say "wow" just the same. You don't need experience or friends like mine to tell you that nothing else has come this close to looking so real and gorgeous, to feel so visceral and well-crafted. The use of modern live-action cinematic effects is stunning beyond words. The film's reliance on the intelligence of children and adults to understand the serious thoughts and complex emotions being conveyed, well, is just simply an amazing and reassuring experience. And I thought the closing credit art (using different styles of famous artists) was very cool too.2. Some Small Nitpicks: Most of the time I felt I was watching an exceptionally crafted film with a tight story and a serious message about the current problems of and future prospects for Earth. An then something would happen in the film that would be, like, "Huh? That doesn't quite make sense or follow, but it's just animation". I found 2-3 moments where I was shifted from sobering reality to forgivable fantasy, and it was a bit jarring and distracting But these moments can be easily forgotten with the continuation of the next amazing scene.It looks like the quality (time, money, computer horse-power)spent on the main characters is much more than what was spent on depicting the humans. Heck, even the garbage get's more realistic treatment than the people. And then there is the live video of Scott Willard as the "Executive in Chief" talking to the planet....The styles don't mesh well for me. I appreciate the thought-line that the humans look more cartoon because of the surreal and clueless nature of their existence on the ship, as well as our inept and greedy custodianship of the planet. I can imagine that the live video is meant to help connect children with the cartoon-nature of certain government officials and the patronizing policies they always on display these days on the evening news. Maybe this is all true, but it's probably also a way to rationalize a limited budget and time schedule. The bottom-line for me that the discrepancies between the treatments didn't work that well for me.Most of the time the characters are so extremely cute and lovable, it's a complement to their creators. But sometimes the cultural cliché's and visual slapstick are a bit much. Overall, it all adds up to a very sweet and moving film, but just a little less "shtick" would have been fine by me.Some thoughts on other reviews I've read here:Is the Message Too Heavy-Handed? I don't think so. It's mainly aimed at small kids. They get it, and they take it to heart. Maybe the question should be "is the message loud enough?" We earthlings still don't seem to be getting the message. Last I checked, we were still busy polluting the air, water, soil and every life form on the planet...oh, and ruining our climate also. We are feeding our families and enjoying ourselves, but sorry we are each helping to destroy the planet along the way. "Oh well. It's not like I can make a difference". Let's just leave the problem for the kids. Good luck kids! Do you think mom and dad are making "good choices?"It's a moment of truth for us. Are we up to it? Are we truly awake yet and smelling the rising levels of toxicity in our environment? Maybe the message was said softer people would get it more?Regarding those people who have posted negatively, that they couldn't connect, and even thought of walking out...everyone is absolutely entitled to their opinion and to state it. But, gosh, If this film didn't make them gasp at beauty, smile warmly, laugh knowingly...if it didn't put a lump in your throat or make an eye or two teary, then...that's just sad, and even a bit scary.If you haven't seen this film yet, run and see it on the big screen while you can. I think you will enjoy taking some kids. You will see them enthralled and fully-attuned to the message. It's a good thing.


                
You can read elsewhere the ordinary stuff <U+0097> about how wonderful this is; about how it exploits cinematic characterization, and even how conservative bloggers have decided to criticize it supposedly leftist premise. (Jees)I did enjoy it. Its an amazing experience. But while watching it, I also was admiring the minds behind it. There are sometimes intelligent movies being made, and a surprising number of them are from Hollywood. I believe though that in most cases, it is because there is a critical mass of intelligent writers, filmmakers and decisionmakers that are working at the fringe of the establishment. Not so with Pixar. I've been constantly surprised at each project how they encapsulate essays in the advance of the cinematic vocabulary.Its a bit like French new wave films made by film theorists, the films being more about what can be done than doing it in the service of effect that matters. (Their retort would be that it DOES matter if it changes the vehicle.)But this Pixar business is a different model. Folks can come and be entertained without having to dip into vats of self-reference. Oh, there's plenty of superficial self-reference, but its all in the service of jokes, and they are all in the service of the narrative.But other folks <U+0097> like me and perhaps you <U+0097> can also see that they are doing a few things that no one else is in quite the same advanced way, and they mark them so that you can read it as a sort of metanarrative. Jobs does the same thing with Apple. They make products that people use and like. But they also are in the business of defining what it is to be cool. They manufacture cool like they manufacture electronic products. You get both, and even in the products there's a reference to leadership, because being cool is all in who defines cool.So when I saw this, I saw self-conscious art, and stories about the future of cinema. We've always gotten that with Pixar. Usually, it has to do with space, and what you can do with this new medium that is impossible with "real" cameras and places.This last movie, "Ratatouie" added in the notion of control. Pulling the strings. I'm sure many have noticed that the shorts that Pixar creates to play before these features are a sort of synopsis of the reflective ideas they will use in the film. Last time the short and film were about control at a distance, with both the puppetmaster and puppet being featured, but the star was the puppetmaster. You can almost see how the whole story could have been generated by this idea: chef, French (who claim to have invented folded cinema of the reflexive kind), and rat. Secret recipes. Love always.This time around, the cinematic sensibilities are profoundly deeper. A deep certainty. You have to know about 2001 as a start. Kubric's interest there was the warring narrator. Whose world is telling the story, man, machine or god. There is a story, but it hardly matters. Its all about who is telling the story, whose chair you sit in as the viewer. Its a masterful work.Here, its bent only a little: mankind, machine and nature, but its folded back on the story <U+0097> which here has effect. Wall-e is natural, machine in form, but more human than the humans we see. But watch how they fold it again. Its a movie about the truth in movies, how the power of cinema can reach into the real world. A handholding there and here is a handhold between the worlds. And also watch how they built movies in. This isn't accidental. When they put a movie within a movie like this, the intent is to have the watcher of the outer movie join the world of the watcher of the inner movie. Its a reliable trick to get us to invest in what we see. But they go further. When we see the humans <U+0097> who are supposed to be like us but clearly aren't <U+0097> we note that THEY are hypnotized by the movies in front of them and cannot see the larger world beyond, and we can.It happens to also spill over into the great narrative about how some of us can see that the planet is being destroyed and other blithely putter on. That business about saving image- laden artifacts as a memory storehouse... All these layers <U+0097> yes they are engineered by what is now the most intelligent and adventuresome narrative engineering lab in a studio.All this extra introspection is used not as dry thesis, but in the service of the love story. It made it deeper, and more true. Knowing makes love true. So yes, it is effective, and fun, and deep.To compensate, the camera and space manipulation is less radical than usual.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.


                
Pixar and Disney have done it again! This is an historic piece of film-making and an example of what can happen when a studio like Pixar continually refuses to compromise making the best film possible....every time...and we're talking nine times now in a row!!! This movie works as kid's movie, a science fiction film, a romantic comedy, and for much of it...a silent film. It had a great message but was not preachy. It had stunning visuals throughout. My expectations were so high for this film...and yet they were far exceeded by the geniuses at Pixar...I don't know how they do it. This movie makes up for the disappointment I felt after seeing the latest Indiana Jones installment. Spielberg and Lucas, I have a "directive" for you. Take your kids to see WALL-E immediately, and definitely take notepad!!!Overall Score: 9.2/10


                
Boy, the visuals were as stunning as I had read they were; absolutely spectacular. I hate to use this cliché, but this is a "must" for Blu-Ray fans. You have to see - and hear - this film in HD because it is a great treat for your senses. The surround sounds are everywhere while the colors and artwork are something to behold! And, yes - it's still very pretty on a regular DVD, too.The story is "cute," but nowhere near the visuals and audio. It's okay, subtlety humorous, dramatic and romantic parts. It gets a tiny bit preachy with the usual environmental digs and a comment about how fat we humans can get by lying around too much, but otherwise just plays it for comedy and cool-looking characters. Everyone and everything in this film is pretty amazing-looking.It's kind of a strange story, with much of it taking place on a big space ship. My favorite parts were in the beginning on Earth with the little robot WALL-E and his cockroach friend.There is so much to see in this film, it makes multiple viewings all the more attractive but, I'll assume, you're always going to catch some things you didn't see the first few times. Overall, not a super story but yet an amazing film, one that is one you want to show off your Blu-Ray DVD player to friends. This sets yet another new standard in animation.


                
PIXAR has made a long string of good movies. With the weakest being CARS, witch still was a good movie (just not perfection/near perfection like the rest) could there reputation hold up to the next movie.Do we need oxygen to live? I can't think of a bad part in this movie. There are some scientific errors beyond basic sci-fi, but the movie is good enough to look past them. The little dialog beyond some robot designating things such as "Target" or "Foreign substance" and a few commercials. One particular thing I enjoyed was when a space craft was passing the moon, you could see the Armstrong landing sight. Next to it was an add for a BUY-N-LARGE superstore.The animation was flawless. If I was looking at the images minus the people and some robots (not all however)I would swear it was live action.The sounds are going to win an Oscar. The music will be nominated (though I doubt it will win) I really doubt any movie will beat this for best animated feature film 2008. I wouldn't be surprised if it got nominated for best screenplay. I will defiantly by the DVD. So I have to wait till about November/December.


                
From Curious George to E.T. and right on down to the present day, cinema-goers have always had a strong affinity towards, for lack of a better term, "curious little critters", small animals, aliens or other beings who are simultaneously inquisitive and clueless about the ways of Earth, and are preferably also quite clumsy, and Wall-E, as a character and as a movie, delivers in spades. Taking a pratfall as effortlessly as Keaton, and doing a terrified double take better than the most racist of cinema servitude, the sentient being, whose job it is to pick up and compact trash on a desolate future Earth, is equally fascinated by the inner workings of lightbulbs, Twinkies, garbage can lids and iPods, but can't seem to cover his head, as countless manner of things continually seem to be crashing down upon it. This mundane existence is shattered by a mysterious craft that deploys a scanning probe, another sentient being, this time with an infectious giggle and an itchy trigger finger, named Eve.Pixar has an uncanny knack for turning familiarity into universiality. Case in point: the love story presented in "WALL-E" is a story that doesn't take a single turn that hasn't been preordained by 80 years of cinema history, but Pixar still manages to turn it on its ear: The love story here is between robots, and our protagonists, despite only having model numbers and call signs for names, and literally knowing four words between them (two, discounting their own names), are more human than any couple seen on the silver screen in some time, and when life and responsibility intervene, there's a sense of heartbreak and loss seldom possible with flesh and blood.The second act takes us as far in the other direction as possible, as Eve is picked back up by her ship, and Wall-E hitches a ride on the side, desperate for his only love. The scenes of travel here function as both a sort of montage, a transition between acts, but also serve to provide the audience with what may be the most awe-inspiring presentation of space seen since "2001", which also gets an immediately recognizable character nod that could work as a gap to that film when they're older. What he finds when the ship arrives is a completely autonomous society, co-existing between morbidly obese humans on floating chairs, no longer required to do anything of effort, even communicating on viewscreens directly across from each other, coexisting with all manner of robotic denizens, who have far more of the human experience than their living counterparts, including frustrated custodians, tough-as-nails security officers and even a mental health ward.I won't take the time to explain the particulars of the humans' situation, or any more of the plot, because part of the fun is exploring for yourself. Pixar has never been one to skimp on the details, and every inch of the screen is filled with glorious colors, wondrous intricacies and charming touches that just add to the amazing glory unfolding before you. The fact that you know what's going to happen is less of a detriment and more of a comfort, much like watching a old video of your favorite sports' team's greatest triumph: You may know all the ups and down, but on screen, it's always happening for the first time, and damnit, it feels that way too, a testament to the skill, expertise and above all HEART, something Pixar has always seemed to possess just a little bit more of than everybody else, like they discovered some hidden secret on how to entertain everybody, to transcend labels like "children's movie", "animated movie" or even "family movie", to where all you have to say is "Pixar", and the inference is there: You're going to love it, and Pixar has stepped up to say, "Don't give up on 2008 just yet." As for "WALL-E", the message is clear: All you need is love (All together now!). All you need is love (Everybody!). All you need is love, love...Love is all you need.{Grade: 9.5/10 (A) / #1 (of 53) of 2008 / #187 of all time}
WALL·E is seriously the best movie I have seen this winter, I just adored this movie, it has great laughs, cute jokes and is entertaining for the whole family. Like I said before, when it's Disney/Pixar you just can't go wrong. WALL·E is one of their most lovable characters ever and was like the robot version of Charlie Chaplin, he brought great slap stick to the story. This movie delivers everything you can imagine and much more, not to mention a great message. I highly recommend this movie for everyone, it's just a very wonderful movie that anyone can enjoy.


                
I had heard about this film since quite a long time. My first thought was that could an "Animation" film supposedly created for kids work as a science-fiction movie for me ? After realizing the positive reception that this film had garnered, I decided to watch this. It would be a first for me in the sense that this was the first animated feature film that I would be viewing. And now, after having done that, I'm glad that I stepped into the territory of animation. WALL·E is not just a fun-filled animation movie meant for kids. It is at par with any feature film featuring big stars, sets and budgets ever made and is much better than most of them.The story is mainly told through visuals (although quite a bit of dialog creeps in during the last hour) and is best deciphered by the viewers themselves instead of being explained in such a review. It's set about 700-800 years into the future when Earth is in a mess, mankind has settled into space and the only moving thing left on Earth is a robot named WALL·E - this should more than suffice. Although there are no dialogs for a major portion of the film, it is much simpler to understand yet gets more complex as you start analyzing it in detail. This kind of treatment comes across as far more effective (at least for me) than say the one in 2001: A Space Odyssey which relies heavily on visuals leaving almost all of the deciphering to the viewer. As such, WALL·E is as simple or complex as you perceive it to be (although for the most part, it is the former).Despite having a short running time, the film packs in much more than many 2+ hour extravaganzas and credit for this must go to the writing, direction and editing - all absolutely first rate. The screenplay is packed in with twists and turns that rarely do we come across moments where nothing happens on screen. Some people have criticized as the opening minutes of the film boring - WALL·E apparently simply goes about doing his stuff. But according to me, those sequences do exactly what they're meant to do - they not only provide us with a glimpse of the everyday life of WALL·E (which is boring and mundane) but also gives an insight into WALL·E's loneliness as also the fact that he longs for companionship. The editing is flawless and one scene just flows into the next (many scenes spring up a surprise or two as well).Technically the film looks polished and the first twenty minutes will leave you wondering whether you're indeed watching an animation film or a shot live-action one. It's only when the humans enter the picture that you realize that its animation. The lighting in the future earth sequences is so live-action Esq, it makes those sequences all the more appealing. Just looking at the principal characters, you can see that it has taken a lot of effort.The main reason that the film works (for me at least) on such a huge level is (besides the story and treatment) is the main character WALL·E. He is simply put the perfect representation of an endearing, hard-working, polite yet cute robot representing humility and empathy. And his eyes are probably his best feature - they are so expressive that WALL·E doesn't need the mouth, shoulders, or even words to communicate or express the emotions that he goes through - the eyes say it all. In short he is the star of the film.WALL·E works on any and every level you want it to. What then is disappointing about this film ? Not much except that I was really looking forward to the music in the trailers being a part of the film and was heartbroken to find out that it wasn't. Also, the future humans could have been a bit better - they look far too cartoonish especially when compared to the film's look in the earth sequences. I guess I've become used to complaining which is what makes me feel as if something's missing from a movie. On the positive side, I believe this prevents me from rating a movie 10/10 at the drop of a hat. Nevertheless, these complaints do not take away from the fact that WALL·E is, in almost all aspects, a superior film and should not just be dismissed as an animation film meant for kids - it has a good message hidden inside it. And yes, this film has allowed me to open the doors of my mind to a new genre of movies - animated films. For me, Toy Story's next.Score: 8.7/10 (Rounded off to 9/10)


                
Yes, there's the politically correct "too much garbage and too much commercialism" stuff...But what SHINES OUT is - Wall*E caring for the (apparently) comatose Eve...Reminds me of seeing an elderly man lovingly wheel his disabled wife around...of parents adopting an abused wheelchair bound child in Foster Care...of my uncle caring for my once-comatose aunt...And nice to see that the "defective" robots (in a scene which seems to be a "mental ward") are needed to defeat the bad guys---Even their frantic or bizarre behaviors confound the well programmed robot warriors...That's the POLITICALLY UNFASHIONABLE but HUMAN AFFIRMING message that will make Wall*E at least a good movie 30 years from now...
Wall E is set far in the future... 800 years into the future. By that time, Earth would have been so full of mess that life could not be sustained on it. So, all the Earth's citizens left Earth on a spaceship cruise and left behind thousands of robots known as Waste Allocation Load Lifter Earth-class. The robots are supposed to clean up the Earth, and once evidence of life is found everyone can return. But the program was forgotten, and there's only one sole remaining Wall-E.I've seen all of Pixar's work, and I can say very confidently that the first half hour of Wall-E is full of the darkest and deepest scenes Pixar has ever created. The story opens in a ghost city, revealing the life of Wall-E. His ultimate job is to... compress garbage. However, while rummaging through the garbage, Wall-E adds certain items he finds while rummaging through the garbage to his personal collection. Wall-E breaths life and personality and remains a lovable character while still being a robot. Throughout the story, Wall-E encounters Eve, a robot sent to search for life on Earth, and he falls in love (any further about the plot, and I'd be spoiling the film). But Wall-E has the personality, while Eve is... a robot. She's cold, cruel, and insensitive.What makes Wall-E untraditional to most cinematic masterpieces is its lack of dialog. The robots feelings are shown through a compilation of sound effects, body language, and expressions. Wall-E's emotions can always be detected by his binocular-eyes alone. The story is still told without much dialog between the main characters, and told rather effectively. Hey, I understood it much easier than Ocean's Thirteen, so the lack of dialog can't be that bad.Wall-E is among one of the few Disney-related Science Fiction movies, and the only one with an (mostly) ecologic theme. The ecologic theme is secondary to the love one, so it's not overwhelming (especially for children). The depiction of life in the far future is however depicted to be incredibly twisted, so some kids could get hung up on "drinking" lunch instead of enjoying the film. In a world controlled by computers, the human effort stands above all, and if kids end up watching this movie, they would realize it as well.All in all, Wall-E isn't an adventure anyone should miss. The movie isn't restricted to kids or to adults, which is a key label associated with Pixar. The movie is without error, and Pixar once again stole the big screen. I want this movie on DVD as soon as possible.


                
As the film starts in space with a song from Hello Dolly, you wonder just quite what you're getting yourself into. A few moments later we are transported to Earth, up-to-it's eyeballs in garbage, however help is at hand, in the cuboid shape of WALL-E, a waste allocation load lifter, Earth-class. Once WALL-E was part of a huge herd of robotic trash compactors built to help the human race get out of the mess it had made, while they stayed in space, waiting for everything to be sorted. However, it's 700 years later and only one WALL-E is left and on his own he has become a tad eccentric. With only a cockroach as a friend he spends his time doing his job and trying to learn more about the people who once inhabited this little world. Of course if that was the entire film it wouldn't be very good and shortly after it starts WALL-E is joined by EVE, a far more advanced model whose mission is a secret.This is Pixar's most ambitious film to date. From the moment the title appears and the music really kicks in we feel this is different to the cutesy world of superheroes and talking cars and animals that have gone before. This is a film that has elements that are grim, unsettling and ask difficult questions about what we are doing as custodian's of the planet. The script and story are an absolute triumph as the skill's of the animator's to make those hundred's of pixels perform in such charming, heart-warming ways is a joy to watch.The pacing of the film, unlike Nemo, The Incredibles and Cars is flawless and you get the feeling that a lot was sacrificed to keep that running time as tight and precise as it is. There is not a frame wasted, nor one shot too many. However, the thing that gets me most about this film, no matter how many times I watch this film I see something new that I haven't seen before. The lighting looks like a real film, the pauses and reactions from the robot performers are exquisite with more than a nod being shown to the silent pioneers at the turn of the last century who started this thing called cinema off. After watching this I think they'd be proud to see how far their medium has come.There's a saying that you can't polish a turd, and sadly in the media these days hundreds of millions of dollars are spent polishing so many expensive summer turds (Dark Knight anyone?) This was a joy to watch and discover that in spite of the stupidity of this business of show, there are still worlds full of sparkle, Barnaby! A Masterpiece of the medium.Nuff said.


                
Animation is a key element in the lives of children but somewhere around adolescence, a young person feels they're "too mature" or "too cool" to be watching "cartoons." Then a change occurs in adulthood, which the same young person misses something from their childhood and a film they watched while playing with Lego's brings them back to that. As of late, animated films have tried to be something their not, perhaps lost their spark. In the new millennium, I haven't really experienced the Bambi, The Lion King, or The Fox and the Hound of our time. Finding Nemo and The Incredibles raised the bar but still hadn't been the perfect dose of entertainment, writing, and emotion. WALL-E, has achieved where its predecessors failed.WALL-E is the most touching, real, emotionally moving film this year so far. The film is about a little robot named WALL-E, (Waste Allocation Load Lifter Earth-Class) who has become exceptionally lonely on the desolate planet of Earth, that has become a wasteland of filth, debris, and pollution. Life has ceased to exist on the once populated planet until a rocket lands and drops off a "surprise," to say the least. Enters our heroin, which might be an understatement, EVE, a robot with an edge, that is searching for "something" that might be the key to life's existence. But alas, WALL-E falls in love with her charm, wit, and blaster gun and when circumstances force her to be picked up, WALL-E will travel across the galaxy to find his love.WALL-E makes a statement loud and clear about today's political factors, from pollution to exercise, love, life, it speaks of it all in volumes without any words; it uses images to baffle the viewer as we are thrust through the film. Writer and Director Andrew Stanton creates wonderful details as we are engulfed into WALL-E's world and within seconds of the film starting, fall in completely in love with the robot.The film doesn't pretend to be something it's not and Stanton isn't afraid to let the film be both for the mature and the innocence of our youth. With limited dialogue, Stanton takes a chance of losing his viewers but rest assured, there is never a dull moment and while the film does lose a little flavor from the start, resonance of childhood and contentment fill the viewer in images of awe and splendor.As the already declared by many, Animated Film frontrunner of the Academy Awards, the film studio Pixar may have a winner on its hands to make a strong push for Best Picture. Not since Beauty and the Beast has an animated film been nominated for Best Picture and we've had some potential candidates over the years. But with the induction of the Best Animated Feature category, voters feel there's no need to validate the films twice so to speak. WALL-E is technically beautiful which makes it a contender in the Sound and Editing categories, and Stanton is more than just the writer of the film as he directs the film with power and precise. I'd go so far as to say this is the best directed animated film I've ever seen. That is where Stanton's magic is, his direction, but writing is definitely a strong suit for the film as well. We'll have to wait for the upcoming awards season to see how it plays out.But go and catch WALL-E on the big screen, and enjoy the masterpiece for what it is and the wonderful short film at the beginning of the film which is a treat for all.***½/****


                
I did not quite know what to make of WALL-E when I first saw the previews for it. It did not look like a typical animated film at all, and seemed like a huge undertaking, even for as big a giant as Pixar is in the realm of animation. But imagination and originality is something Pixar has always been known for (as well as making great movies aimed at all ages), and this film is no exception.WALL-E tells the story of a robot who seems to be one of the last inhabitants living on Earth. He spends his days collecting immense amounts of trash, and then compacts it into smaller squares of garbage that he ends up building into large structures. He collects specific items that he categorizes in his pseudo-trailer home, and watches Hello Dolly! at night, hoping for some sort of interaction with something other than a cockroach. And as anyone can predict, his prayers are answered in the form of the female robot EVE who lands on Earth to carry out a classified mission. And getting to know her is only the start of this robot's adventure.I had my doubts, but Pixar have really outdone themselves with this one.Without a shadow of a doubt in my mind, WALL-E is one of the most original pieces of cinema I have ever encountered. While not necessarily a silent film, the film features very little talking, and mainly features characters who speak to each other through machine noises and the use of their name (and WALL-E and EVE are not the only two kinds of robots featured in the film). But one would be hard-set to notice the lack of dialogue because of how enthralling the film is. From the mere first glance at WALL-E, the film draws the audience into this little robot's role in life, and his inevitable adventure. This could have easily been made into a gimmicky film, but Pixar never lets it stray too far from the epic scope it set out for the film from the opening shot onwards.The story, without ruining it, is very simplistic. But not in a way that will make people easily write it off. Rather, it is simplistic in how very uncomplicated it is. The characters of WALL-E and EVE can only show so much depth, and for that reason, there is not a whole lot to their story. Yes, there are some genuinely moving scenes I thought impossible to see coming from CGI-animated robots, but this film manages to make a whole group of robots emote in all kinds of ways. There is a bit of social satire thrown in for good measure as well, which helps deepen the spiritual conscience of the film, and helps flesh out a few of the key points WALL-E's chosen career and lifestyle seem to nod at. But as said, the film never gets too ahead of itself, and never once bites off more than it can chew. It knows what it wants to accomplish, and it manages to do it very easily.But with it being a Pixar film, there is a certain assumption that the animation will be pristine and nearly perfect. WALL-E, although released a mere year after the visually stunning Ratatouille, could be the best any of their films have ever looked. The vast landscapes (both on Earth and through space), diverse range of characters and the breathtaking amount of action taking on place are all nearly jaw dropping. Watching the scene with WALL-E flying through space is a marvel all on its own, if only for the brilliant usage of so many colours. The animation is so detailed that you can see the ingrained dirt and patches of rust that cover WALL-E's body. Pixar just keeps upping their ante in how marvellous their animation is, and I can only imagine it is going to get better as the years go on.What truly sets this film apart from others, is that it does not try to be different. It feels just like any other Pixar film, and despite the lack of dialogue, is just as funny and charming as the rest of them. Somehow, director/writer Andrew Stanton has realized that the simplicity of the film can only help build up its charm and real world wit. The film is crafted in a way that makes it nearly impossible not to fall in love with and hang on every moment that passes. WALL-E wants to be seen on the same level as other animated flicks, and it looks like the filmmakers spent an immense amount of time making the film accessible to anyone, dialogue plagued or not.The film is not perfect however. The ending seems a little forced, and a touch silly (especially based on what the audience learns over the course of the film up to that point), but the genuine sense of adventure is enough to not make a big deal out of it. As well, even though the movie practically flies through its running time, there is still a bit of dull weight in certain scenes. They accomplish what they are set out to do, but there was more than a few instances where specific scenes could have been cut, and the film would have turned out the same way.But even through its imperfections, the film sucks you into its naive and adorable world where our hero is a robot who makes robot noises and says his own name a lot. It speaks absolute volumes that this film can be made and not make anyone at Pixar or Disney break a sweat. WALL-E is one of the most original and heartfelt films of this or any other year, and skipping it would be a disservice to the animation genre. It is one hell of a cute and funny movie, and easily one of the year's best.9/10.


                
The cleaning of earth has been left to sentimental robot Wall-E and when EVE visits the planet looking for plant life Wall-E's love takes him into space where mankind live.Described as Pixar's 'biggest gamble' this 2008 animation showcases a near speechless adventure in time and space, being both constantly humorous and breathtaking in its approach to get a message of human destruction across.Any viewer of any age or gender will find their own interpretation of exploration and personal meaning in this picture which, nominated for numerous Oscars, inevitably winning best animated picture, has countless reasons to view.For uniqueness this is one hat proudly sits on top of the pile. An animation showcasing humans destroying themselves and earth this has a strong encoded message specifically designed to shock other animations.Apart from Warner Brothers terribly awkward Happy Feet there has been little in animation genre to say a great deal about the earth's natural wellbeing. Even that paper thin plot crammed it in to the last twenty minutes whereas here everything is thought of and built around. The shot as the spaceship takes off from earth into the rubble surrounding it is brilliant. The nature of Wall-e himself is to clean up earth's wastage. The point of EVE is to salvage a rescue attempt. Bearing in mind this film has so little dialogue this is a remarkable achievement to get across. It is told through movements through actions and the saying "actions speak louder than words" is more than recognizable in this picture.Wall-e a lovable appearing robot becomes infatuated with EVE when she arrives on earth and the time the two spend together is heart-warmingly sentimental. When EVE goes into sleep mode that actions Wall-e takes to revive her are adorable, and not in a cheesy way. His holding the umbrella, the sunset picturesque montage, the trip in the boat all demonstrate a kindness and typically romantic conceptual motives for a character who has been alone for such a long time.The character development of the central protagonist plays a pivotal role in the emotional core of this film. Wall-e, a robot, has over the years developed a human personality, collecting items that mean something, caring for insects and greeting people and machines and becoming friends. And the contradictory in humans is remarkable. Like today's modern stereotype, we are obsessed with technology and food, which in this picture leads to our demise, sitting in chairs and having everything on a plate for us.The score for this picture is truly excellent also, having intertextuality from 2001 and Hello Dolly allow us to be brought into the moment and dare I say such a claim, the finest score Pixar have generated? Pixar get better with every outing and Up! was a marvellous showcase of adventure and love which just topped his outing and yet this is still one of the finest animations you will ever see.


                
I have never thought that a cartoon , done in a classic ,e.g.-Disneyan way, by using the armada of talented artists and their drawing ,sketching etc. hand skills ,or , all these on the rows of computers , could be more humanistic that a non-animated product , a feature film , but , what Disney - the Pixar geniuses have achieved with this , is simply, beyond words ,and I have to reiterate here that what stands out is the basic building block of any work of art , that is the need to tell , describe , warn ,where talent simply lashes out ,and as is the case with Wall-E ,where the story carries everything, and the perfect digital animation ,voice characterization ( the main computer's voice is no other than Madame S.Weaver's ,and the same goes for her as for Mr . C.Eastwood , namely , the 'older' she is ,the better she is !), musical scenes are all fused into this cinematic evergreen ! Yes, as an adult and a sort of a movie buff , I simply cannot believe what kind of satisfaction and personal hopes of a better world in the middle of an interpersonal , financial and moral crisis this cartoon has reignited in me , again stressing the most basic cosmic and religious rule that love is possible ,that a better world is possible , that peace is possible ! And , what more can you wish for !


                
For something with little in the way of dialog, this movie is good for just about anyone, honestly. Humorous, touching, and enough metaphorical meat to keep artsy folks satisfied, I found it quite enjoyable.I have no kids, but was suckered into seeing it with my wife. I wasn't disappointed, and a little ashamed I didn't see it in the theater.Pixar, in my mind, sets standards for animated films now a days, and lives up the awesome legacy set out by Disney's original animation studio (Yes, I know they are a separate company). Much like Bioware in the realm of computer games, Pixar has never made a bad movie. That means it's one of the few brands you can trust.


                
Wall·E is an animation with a distinct difference. Not only does it contain somewhat slapstick kiddy jokes to obviously appeal to children, it has a deep, dark message that will automatically stand out to all adults alike. Wall·E has been described as 2001:A Space Odyssey for all audiences, I agree. They share many similarities such as the lack of dialogue and the breath taking visuals. Furthermore, the story near the end is resembles the man vs machine storyline that was present in 2001: A Space Odyssey with the HAL situation. Not only that, the AUTO looks EXACTLY like HAL. Pixar wanted to pull off a Kubrick inspired animated masterpiece and they have. Its obvious with their use of Kubrickian classical music and the cold robotic voices for the robots.Anyway, heres the story briefly as in to not ruin it for you. Wall·E is a waste disposal unit who is programmed to clear garbage. He lives on the dystopian earth where mankind is inept due to the heaving amount of rubbish. Wall·E is the only one of his kind and therefore lives a lonely life of waste disposal. Until EVE comes along and builds an ironically romantic relationship with Wall·E. He follows EVE to a strange giant space ship that seems to harbour a new world. Wall·E then finds himself wrapped into a race which could save Mankind.I mention in the title that this film has a powerful message. I think that I can on behalf of many people that this film really is an eye opener. Its a realistic symbol of capitalism gone wrong, Technology gone wrong and finally waste disposal gone wrong. These commercial problems relate perfectly to current world events and Pixar has released this film at a perfect time. Pixar satirise all of these problems. In this odd world, you can buy lunches in a bottle, advertisements are plastered everywhere you can see, robots help every little movement you want to do and of course the inhabitants are disgracefully obese. People are lazy, stupid and unpleasant. The appearance is glossy and shiny yet cold and distant. This city of Pixaristic satire is a grim image indeed. Is this simply a whining attempt of protest from Pixar? No. This is feasible and people should see it as a reality check. Obesity is rising, Technology is becoming increasingly ridiculous and commercialism is ever rising. Ridley Scott's Bladerunner presents a similar commercial future yet Scott's representation is much darker which Pixar simply couldn't implement for a supposed kids movie!.As for Wall·E and EVE's relationship, they are both extremely cute and they're relationship was heart warming and beautiful. Its also somewhat ironic that they built a relationship. Wall·E is a clumsy and rusty looking machine yet EVE is a graceful and beautiful robot. But they have one thing in common, they are both alone. I feel that Pixar reveal another message here, that appearance isn't everything. Not the most predominant message but i saw it.As for the sound, the music used was rhythmic and surprising serious at some times. For example, the opening begins with a rather serious deep tune as the piles of trash on earth is revealed. This is a realisation that this is no kiddys film this is a serious animation beholding serious messages we need to consider. This is what made this so powerful for me. Kids will be watching this but deep down this is not a kids film. Furthermore, the score is consistently exceptional throughout the film and I would some sort of sound based Oscar nomination for Pixar.The animation was absolutely breath-taking. Pixar have wowed us every year ever since the animated triumph of Toy Story. Last year i was astonished by Ratatouille's animation but Wall·E is a step up. The animation is truly unbelievable, a triumphant achievement of technology.Pixar have pulled off a masterpiece, a unique conqueration of animation. This must be considered as a serious sci-fi film because it simply is. Only the greatest sci-fi's are as powerful as Wall·E. Pixar should expect many Oscar nominations, Best Animation, Best Cinematography, Best Sound and maybe even Best Picture. Who Knows? Its deserves it Praise for Pixar as they have pulled it off again with their most powerful yet comical sci-fi adventure film.Well what can i say? Its the best animation I have ever seen so go see it! 9.5/10


                
I heard mixed reviews on WALL-E, there were those who said it was magical, and those who said it was one of the most overrated movies ever. I will say I loved this movie, it is a truly beautiful movie. It could have done with being a tad longer perhaps, but essentially this is more than a movie with A List vocal talents, WALL-E has genuine heart and will definitely enchant children and any Pixar fan. All I will say is that I am sorry it took me such a long time to see it, I will admit I was differing whether I should see it or not. But I am glad I did. The animation is simply incredible, the whole film is wonderful to look at. The whole movie is done in a very sophisticated visual style, and the bright colours and sublime backgrounds were a delight to the eyes. The music is stunning, the orchestral themes are gorgeous but the song from Hello Dolly! was great and fitted in with the story well. Speaking of the story, it may seem thin to some, but it is a very simple heart warming one all the same with depth and poignancy. There are some very imaginative moments, such as the zero-gravity dance and the ride through space. The voice cast that includes Fred Willard, Sigourney Weaver and Pixar regular John Ratzenburger did an exceptional job, and all the characters were endearing. What made the movie was WALL-E himself, he has to be one of the most lovable and in-depth Pixar characters ever, and the writers create a very haunting atmosphere in the early scenes to match our little hero's isolation. All in all, brilliant, quite possibly one of the best films of 2008. 9.5/10 Bethany Cox


                
I was skeptical when I heard that this was a movie about machines falling in love. This kind of thing has been done before and has left me cold. This movie, however, takes a character who has endured in his lot, a romantic robot at that, and gives him a chance to realize his dreams. He has learned about love from watching a dull old Disney-like musical. One of those forgettable things that children hated, but were frequently brought to by their parents. He has established himself a sentient being with a loving soul. One day a slick rocket ship drops a probe into his garbage infested landscape. It is a porcelain-like, egg shaped beauty with deadly capabilities needed for self-preservation. This critter is egg shaped, unlike Wall-e's dumpy presence. He falls in love with her (she is definitely quite feminine. Like all desperate males, he does what he can to impress her, almost at the expense of his existence. The other interesting aspect of this film is the human element. Humanity has devolved into fat, slovenly lumps, with no thoughts or ambitions. When Wall-e shows up in their spaceship, he throws a wrench into the works. This little commentary is inadequate. Mainly, I found the whole thing quite charming and the evolving love affair believable.


                
"WALL-E" represents the perfect mix between innovation and tradition. Pixar, the supreme leader in computer animation, has conceived a feature film which expands animation to a technical level which had never been reached before while treating it with very simple narrative concepts, which we could recall from old silent movies from the era of Charlie Chaplin and Buster Keaton.The director of "WALL-E", Andrew Stanton, treats his movie as a huge tribute to science fiction, by inserting many different themes and concepts, such as robotics, interstellar travel, the apocalyptic concept of a desert Earth, mega-corporations and space colonization."WALL-E" is a family movie, but that doesn't necessarily mean that audiences have to content themselves with simple themes and ideas. And it's fine. But the fact that the movie works so well is intrinsically linked to the genius of Pixar's screenwriters. Those guys have effectively created a complex story with an extremely simple narrative structure.The story opens around year 2800. The first shot opens on a spatial background with planets and galaxies and the camera then moves to reveal the Earth. But is that really the Earth? A first look seems to show our planet enveloped in a yellowish atmosphere, contrasting with the ocean blue to which we're so accustomed. When the camera then zooms upon the Earth, our initial fears are confirmed: the whole planet is a huge desert, complete with totally empty cities and huge towers of garbage compacted in cubes. That sight fills the entire landscape.Those garbage towers are the work of WALL-E, the hero of the movie. For the last 700 years, his workdays are exactly the same: he picks up the garbage he finds (and he's far from lacking of work on that level), transforms it in huge cubes and organizes them in towers. But he keeps in his shelter a few objects which catch his attention and which he doesn't dare to sacrifice.And then one day, a huge rocket arrives from the sky. From it appears EVE, a female robot whose primary function is to inspect the Earth in order to determine if it can sustain life once again. The timid WALL-E makes contact with EVE and shows her his artifacts, among them is a small plant, an ordinary discovery for WALL-E, but a rather significant one for EVE.In less time that it takes to say it, the two robots find themselves aboard the giant spaceship Axiom, where human beings, now ridiculously obese, gelatinous and lazy, live in an Utopian lifestyle, courtesy of the Buy 'n Large mega-corporation.WALL-E and EVE live an extraordinary and thrilling adventure during which they will fall in love. Yes, you read that well. Not only do the robots in this movie have a well-defined gender, they are also able to express emotions as strong as love.Even if some of the robots in this movie have a language and a vocabulary as developed as humans, most of them communicate with only a few words, often pronounced in a slow and detached way. WALL-E, for example, reminded me of R2-D2, since he primarily communicates and expresses himself with electronic sounds rather than with syllables. And I think it's way better that way, because it makes him more innocent, more charming and more attractive than if he'd expressed himself with more words.The way that these robots express their state of mind lies mostly in specific movements, body language and facial expressions. For example, when WALL-E curls up his mechanical limbs towards his body while lowering his tremendous "eyes" (actually cameras), you don't need words to explain what he's feeling. That's the same situation for EVE. She has some kind of video screen instead of a face, where luminous blue spots light up to simulate eyes. When those blue spots are arranged in her face in such or such pattern, a very precise feeling is expressed.What a fusion! I had never seen such a convincing mix of technology and emotion in a film before. Even in "A.I.", where a robot designed to look like a boy is programmed to express love.This masterstroke is due to the animators at Pixar, who clearly demonstrates once again who is the master in the domain of computer animation. Not only character animation is exceptional, but the presentation of an apocalyptic desert world is also breathtaking. The realism of the opening scenes is mystifying for an animated movie. There are some moments in which you could forget that you're watching an animated film."WALL-E" is an excellent science fiction movie, but it's also an excellent tribute to science fiction movies. Andrew Stanton has inserted in his film a lot of references to pictures such as "2001: A Space Odyssey", "Star Wars", "Blade Runner", "Idiocracy" and "I Am Legend". And in the great tradition of Disney movies, important life lessons are learned in "WALL-E", and their importance is as capital as it can be, considering the state of the Earth after humans have decided that it was easier for them to forget those precious life lessons.However, I found very ironic the fact that a Disney picture would carry a message against mega-corporations and against the concept of brand loyalty.Overall, "WALL-E" is an absolutely extraordinary movie. Fans of animation and science fiction will surely appreciate it for its technical and narrative qualities, but families and kids will definitely fall under the charm of those two robots and their heart-melting love story. A must-see!


                
First things first <U+0096> to be accurate, the film's pronounced 'Woll.Ee' not 'Wally', like the red-and-white stripy shirt boy and his dog that you were endlessly searching for on your telly screen and in the books as a kid in primary school <U+0085> The voice acting is really good. Wall.E, himself isn't completely silent <U+0096> he does vocalise some few words(like 'Eve-a!'), while others are bleeps. EVE( a vegetation evaluator), who he loves, talks in a computerised robot voice which sounds really effective. The Captain on board the ship, and some other humans the little robot meets all have natural delivery in terms of their voices.Pacing/Plot: Quite simply the plot is: Earth's been overtaken by our own produced rubbish that's piled up really tall over the years, so all humans have fled to space but they've left behind the title robot to clear up after humankind have abandoned the planet <U+0096> and he's only got a cockroach for company. He's later joined and falls for a female shiny white robot then tries to rescue her when she's taken back into space on board a vast space cruise line. It seems inspired by old sci-fi films when Wall.E later ends up in space on board the vast cruiseliner and the film here turns softly but effectively satirical. Maybe quite anti-consumerist I'd say, especially when you get to see the appearance of the humans in space. Yes, it has a green message but it's not of the preachy heavy-handed kind Happy Feet had towards it's ending, in my opinion, and it's set in a realistic context for the film <U+0096> 700 years in the future! It constantly engages by scenes with even just with the lonely Wall.E and his cockroach being funny and sweet, due to his clumsiness, so there's a fair bit of slapstick and clever sight gags. Adventure, romance and a critique on our society and lifestyle all blend together well.Animation: Wow! Wonderfully realised visually <U+0096> standout scenes for me is when Wall.E's followed into space and we see Saturn's rings and the Sun, goodness! The character design of our robot hero isn't original as it's a lot like Short Circuit's Johnny Five meets a robotic E.T. but even so he's still lovable all the same. EVE's egg-shape and general shiny white design is very good. Backgrounds are also detailed and I like the subtle way their personalities are shown just by their nuances in movement.Music: I love the score and the use of songs from Wall.E's favourite film in his lair: Hello Dolly.Overall: A dazzling animated story with a welcome subtlety done green message at it's core, and a lovably sweet robot. What sets this apart from loads of other CGI films released from other companies is it feels as if a lot of passion and inspiration created this and the film truly has a heart too, as big as it's own binoculars-head hero. This matches or even surpasses Pixar's own high standard laid down by the studio since their 90s output, in my opinion. I also loved the hilariously funny Presto short with the Magician and his rabbit before the film.


                
There will be some Minor Spoilers ahead.Don't get me wrong. I have a personal oath to NEVER give a 10 to a movie, so bear with me.After a few meh... movies, Pixar seems to have found its own way with Ratatouille and now Wall-E. Especially Wall-E. It has put in its company head that it can't actually beat Dreamworks Animations in pure humor, so it has now embarked in a new direction and went back to try and make animation an art. And we should all be thankful for it.Hell, if you had any doubts Wall-E was supposed to be a work of art, the Epilogue shown in the start of the credits at the end should clear any doubts, as it is shown through all art styles through history, from pre-history art to modern art. Finally, after that, when the credits are actually rolling up, there's a tribute to gaming as robot characters are shown pixelated like old time games doing small chores.About the movie, I was intrigued from the start when I heard it would be about a little robot that was left on earth to clean it as mankind took off to space. That's a very original premise that caught my mind so I waited on it.As it turns out, mankind had left Earth and, in it, an army of Wall-Es to clean it, or Waste Allocation Load Lifter - Earth-class. About 700 years later, only one Wall-E unit is left surviving from savaging parts from unresponsive Wall-Es scrap. He carries on with his duty of cleaning the planet, but the centuries of interaction with the ghost of mankind and apparently co-existing with roaches made him develop some form of personality as it collects everything it finds interesting.The movie takes on from that because that's when another robot, Eve, gets to earth with unknown purpose. The movie is very adamant about how its possible for an AI to develop personality given time and exposition to the right kind of stuff, like another "rogue AI". At some point of the movie other robots with personality are shown, but they're taken as broken and are in a repair bay. Eve exposition to Wall-E gives her, too, some hint of personality that she eventually develops. Wall-E falls in love with Eve thanks to a mixture of various factors, one important being old video footage Wall-E used to watch, where there are men dancing with hats and a final scene where a man is singing with a woman and they hold hands. After Eve showing up Wall-E tries to mimic the holding hands scene various times unsuccessful, mostly because of Eve's aggressivity and curiosity that made her unaware of Wall-e's intention. She is quite trigger-happy with her plasma cannon mounted in her arm, and almost annihilate Wall-E a few times during their first encounters.There's also eventually a human component. Humans are shown as fat bloats costumed to have robots doing everything to them and only knowing the universe around them from a visual hologram that's mounted in front of their heads, from which they talk to each other and see stuff. Wall-E bumps into a few of those and turns off the hologram, making them "awake" once again to the world around then. So Wall-E isn't only giving personality to other robots, but to humans as well. Even so, save from one human in particular, you usually wish you were watching the robots rather than them whenever they show up. Not that they're poorly characterized, but the robots are so appealing you don't want to waste a second watching anything but.There's also a small cleaning robot Wall-E gives personality by the fact he was completely dirty and the robot obsessed in cleaning him. So he dared to move away from his pre-determined path so he can clear up Wall-E's track. Also, it is interesting that the movie has no actual villains... well, maybe save from the humans of the past who turned the planet into a giant trash can (and that's us). The humans just forgot about earth and the AIs getting in the way are only following their prime directives from 700 years ago. Finally, Eve is unbelievably cute when she's mad.Damn, this movie even made me shed some tears in a particular scene, and that's a hell of an accomplishment I assure you reader. That's from a man that only raised an eyebrow at Aeris Death in FF VII and who movies get at most a slight chuckle at their most dramatic deaths.
After Finding Nemo I thought Pixar will never make another movie that will touch me as much as Marvin and Dory duo did. Wall-e is their successor, no question. Neither Incredibles, Cars or Ratatouille did it for me, but this year Wall-e has make a huge impact, not only for their amazing "out of this world" animation skills but also for the subtle but yet well made environmental message and the great ability of telling a meaningful story with few words.As soon as you see Wall-e on the screen, you can't help your self of being all cheering and caring for this little fellow. Great work developing this character and giving a heart and soul to a metal rubbish carrier. Just amazing!. The interaction Wall-e/ Eve was very cute and sad at the same time and the whole story keeps you laughing and entertained the whole 98 minutes.One of the great things about Finding Nemo which I think was the key of their success, was the fact that you actually care for the characters (especially no being humans) and that chemistry between the 2 very different main characters transcend beyond a clichéd romance. This is the case of Wall-e, a lonely character that for the first time in his robotic life he finally found a true friend. A simple but very profound story that works perfectly and is attractive, not only to kids but adults too.Wall-e is certainly a big triumph for Pixar and easily an instant classic of animation. I can see a season full of awards for Disney this year ahead.


                
