Yeah, yeah, funniest comedy ever.  Uh huh, whatever you say.  Sorry to break it to you, folks, but this isn't a very funny comedy.  Sure, it said some bold things about the nuclear arms race during the height of the cold war, but that's about it.  During my third time watching it, I concentrated on counting the actual funny parts of the movie.  There's less than 20 instances in the entire movie where there's a conscious effort to be funny, and I'm counting instances of dry, backhanded humor as well (such as the president's straight-man deadpans and absurdities of calling the president on a pay phone).The problem is there are too many scenes that are completely devoid of humor, black or otherwise.  Virtually every minute of the bomber scenes are without a chuckle, unless we're supposed to delight in hearing Slim Pickins' drawl for its own sake.  How many times do we need to see establishing shots of the bomber?  There must have been over 20 shots of the bomber's exterior, altogether burning up about 10 minutes of movie time.  How hilarious!There's about 10 really memorable funny lines/moments in the entire show. I'm sure this film was really shocking in 1963 for its audacity, but of all Kubrick's work, it shows up as the most dated; about all that works in it anymore is Sellers' mugging (which is really just a tiny bit of film), and a couple of good one liners ("Gentlemen!...War Room!", the prez bickering with the premier like a married couple, answering to the Coca Cola corporation).
I must confess that I love the work of Peter Sellers and admire most of Stanley Kubrik's library, but what the heck were they thinking?  Satire works if it's funny; this movie is simply boring.  The entire time I spent watching this film I wondered why I had anticipated it so much.


                
Why is this movie rated the 16th best of all time, and the all time greatest comedy?I'd been planning to see this movie for a long time and after checking out the rating here on IMDb, finally decided to rent it. I thought the film to be less than average at best. The acting mediocre, the jokes dated. This could have been so much better - given the subject matter. I realize I'm in a minority here as the percentage of voters giving the film a low score is also low. Am I missing something? Best comedy of all time...tricky one? The Big Labowski maybe?


                
Before I watched the film, I expected something brilliant, hilarious, and entertaining.  This movie has none of these qualities.  I must have laughed at most twice during the entire film!  I've been repeatedly disappointed with Kubrick's films, but somehow had higher hopes for this one.  All I can say about it is that it must have been shocking when it came out in the early 60's with talk of a real nuclear war going on.  Maybe it was funny then, but it sure isn't now.


                
I thought this movie would be a dark comedy. Toward the end, however, it tends toward stupidity for no coherent reason. the film was SO close to being thoughtful & inventive that it was painful to see it botched. The almost-funny dialog goes on and on and on and on and on and on (see where I am going with this?), in a most boring manner, with no purpose whatsoever. So you are left wondering why you just had to sit through 10 minutes of nothing. Then action scenes cannot redeem the movie, because the actors are not believable. Slim Pickens in particular made me roll my eyes in annoyance. Maybe it was supposed to have been funny - The only funny thing is that I couldn't tell. George C. Scott may have acted the only well-played roll. Peter Sellers attempted to overly-differentiate his various roles, and his Dr. Strangelove is portrayed with the finesse of a burlesque show. I must rethink my opinion of Kubrick movies. This should have been a very good film, but it was NOT. It could have been worthy. But instead, it was painfully awkward.


                
I'm sorry but I found more to laugh at watching Battlefield Earth!!! This movie was just NOT FUNNY. Seeing it ranked so high on the "100 funniest movies" list, my wife and I figured it must be a Peter Sellers laugh-fest. Imagine our disappointment when we discovered we couldn't have been more wrong. 45 minutes into the movie, we literally looked at each other and said "this is a comedy, right?" 15 minutes later I fell asleep (that shows how boring the movie was) so it wasn't until the next day that I finally found 2 things to laugh at:1) The scene with Sellers looking for spare change and the subsequent shooting of the Coca-Cola machine.2) The bit with Dr. Strangelove referring to the president as "Der Fuehrer" and his hand continually attempting to raise in the style of a nazi salute.Those of you who have seen this movie know what I'm referring to. Those who have not... I would not advise spending an hour and a half to see these two gags.Seeing this movie has verified my serious doubts about the list of the so-called "100 funniest movies." Do yourself a favor... if you want to see a good comedy, ask a trusted friend to recommend a good one.


                
Dumb!  Really dumb.  The whole thing, from the base commander to Strangelove to the Russian Ambassador.  I can't believe this is in the top 250, let alone as high as #11.  Is there no one here who can think?  Tell me, please, what is there in this movie that makes it good?  I'd really like to know. It's not the music.  It's not the character development.  It's not the story.  It's not the comic relief.  My God, it's not even the absurdity of the whole thing.  And while the picture of Slim Pickens riding the bomb might be mildly amusing, surely everyone didn't vote this move so high just for that.  Or did they?  Hummmm.


                
Let me introduce this with the fact that I read about the making of this movie in the "Chicago Tribune", and it mentioned that it was NOT originally intended to be a comedy. Fair warning?Well, it may have intended to be a dark comedy, but it had few laughs and the storyline wasn't very convincing. Why wouldn't anybody at the base have long since determined that General Ripper was crazy? And the British officer with him, unless he were utterly blind, should have been easily able to see through and overpower him. And it was very hard to believe that a nuclear bomber plane could be located, shot at, and damaged, but still be able to fly all the way to its target without further interference. (When Gary Powers' U-2 spy plane was detected by the Soviet air defense force in May 1960, they threw everything they had available at it until it was brought down.)A few laughs-"Don't fight, this is the War Room!" and such, but overall hardly a good movie.
Goodness knows how the voters here can give this movie such a high mark. It is totally dated, unfunny, with Peter Sellers giving a slapstick performance as different characters which is so poor and ham-ish it would make participants in a school play blush.The story is about a mad USA military commander who gives an order for fighter planes to bomb Russian, and the question is: can that order be countermanded or will their be a nuclear attack by mistake?The only reason I give this picture 2/10 as there is perhaps maybe a couple of scenes mildly amusing like when a cola machine is smashed and someone gets coke in his face. But any humor is barely present as the film is really a vehicle to show how stupid and over rated that goon Sellers is, and much of the play seems to be ad libbed and made up as it goes along.What a waste of time!


                
I love Peter Sellers. The Pink Panther films, and Shot In The Dark are brilliant; amongst the best comedies ever made. I have grown up watching them. They remain as tight as when I first watched them. The Party is another classic. Two Way Stretch great. Wrong Arm of the Law good. Murder By Death Brilliant.I am a massive Peter Sellers fan and have recently been watching films of his on the net that I haven't seen yet. This one is a waste of time. Not funny. The last three I have watched for the first time have all been crap. This, the Lady Killers and I'm Alright Jack. They are a waste of time. Not funny. Not ones I'll be arsed watching again. Just simply not funny.I've rated these 3 films 2's out of 10. 2 just cause Sellers, and respect for him, but on all the lists I've read about him, This always seems to rated as the best. That's not true.


                
But unfortunately I didn't. Maybe I need to watch it again to appreciate it but I was very underwhelmed with the film


                
