"Das Boot" or "Das Boat" is a gritty saga about a German submarine during World War II. The director strives to show the claustrophobic conditions that the crew had to endure -- crammed as they were, into what one feels is basically a floating coffin. There is no doubt that care went into to the making of this film. The weakest part, however, is the script. One never feels that the writing rises to much more than going through the motions. This is certainly not a bad film, but I didn't like the directors "fetish for footage" (the shooting length) while the constant repetition of similar scenes begins to ware thin over time. Another criticism I would make, isthe film's finality is pretty well telegraphed -- you kind of know how it will end. On a positive note, one is left with no illusions that war is glamorous. I would say a superior i.e, more entertaining war film about a German U-boat is "The Enemy Below." Check that out!


                
This 1981 movie is one of these films which everybody loves. but I have to say I do not. It is really a pain to sit through. There are several versions out there and I watched the 3.5-hour director's cut. It scored 6 Academy Award nominations, including Best Director and Best Writing for Petersen. But it did not get the foreign language film submission from Germany as they were going with German Film award Best Picture winner: von Trotta's "Die bleierne Zeit". Petersen (who adapted a Buchheim novel for this one) made a very successful career out of this movie and worked with the likes of Clooney, Pitt, Wahlberg, Eastwood, Malkovich, Hoffman, Freeman, Ford, Oldman, Spacey and Close during his long career. Not many directors can say that about themselves. There are many known German actors in "Das Boot": Prochnow, Ochsenknecht, Grönemeyer (more known for his music actually), Wennemann (rip, looks a bit like De Niro), Hoenig, Semmelrogge and Otto Sander. Prochnos was the lead character, but he is not really the most-known anymore these days from the pack.The most known factor about this film today is the music maybe, even if it did not score an Academy Award nomination. I personally believe this film works better as a mini-series. it really drags a lot if you watch the whole thing at once and I would not even want to think about the versions longer than the 3.5 hours I watched. What stays in mind most for me is the different use of colors. Fairly memorable in my opinion. Blue for the sky outside the boat. Green for the sea and red for the action inside the boat. There were also some yellow parts occasionally. I have to say I was never amazed by anything in relation to this film and so I did not feel a whole lot when it became decisive about who would live and who would die. I personally will not watch this ever again I guess. Watching paint dry fits it nicely. Not recommended, even if people say it is the greatest u-boat movie ever made.
If you are looking for great movie in any artistic aspect, forget this one! Das boot is tedious. Boring, boring, boring... It looks like the same scene was repeated over and over again. It's almost an eternal déjà vu. Bad taste, awful acting, couple of pseudo-mysterious "visages" filmed and poor storyline. Even if you consider its historic value is unbelievably flat and void. I've already seen thousands of documentaries much more interesting than this movie. Hope I save you the two hours I have wasted. Try something like Inglorious Bastards, Saving Private Ryan, or whatever, because this movie my dear readers, is unbearable. I would rather run endlessly instead of watching it again.


                
I believe it has a good feel of authenticity due to all dialogues being in German and realistically portrayed what one would experience on a German submarine (as far as I could imagine).That's all the good aspects I found worth mentioning.Characters or "The Drama":
Something that has been praised in the reviews before deciding to watch the movie - is pretty much non-existent. The characters lacked any introduction - except the usual hectic one in the beginning where you are bombarded with all of the characters' names . I could only name ONE member of the submarine by the end of the movie - in other words, ONE of all the characters. None of the characters has any personality except the usual team of; The emotional one, the posh one, the mentally questionable one, the missing home/relatives one and the decision-maker. The acting was both good and bad, it isn't short of intense death stares.Objective or "The Adventure":
Where are they going, what's the objective or mission? Lacking the concept of where they are, which might be reflecting the sense of the crew and shifting more focus on the submarine, after all - they do have a navigator. This lack of a mission led to - unsurprisingly - that the action came to them. Later on, when they do set up destinations it's either; briefly mentioned and reached right away or it's described in detail and - of course - becomes difficult.Sound & Music:
"We can hear more down here, than we can see up there." Keeping the music to a minimum for specific moments only or reflecting the crew's emotions is a good aspect. But the movie could be more reliant on or more telling with sound than words. To explain that the approaching "humming" is a ship - after establishing that a ship is approaching isn't that.Story:
This is apparently based on a novel... A fictitious narrative. Rushes through the last act like crossing it off the checklist, thus failing to make an impactful ending.My expected ending:
The ship they thought was abandoned and once again shot at, was one of the most impactful scenes - of the few. Therefore, I expected them to take their roles later on in some way. And so comes the situation where they are stuck at the bottom and manages to resurface. At this time, I expected the engines to not work, receive fire and they would be left to surrender...Would they be treated like they treated the crew of the ship before - left to die?
