Few movies are as nerve-shattering as Das Boot and, for once, I can recommend the Director's Cut of a movie.  Unlike such foolhardy examples as Terminator 2, the special edition of this movie adds to its overall value. I strongly recommend a minimum of one viewing of it.Sound in Das Boot is a strong factor, the Academy was totally stupid to ignore the level of detail here for E.T.  In submarines, sound is the basis of life and death, no other movie has captured the essence of being stuck in a tin can 500 feet beneath the surface of the ocean.  Realism is the second strong point of Das Boot, from the boredom of the hunt (thrill is the exact opposite word to use) to the terror of being hunted.  I found the way the camera is thrust through the bulkheads and hatches, following the crew, to be a strong saving grace in the cinematography department.  Kudos.  The crew is presented not in a stereotypical fashion, but as sailors without patriotism and not in the mood for dying or heroism.  There is no glory in war, everything is futile...that's the message of Das Boot.Overall, a superior war movie to others.  Too bad Wolfgang Petersen has fallen into a "money pit" with such garbage as In the Line of Fire and Air Force One.  See this instead of U-571.  4 out of 5 stars.


                
This interesting war film shows us a little of what was the daily life of a submarine crew during World War II. As the film is German, not surprisingly, is a German submarine. And tastes good to hear the dialogues in the original tongue, giving more authenticity tho the movie than the English, which most of films used indiscriminately, because of commercial interests.This film is, of all submarine movies, the best I've ever seen. The more realistic and closer to reality, without dramatic contrivances, without the flying imagination of those who have never seen a submarine but has to make a film about it. Its based on a book by Lothar G. Buchheim which, I believe, describes real events. The script reflected this effort, this search for reality. I do not know any of the actors, I am no expert in cinema, but I enjoyed the interpretation of Jürgen Prochnow, the captain, and Klaus Wennemann, who played chief engineer submarine. I will not be very surprised if someone says to me that some footage was shot in a real submarine... whole scenario was thought to detail and it shows how submarines are claustrophobic.Far from the American sensationalism, this European film makes a very interesting picture of a reality that most movies rather fantasize the extreme. It is a proof of how thin can sometimes be the line between documentary and a cinematographic work.


                
A young reporter finds himself in over his head when he joins the crew of a Nazi U-boat to document their experiences in this World War II thriller from Wolfgang Petersen. With the vast majority of action confined to the submarine, 'Das Boot' has many intense moments with the claustrophobic nature of the surroundings heavily emphasised. There are several marvelous tracking shots that run up and down the submarine interiors and the constant sharp sounds of the watercraft provide an eerie reminder of just how far removed the crew are from land. Clocking in at over three hours long though, there are invariably lulls in the action and overall, the film feels like more of an episodic collection of melodramatic underwater events than an airtight narrative. Jürgen Prochnow's captain is also the only character we come to really know in any depth. What the film does very well though is paint its young Nazi characters as very human with all the love anxieties, fears and worries that young people have. Especially interesting is the way they are able to quickly switch from partying in their time off to being at attention during emergencies. The film is also topped off with a surefire memorable ending. 'Das Boot' might not offer the strongest narrative or characters out there, but it provides an experience like few other motion pictures with its graphic portrait of submarine life.


                
"Das Boot" is a very intense movie, and it must surely be one of the best "war films" that has ever been made. It is claustrophobic and the men in U96 *radiate* fear and fatigue. The acting is great, as is the directing, and Klaus Doldinger's music is among the best I have ever heard. Great film.


                
I was amused that many found this a brilliant film. It is at best an above-average film.As an anti-war film, this one pales in comparison to The Thin Red Line.I am a great admirer of Wolfgang Petersen, the director. His previous German films "Black and White like Days and Night" and "the Consequence" are far superior both in content and treatment to this film, especially the former on a chessplayer. Petersen has never been able to surpass his achievements in these early German films. In the domain of acting, was this Jurgen Prochnow's best film? Certainly not, if you compare it to his work in Hauff's "Brutalization of Franz Blum" and Petersen's "The consequence."What else is so exceptional about this film? The realism? Most East European movies had portrayed better realism than "Das Boot" in the Seventies and Eighties. Of course, it stands tall when you compare its realism with most Hollywood war movies of the Eighties and Seventies...I do not for a moment infer that the effort of the filmmakers was not laudable. It was. But the product is definitely not a masterpiece.


                
I saw the rating 8.5 and read the review. How some people said its one of the great movie of all time. So i was compelled to watch this movie. I started to watch the movie. Then, i had the feeling that its one of those comrade movie where you have bunch of guys from different background, with different dreams, and different difficulties in life. I watch till one hour and I got bored. May be because at this time I have watched too many movies that force me to make an assumptions about the plot and storytelling of this movie, which I am afraid to say that it was a right assumption. May be it is one of the great movie of that time period where this type of movie had utter significance in the society and the cultures. But, i was kind of disappointed. Any way i appreciate the effort people put on this movie.
Memorable scenes, memorable photography, sights, sound, and suspense. After Titanic Das Boot would be the most perilous thrilling Disaster movie at sea (or under it), unfortunately Titanic's Victory over this is not a small one, but a rather large one. Das Boot, is definitely a white-knuckle and should be watched on as big a screen as possible with the volume up. you'll find more potency in this picture than anything Hollywood throws these days, Roland Emmerich and Michael Bay are no Match for Das Boot. Unfortunately the film needs more. Das Boot is a conundrum. The protagonists are Nazis, meaning you have to ask yourself whether it is best to root for or against them. Das Boot tries to direct your empathy toward its handful of German sailors by presenting human qualities about them, but in the end you don't really care enough. Like Titanic, Das Boot turns into a tragedy, but this is not a movie that will leave you tear stricken. I will say this for Das Boot, it represents the biggest German production that I have seen to this day, and also the longest. Some scenes contain feeble uninteresting dialogue but you forget about them the moment, Das Boot shows its teeth.A combination of skilled editing, camera-work, directing, and clever use of sound effects, make das Boot a sensational thriller. A good part of it has to do with the claustrophobia on board. The movie wouldn't have worked if it were any shorter than three hours, which is why the director's cut is the way to go. As so many films do, Das Boot carries the following message "war is not glorious". Young men board a U-boat with expectations of glory and heroism to come, and when they return they are bruised, shaken, confused and disturbed. I've seen the message delivered more potently in other war films like All Quiet on the Western Front, but few War films give you a punch to the gut like Das Boot. I am impressed, but not overwhelmed


                
This was the best submarine movie I have ever seen. To get to know how I felt about other ones...I did like "K-19", the "Hunt for Red October" was alright, and I thought "U-571" and "Crimson Tide" were almost garbage. In most of these movies it makes living on a submarine seem close to paradise except for the battles when "Das Boot" shows you that it's a lot like being in jail in one retrospect. The smells are horrible, the food is worse, and there's no privacy whatsoever let alone places to move around to and fro. It shows you how hardy some of these enlisted men are that get stuck into this needed duty and how they can be heroic for putting up with these untidy conditions. I also couldn't believe this movie was made in 1981, it didn't seem outdated at all like a lot of movies from that time period are and I surely would've said the early 90's if I had to guess without any prior knowledge. If you watch the director's cut it can be strenuous at times to sit through since it is well over 3 hours and some parts are rather slow...but by all means it is still worth it to stay through the end. The acting is sensational and the pure raw energy that is exerted through some of the actors' facial expressions is enough to leave anyone speechless. I can absolutely see why this put Wolfgang Petersen on the map!Final Appraisal:Movies: Yes, but the director's cut would be very taxing to sit through without any breaks.DVD Purchase: No, but it is tempting, believe me.Rental: Can't go wrong!


                
Years ago I knew a man who had served in the German Navy during World War II. He wasn't on a U-boat, mind you, but he shared a few stories with me about what being a sailor or soldier in the German Forces of the time was like, and I was struck by how "normal" he made it sound. They weren't fanatical Nazis, these men. Just those who were called upon to fight in a war that most of them didn't want to fight. Interestingly enough my acquaintance emigrated to Canada after the war, joined the Canadian Army and ended up being stationed with NATO forces in Germany. It's a strange world we live in.One reaction I had to "Das Boot" was similar - just how normal these submariners were. They weren't fanatical Nazis either. Just sailors who found themselves in a war and had to find a way to survive. There's not many Nazi salutes in this and I don't remember any "Heil Hitlers" - although there were a few references to the Fuhrer. But it's surprising just how easy it was to relate to these men. The movie is in German with English subtitles - making it abundantly clear that they were on the "other side" (from a historical perspective.) But it didn't matter. I found myself drawn in with them; even rooting for them at times.Reflecting quite well what I understand life on a submarine is like, the movie does have relatively long stretches that aren't all that interesting and when nothing much of great importance happens. But the film is structured around two main bursts of energy - the first being a battle with a British convoy that the U-boat encounters, the second being an attempt to get to a German base in the Mediterranean, which meant having to elude the British Navy, based in huge numbers at Gibraltar. The latter was the most suspenseful part of the movie, as you wondered whether the crew was going to survive. In truth, though, both of those encounters went on perhaps a little bit too long. And the last scenes of the movie (coming after the U-boat has managed somehow to refloat itself from the bottom after being sunk and get past Gibraltar into port) seems to make a powerful point about the meaninglessness of war.The performances are good in this. Subtitles aside, Jurgen Prochnow as the U-boat's captain was excellent - a relatively young man who's been at this for a while and has become hardened to what this life is. There's some good reflections on both the physical and especially mental toll this kind of life had on the sailors. We don't usually see much of the German side in war movies. This was a good look at things from that perspective and was a very good depiction of life on a U- boat at war. (7/10)
Solid, authoritative, occasionally gripping depiction of life on a U-boat. Virtually plot less, the film instead focuses on recreating the day-to-day experiences and traumas, both physical and emotional, of the submarine crew.Director Wolfgang Peterson keeps things very quiet, presenting the quasi-narrative in a straightforward, you-are-there style, with Herbert Grönemeyer's journalist character very much standing in for the modern audience. Actually, although it was made in 1981, the film almost feels as if it was made in a pre-'Jaws' era, and the low-key, nonstoried approach will likely polarize modern viewers. But no one can deny the film's craftsmanship, good taste, and meticulous detail; in fact, if there's anything to complain about, it might be Klaus Doldinger's occasionally irritating score, which insists on reminding the viewer when the film was made. Recommended for documentary buffs particularly. 7.5 out of 10.


                
I agree with the recent comment that the short version is better. I saw the movie in its theatrical release 27 years ago and enjoyed it immensely - if that can be said about a claustrophobic, depressing submarine movie! I recently rented the DVD director's cut version. It is an hour longer than the theatrical release, coming in at three and a half hours. Too long! The shorter version - itself two and a half hours long - does a superb job in creating that claustrophobic, hopeless atmosphere that infuses the movie. The longer director's cut just makes you want to shout, "Stop, stop! I get it!" Actually became a bit boring. If you have an option, go with the shorter theatrical release version.Also, whichever version you watch, do not turn on the English subtitles. They are simply awful! At the start, I had the English-language dubbing AND the English subtitles turned on. I quickly noticed that whoever did the subtitles did a terrible job. They were in a late-20th century vernacular that made no sense for a WW II movie. What you were hearing the actors say and what was in the printed subtitle were substantially different "interpretations" of the German. Terrible! I turned the subtitles off and enjoyed the rest of the movie in the English dubbing, only.


                
Three and a half hours, the approximate length of the director's cut of "Das Boot," is longer than I'd want to spend in a real submarine, but I am glad to watch the right submarine movie for as long as it lasts. I love submarine movies and their cousins, spaceship movies. A group of people in an totally self-contained metal world surrounded by an uninhabitable void is a recipe for all kinds of excitement. In the case of submarines there is always the anxiety of fighting invisible enemies and the horror of hearing bulkheads bend and collapse. There are often eerie vistas of the kind seen in "Ice Station Zebra"'s (1968) footage of the underside of an ice pack. In many cases, the isolation of the submarine becomes an opportunity to hone in on the characters and their incredibly small windows on the conflicts that surround and dwarf them."Das Boot" uses its isolation wisely enough, but less to create memorable and quirky characters in the vein of "The Hunt for Red October" (1990) than to free its characters from their historical setting. Because our heroes are Germans, their isolation underwater provides an excuse to imagine them separately from the ideological toxicity of the Nazi regime. Nary a swastika is to be seen, and hardly even a uniform. They are a surprisingly cosmopolitan bunch as WWII-movie Germans go: one is a born expatriate from Mexico, another has a French fiancée, and they all enjoy English and French songs. There is one true believer on board (he happens to be the person from Mexico, perhaps to underscore the hypocrisy and nonsense of his loyalty to the Fuhrer's vision of Germany), but he is made a figure of mockery. Even the food is international: in an unusual decision that creates an ironic contrast, some of the most intense battle sequences occur against a backdrop of bananas, oranges, and pineapples that stuff the submarine's storage spaces and dangle from its pipes. These tropical offerings also offset the standard naval rations depicted earlier in the movie, such as hairy, undercooked pork and mold-encrusted bread.The focus of the film is the captain of the U-Boat. He carries out his job ruthlessly and takes little joy in his successes. When he and his bedraggled crew meet a polished and well-fed superior aboard a posh supply boat, he pointedly does not offer the salute or exchange pleasantries. Instead, he speaks the unpleasant reality of his experiences, stressing that the U-boat tour has been one near-death experience after the other, against an enemy that seems better-equipped and in the service of orders from on high that are virtually suicidal. This is certainly an anti-Nazi movie, then, but one that has its cake and eats it too: it creates idyllic, ultimately rather shallow characters and isolates them from their political context, allowing us to feel their ups and downs with them without the guilt of sympathizing with racists and national chauvinists. The action might have compensated for the relative weakness of the characters, but too much of it is of too little consequence, and several potentially-interesting plot points are abandoned, such as a second U-boat and its charismatic captain seen only at the beginning.Given these shortcomings, "Das Boot" takes too long to get where it is going. The right submarine movie can easily fill three and a half hours, and the ever-escalating pace of "Das Boot" prevents it from feeling longer than it is, but its length is certainly felt. It is difficult to imagine sitting through the nearly five-hour uncut version, but I don't rule it out entirely: the weak points of this installment notwithstanding, the strengths of the submarine genre are substantial enough to make another, longer viewing tempting.
I saw Das Boot recently as I don't like watching foreign spoken movies, which spoils the viewing, having to read the subtitles. But I had heard many people praise this movie for it's realism without glorification of war. As the movie is based on true events I finally crossed the line.I got hold of the Director's Cut, the restoration copy, which runs for almost 3½ hours. Indeed it is a very dramatic movie and I am pleased to have seen it. But the extra hour made it too long and the events are stretched out, perhaps to give the viewer a personal apprehension and fear of being trapped whenever the boat was in dire straits. Life was constantly hanging by a thread and you experience this feeling too.The acting was superb, but in this longer version the movie only qualifies for a 7. I feel confident that I would rate it an 8 in the shorter version.


                
The story opens up interestingly, with one of the dialog line stating the obvious about the soldiers doing such things due to fears of having have to face death again on their next mission. The story builds really well showing the Captain as always being the wise man and the calm strategist. It sure also has all those risk takings any great military leaders have to endure. Watching the director's cut version, I see this movie completes itself by also depicting all the contrasting experiences such as the 'collision games' and the supply vessel. The acting feels just enough. Here I see how Juergen Prochnw establishes his acting prowess. One thing about the acting is that most of the actors have quite the same expressions in almost all kinds of situation.


                
