The Wolf Of Wall Street is the fifth collaboration between actor Leonardo Di Caprio and director Martin Scorsese.It a black comedy and a character-driven film based on the memoir of Jordan Belfort,a New York stockbroker who ran a firm that is involved in securities fraud and corruption at Wall Street during the 1990's.Jonah Hill, Margot Robbie and Matthew McConaughey co-stars.The film is similar to many of Scorsese's genre of gangster films such as Goodfellas and The Departed.But this time,we get to see the anti-hero Belfort,played charismatically and excellently by DiCaprio dumping fake stocks that are worth nothing instead of killing and murdering people.Aside from that,it explores Belfort's character,a young Jewish broker from New York looking to make his way in Wall Street.He starts off at J F Rothstein and he is quickly taken into an understudy by lead broker Mark Hanna,who teaches him how to make money without morals and integrity.He then finds himself trading penny stocks and sets up his own operation.As his business grows exponentially,he tries to make it into the legit business which goes awry as they soon find themselves conning thousands of businessmen out of their cash.This leads to an FBI investigation on his part.Aside from his business that consists of greed and scams,we get to see Belfort's lifestyle that is characterized by excess that includes sex,drugs,parties and orgies.Despite the fact that it is 180-minutes long,one will surely enjoy the ride of watching this film.DiCaprio and Scorsese makes it a point to make it interesting and entertaining.Despite the controversy it has made due to its themes of moral ambiguity and having a lot of amoral characters that are involved in a lot of sex and drugs as well as the constant use of vulgar language,it definitely epitomizes fraud and corruption in Wall Street during the 90's.Although many viewers have seen this film as it somewhat glamorizes Jordan Belfort and his lifestyle,it certainly is one great movie.In the end,this is one great film that will surely be enjoyed by many people.
By far the Best Movie of the Year, Best Actor, Best Director! The whole supporting cast is excellent as well. This movie will not disappoint it was much better than I expected and the duration of the movie is not felt at all. It definitely did not feel like a 3 hour production. Scorsese put this movie together brilliantly! You are on your toes and engaged throughout from beginning to end. Leonardo DiCaprio is at his best! He will take you through the highs and lows of the movie with an Oscar Winning Performance. I read about Jordan Belfort and it appears that Scorsese and DiCaprio made this movie as accurate as possible which I really appreciate. I commend Scorsese and DiCaprio for keeping this epic picture as authentic as possible. After all this is Hollywood.


                
Martin Scorsese must be a director who can't make a bad movie. Most of his movies have focused on streetwise lowlifes, and so now he looks at a different kind of lowlife: the Wall Street kind. "The Wolf of Wall Street" is the true story of stockbroker Jordan Belfort. Having come of age in the '80s, Belfort was convinced that there was nothing wrong with greed, and so he stopped at nothing to get what he wanted. Leonardo DiCaprio plays Belfort as an amoral slimeball leading a hedonistic, frat boy lifestyle: drugs, booze, hookers, the whole shebang. And yet the whole thing is very funny.There have been complaints that the movie glorifies greed and egotism by portraying the characters having a lot of fun. I'd say that the movie is showing how they don't have a care in the world. They make millions and spend it on their own decadence.No, it's not Martin Scorsese's best movie, but you're sure to have a lot of fun watching it (understanding of course that the characters are NOT good people). I recommend it.


                
Why Leonardo DiCaprio didn't win the Oscar for best actor, I will never understand. Matthew McConaughey must have put on an absolutely indescribable performance in Dallas Buyers Club. I have yet to see Dallas Buyers Club, so I can't say Matthew didn't deserve it.The Wolf of Wall Street is insane though! It is a very well directed movie by my favorite director of all time, Martin Scorsese. This movie shows what it was like as a stockbroker in a very unique way as a comedy. However, if it wasn't a comedy, it would be a very boring movie. Well done by the writers.This is definitely my favorite movie of all time now. Even at 3 hours long, I wish the movie continued. I would recommend seeing it, but children should NOT see this movie.


                
This review is more about all the negative reviews than the movie itself. I'm surprised at how many people are so easily offended and taken back by such vulgar behavior. First off the name of the movie should tell you everything you need to know. If your a weak person who can't take any sort of bad language, drug use, sexual activity, and other devious behavior than STAY HOME!! Your going to watch a movie about a major player on wall street back in it's hayday, I mean "Wolf of Wall Street", what did you people think, it was going to be some rich wall street guy giving his money to charity and talking about how we need to be responsible to our clients? Give me a break people, read about the movie and either say to yourself "hey, I'm kind of a weeny, I don't think I can handle this" or grow a pair and go enjoy the awesome roller coaster ride that is this movie. I actually seen reviews on here calling this movie boring. You can call this movie many things, but to call it boring is just absolutely ridiculous. This is probably about the least boring movie ever made. For the movie itself, I believe the it does a terrific job of showing what it was like back then on wall street. Leonardo is brilliant in this movie and portrays the title to a T. For people who think it is too fictional and there is no way a person can do that many drugs, do that many crazy stunts, and still function, trust me in that a person can. I'm sure some of the movie is over-hyped or certain parts of the movie didn't really happen, but that's Hollywood. Every movie based on true events have some fiction. The good times do eventually run its course in the movie, the movie does a good job of showing the unraveling of the characters and the company. Nobody mentions anything about that in their reviews. Everybody acts like he did all this terrible stuff and things just stay on track and everything works out fine, but it doesn't, it all comes crashing down. Anyway, I don't usually comment on movies, but I had to say something about all the negative reviews. This movie is nowhere near as bad as people make it out to be. You must go into it with an open mind and not be a person who is easily offended. Some are calling it the worst movie of all time which is asinine. For a person to make a statement like that should tell you how credible they are, because everybody who likes to watch movies knows the absolute idiotic crap that has been made in Hollywood, which this is nowhere near that. You can hate this movie, but have some common sense.One final thought, give me a break about the clients they were screwing. So many people complaining because the movie didn't go into more detail about the clients they were taking advantage of. Who cares, the movie was made to show the devious behavior of the brokers and the firm. We know people were getting screwed, I don't need to see them and know their names. I didn't go to the movie to see these people and feel sorry for them, I went to see the "Wolf of Wall Street" (again people, it's all in the title). So, if your going thinking your going to develop some kind of relationship with or feel sorry for the clients STAY HOME!! Sorry if I offended anyone, but judging from the reviewers on this movie I'm sure I offended just about everyone.
My first exposure to The Wolf of Wall Street came when I saw a trailer for the film attached to World War Z and while I certainly thought the movie looked interesting, I wasn't sold on it due to the content I was seeing so I avoided the movie when it first came out and didn't watch it until earlier this year and while I was taken aback by the sheer amount of explicit content in a few scenes, I absolutely loved the movie. From it's solid directing and fast-paced humor to its incredible acting and story, The Wolf of Wall Street is another cinematic home run for Martin Scorsese.The film starts in 1987 where a young man named Jordan Belfort gets a job working as a stockbroker for a stock company called L.F. Rothschild where he is hired to work under Mark Hanna who introduces Jordan to the drug and sex-fueled broker culture and plants the idea in Jordan's head that making money for one's self is a stockbroker's ultimate goal and that enough is never enough. With these words in mind, Belfort goes to work but following Black Monday, his career is terminated and gets a job at a small brokerage firm company. Thanks to his combative pitching style, Jordan begins to profit but soon forms his own investment broker company with a few friends called Stratton Oakmont. After posting an ad, hundreds of young brokers come flocking to Belfort's company. As a result of the business profiting, Jordan and his entourage profit handsomely from it and soon descend into a life of drugs and women with Jordan even cheating on his own wife. Meanwhile, the FBI and the SEC begin investigating Belfort's firm and start to clamp down on the corporation which leads Jordan to try and find a way to keep his firm and his money from collapsing while also dealing with his own personal issues.Given the unsubtle condemnation of the Wall Street stockbroker approach and lifestyle in Oliver Stone's 1987 movie, Wall Street, it would seem to clarify the basis of The Wolf of Wall Street, a movie that makes all of Oliver Stone's most barbarous neutering of the overindulgence on the stock exchange look like a walk in the park by comparison. Truly, the movie all but instantly endorses this in an early scene where an editorial is advertising a colossal uptick in job applications at Jordan's firm. So, with the need for the movie to go much more larger and colossal in terms of showing the decline of a character like Belfort, the movie shows him literally snorting cocaine out the body of a women and yet by some means continues to go downhill further and further until he is waist-deep in self-indulgence and extravagance. Despite the movie feeling endlessly long and overly bouncy sometimes, it's also a film that is grueling as well as intoxicating to watch and while it may feel less like an organized story and more like an almost three-hour decadence agenda, it still nonetheless carries it's own cinematic weight and gives the viewer a masterpiece of storytelling and character drama not seen since The Godfather. Martin Scorsese is easily one of the greatest directors still working today and The Wolf of Wall Street just keeps on showing us why he is such an incredible director and storyteller with an almost absurd amount of excitement and passion for the art of filmmaking. In a lot of ways, The Wolf of Wall Street feels like something of a follow-up to two of his most beloved and acclaimed movies, Casino and Goodfellas even though the movie takes place in its own universe and Jordan Belfort is a professional convict who does more harm with a pen than a gun in the film. Despite that, all three movies survive as Martin's own disembowelment of the cynicism of the American Dream and much like Goodfellas, The Wolf of Wall Street grants the viewer entry into a symbolically glittering world. Much like the casinos of Las Vegas in Casino or the Irish Mob of Boston in The Departed, Wall Street is depicted as a bona fide playground for those people with no moral high ground. Sex, drugs, and money are all here and are frequently shown on screen, sometimes even in the same scene which can be a bit unsettling for some viewers but is necessary to progress the story and the characters. Much like several of his other movies, Scorsese feels less concerned with the methods Belfort makes his money and more with how money and power can corrupt a person no matter their social background. Early on in the film, some of the characters are having a conversation about tossing short people at targets for their own delight and going through what can or can't be done in terms of entertainment. Selfishness and fraud are depicted here as wide-ranging and irresistible as Jordan's decadence is nothing short of outlandish but it also encompasses every single last inch of his company so much so that there have to be sighs in the bathrooms outlawing lovemaking and even Belfort's butler gets dragged into the cycle of sex, drugs and cash driving home the point that even the most cultured people can become contaminated by power and greed. Of course, the movie is quite honest about it's leading character, Jordan Belfort who may seem like your typical lawbreaker and scam artist but is also an erratic storyteller. The film engages interest to this continuously, most noticeably in the contrast between his interpretation of a drug-hazed drive home and what actually happened along with the ramifications of that drive. In lieu of presenting an accurate and fair depiction of Jordan's behavior, the movie cleverly allows him to give his own account of what is happening onscreen. As such, The Wolf of Wall Street gives Belfort small apologetic moments sprinkled within his flashes of harshness, antipathy, sexism, anger, and cold-bloodiness. Easily one of the best film characters ever to grace the silver screen. While The Wolf of Wall Street may feel like a heavenly accomplice to some of Scorsese's earlier movies, it's obvious with this movie and later with Silence that Martin has matured greatly as a filmmaker and a storyteller. This movie, however, feels more like a bigger step for Scorsese and company as well as a much more adventurous and unproven with Scorsese continuously pulling the viewer's leg with how phony the movie really is. Masterfully aided by Terrence Winters' wonderful screenplay, Martin crafts a hazy impression of hyper-reality around the movie's events, making it feel like something in a drug-fueled fog. Of course, Scorsese constantly pulls the viewer's attention to the fact that the movie they're watching is, in fact, a movie as the aspect ratio always seems to continuously alter as the film progresses as even the boundaries of the screen change from scene to scene which fits with the story that the film is trying to show us. Marketing also plays a high part in The Wolf of Wall Street such as when Belfort fills the viewer on the facts surrounding a crazy money laundering scam or when the FBI arrest Jordan while he's filming a commercial but the agents don't stop with just apprehending Belfort as they also process to directly interrupt the entire shot-on-camera scene making for easily one of finest apprehension scenes in film history. It's also one of the boldest and divisive storytelling ideas in the movie. Also effective in the story that The Wolf of Wall Street is telling is how Scorsese grants Dicaprio free rein over the movie's plot. At one point, Belfort's voice-over straightens out the movie over the color of his car, giving the viewer an awareness of Jordan's preferences in telling his own story through the narration rather than just explaining what is happening to us as the movie certain enough to let Belfort to show us his story unfolding on the screen rather than just dumping explanation dialog on us like some other movies have a tendency to do. At its heart, The Wolf of Wall Street is in essence penned as a cavalier endeavor at self-defense by a calculating maniac as he goes through various stages of decadence and self-indulgence as well as having to deal with the government breathing down his neck at every turn. Unlike directors like Paul Feig or Michael Bay who often insult the viewer's intelligence, Martin Scorsese trusts us enough to allow us to use our brains in order to realize that Jordan can't be trusted which might seem like a massive jump for a movie director of Scorsese's caliber but taking into account the movie has generated debates about how it portrays Belfort much like how Pulp Faction has kindled similar disputes, it would seem that Martin has misjudged filmgoers and, yet the movie never once makes any sort of sympathy pea for Jordan or even paste a convenient moralistic accusation over the end credits as it simply isn't essential for what the film is showing us. Any person watching the movie who can't even use their brain to figure out how disgraceful Jordan is, regardless of his efforts to justify his behavior, would have to be very improbable to be convinced by a corny afterthought or a condescending honest condemnation. The film is continuously harsh in its judgment of Jordan, so much so that the FBI agent that is questioning him seems to find Belfort notably repulsive due to there being no justification for his extreme excess as Jordan wasn't born into this lifestyle but rather chose to live it which in turn makes the story all the more complex and compelling. Given how the film is adapted from the book by the same name, The Wolf of Wall Street gives Jordan the freedom to create his own protection. During a pep talk scene, Belfort discusses to his employees how he gave a struggling single mother money to help her family and while the movie counts on the viewer to consider that this is a self-directed act of generosity as a counteract against his sexist demeanor over the course of the film. Jordan's firmness that he will do anything to ensure his families' safety is counterbalanced by disregard and irresponsibility and his esteem for allegiance is
The Wolf of Wall Street is a black comedy, giving hints of drama. Natural comparisons will fly to Oliver Stone's Wall Street which is accurate but you can see subtle hints of films like Trading Places, Glengarry Glen Ross, and even American Psycho. That's a testament to Scorsese's outstanding direction and Terence Winter's masterful screenplay. Scorsese keeps Wolf life-size, sprinkled with characters that are both geniuses and morons, but functioning morons. They're like the frat pack group that sat in a corner on my college campus, being loud and obnoxious, and made terrible life choices that they still aren't aware of until this day. Scorsese puts together an all-star cast to inhabit these beings that includes DiCaprio, Jonah Hill, Margot Robbie, Matthew McConaughey, Jon Bernathal, and Kyle Chandler. All of which seem to be having the time of their lives.


                
The Wolf of Wall Street; a three hour long masterpiece. When I started it, I didn't know how long it was. A lot of the times I thought the movie plot had reached its end and that the credits were going to roll, yet I was shocked to find I was only half way through and there was still an hour and a half to go. It just continued to get better as you watched. I was glued to the screen all the way through and was mesmerized by Leonardo Di Caprio and his deserved Oscar winning role. I applaud his talent of multi genre acting, and how he managed to fit that all in one movie. He did so well I started to believe he was actually a filthy rich stock broker. Also Margot Robbie did an astounding job as Jordan Belfort's wife Naomi. Martin Scorsese deserves another Oscar. Him and Leo make the best team in many movies. Plus one that is based on a true story (and at the same time a book) is always promising. There was no way this movie could have gone bad, every way you look at it, its got the best actors, narration, camera work, and script and screenplay. Apart from the snorting of drugs every 5 minutes (which was unnecessary) it was a compelling, captivating film I give ten out of ten!


                
The Wolf of Wall Street tells the story of Jordan Belfort's life in stocks. It depicts a world of rich people who are daily flooded with money but do not know what else to spend on other than their excess. That is just one side of the story, but that is what the audience is wholeheartedly focused on. It's not exactly only about a man who had done wrong choices then eventually learn by his mistakes in the end. It's more of a raucous portrait about rich people being petty, having way too much fun on their lust, never realized that they actually look terrible by it until they eventually become the worst of themselves. The overall film is enormously entertaining. It may bring relentless filth on screen, but the awareness comes right when things really get out of hand.There is nothing more important in their world other than money, sex and drugs. It is ought to be satirical, but one may think that it is taken too far, only when they take the comedy too seriously. The real plot here is Belfort's actual crimes in Wall Street. The film doesn't make those acts look much of a big deal. His victims are never shown because apparently the viewers should be rooting for him. It's almost just a series of outrageous parties, and schemes that will keep their fortune and pleasures going. Despite of their behavior, we are still obligated to care about these "good guys."The film somewhat comes close to Martin Scorsese's other film, Goodfellas. Aside of the throughout narration, the story has some similarities: a man who love affairs with a job that betrays both of his marriage and any moral standards, however the guy lacks the sympathy which defines the character's humanity. The main character's human figure here is all the negative sides. Compare him to the other goodfella, his motivations and striving are much petty, because of course, he has it all.Martin Scorsese makes it feels like a comedy which is kind of appropriate. It's swift and energetic, which thoroughly provides endless entertainment. Leonardo DiCaprio is simply terrific, from unhinged crawling to spilling charisma, he has made Belfort an effectively awful yet magnetic cinematic character you'll encounter in recent memory. His co-star Jonah Hill shares the same feat as his twice the arrogant, profane and half-witted pair. Also notable strong performance from Rob Reiner and Kyle Chandler. And for only few scenes, Matthew McConaughey steals all the ones that he is in.Everyone might think the ending is as much as inconsequential than it suggests; the point can probably be the ugly price of the person gets in the end is within himself, a perfect life won't fix a broken man, or misusing cash and power will always cause a lot of trouble. There is many suggestions about its themes. But in the end, Jordan Belfort is just a another man in the community who is blinded by the typical extreme lust and fortune, and for sure anyone would get the same condition if they ever get to taste its pleasures. In spite of treating everything as a joke, the film suddenly becomes compelling. That's the kind of trick it has. Anything else, The Wolf of Wall Street is just insanely fun. Even for its lengthy runtime, it's able to be very enjoyable every minute of it.


                
Where too start...Lets Just say, No Spoilers and this is not like a review anyone has read before about this film. Acting 10/10. This is the story of in my mind an extremely intelligent man who is able to manipulate peoples thoughts with regards to investment by selling them the ultimate sell. Jordan Belfort. Fantastic. The story is no other than fascinating. The way This film is written and directed is fantastic. (Thats 2 Fantastics in one line) Im a true believer that what he did was not illegal. I believe there is a fine line but not quite Illegal. Jordan Sells shares to people who are a lot like himself. Greedy people who always want more for they're money. But what is greed? its only when you have lost something do you realise your being greedy in the first place. A price is what the market sustains, not the cost of the asset; and is driven by demand and supply, which in turn is driven by greed. This is a perfect example of share selling. It doesn't matter what the asset actually cost. What matters is how much money you can make from it, once you have covered that cost. A 10/10 film which DiCaprio does AMAZING to show that Jordan Belforts life was not glorified and that really, he was never happy nor satisfied.


                
This movie was great.There is no boring scenes, all of them are very important. The story of a man who has nothing and thanks to his intelligence become the king of wall street with his unusual tricks to succeed and a team of unexpected people. The energy of the actors, the story, the script, everything is balanced and addictive. it's a smart and funny movie, I love the scenebetween Leonardo Di Caprio and his car when he tries to come back home,hilarious, just like when he got hired, he has lunch with one of his new colleague and he asks him to sing a melody hitting the tempo with his hand on his chest, total hilarious, awkward and uncomfortable moment. The movie also shows the deviant aspect of a quick success between sexual experiences, different partners, lies, friendship, drug abuses but always in a funny way. I recommend it and I will watch it again. Good job !
I watched this film, and laughed my ass off in certain parts. It brought me to tears occasionally. From a comedy standpoint, this movie is gold, and why I gave it a 10 rating. I went to the theater to be entertained, and was not disappointed.The acting was phenomenal. Every actor/actress played their part to the hilt, and should be the film that finally lands DiCaprio his first Oscar. Jonah Hill played his role to an Oscar worthy standard as well. The plot of the movie is reminiscent of Boiler Room, with undertones of Wall Street and Glengarry Glen Ross thrown in. I suppose if you are looking for anything positive to come out of this movie, you would be disappointed. There is definitely no redeeming qualities of any of the characters. That being said, I think that's the point. We live today in a world of greed, where those who have want more, and will continue to satiate their thirst of the dollar by any means possible. Belfort said as much in the first 15 minutes of the movie, that money was the drug that compared to no other, and demonstrated for the remainder of the film that indeed he would go to all ends to earn whatever he could. The final scene of the audience of his seminar, all Joe Schmoes looking on with that hint of greed in their eye, hoping they too could be that one person to live it big...its what the world has come to. Scorsese's message is clear: you all want it, but this is what it costs - so is it worth it?For those of you who walked out or decided that there was not enough happiness to warrant a decent review, I suggest you take a look around and let me know where the almighty dollar isn't ruling a part of your life. Ask yourself, if you had the means to change what was wrong, and go beyond, would you not?
"The Wolf of Wall Street" was an incredible cinematic experience. I appreciated the rags-to-riches story (despite the method to leave the "rags" behind). "Wolf" gave a great insight into the stocks world for those of us not a part of it. It moves you to the point of being compelled to learn the Wall St. world and becoming a force of your own within the financial stratosphere. "Wolf" was also inspirational in the sense of depicting how you have no excuse to not succeed or not reach the top of your dreams. Such an unfortunate ending too; you really are brought to root for the underdog. DiCaprio truly impressed me, even after all these years. I'm disappointed for the fact Leonardo was left empty handed at the Golden Globes and he honestly deserved to win the gold for this, hands down!


                
One of my all-time favorite movies is "GoodFellas", one of my all-time favorite directors is Martin Scorsese and one of my all-time favorite actors are Leonardo DiCaprio. I enjoyed "Gangs of New York", "Shutter Island" and "The Departed", but this movie knocks those out of the park.Leonardo DiCaprio is Jordan Belfort, a young broker who starts scamming people into buying penny stocks and eventually becomes one of the biggest names on Wall Street. That is, until, his life comes crumbling down.I could sum up the movie in one word: Brilliant. This movie is disgusting, sexist and offensive, but it is also down-right hysterical. In fact, there is one scene with Leonardo DiCaprio reacting to the side effects of a drug that had me holding my sides because I was laughing so hard.DiCaprio gives the best performance of his career in this movie. He is funny, interesting and completely over-the-top as Belfort. Also giving the best performance of his career is Jonah Hill, playing Donny, Belfort's right-hand man. He is just as funny and interesting as Belfort.The supporting cast is great, too, with Rob Reiner, Jon Favreau, Ethan Suplee, Christine Ebersole, Jean Dujardin and Matthew McConaughey in small, but interesting and well-performed roles. In fact, Matthew McConaughey steals the scenes he's in, too bad he's only in the first fifteen minutes of this 182-minute film.Yes, this movie is over three hours long, and sometimes that bothers me. Did it bother me here? No, because I was into the story, which is actually a true story.A fair warning: This movie is rated R, but frequently pushes the boundaries of how far an R-rating will go. I have no idea how Scorsese escaped an NC-17. I mean, for the love of God, there's two graphic scenes of an orgy (One is a gay orgy), a man's genitalia, DiCaprio doing cocaine off a hooker's ass and almost every female in this movie is either a drug dealer, prostitute or a naked, blonde girl.Despite that, I loved this movie. It's brilliant, awesome, hilarious and now, one of my all-time favorites. See it, in fact, see it twice, if you are willing to watch a three-hour movie.
"Why don't you boys go down to Wall Street and find some real crooks?"This is Tuddy Cicero speaking to the FBI men while they arrest his brother Paulie near the end of "Goodfellas". It's very revealing when 'ordinary' gangsters believe they don't hold a candle to the Wall Street guys. And after the 2008 financial crisis, the Goldman Sachs and Madoff scandals, it's hard to prove them wrong. 23 years later, Martin Scorsese, the greatest gangster movie director, finally did justice to Cicero's words and took on the 'bigger players', through his adaptation of Jordan Belfort's autobiographical book.Jordan Belfort is a guy who, as far back as he could remember, always dreamed of making money and found an easier way than being a gangster: he became a trader. He wasn't more handsome or charismatic than Henry Hill (as portrayed in the films), he just studied and got the passport to Wall Street. He could do what Hill did in all legality proving Al Capone's quote that "Capitalism is the legitimate racket of the ruling class". In fact, he almost made the Goodfellas look closer to Robin Hood figures, at least, they bribed a few working-class men."Goodfellas" was craftsmanship compared to what these 'wolves' in Armani's clothing did: elevating theft to an industrial level, about making millions in a few hours, and money out of virtually nothing, which is the essence of finance. It reminded me of these courses in business schools teaching how to make risk-less money through arbitrage. What Belfort makes is more straightforward, he sells worthless action to blue-collar people and then, it's the traditional supply-and-demand rules, the more people buy, the more others want to buy, the value increases and when it goes high enough, you sell. What then happens to your client is besides your concerns.Call it unethical, cynical or criminal, but this is the world's holistic system. And the only talent that can make you rich quicker than talented and deserving people is being a good salesman. Because, when you have to sell ****, just sell dreams. A good trader sells securities and buys capital, he sells promising values and makes real money, and it takes some communicative skills to make that possible. And that's the key to these characters' "likability", by cinematic standards; they know how to communicate their appeal, that's the 'Gekko' syndrome.The screenplay, written by Terence Winter, is full of these pep-talk speeches echoing the famous "Greed is good" tirade and we have such motivational ones as "there's no nobility in poverty" (also borrowed from Oliver Stone's film). "Wall Street" set the tone for the financial-themed movies, and there's a reason these films fascinate us: we all love money, we all dream of being rich, if we dream of something else, it's liable to have wealth in the process. There's no potential dream that doesn't involve in a way or another, sex, money or power, these movies speak to us, in a very personal level.I often found myself thinking that an average guy must make money to have sex with a beautiful girl, and a beautiful girl can get a rich guy easier than an average one. The film made me understand why: basically, a man's main currency is the money he makes, even if you don't dream of banging hot girls, you won't earn your nagging wife's respect if your pockets are empty, and a woman's currency is her beauty, her body and her willingness to use them. Not only Margot Robbie's frontal nudity is not shocking, but it's also a necessity. When you have these guys indecently throwing lobsters, wiping their ass with paper bills or harassing flight attendants, it's just their money language, they can get away with it. Full nudity is the woman showing her best asset in that decadent world, it's a fair trade.And only Scorsese could have portrayed such loathsome and amoral characters with that flamboyant, dizzying and electrifying style. The characters are sleazy, have nicknames as pathetic as their intentions, as if behind every trader, there was a crook sleeping, but they strangely appeal to us. There Scorsese's obligatory morally corrupt protagonist rising high to fall hard, a multiple-time sinner who's given a few moments of redemption but won't go until the sun really burns his wings. Leonardo Di Caprio finally brings a performance where he can show a wide range of emotions, be charismatic and pathetic within the same five minutes<U+0085> and the credits also go to the gripping realism of the portrayal of cocaine, crack and Quaalude uses.No movie ever portrayed drugs and lust, and the combination of both in such a straight-forward way, and that was essential because there's got to be a catch behind such a dreamy lifestyle. This ambivalence goes further as the title was borrowed from an unflattering portrait of the young yuppie go-getter, yet it gave him the perfect publicity to build his reputation. Did things change much? After he cooperated with the FBI, he served a few years in prison and became a motivational speaker. In the film's closing scene, you can see people looking at him with respect and adoration. The joke is on us.From Leo to the surprisingly good Jonah Hill as his right-hand man Donnie Azoff, from Matthew McConaughey as his first tutor, Kyle Chandler as the FBI agent or Jean Dujardin as the suave and crooked Swiss banker, the film is some actors' finest hours, and that includes Rob Reiner as Leo's father and the promising Margot Robbie. "The Wolf of Wall Street" is Scorsese back to his roots and one of his best.And what a cruel injustice that Roger Ebert, Scorsese' number one fan, who loved every single film he made with Leo and adored "Goodfellas", didn't live up to see the culmination of the actor/director's duo and the film in the same vein of greatness than its glorious predecessor.


                
I can't remember the last time I've had as much fun at a movie as The Wolf of Wall Street since The Departed. In recent memory, only The Avengers comes to mind. But what makes The Wolf of Wall Street such a success is that it shows Martin Scorsese doing what he does best. He takes the tale of Jordan Belfort, an intelligent yet mischievous stockbroker who was very skilled at swindling stocks, manipulating the stockmmarket, and turns it into the cinematic equivalent of an injection of coke, meth, heroin, codeine, aderall and a number of uppers and downers- all at once. In other words, it's a crazy, wild ride. And if this were any other filmmaker, it wouldn't have turned out as well as it did, nor would I have been able to sit through it for two hours, let alone the three hours that The Wolf of Wall Street runs. But this is Scorsese, folks. His films are famous for effectively blending in substance and style in equal parts, and this film is no different at all.Perhaps the most memorable thing about The Wolf of Wall Street is, and face it, you saw this coming, Leo DiCaprio's performance. You probably already knew DiCaprio would give an amazing performance, but here he gives his best yet. He completely snaps into character and gives a bravura performance that's completely real. From the opening scenes alone, where he gives an almost Patrick Batemanesque introspective into his life and career, his cars, his home, his past time pleasures such as excessive drug use and drugged out chaos, sex with hookers and what have you, you're in the palm of his hand. The scenes where he talks to the camera about certain subjects is where you can see the amount of confidence he has bursting at the scenes. His David Tennant style delivery of his speeches to his staff at Stratton Oakmont just shows he was born to play this role. It's a tricky role to take on too, as his character is involved in tons of debauchrous situations; but the aforementioned confidence of DiCaprio is what keeps it believable.And in general, just how well the essence of the story is captured is unbelievable. The film runs a mammoth 3 hours, and is a lot to take in. However, it's so entertaining that you could sit and watch and be entertained if it ran an hour longer. In fact, I'm pretty amazed that they even fit this all in in three hours. A lot of things happen in the story, and they're all tremendous. In fact, direction wise, Scorsese's DNA is splashed all over this film too. The scene where Belfort is caught for his crimes mid-commercial filming is absolutely hilarious; the slow motion shots with narration about things such as how certain drugs work are charming, in a sort of filthy and debauchrous way too. There's funny scenes a- plenty, such as a long gag involving a high from an extreme drug made with lemon extract (how DiCaprio and Hill managed to hold it together in the face during these scenes is amazing, even). And the trademark "Scorsese timing", where scenes are swiftly paced and smartly blocked is on full display as well. So it goes to say that Scorsese has made yet another substantial and directorial masterpiece.In short, The Wolf of Wall Street is without a doubt a late must-see and contender for "best of the year". Of the last batch of movies to be released this year, this sure drew the year to a satisfying close, and we can only hope that this will get the academy awards it deserves. Do yourselves a favour too and see this on the big screen, with a packed audience. I saw it this afternoon, and the packed crowd was one of the best audiences I've experienced- much like my first time seeing The Departed. It certainly benefits from the big screen experience. And just one more thing: Academy, if you're reading this review, do us all a favour and give Leo his Oscar NOW! He's truly earned it with this film.
Amazing! Best movie of 2013 and I really do not understand why people who review about this movie act so negative. The nudity was included by purpose!! It had to be so explicit, to show what money can make to someone. I loved this movie from every aspect. The directing was amusing, di caprio rocked in this movie, matthew mcconaughey at the start was amazing, and I really loved the dialogue that they had. Credit had to be given also to Jonah Hill, who proved that he is a well-respected actor. I am very angry with people, who say that it was more like soft-core. IF YOU can't stand nudity then Don't WATCH IT. Stop acting like a baby. If you are watching movies just to pass your time and feel happy about it, don't watch Martin Scorsese movies. He is different and he is amazing. I believe that people who didn't like this movie are stupid and they do not have a good taste of movies. The build up was amazing. Showing how di caprio changed over money. A humble man with a good wife changed into an addict to drugs, money and sex. I've watched this movie over 5 times and still didn't get bored with it.
Bacchus, Roman god of wine and debauchery, is alive and well and has been brought to raunchy life by Leonardo DiCaprio in Martin Scorsese's latest film "The Wolf of Wall Street". His human incarnation is Jordan Belfort, a fast-talking financial kingpin whose balls-to-the-wall lifestyle of sex and drugs and rolling in dough would make Gordon Gekko take a step back and reassess his lifestyle.And for what seems to be the first time, Scorsese's decade-long collaboration with DiCaprio has finally paid off. Because "The Wolf of Wall Street", written by "Sopranos" scribe Terence Winter, is a far cry from the polished but lifeless films that Scorsese, master that he is, has been pumping out of late. It is perhaps his most energetic film since "Gangs of New York", his cleanest (in craftsmanship, though certainly not in content) since "Goodfellas". Instead of wise-guys and low-rent mobsters, "Wolf" is about the sharks that swam in the seas of the 1%, ripping into their prey with gusto while coming at them with smiles.Set in the '80s and '90s, Scorsese depicts a glitz-and-chintz world ripe for the taking for any ambitious youth who wanted to make a name for himself. Enter Belfort, a fresh-faced twenty- something who starts on the bottom rung at one of the many firms in Lower Manhattan. He quickly becomes the acolyte of the head honcho (Matthew McConaughey, who in only a few short scenes manages to give one of the performances of the year), and in doing so learns the tricks of the trade, which involve indulging in any and all sins of the flesh.But when the market goes belly-up, Belfort (not wanting to go out on his ass like all the other Wall Street schmucks) realizes that he can take advantage of "penny-stocks" that no one cares about, pitching them to anyone gullible enough to buy them. Soon, Belfort founds his own firm, Stratton Oakmont, with a merry band of miscreants, including his right-hand man Donnie Azoff (Jonah Hill). Soon, Stratton Oakmont becomes a major, major player in the stock world, luring huge clients in with the hopes of paying out big-time. Except all that Belfort, Azoff and the others care about is their own gain, and the more they make, the more they want. And of course, absolutely none of what Stratton does is legal, so obviously the feds (represented by a dogged Kyle Chandler) seek to rain on Belfort's parade.But before that, the parade roars in full orgiastic force. Scorsese's film is an epic, three hours of every kind of cardinal sin short of murder, with characters both repulsive and entrancing, in a hysterically funny and painfully horrific saga of depravity as only Scorsese can bring. Thelma Schoonmaker's editing never once makes the film feel its length, and Winter's script is jam-packed with colorful moments and almost surreal hedonism. There are so many drug-fueled sequences that anyone who goes in sober will come out with a contact high.Perhaps the most impressive thing about the film is that, at long last, DiCaprio has learned to loosen up. "Wolf" allows him to finally sink his teeth in a full-on comic role, and he makes it work impeccably. His energy crackles with every single actor, and he even shows an adeptness at physical comedy (there's a scene involving a 'luded-up Jordan trying to roll himself down stairs that might be the funniest moment of the year). But the rest of the cast is equally up to the task to match him. Jonah Hill is in rarest form here, giving an excellent performance and displaying grand chemistry with DiCaprio. There are guys like Rob Reiner, Jon Bernthal, even Spike Jonze in a small role that are absolutely wondrous to watch. And I do have to give special shout-outs to Jean Dujardin and Joanna Lumley, both of whom stole the show in playing characters that end up as part of Belfort's scheme to hoard his riches. (If "Wolf"'s cast has an Achilles heel, it's Margot Robbie as Belfort's bride, who I feel tries so hard to be on Lorraine Bracco's level but comes off as a second-rate Sharon Stone.)Even as the film draws to its close, there's not a single moment where "Wolf of Wall Street" wants to relinquish its hold on us. We're in it for the long haul, as Belfort's protégés must have been. And for Scorsese and Schoonmaker, hardly spring chickens, to revive the decadence of the gods in all of its party-hearty glory is something to behold. "Wolf of Wall Street" had me flying high, and I'm still waiting to come down from it


                
I'll start off by saying that this movie is hilariously funny throughout the whole film. Leonardo DiCaprio is outstanding in the film, he knows exactly who to portray any character & The Wolf of Wall Street is one of his best performances ever (up there with The Departed & Inception); I really hope he wins an Oscar for his performance, he really deserves it. Jonah Hill also surprised me at how good he can act, his character was very funny as well. Also, Matthew McConaughey & the rest of the cast brought amazing performances to the table. Martin Scorsese at 71 years old, still has plenty of stem left from his golden days, his directing in the picture is top notch with an heavy eye for detail. The script was amazing, very fast witty, smart, funny dialogue and another amazing screenplay from Terence Winter. The film's trailer showed what looked like a Goodfellas on Wall Street & boy did it deliver, the films plot starts to kick in after about the first hour where Jordan & Donnie meet & they start to form they're company Stratton Oakmont, with a lot of partying in the 2nd hour, and the end of Jordan's empire in the last hour. The only thing missing is how empty you feel at the end of the 3 hour epic, wishing you knew more about what happened to Donnie's character or even just a bit more about Jordan or the rest of the characters lives in general. But the film is still very, very great & among my favourites in recent years. With lots of sex, drugs, & fast talking stockbrokers; The Wolf of Wall Street is one of Scorsese's best films & by far it was Leonardo DiCaprio's best performance ever!!!
Where did the three hours go? It was a very long film which I utterly LOVED. The time flew by. The performances were riveting and dazzling. Leonardo DiCaprio proves over and over again to me just how superb an actor he is. I believe he has not gotten the recognition he deserves. Glad he received the Golden Globe and hope he receives the Academy Award. He is probably among difficult competition but he surely will be in contention. The foreign press gave him the Globe for best actor in a comedy. I was surprised about the comedy part but after seeing the film, my sides hurt from laughing so much. Does it glorify Wall Street? NOT from my perspective. I think it makes fun of Wall Street by its never- ending Roman orgy like spectacle. If one is offended by bad language, tons of sex, tons of nudity and drugs galore than this is, perhaps, not the film for you. I,however, a constant critic of Wall Street, thought this film indicts it like no other has and by the way Margot Robbie is drop dead gorgeous!I do not know, however, how either the actors or the real life perpetrators of this Roman orgy investment insanity came out alive.Incredible entertainment that says something as only Martin Scorsese can about the nature of our nation. It is one of his best!
This marks the fifth time Scorsese and DiCaprio have worked together, and this time we focus on real life man Jordan Belfort (DiCaprio), who wrote his biography on his time on Wall-Street, and how he conned many people out of millions and millions of dollars through his illegal operation and tactics. We follow a young early 20 something New York kid from a middle class family who hits Wall-Street and immediately falls in love with everything involved in the stock broker business. His boss (Matthew McConaughey, amazing), tells a young Belfort the two keys to be successful in the business over a hilarious high-end lunch in the skies of New York. Those keys to success are copious amounts of drugs and tons of sex.Unfortunately, the Wall Street life comes to a halt for everyone on Black Monday, which was a giant stock market crash in the 80s and the firm that Belfort was at, closed down, leaving him out of a job. But hell bent on making money and devising a life style fit for a Roman God, Belfort opens up a stock broker firm with a good name called Stratton Oakmont in Long Island inside an abandoned car garage, where he enlists some shady friends who seem to only deal drugs and turns them into cold-calling salesmen with suits and ties. Among these men is Donnie Azoff (Jonah Hill), a person who Belfort met by chance. Donnie is Belfort's right hand man and close friend through these few years.Belfort's goal was to get super wealthy people to purchase penny stocks, meaning these wealthy people would give Jordan and his company thousands and millions of dollars for a company that was either non-existent or was being run out of someone's home, and had no chance of making any money. Meanwhile, Belfort and his employees reaped the benefits. Along with that, they fixed market prices, forged documents, and lied, cheated, and stole from their clients. But that's just the surface of the film.The real meat and potatoes of the movie are watching Belfort and Donnie tailspin out of control and hit rock bottom. From a two million dollar bachelor party for Belfort for his second marriage to Naomi (Margot Robbie, beautiful and great here), to mansions, yachts, a helicopter, and enough drugs to satisfy an entire small country, life is not slow, nor modest here.And what Scorsese does here, is make this entire situation laugh out loud funny, even doing a parody of a drug induced sequence that might be one of the best drug related scenes I've seen in cinema history, where we have DiCaprio take a bunch of long lost Quaaludes to which he narrates that he skips directly "to the cerebral palsy' phase, and has to crawl out of a country club and drive his Lamborghini home, only to have a near death experience while watching Popeye eat his spinach. It's one of the best scenes in a movie in a long time, and DiCaprio is just magnificent here as he uses his body to fumble around in a drug-fueled state.From all the criminal activity that the real Belfort did, he only got a two year or so sentence in a country club resort prison where he was roommates with Tommy Chong from Cheech n' Chong, and now he is a motivational speaker, and I'm willing to bet his fee to speak will skyrocket after this month ends. Scorsese and DiCaprio show us just how brutal it was for Belfort to make his decisions to take on the FBI and eventually rat out many of his partners in turn for his shortened sentence.Jonah Hill is simply amazing here. With his fake giant teeth and hilarious dialogue, you can't help but like yet hate his character. This is truly Hill's best role to date, as he has a lot of room to go crazy here. Margot Robbie plays Belfort's wife with a certain class and crass,a s we clearly see she is beautiful, but also loves the lifestyle, but is quick to move on if the money runs out. McConaughey is brilliant too, but is only on screen for a few minutes, but for those few minutes, we are in the palm of his hand. And playing Belfort's dad is Rob Reiner, who turns in a hilarious performance as a dad who has an opinion on everything, even though he and DiCaprio look nothing alike.And then there is DiCaprio. I've never seen him let loose the way he does here. Well maybe for a few seconds on screen in one of his earlier movies, but the amount of physical comedy, and the use of his body here is over-the-top, and grand in all the right ways. If DiCaprio doesn't win an Oscar, then something is wrong with the entertainment business. His long monologues on pepping up his team of 1000 employees are riveting, and he delivers each line with a surge of chaos and was always one step ahead of everyone.Scorsese uses some elements from 'Casino' and 'Goodfellas' here as far as certain shots go, as well as the whole narration aspect is concerned. Throughout, DiCaprio/Belfort is telling us this story, and we are forever charmed by his presence, even though he is doing something very wrong. After all the violence, drugs, intense sex scenes, and criminal activity, Scorsese wanted us to see the rise and fall of a young man who was an addict to money and drugs, and eventually got off very light, considering his crimes.Basically, Scorsese made another gangster movie, but instead of the mob guys, we have super rich white guys in $3000 dollar suits, working on Wall-Street. And it works perfectly here. This is the best film of the year and I can't wait to see it again and again.
This movie was amazing! Someday, I'll watch it again! And DiCaprio is a genius actor. I just... I love him! Also, my friends have the same reactions and opinions like mine. They recommended me this movie and I will thank them forever! I mean, this movie made me laugh so hard and is a cool movie. I like everything about this movie, even the name! I love the wolves and the name is ingenious. The action is very closer of the reality and I think this is a huge advantage for this movie. "The Wolf of Wall Street" is a movie that comes with a new idea and I think is very inspiring. Definitely, I gave ten stars because is a really good movie and it deserves to be watched. I will also recommend this movie to other friends, too!


                
Martin Scorsese's latest epic, The Wolf of Wall Street, delivers in true Scorsese style. The Wolf of Wall Street tells the real life story of Jordan Belfort, Wall Street achiever who cheated his investors to gain incalculable riches for himself. The movie is lush, large, high-energy, aggressive, and highly entertaining.Scorsese is still at the top of his game. Jordan Belfort (Leonardo DiCaprio) is a stockbroker who is rising quickly at his first Wall Street position. He is intelligent, ambitious, and motivated. His manager, Mark Hanna (Matthew McConaughey), gives Jordan some advise that he takes to heart. Always remember: you work for yourself, not your clients. And, always persuade your clients to reinvest their earnings. There are no commissions to be made if your client withdraws his earnings. Unfortunately, Mark Hanna's company takes a dive and goes out- of-business after the October, 1987, crash.Jordan is forced to find another Wall Street position. This time he lands at a small, "churn mill" where the salesmen con their clients into buying penny stocks. The clients are persuaded by the manipulative salesmen that, through the advise of their brokers, the clients will become rich. Things get bigger and grander. There is more of everything. More money, more sex, more hookers, more drugs. ??Jordan's partner in crime in Donnie Azoff (Jonah Hill). Donnie's character provides frequent, hilarious, comic relief in this whirlwind tale.Scorsese brings us money, money, and more money. Hookers, sex, orgies, drugs, success, excess. This movie is frantic and in-your-face. It never lets up. Jordan Belfort conducts spell-binding motivational speeches that put Billy Graham and Dale Carnegie to shame. Kyle Denham plays the role of FBI Agent Patrick Azoff. He and Jordan are good assessors of human nature and quick to discover the motivations behind the men they meet. This provides exciting opportunities to watch the two men size each other up, get into each other's head, and have fun doing it. The scene with Agent Azoff on Jordan's yacht is one of the films many highlights. The contrast between Jordan's "rules are made to be broken" attitude and Kyle's dedication to playing by the rules could not be greater. ??In The Wolf of Wall Street, Leonardo DiCaprio gives his best performance to date as Jordan Belford. Jonah Hill's timing, as well as his comedic expertise, make him perfect as sidekick Donny Azoff. Kyle Denham delivers a first-rate performance as nemesis, tenacious, obsessed, FBI Agent Patrick Denham. And Margot Robbie turns in a convincing performance as social climbing, volatile, disloyal, second wife, Naomi.tr??The critics have given mixed reviews for The Wolf of Wall Street. I find this puzzling because it is an excellent film directed by one of America's most talented directors. The script is solid, the actors first-rate, and it has a masterful director, Martin Scorcese. The criticism has been odd. Too much sex, too many drugs, not enough punishment and redemption for Jordan. Forget all of that. This is an over-the-top movie, about a larger- than-life character, with big dreams and high hopes. He lived life fully, unapologetically, and excessively. This is The Wolf of Wall Street.
Jordan Belfort is a dangerous man. The kind of dangerous that allows for simultaneous smooth-talking and first-class hustling. In Martin Scorsese's 22nd feature film, the audience is invited to 180 minutes of uninterrupted lewd extravagance – all told from the perspective of its narrator – Belfort himself.In The Wolf of Wall Street, we see Scorsese return to familiar styling. Reaching back into the vault, Marty combines the narration dominance of Goodfellas and Casino, with the dark humor of The King of Comedy and After Hours. The melding of these two elements present the perfect foundation for a group of Wall Street brokers hellbent on watching the world burn one mouthful of Quaaludes at a time.Belfort is typical in how we think about corruption and excess, particularly in the sense of a Wall Street executive. We see Belfort (Leonardo Dicaprio) rise from the ranks of a low-rung smile and dial broker eager to impress his boss and clients, to a master of riches as the leader of his own wolf-pack, starring most-notably Jonah Hill. As the flies on the wall to this never-ending orgy of a life (so they think), we get a taste of the mindset at work here with midget tossing, naked marching bands in the office, and a steady stream of recycled prostitutes. For these purveyors of deceit, this is only the tip of the iceberg in their ocean of absurdity.It's easy to peg this film as simply another anecdote to the evils of Wall Street, but such a reading would be a mistake to what's going on under the surface. Sure, we have Belfort telling us his first-hand account of a life of debauchery (sex, drugs, manipulation, lying, stealing, cheating, and oh yeah, more sex and drugs). The thing is, we don't need Wall Street to tell that story. Wall Street is the backdrop for something facing us all: how does one deal with temptation? How many of us would love to live in the fast-lane like the movers and shakers of Stratton Oakmont? How many of us would do questionable things to get there? Jordan Belfort is an unreliable narrator (the self-impressed narration where he changes the color of the car). Through this, we're given an honest look into the psyche of always wanting more. In his version of events, no one can deny their temptations. The only course forward for these people is more drug benders and offshore bank accounts. Only more money and partying will quench that insatiable thirst for glut. In Wolf, they're all gaming their clients in the stock market with worthless penny stocks, but they could just as easily be in real estate, banking, insurance etc. It doesn't matter, because we're dealing with a fundamentally human problem.Belfort is unflinching in telling the world his ineptitude in conscious. The picture painted is one of unflattering negligence, including many moments that make him look pathetic. The list of violence, indulgence, and corruption is almost as long as the list of people left in the wake of his storm. His wife is tossed aside for the eye candy of his future trophy wife (Margot Robbie). He builds an empire through breaking every rule in the book, while peeling the naïve bystanders off the bottom of his 1,000 dollar pair of shoes. He puts others in danger through his overabundance of drug and alcohol use, including driving while having almost no control of his limbs. Belfort eventually hits rock bottom when he punches his wife in the stomach after the threat of his daughter being taken away. He then puts the child in the passenger seat of his car, only to recklessly back it into a post in the driveway. At the end, Belfort cuts a deal with the feds and serves some prison time as a country club prisoner.Ultimately, what makes this film so special gets back to that floating question: how does one deal with temptation? In The Wolf of Wall Street, no one is actually innocent. Not even the people getting duped on the phone by Belfort himself. To see the real victims is to look in the mirror. The point of this film isn't Wall Street; it's about the negative aspects in which society maneuvers. There's a soul-searching effect to see where we fit on that spectrum, how we come to grips with our own inner cravings. This isn't a case of glorification like so many have pointed out. This is a case of a savvy director putting all the cards on the table. Scorsese is letting us decide how we feel about a society we've helped mold; a society that lends itself to this behavior.In three hours of laughs, gasps, and head-shaking, we receive a film that doesn't hold our hands by telling us what to think, rather a human story that demands self-inspection. The last images are of a poignant scene in which Belfort is now a motivational speaker at a seminar. As he walks to the front row, he tells a few gentlemen to "sell me this pen!" They stumble along with untrained pitches, as the rest of the audience looks on with wide-eyed stares hungry to learn the secrets of the universe. In this moment, the cycle continues. The joke is on us.
First of all, Martin Scorsese and Leonardo DiCaprio are both movie geniuses. There, I said it.Scorsese is arguably the best director of this era, and Leonardo DiCaprio one of the most consistent actors of all time. He is always great, and it's a shame he is yet to win an Academy Award.They've collaborated in four movies before "The Wolf of Street," all great. But "The Wolf," is definitely the best one.There is not a single boring moment in this 3 hour-long movie; not a single one! The characters drag the viewers in their crazy, drugged world of Wall Street, dropping us in a movie that is at times hilarious, and at others extremely dramatic, much like the recent "American Hustle."The screenplay is terrifically written, and the music amazing. The acting is off the charts, starting with DiCaprio. Jonah Hill is one of my favorite actors, and he does not disappoint; Matthew McConaughey is another bright spot. The rest of the supporting cast delivers as well.The directing is just superb. The usual Scorsese elements are there, such as narrations and genius shots. Breaking the fourth wall just added to the director's large repertoire of both bold and rewarding moves.Yes, it is extremely sexual and at a lot of times downright offensive. But in the same way "Family Guy," makes us catch ourselves laughing at what we shouldn't, "The Wolf of Wall Street," does the same.All in all, the film does pretty much what Jordan Belfort did: hooks us, flatters us, and takes us down with it. This is one for the ages.On a final note, I am certain Leonardo DiCaprio will win the Golden Globe, as he is under the category of "Comedy or Musical;" but it would sure be nice -- especially after being snubbed of even a nomination last year for "Django Unchained" -- for Leo to take home the Oscar.
