Wolf is a waste unless you are a 19-year-old boy who thinks Napoleon Dynamite was funny. Sex without passion. Drugs without end. Scenes without points. Acting without entertainment. But let's go to the board.1. Sex.....tons of it. This film is pretty well soft porn. But it is also about as sexually exciting as watching a Zamboni polish an ice rink....and about as cold. 2. Drugs.....tons of it. Think of Scarface levels. Hey, drunks are funny, right? Think Cheech and Chong without the laughs. 3. Vulgarity.....worse than Bridesmaids and much less humorous. During WWII, the US 8th Air Force delivered nearly 700 thousand tons of explosives. If each one of them had had the f-word painted on them, it still would fall short of the f-bombing in this movie. But even if the pretty naked girls had been arousing, the drug quantities smaller, and the vulgarity lighter, it still would be a tremendously boring film.I am sure it will be touted as a great movie....a modern Gatsby tale. I am sure there will be rewards. I am sure Tarrentino will rip it off and be declared a genius. But none of that will change the fact that Wolf of Wall Street is a dog on the screen.
Not for an instant can I recommend going to this movie. It has a few hilarious moments and for that it gets a non-zero rating, but it is really too much to stomach 3 (three!) hours of dumb jackasses behaving like wild reckless dumb jackasses, like the world only exists to serve and reward them. And time and time again, confronted with the truth that some actions eventually have their harsh consequences, they fail to react rationally and don't ever get out when things get hot until their actions take them to the critical point of no return where they can't keep escaping the inevitable and everything falls apart. The story seems to me just as an excuse to depict all that stupidity. I don't know if many people will bear it, I really didn't. It was a relief to see the movie end.


                
So Dicaprio is nominated for an Oscar for his role here ? What rubbish, while his acting is about OK, he does carry his role over the top, he over acts in too many of his scenes, seemed unbelievable. Always over screaming, shouting out loud speeches with inflated neck veins that does not seem to look real or in context with the scene, I also did not like his performance in Great Gatsby, is he losing his touch ? The academy does not seem to think so! The same goes with Jonah Hill, ridiculous over the top acting made to be funny but ended up lame.The plot is nothing original, the rise and fall of a powerful man, have we not seen that so many times before ? Similar movies include Blow, Scarface and even the Spanish film starring Javier Bardem called Golden Balls. Overlong run time filled with lame rubbish over the top sex and drug scenes that seemed to take forever. I really cannot find anything good about this film, except a few laugh out loud scenes and a promising start that took a strong curve downwards as the movie progressed, 2 1/2 hours of torture.Still the movie gets Oscar nominations including best picture and best actor, what a disgrace!! Shame on you Academy !!Do not waste your money nor time on this.


                
There have been big Scorsese productions that I wasn't particularly fond of, like Gangs of New York and The Age of Innocence, but this is a first: a Scorsese picture I actually disliked. Nothing can change the fact that Martin Scorsese is one of the great American film auteurs. His body of work is virtually unparalleled. But this picture is a big misstep for the great director. It is a failed satire, if indeed it was meant to be a satire. It's overlong, overwrought, and ultimately boring. He means to show us something about wretched excess, I suppose, but he fails to create a single character about whom we might give a damn, except for the antagonist, and in the end all you can do is yawn and be happy it's over.


                
The title of the film and its director were clearly enough to warrant seeing this one. But I was annoyed at how poor the acting was, and the incessant ultra-sharp close-ups of bad actors speaking mindless dialog made it too hard to watch more than the first half. While the storyline had a decent premise, its portrayal was shallow at best. There was almost no character development and no one you could identify with, which made it a bit better than a SNL skit. While the photography was good, it was put too bad use unless you like watching bimbos and greedy nerds frolic in cartoonish and gratuitous sex scenes.This wolf was a total dog. I'm not a great lover of Oliver Stone flicks, but his "Wall Street" puts this one to shame.


                
I didn't like Wolf of Wall Street for a number of reasons. It was very repetitive and ultimately boring. How many times can one watch people snort coke, get drooly on Quaaludes, and have sex with prostitutes? How many smooth-skinned blondes with shaved privates are enough, and how many times do we have to watch mindless machismo and bonding? After the third or fourth scene of juvenile debauchery the excesses of the central characters become mind-numbingly dull. I recognized many attempts to inject a little of the magic of Goodfellas into the proceedings, which made me wish I was watching it instead of Wolf of Wall Street. Don't get me started on the film's attitude towards women (even aside from the aforementioned prostitutes.)The movie had a bit of humor, especially towards the end, but the characters were not developed and many chances to deepen the movie were missed. The movie came alive only in a few scenes, usually ones accompanied by music. It made me sad to see a director I admire making such a hash of it, and reputable actors trying valiantly to turn two dimensions into three.


                
I give DiCaprio a thumbs up for his impeccable portrayal of the perpetually greedy Jordan Belfort, but overall I disliked the movie. This is based on the memoirs of Jordan Belfort, a notorious stockbroker and self-made millionaire who's penny stock brokerage defrauded 1,500 clients of $200 million during the 1990's. He used aggressive sales tactics and adrenaline charged locker room motivational chants to persuade his vagabond group of 1,000 wannabes to follow his lead, get rich at any cost, especially to the client, and make a name for their brokerage, Stratton Oakmont. At three hours the movie is overly long given the numerous scenes of drug use, drinking, sex and raucous office parties, not to mention the nonstop foul language throughout. One clearly gets the message that Mr. Belfort is a debaucher, gluttonous, disloyal, lewd, immoral, fanatical, corrupt, demanding and ambitious, hence the title. Two hours would have been sufficient for this intense roller coaster ride of greed. I wonder if Mr. Scorsese is vicariously trying to relive the wild '60's in this film.
This movie motivated me to leave a review. A negative, scathing, ridiculing review. I cringed at the many awkward acting scenes between the main characters. The juvenile toilet humour used in the movie to illustrate the debasement of Jordan Belfort was boring and even nauseating at times. I found it odd that Scorcese chose to leave out Jordan Belforts Jewish background, as well as many of the main characters in the actual biography of Jordan Belfort. This undercuts much of the meaning and social commentary, not to mention irony ie. when the up and coming lords of the universe decide to call their company Stratton Oakmont' such a WASPY sounding name tee hee. such chutzpah. The scenes where Jordan Belfort talks to the camera is reminiscent of the scene from Goodfellas when 'Henry Hill played by Ray Liotta" gets up out of the witness stand in court and starts talking to the camera. Many scenes during "wolf of wall street" made me feel ashamed for Scorcese because he shamelessly plagiarizes ''Goodfellas". The trajectory of the movie is obvious and not surprising. I found this movie to be far beneath expectation. Di Caprio was alright in his efforts. Nothing special. But Matthew Mconaughey was absurd, Cringe worthy! (I was very uncomfortable watching Mconaugheys outlandish display of pounding his chest and humming a mantra. He just was not believable, his cadence was off. I definitely thought this movie could not have been any more gratuitous or glorifying of scumbags in society.


                
American hustle was great a movie for grownups unlike wolf of wall street yet I am kinda ticked of at Cristian Bale acting like Robert Deniro and Leonardo Dicaprio wanting to be the next Jack Nicholson. The wolf has some serious parts very few the rest is a mindless carnival of bull I am surprised how bad everything was even hated DiCaprio's performance for the first time he was phenomenal in Django I had big expectations for this movie it tries to take a stab at a lot of film styles but succeeds in none it is a shameful movie from great artist a I was disgusted walking out of the treater. i will have to watch the departed a few times to get this out of my system.


                
Okay, I did laugh a few times. And some of the settings were nice.The problems in society practically beg for movies to shed light on the excesses that occur in the financial sector. And given the money, the life style, the extremes, it should be low hanging fruit for Hollywood to exploit artistically. This has been a problem since 1980s, made more intensely urgent by the collapse of 2008 and the bludgeoning of tens of millions of livelihoods around the globe, while the bailout for Wall Street took only 3 days for Congress to cut out. Despite the need and opportunity, the intensity on capturing the excesses and the problems is not being successfully dealt with by Hollywood.I saw strong ratings for this movie so I couldn't wait to go see it. I had hoped that we had a movie that nailed it on Wall Street current generation. Not really in this piece.Okay my spoiler: Overall, I though I saw this movie before, "Goodfellows." By following the same basic story arc, it undermines, in my mind, the quality of this piece, but also, I don't think I'll appreciate the quality I thought I saw in "Goodfellows" again. Its just a story about a guy dazzled by a morally inferior but materially superior life, gets sucked into the vortex of it and then over indulges until reality catches up.(I really don't consider that to be a spoiler. You knew this story was going to be something like this before seeing, didn't you?)Part of this, I think, is the biographical nature of the plot. Biographies usually are disappointing to me. DeCaprio has done his share, so me must like them, but they aren't really an entertaining plot line. I didn't really like "Citizen Kane", perhaps the all time favorite of critics, which has basically the same story arch of this film. Maybe Patton was the best (most entertaining) pure (based upon a real person) biography, though in my mind the best movie that uses a biography arc is "Its a Wonderful Life" because we can see, (even feel), the growth and change in character's formation, and it is entertaining. I've always enjoyed "Goodfellows" but have thought of it as sort of a docu-drama on real world mafia that merely borrowed the biography plot line.(Perhaps more spoilage) Also, this movie could have been cut into half the length. Here we have a guy who wants to be a stock broker because he wants to make money that's the beginning. He stumbles into the idea of pushing penny stocks. Then we have him selling his troops on it (with noted no concern for the clients), then partying (to extreme), then increasing prosperity, then declining personal life, then repeat. In this case, repeat over and over and over again.The actors in this movie helped convince me how much better the actors were in Goodfellows. Basically I never believed these guys, at least like I believed the guys in Goodfellows.Meanwhile, we haven't had a good Wall Street movie since Oliver Stone did the original. (Unfortunately, Stone made two of the best movies ever, in the 1980s, Wall Street and Platoon, and hasn't done anything since. Wall Street II was good, I really liked watching it, but it was pedestrian compared to the original).I'd watch this movie after it goes to HBO or some other cable. I'd also prefer it to be half the length. Once you see one pump up speech to the troops, one excessive party, and just a few scenes from his lifestyle, enough. Repeating that a half dozen times is boring.In my mind, 4 stars is a great movie. 3 1/2 is almost great. 3 is worth paying to go to see in the theaters. 2 is worth seeing. I give this a 2 and a tenth. Its worth seeing if you have 3 hours to kill, but not worth paying to see. If you like watching Goodfellows every once in a while when it comes on Cable or renting it, I predict, you'll watch this one time, and then go back to watching Goodfellows when you feel like indulging in a Scorsese style film.
This movie easily could've been edited down to about an hour and a half but even then it would've only been an average movie at best. There are some good individual performances by Jonah Hill, Rob Reiner & newcomer Margot Robbie. In fact, Robbie is so stunning to view at times, it is unnerving that this girl can really act as well.In the end however, there is not a single main character developed to the point of giving a damn about them. This coupled with the fact that the plot is extremely predictable and linear leaves this movie as a real bust. The scenes of excess go on way too long. We get it and we got it very early on. I kept waiting for a reason to care what happened to these characters and it never happens.For the life of me, I cannot understand the hype on this one. Yes, it's Scorsese, DiCaprio and Hill, but that shouldn't give them a pass to not entertain us with something other than gratuitous nudity, drug use & profanity. That's just too simple a formula to warrant this kind if critical praise.


                
The Wolf Of Wall Street seems to be a story about a very smart man who cheats his way through the stock market, with a strong hint of mature and intellectual humor throughout the way. As he goes about his way, women take place in his life as well as bumps on his way to success. This is what the trailer depicts. In reality, the film was about a scumbag who has no morals whatsoever and a team of the same people that fake their way to get rich. The writers for this film must have been quite bored to come up with this ridiculous, dirty, 3 HOUR, waste of time movie. As for the director, (Marin Scorsese) the film had and odd feel the entire way through and transitions that just didn't work. The acting was fine for most of the characters, the two stars, DiCaprio & Hill did a decent enough job for themselves too. Admitting, there were some parts that were done well and some that were very humorous, it just wasn't enough to make the entire film worth while. Overall a terrible movie.


                
If you don't like what you see within the first 15 minutes of this film, turn it off or leave the theater, because that's what you will see repeated over and over again for the next three hours. Okay, I get it. There are people who will do anything for money and who are morally bankrupt. This is Hollywood meets soft porn when soft porn has already been killed off by one-click-accessible porn. I'm not a puritan. This is just an objective fact. We live in the Age of Pornography. I, therefore, don't understand why Scorsese thinks this is the 'shocking' lens he should use to educate us on the evils of Wall Street greed and excess, unless he hopes to drag in the teenage boy audience, in which case, it simply amounts to pandering. In the end, I felt that it was Scorsese himself who was morally bankrupt. I think it is time for him to reassess his career. No great film was ever made so by pandering to base instincts. Great films stand on the strength of fundamental truths about human nature that leave the viewer leaving the theater uplifted, inspired, or awakened to elements of human nature in some way. This does not mean all movies have to have happy endings. The knowledge one takes from a good film can force one to reassess their values or ideas and this can be a difficult experience. But there is nothing fundamentally challenging about this film. Even if you try to think of it as a sort of documentary, it falls flat.Now, what about the acting? There is no doubt that Leonardo DiCaprio is a great actor. However, I haven't been impressed by many of his recent efforts (i.e. Gatsby). In this film his character is one dimensional from beginning to end. There is no character development and no real opportunities for him to show his acting range. The same can be said for all the other actors, but given such an insipid script, what can you expect? After a couple of hours of watching Scorsese trying to educate us on the evils of wealth, I just wanted the film to end. He seemed to have an ax to grind in the tradition of other ax-grinders like Michael Moore and Oliver Stone. The last hour was simply an ordeal. Scenes seemed randomly cut and pasted together. Although I can't say there were not some interesting scenes within the film, they only served as sad reminders of Scorsese's wasted talent.It makes no sense at all to me why this film is rated so highly. Maybe there are a number of people who were surprised to learn that excessive wealth can lead to bad behavior. All I learned is to be careful of giving too much credence to the ratings of any Scorsese film.


                
The subject of the film is a tawdry fellow whose antics earned him substantial wealth and a lavish lifestyle for a time but his adventures are not interesting enough to sustain a film of any length and certainly not one that runs for three hours. About a half hour in, I lost interest in the shallow and manic characters and their clearly foreshadowed repetitive and unfunny trajectories. The sex, drugs and moral shallowness quickly turned to boredom and the minutes passed slowly. The only relief came as the credits started to roll! What was Mr. Scorsese thinking? Wolf is a dud on almost all counts and I now understand why it earned a relatively rare C CinemaScore. Word of mouth will not keep this in theaters for long.


                
This film is truly one of the worst films I've ever sat through, with useless scenes, characters I cared nothing about, preposterous interactions between comic book-type characters, and excessive uses of f-bombs, penis jokes, bare boobs and butts. There are scenes which have no purpose except to show how messed up on drugs the characters are; these scenes are shown over and over again, to no purpose. Almost every woman in this film is nothing more than a vagina for the characters to screw, there are no minority characters in a major role, as well as homophobia and insults to the developmentally and physically disabled. This movie was offensive to anyone with taste, and Scorsese should be ashamed that this crap-ola was made by him.


                
well filmed, per the usual for Scorcese, funny in parts, but that's part of the problem, funny ha ha about massive greed and addiction?? The story is a mess as well, you really don't know why things are illegal, people really don't, on screen, suffer much from their addictions, there is little here that balances the celebratory with the downside so you never really get a sense of the actual consequences, in other words, the artistic message is muddled, characters come and go. Mostly we are shown a wonderful world of luxury with little real irony, no matter the feeble attempts to show the "downside." And what about the shipwreck??? that's a whole story in itself, yet it's treated like a lark. Maybe it's all suppose to be a cartoon fantasy, but this reeks of obtuseness given the massive inequalities in the US. Strange misfire from Scorcese.
This movie is very good indeed. Beautiful photography and acting by Jack Dawson, sorry, Leonardo DiCaprio. However, it is too long, one hour and a half would have been more than enough. And the worst part of it: It has too much sex (looks like an adult movie in some scenes), too much drugs, too much vice, too much scamming, too much of human degradation. I'm sure this picture would have been much more impacting without so many demonstrations of human decadence. I know that all these situations attract viewers but I think that they were absolutely unnecessary in an otherwise excellent film. I can't imagine what would have happened if this movie was made in the 50s. The censorship would have banned it almost completely. I'm not against showing real life occurrences in a movie, but I think in this case the director exaggerated by including such degradation situations as orgies, how to use cocaine and how to deceive honorable investors. A message can be transmitted without disrespecting the human being. And perhaps the worst part of all this, why show fighting situations in front of a small child?


                
Wolf of Wall Street is one of those movies that should be great on paper. It has great director, great cast, even greater budget and based on seemingly interesting tale from real life. The clumsiness of this one, however, is almost unbearable.The storyline follows the craziest years of the "Wall Street Wolf" named Jordan Belfort who starts to build his way up to the stock markets, starting from the so called penny business and ends up challenging the well established Wall Street stock companies. Much of this road happens to be illegal and almost exclusively amoral. It follows pretty much the classic route of these kind of movies - becoming successful and then slowly going crazy and ending up with the biggest mess.OK, no doubt that we've seen something similar before. Probably the most similar fashion is known from the Scorcese's own Goodfellas and also, perhaps to even a bigger extent, from the Scarface. Mind you, this really isn't a point of criticism for me, because the two mentioned movies are really damn good as far as I'm concerned. The movie is extremely predictable though.Also the Wolf of Wall Street's mafia relatives have the sense of tension from the first second - many people will be easily fascinated by the no good gangster life, but is it true about the stock brokers? Well? Of course not! Only thing interesting about it is the money and in the Wolf of Wall Street they made some. Well, pretty much actually. And spending it is something that would make people interested. Especially if it's something fancy, in your face or just illegal. This became the disguise of the mediocre script, non-existing character development and made the entire flick repetitive as hell.The large part of the film showed coke snorting, pill swallowing, drinking and hookers. I'm not the one who has some moral dilemmas, but come on - enough is enough. For me this is one of the biggest problems of this one. Not only is this repetitive, but it also gave the feeling that the creators tried way too hard to shock the audience. This attempt became a flop pretty quickly though, but as said this probably disguises many of the weak points fairly well. At least the overall rating suggests that. The same can be said about the jokes which fell flat for the most part. These seemingly had shock value, but they just lack that something. Most dialogs in the movie are sloppy and end up nowhere. We could see some lines going on in the character's heads while in conversation. These were awful and amateurish for the most time as well, again considering what caliber the movie is supposed to have.It takes special talent to make characters as one dimensional and unlikable. There was no one to bond with, no one to cheer for. The only small character development was with our main character, when he changed from a Wall Street freshman to an absolute douche. After that he and everybody surrounding him had only money, money, money in mind and cared for nothing and nobody. Well, Belfort played by DiCaprio did seem to be generous with his employees, but family for example didn't mean a thing for him. Almost three hours of non ending soulless malevolent hustling by the Belfort crew sure got on nerves.And there were at least four scenes where we were told how great such lifestyle was. The complete lack of the main characters moral was intended to be balanced by the father of Belfort, but the only thing he seemed to care about was the son's prostitute addiction. Drugs or illegal business was seemingly OK in daddy's eyes.The illegal side of the whole Belfort's business should have been explained a little better as well. We saw DiCaprio explaining it quickly, but then canceled it by saying "You don't care anyway." or something like that. Another example of lazy writing. Right, let's watch some orgy instead. That fixes everything.As critical as I've been, I'm going to say that the movie is not all terrible. Most of the jokes are rubbish, but few of these work nicely. As little as the actors had a chance to work with, most of the performances are good. I'm not too sure about this being DiCaprio's best role, but he put on a good show for sure. Also scenery is nice and seemingly flawless wherever the action is going on, but that shouldn't be too big of a surprise.In the end this film remains a disappointment. What we have here is a recycled crime story that shows us bland Wall Street style hustling which is artificially "spiced" by the endless partying and sex scenes. This film offers nothing new or interesting. It is incredibly predictable and boring, additionally lacking any sort of character development or interesting plot twist. I just feel this movie was incredibly needless, at least the way it was served. Finally I'll have to admit that with all the hype surrounding it, I had actually really high expectations, but The Wolf of Wall Street failed to deliver.


                
One way of looking at this movie is to wonder if Jordan Belfort, played quite decently by DiCaprio, was right in his successful stint, and a loser in his downfall. If you're a human being, and you're not part of the richest 1% of the USA, you WILL feel jealous of Belfort. Even if you're a Buddhist Amish.But that's okay because though I did envy Belfort's wealth, I was not green with jealousy, and I didn't feel jealous about his wife, played by the popular Margot Robbie, who I thought had a too stringy body with ropy arms. I'm content with the fact that at once time, a girl prettier than Robbie had a crush on me. And I also believe, that I eat better food than Belfort.Now let's talk about Martin Scorsese. I loved Taxi Driver. His masterpiece. The Wolf of... is better than Raging Bulls, a movie that I happened to rate 4 stars here. That was under my old rating system. Nowadays if I have to re rate my movies watched, then I'd give Raging Bull 2 stars, just to make the comparative thing work.Scorsese is behaving like a menopausal cozy mystery writer. He's churning the same movies, serially. He has nothing new to say, which is frightening, because there are quite many current, younger directors in Hollywood drawing inspiration from his movies. It's sobering to realize that right now, there are directors in America and abroad, taking these terrible movies and making an inferior shadow of them. My two cents! Hope you found this review useful.


                
I just wonder what big deal it is shooting a movie as long as 3 long hours when you do not have much of a story to tell. Do they sell tickets with higher prices when the movie is longer, forcing 2 and even more time of debauchery scenes on people? By doing so, they end up having a boringly slow-paced movie without telling anything. One gets tired of going over and over the same thing again and again, waiting for the original story to start which doesn't seem to come until after at least one and half hour through the movie. And when you start to think it is finally there, it doesn't take much time to realize that the same crap comes back after only some minutes of a real story. That's when you lose much of your hope and patience for the movie.The whole story is about a man, Jordan Belford (Leonardo DiCaprio) with little to no moral values becoming rich by stock fraud defrauding people of their hard-won money. They could have comfortably told that the men and his crooks are people without moral values at most in 30 minutes. They could have used the other time displaying how he grew up dreaming becoming rich, what jobs he had had before either out of the stock market or in it, but before having his own business, how he started the the stock broker business, what lows and highs he had in the business, the response of and impact of big stock broker companies, their competition, maybe threats, partnership offers and especially how he had the attention of law enforcement agencies, his trial, his defense, the verdict on him, how his victims financially suffered because of their engagement with him, etc.. Real parts from Jordan's real life and/or some fiction added on it.The thing is the producer and the director seems to not have really felt like having a story with many interesting parts developed over time and flowing with an acceptable pacing. They must have thought that people just would expect to watch a lot of debauchery and would get excited about that only. I think the not deserved high rating of the movie is because mostly people who are interested in this part voted for it here. Yet, the rating of a movie doesn't give you much of an idea whether you will like it or not. Because your liking is shaped according to your own interests, not others' even if the others are a large group of people.The bad thing here is they didn't have to have this movie title and this movie topic which reminds people of the stock broker and finance businesses to shoot this. If they had got a relevant movie title and movie topic, only people who are interested in lots of debauchery and vulgar language would have watched it and so much less people would have spoken negatively on it. When you have a financial feeling in your movie title and movie topic, lots of more serious movie buffs who are interested in a serious and interesting story on the business world would go watch it. Plus, they wouldn't have minded some humor in it as long as it supports and pushes the original story development and enables you to have some fun as well.Now as for my rating; not 1, but 3 for two reasons: 1. Energetic and convincing acting from main protagonists starting with Jordan and his inspirational speeches to his employees (ignoring that he is inspiring not for a respectful cause, but fraud. 2. Even though limited, the questioning of Jordan by law enforcement officials and interesting conversing between the two sides including the one in his yacht.Spoiler for such a short scene from here (no general insight on how the story goes): I would like to touch down on one short scene which is interesting and which tells a lot about fraudsters' minds. In the scene; during the interaction between Jordan and one of his female employees, Jordan tells her he gave her an advance a few times more than she asked for when she first started the job, because he believed in her. There appears to be good chemistry between the two there and both seem moved. And Jordan then turns to his crowd of employees and tell them all that he also believes each and every one of them. All of them seem moved and become emotional. Watching this scene, I could not help but think that there might be people in this world who so do not mind their illegal activity of cheating people of billions of their hard-won money to the extent that they are able to pretend they are not really even aware that what they are proud of and moved for is really nothing other than cheating and deceiving people, enriching themselves with average people's hard-won money. They pretend and can even delude themselves that they are decent working people with moral values. More and more of such scenes which would make you think about different aspects of life and the business, finance world would have made the movie much more interesting.


                
I know it was based on a real person but i'm sure there must have been healthy amounts of literary licensing taking place. It was just overdone and STUPID STUPID STUPID. literally made me want to kill Dicaprio's entire team. Literally. It was just that dumb. I was really disappointed since I was expecting a good movie. I'M surprised this got good reviews from the critics but what the hell do they know. Back then I wondered why this movie didn't receive any Oscars when it had such high reviews and acclaim. But i guess now I know why. This was more like watching Animal House on Wall Street than anything else. So WHACK! I couldn't believe how disappointed I was in both Dicaprio and Scorsese


                
Excessive sex and scenes like the part were Donny was giving his money to the dude from Walking Dead, yea that dude Shane. The sex scenes made me uneasy in the theaters but the old dudes three rows below me loved it. I think to me the main focus was on the drug and sex scenes. The last time Jordan(Leonardo) had sex with his soon to be ex wife made me think of his wife in the movie as Bar Refaeli. I'm like damn! Leo you lucky bastard! Right now I feel like a song coming up. Raindrops on roses and whiskers on kittens Bright copper kettles and warm woolen mittens Brown paper packages tied up with strings These are a few of my favorite thingsCream colored ponies and crisp apple streudels Doorbells and sleigh bells and schnitzel with noodles Wild geese that fly with the moon on their wings These are a few of my favorite thingsGirls in white dresses with blue satin sashes Snowflakes that stay on my nose and eyelashes Silver white winters that melt into springs These are a few of my favorite thingsWhen the dog bites When the bee stings When I'm feeling sad I simply remember my favorite things And then I don't feel so bad.I'm giving this movie three stars because I like Leo, I became a fan after his movie with his best buds Toby and Jerry Maguire.
This film is peppered with unforgivable defects. Mr Scorsese has produced some very fine material, but this is not one of them. The word count would be about halved if the letters F U C and K were omitted. It was very offensive to me, and I have a pretty broad mind. The way women are portrayed is an insult to the modern world. And I am no feminist. My wife and I were sickened by women being treated as only worthy of being sperm receptacles for men who displayed no emotional connection. It represents all that is woeful about the American psyche - that the world revolves around 'money' and 'me, me, me'Sorry to those concerned, but it is a waste of good celluloid.


                
The first thing I did was look up who the film editor was. Thelma Schoonmaker you are to blame for allowing this film to drag on for 3 hours.Sex, drugs & ho's. Hey, this is funny, the film is off to a good start.Sex, drugs & ho's. Ah, OK we're establishing a theme, building character development...Sex, drugs & ho's. OK, we get it, enough already.Sex, drugs & ho's. Please God, make it stop!Sex, drugs & ho's. Dammit.Zzzzzzzzzzzzz.Somebody should have manned up to Martin Scorsese and edited this film down to a watchable length. Maybe it's just me but this film seemed a little self-indulgent.


                
Sometimes, more is not necessarily better. This is one of those. The Wolf of Wall Street draws and shows the evil side of stock markets from different angles, but in the end, it turns out excessive. The picture some people had in their minds, about those stock brokers throwing money to the wind and blowing cocaine, resulted insignificant. This plot could have been better fit in 100 minutes. Yet , the actors perform very well, especially Di Caprio, who seems to have been born for this kind of scripts where the lead role has to walk the line between two sides, the fake world, made of lies and miseries, and real one.


                
